02.14.2019	Greg Walden calls for bipartisan work on climate change solutions WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Energy and Commerce Committee Republican Leader Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and Climate Change Republican Leader John Shimkus (R-IL) sent a letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and Climate Change Chair Paul Tonko (D-NY) requesting the committee work together to find bipartisan climate solutions. The letter comes on the heels of an Energy and Commerce hearing last week where many members on both sides of the aisle expressed interest in working together to find common sense, bipartisan solutions to address current and future climate risks. During last week's hearing, Walden stressed the need to improve forest management to reduce the catastrophic wildfires that devastate Oregon every summer and pollute the atmosphere with carbon dioxide and particulate matter. Wildfires devastated more than 800,000 acres in Oregon in 2018, and Walden has met with people on the ground who describe how recent wildfire seasons have impacted their lives. "As we made clear during the hearing, there is broad bipartisan agreement that prudent steps should be taken to address current and future climate risks. What will be crucial going forward is rigorous examination of the costs, effectiveness, and economic impacts of any such policy steps proposed to address these risks. And we hope you will be open to scrutiny of these policies. Last week, some leaders of the Democratic party introduced the so-called Green New Deal, which calls for a 10-year plan to move U.S. power generation to 100 percent zero-emission energy sources. However, the Green New Deal minimizes the realities of current American and global energy systems. It ignores fundamental societal needs for affordable, reliable energy. In fact, the plan dismisses clean energy technologies essential for any future energy system, and ignores practical climate solutions that we should be working together to promote. But even though this proposal is billed as a solution to climate change, it also includes numerous unrelated, prohibitively expensive policy goals such as government-run health care, guaranteed income, and guaranteed employment. We have serious concerns about the potential adverse economic and employment impacts of these types of measures," Walden and Shimkus wrote. The leaders continued, "We want America's innovators to develop the next technologies that will improve the environment and create jobs here at home. We want a healthy environment for our children, and future generations. We want our constituents and all Americans to have jobs and the opportunity to provide for their families. These are not mutually exclusive principles, and they are embedded in our approach to confronting climate risks. Let us work on them together." Click here to read the full letter. ###
02.14.2019	Walden: Republicans Have Better Solutions to Climate Change WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Energy and Commerce Committee Republican Leader Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and Climate Change Republican Leader John Shimkus (R-IL), and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy Republican Leader Fred Upton (R-MI) penned an op-ed highlighting the need to find commonsense, bipartisan solutions to address current and future climate risks. Republicans Have Better Solutions to Climate Change By Reps. Greg Walden, John Shimkus, and Fred Upton Climate change is real, and as Republican Leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, we are focused on solutions. A serious, solutions-oriented discussion about how to address this challenge, while protecting the interests of the American people, our communities, and our country’s economic well-being is fundamental to getting this right. America’s approach for tackling climate change should be built upon the principles of innovation, conservation, and adaptation. Republicans have long championed realistic, innovative, and free-market strategies to promote a cleaner environment and to reduce emissions. The results are clear: The United States is leading the world in reducing greenhouse gas emissions thanks to vibrant energy sector competition and innovation. In 2017, U.S. carbon emissions were the lowest they’ve been since 1992. Despite a slight increase in emissions in 2018, mostly due to the positive development of increased American manufacturing, analysts project U.S. emissions will remain flat in upcoming years at roughly 13 percent lower than 2005 levels. We must address climate change in ways that focus on American prosperity and technological capabilities while maintaining America’s leadership in clean and renewable energy innovation. By doubling down on innovation, we can supply the world with new tools to combat emissions. We should continue to encourage innovation and renewable energy development. We should promote carbon capture and utilization, renewable hydropower, and safe nuclear power, which is emissions-free. We should also look to remove barriers to energy storage and commercial batteries to help make renewable sources more viable and our electricity grid more resilient. And we must encourage more research and business investments in new clean energy technologies. These are bipartisan solutions we must seize on to deliver real results for the American people. Meanwhile, many Democrats are rallying around the recently introduced Green New Deal. This agenda calls for a 10-year plan to move U.S. power generation to 100 percent zero-emission energy sources. But even though this proposal is being billed as a solution to climate change, it also includes numerous unrelated, prohibitively expensive policy goals such as government-run health care and guaranteed employment. While a full analysis of the Green New Deal has not been completed, the sheer scale and cost to implement such a proposal could have potentially devastating consequences on our national debt and on our economy. One initial estimate calculated that if the U.S. were to transition to 100 percent renewable electricity production -- assuming it is even possible -- it would require at least $5.7 trillion in expenditures. A bill ultimately picked up by the American taxpayers. Think what that might mean for heating bills in the winter or commuting costs? Or how it could push American jobs overseas to countries that have lax environmental standards. … Click here to read the full op-ed online. ###
02.13.2019	Greg Walden: Congress should tackle high health care costs and give states flexibility to innovate Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks during today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today said that Congress should focus on lowering health care costs, increasing patient choice, and giving states like Oregon greater flexibility for innovation to keep health care affordable. During an Energy and Commerce Committee hearing, Walden said that lawmakers must work together to “cut out-of-pocket costs, promote access to preventive services, encourage participation in private health insurance, and increase the number of options available through the market.” Specifically, Walden called on Democrats to back off their plans to prevent states like Oregon from continuing to innovate in their health care markets to keep insurance premiums low for patients. Oregon does this successfully through the use of a “1332 waiver,” which gives states the flexibility to pursue innovative strategies for providing residents with access to high-quality, affordable health insurance. “In Oregon, we have an active 1332 waiver for a cost-based reinsurance program. I supported my home state’s application and approval as the only Republican in our congressional delegation,” said Walden. “And in Oregon, the reinsurance program kept premiums six percent below what they would have been without it. Those are real savings for patients in my state.” Last year, the Trump Administration expanded flexibility granted to states under 1332 waivers so that states had the ability to develop innovative approaches to increase consumer control, expand patient choice, and strengthen competition in their health care marketplaces. A proposal offered by Democrats at today’s hearing would roll back this expanded flexibility. “Why would our Democratic colleagues be opposed to states innovating on behalf of their citizens? Why would they be opposed to providing patients flexible and affordable insurance options that best fit their needs? This just doesn’t make sense,” said Walden. During the hearing, Walden also stressed the need for a hearing to examine the impact of a Democratic proposal for a government-run health care system, called Medicare for All. Left-leaning think tanks like the Urban Institute have found that a Medicare for All proposal could cost taxpayers as much as $32 trillion. Democratic lawmakers have also acknowledged that the proposal would end private and employer sponsored health care. Last week, Walden called for a hearing to examine the implications of such a proposal, and raised concerns about the impact Medicare for All would have on America’s health care system and the budgets of American families. Walden reiterated those concerns today. “The Democrats’ Medicare for All proposal would force over 150 million Americans to lose their employer or union sponsored health insurance. You want to talk about sabotage, that is what we should be having a hearing on,” said Walden. “I want to reiterate my call that Energy and Commerce hold hearings on this issue.” To read Walden’s full remarks during today’s hearing, please click here. ###
02.12.2019	Greg Walden calls for continued bipartisan work to combat opioid crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to combat the nationwide opioid crisis, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has called on the Energy and Commerce Committee to continue its bipartisan work to help address a public health crisis that takes the lives of more Oregonians than traffic accidents. Walden, joined by top Republicans on the Energy and Commerce Committee, specifically requested hearings to examine the implementation of H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, discuss additional efforts to address the ongoing opioid crisis, and review the recommendations of the committee’s investigation into opioid distribution. Additionally, the lawmakers requested the continuation of the committee’s investigations into opioid manufacturers and patient brokering. “In the 115th Congress, Republicans and Democrats on the Energy and Commerce Committee worked together in a bipartisan way to combat the nation’s opioid crisis, which included bipartisan investigations into several key issues that have contributed to the crisis as well as numerous legislative initiatives. Our efforts culminated in the signing into law of H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, which is considered the most significant congressional effort against a single drug crisis in history,” Walden and the lawmakers wrote to Energy and Commerce Committee leaders. “We write to request that the Committee continue our legislative and investigative work to combat the opioid crisis. While we made great strides working together last Congress, our work is far from done. As the Committee with primary jurisdiction over public health issues in the U.S. House of Representatives, we must address the scourge that is sadly claiming 130 American lives per day and continue our work of the last two Congresses.” Walden’s legislation, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6), is a bipartisan bill that was signed into law last year. This law will help in our overall efforts to combat the opioid crisis by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting our communities, and bolstering our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. Walden has been at the forefront of the Congressional response to the opioid crisis, leading efforts to pass landmark legislation to combat opioid abuse and investigate the bad actors contributing to the spread of the crisis. Click here for more information about Energy and Commerce’s comprehensive efforts to combat the opioid crisis under Walden’s leadership. ###
02.12.2019	Greg Walden announces Morrow County town hall meeting for February 18 WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing a series of town hall meetings across Oregon’s Second District, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today he will hold a town hall in Morrow County on Monday, February 18. Details on the meeting are included below. “After completing nine town halls so far this year, I am excited to continue my town hall schedule next week in Morrow County,” said Walden. “Town hall meetings help me update my ‘to-do’ list to take back to Washington, D.C. as I work to solve problems and grow jobs in our district. I look forward to meeting with people on the ground in Morrow County and hearing their concerns, input, and feedback on the issues facing our state and country.” Walden held town halls across eight counties in southern, central, and eastern Oregon in January and completed his ninth town hall of the year on Saturday in Lake County. Walden’s upcoming town hall meeting will represent his 158th town hall meeting and 7th town hall in Morrow County since 2012. For a complete list of Walden’s previously held and upcoming town hall meetings for 2019, please click here. ** PLEASE NOTE: THE TIME AND DATE BELOW ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER AND SCHEDULING CHANGES IN THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES** Monday, February 18, 2019 WHAT: Morrow County Town Hall Meeting WHEN: 9:15 a.m. PT WHERE: Sage Center Theater, 101 Olson Road, Boardman, 97818 ###
02.07.2019	Greg Walden calls for permanent legislative solution to net neutrality Invites eastern Oregon internet service provider to testify during Energy and Commerce Committee hearing Walden listens to testimony from Joe Franell (seated center at witness table), CEO of Eastern Oregon Telecom, regarding the “chilling effect” of heavy-handed regulations on the expansion of rural broadband. Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s opening remarks during today’s hearing. WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to protect consumers, boost innovation, and maintain an open internet, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today called on Congress to pass a permanent legislative solution to net neutrality. “The fact is, since its creation the internet has been the single most important driver of economic growth, job creation, and a better quality of life for all Americans,” said Walden during an Energy and Commerce Committee hearing today. “How we address the future of the internet will impact generations of Americans to come and deserves an open and honest public debate.” Walden has introduced legislation that codifies into law permanent prohibitions on blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization for internet traffic, and requires that internet service providers (ISPs) be transparent in their network management practices and prices. Walden’s legislation reaffirms longstanding, bipartisan agreements on net neutrality protections, and is identical to legislation Walden introduced in 2015, when the Obama Federal Communications Commission (FCC) imposed outdated restrictions on the internet. The 2015 action by the FCC regulated internet service under Title II of the Communications Act, which was originally used to govern monopoly telephone companies in the 1930s. “Republicans and Democrats actually agree on these key parameters of a free and open internet. We can agree on a permanent solution to address blocking, as well as throttling, and yes even that untested practice known as paid prioritization,” said Walden. Walden said that the 2015 net neutrality rule gave, “big government unlimited authority to micromanage every single aspect of a provider’s business, that includes setting rates. There is nothing neutral about this kind of authority.” Testifying during today’s hearing was Joe Franell, Chief Executive Officer of Eastern Oregon Telecom based in Hermiston, Oregon. Walden invited Mr. Franell to testify about how the application of Title II regulations on internet service restricted the ability of Eastern Oregon Telecom to provide broadband in rural communities. “For me, this debate is very much about the impact on providers like him who are trying to close the digital divide,” said Walden. “Heavy-handed, one-size-fits-all regulations hurt small internet service providers like Eastern Oregon Telecom the most, and this in turn hurts their ability to expand broadband to underserved communities in rural America.” Eastern Oregon Telecom CEO Joe Franell testifies during today’s hearing. Click here or on the image above to view Mr. Franell’s remarks “I would argue that it was that freedom from regulation that allowed the internet to begin to realize its potential,” said Mr. Franell. “The application of Title II as part of net neutrality had a dramatic chilling effect on rural telecommunication in the Pacific Northwest and I suspect the same could be said about the rest of the country. The uncertainty of the regulatory environment, even on non-regulated telecommunication providers and internet service providers like Eastern Oregon Telecom, made investors hesitant to invest in the telecommunications sector.” Mr. Franell testified that addressing net neutrality through legislation rather than regulatory action is the proper course on this issue. “Every dollar I spend reporting to regulatory agencies is a dollar I don’t have available to invest in new infrastructure to serve rural eastern Oregon and southeast Washington. Instead of adding to that burden, I encourage you to consider leaving the long-standing Title I regulation of the internet in place, abandon any initiative to reinstate Title II through legislation, and address the anti-competitive abuses that everyone fears with light touch surgical precision,” said Franell. Walden said that it is up to Congress to act on a net neutrality solution through the legislative process, something the Democratic Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Frank Pallone (D-NJ), agrees with. During the hearing, Walden said that he is committed to working in a bipartisan manner to achieve this goal. “A permanent, legislative solution produced in good faith with our Democratic colleagues is the only way to protect consumers, innovation, and an open internet. I am once again asking my friends across the aisle, to work with us on a bipartisan solution,” said Walden. “We can do this while making sure the internet continues to flourish under a light touch regulatory regime that will help us expand broadband access and bridge the digital divide.” To read Walden's full remarks during today's hearing, please click here. ###
02.06.2019	Greg Walden raises concerns about $32 trillion government-run health care system Calls for hearing to examine impact of Medicare for All proposal on Americans, action to reduce health care costs Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks during today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today raised concerns about a $32 trillion government-run health care system during a hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “The latest ‘solution’ from the Democratic Party is a government takeover of healthcare, called Medicare for All,” said Walden. Walden called for a hearing to examine the implications of a Medicare for All proposal that is supported by many Democrats in Congress. “We know that this plan would take away private health insurance from more than 150 million Americans, end Medicare as we know it, and rack up more than $32 trillion in costs, not to mention delays in accessing health services,” Walden said today. Left-leaning think tanks like the Urban Institute have stated that a Medicare for All proposal could cost taxpayers as much as $32 trillion over ten years, and some Democratic lawmakers have acknowledged that the proposal would end private and employer sponsored health care. Walden said that a hearing is needed to give Americans a full picture of what such a proposal would mean for their health care and their family budgets. “The American people need to fully understand how Medicare for All is not Medicare at all, but actually just government-run, single-payer health care,” said Walden. “They need to know about the $32 trillion price tag for such a plan, and the tax increases necessary to pay for it. They need to know that it ends employer sponsored health care, forcing the 158 million Americans who get their health care through their job or union into a one-size-fits-all, government-run plan. If you like waiting in line at the DMV, wait until the government completely takes over health care.” During the hearing, Walden stressed the need to address what he called “out-of-control costs of health care”. Walden has heard from Oregonians who are concerned about rising health care costs, and addressing this issue is a top priority for Walden. “That’s what they would like Congress to focus on,” said Walden. “When will we tackle the high cost of health care?” In the last Congress, Walden led the effort on several proposals to reduce health care costs for consumers, particularly costs related to prescription medications and treatments. Under Walden’s leadership, Congress passed into law a modernization of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2017. This law helps lower the cost of important medication and devices by streamlining the approval process for generic alternatives. The FDA approved 971 generic drugs in 2018, the most in history due in part to new fast tracks for generic competition created under Walden’s legislation. Walden also helped pass into law legislation that bans the use of so-called “gag clauses,” which restrict a pharmacist’s ability to inform a patient that their drug would be cheaper if they paid out of pocket than if they paid through their insurance. Walden first heard about this problem from an Oregon pharmacist, who said that gag clauses prevent pharmacists from fully disclosing pricing options to patients in need. “The fact of the matter is that for too many Americans health insurance coverage exists solely on paper because health care costs and high deductibles are putting family budgets in peril,” said Walden. ###
02.06.2019	Greg Walden calls for better forest management to address climate change Says climate change solutions should prioritize innovation, adaptation, and conservation Greg Walden gestures with jar of ash to illustrate the impact of catastrophic wildfires in Oregon. Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks during today’s hearing. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today called for realistic solutions to address climate change during a hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Republicans are focused on solutions that prioritize adaptation, innovation, and conservation,” said Walden. “Just as America led the world in energy development that has reduced carbon emissions, we want America’s innovators to develop the next technologies that will improve the environment and create jobs here at home.” Walden also stressed the need to improve forest management to reduce the catastrophic wildfires that devastate Oregon every summer and pollute the atmosphere with carbon dioxide and particulate matter. Wildfires devastated more than 800,000 acres in Oregon in 2018, and Walden has met with people on the ground who describe how recent wildfire seasons have impacted their lives. “Oregonians choke on smoke every summer from wildfires that burn across our poorly managed federal forests, filling our skies with ash and polluting our airsheds with carbon dioxide,” said Walden. “Managing our forests not only reduces the risk of these catastrophic fires, but the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that sustainably managing our forests will create the longest sustained carbon mitigation benefit.” Recent studies by the Nature Conservancy, Forest Service, and others have found that active management of fire fuels can reduce the size and intensity of wildfires by up to 70 percent, and can reduce carbon emissions from wildfires by up to 85 percent. Walden is continuing his push for forest management reforms to prevent catastrophic wildfires in Oregon and across the West. Walden has also held hearings each of the last two years to examine the health and environmental impact of wildfire smoke. During the hearing, Walden raised the topic of wildfire mitigation through active forest management with Dr. Brenda Ekwurzel, Director of Climate Science for the Union of Concerned Scientists. Dr. Ekwurzel, stated that practices such as prescribed burns and other forest management techniques are needed to reduce excess fuel loads. Under Walden’s leadership, Congress passed into law the most significant reforms to forest management in more than a decade as well as legislation to promote renewable energy solutions such as hydropower. “Hydropower has great success as a clean energy source in my Oregon district and generates approximately 40 percent of the electricity in my state,” Walden said during today’s hearing. “Legislation we passed into law last Congress will streamline the permitting process for closed-loop pumped hydropower projects. One such project in my district aims to generate enough power for 600,000 homes in southern Oregon.” Walden said that adapting America’s power portfolio in a way that benefits both the economy and the environment is the best course of action. Walden is concerned that certain Democratic proposals to address climate change will impose an excessive cost burden on American energy consumers and taxpayers, and threaten jobs and economic growth. “We want a healthy environment for our children, grandchildren, and their children. But we also want the people who live in our districts and in this country today, right now, to have jobs and to be able to provide for their families,” said Walden. “These are not mutually exclusive principles. Working together we can develop the public policies to achieve these goals.” To read a full transcript of Walden’s remarks during today’s hearing, please click here. ###
01.30.2019	Greg Walden announces Lake County town hall meeting for February 9 WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing a series of town hall meetings across Oregon’s Second District, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today he will hold a town hall in Lake County on Saturday, February 9. Details on the meeting are included below. “After completing eight town halls so far this year, I am excited to continue my town hall schedule next week in Lake County,” said Walden. “Town hall meetings help me update my ‘to-do’ list to take back to Washington, D.C. as I work to solve problems and grow jobs in our district. I look forward to meeting with people on the ground in Lake County and hearing their concerns, input, and feedback on the issues facing our state and country.” Walden released the top legislative accomplishments for Oregon in the 115th Congress, including work to combat the opioid crisis, improve forest management, and give Oregon veterans access to better care at the VA. From Friday, January 18 through Monday, January 21, Walden held town halls across eight counties in southern, central, and eastern Oregon. Walden has held 156 town hall meetings since 2012, and the upcoming town hall meeting represents the 9th town hall he has held in Lake County. Walden also responded to more than 168,000 letters, emails, and phone calls in the last two years. For a complete list of Walden’s previously held and upcoming town hall meetings for 2019, please click here. ** PLEASE NOTE: THE TIME AND DATE BELOW IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE DUE TO INCLEMENT WEATHER AND SCHEDULING CHANGES IN THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. ** Saturday, February 9, 2019 WHAT: Lake County Town Hall Meeting WHEN: 10 a.m. PT WHERE: North Lake School Gym, 57566 Fort Rock Road, Silver Lake, 97638
01.25.2019	In Case You Missed It: Greg Walden holds eight town hall meetings across southern, central, and eastern Oregon Greg Walden speaks during a town hall meeting in Prineville on Sunday, January 20, one of eight town halls Walden held throughout southern, central, and eastern Oregon. WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) recently concluded a series of eight town hall meetings across as many counties in southern, central, and eastern Oregon. Walden held town halls in Josephine, Jackson, Klamath, Deschutes, Jefferson, Crook, Harney, and Malheur counties over four days, drawing approximately 1,700 Oregonians to the meetings and bringing Walden’s town hall total to 156 since 2012. “I heard a lot of good feedback from everyone who attended. We had robust discussions on wildfires and smoke, border security and immigration, the partial government shutdown and many other topics including opioids, renewable energy, climate change, the economy and certainly about our veterans,” said Walden in a video statement following a town hall meeting in Ontario on Monday. “We look forward to resuming town halls when Congress gets its act together on scheduling and we can get back out.” Walden announced last week that he is rescheduling additional town hall meetings that were originally scheduled for this week. Democratic leaders in the House made last-minute scheduling changes that required Walden to be present in Washington, D.C. for legislative business rather than continuing his town hall schedule as planned. Details for Walden’s rescheduled town hall meetings in Oregon’s Second District will be announced soon. Please see below for relevant press coverage of Walden’s eight town hall meetings that he held from Friday, January 18 to Monday, January 21. Grants Pass Town Hall – Friday, January 18 Walden's opposition to shutdown cheered at today's town hall meeting Oregon Rep. Greg Walden got his loudest reaction at a town hall meeting in Grants Pass this morning when he said he broke ranks with fellow Republicans and voted to end the partial government shutdown on Jan. 3…. He said the forests in the West are a major casualty of the shutdown. Thinning projects aren't getting done, and preparations for wildfire season are already behind schedule. "A project in the Ashland Watershed is being held up," Walden said. "We have to be able to manage our forests." Medford Town Hall – Friday, January 18 Walden frustrated by feds' response U.S. Rep. Greg Walden on Friday blasted the federal response to wildfires that have devastated the Southern Oregon economy, jeopardized local health and prompted an outcry from residents over what they believe is a “let-it-burn” philosophy…. Federal officials also spend more effort putting out fires and less effort thinning forests, which would reduce the wildfire danger in the summer, Walden said. “More than half the Forest Service budget goes to fighting fires,” he said. “It’s very frustrating.” Walden heard firsthand the impact wildfires are having on the local economy. “What are you doing to help this?” said Therese MacGregor, a real estate agent with Coldwell Banker Pro West in Medford. She said people are selling houses and moving to other areas, and when the smoke hits during the summer, people don’t buy houses. Klamath Falls Town Hall – Friday, January 18 Walden catches up with Klamath Falls in town hall Congressman Greg Walden wasn’t shy about his thoughts on border security and the wall on the border between the United States and Mexico during a town hall in Klamath Falls on Friday, where he discussed recently casting a vote outside Republican Party lines to end the partial shutdown of the federal government. The Hood River Republican specifically took issue, though, with the furlough of employees of the Departments of the Interior, Agriculture, Bureau of Land Management, and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. “I’ve cited the Klamath Basin and the Biological Opinion as one of the things that got delayed (in the) course of these discussions,” Walden said. Bend Town Hall – Saturday, January 19 Walden returns to Bend for town hall A big issue hanging over the town hall was Walden’s thoughts on the federal government shutdown and President Donald Trump’s offer Saturday to exchange three years of deportation protection for some immigrants for border wall funding….. “We have a humanitarian crisis on the border, and we have a broken immigration system in the interior, and we need to fix both,” Walden said. Madras Town Hall – Sunday, January 20 Walden speaks to Jefferson County residents at his town hall meeting in Madras on January 20. Walden posted the above picture to social media, saying, “Starting the day with a town hall meeting in Madras. Looking forward to a great discussion before heading to Prineville for another town hall this afternoon.” Prineville Town Hall – Sunday, January 20 Walden talks shutdown, border security, more at town hall In the midst of a federal government shutdown driven by disagreements over border security, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden held a town hall in Prineville where that topic and others were discussed at length. Walden kicked off the session, which drew about 150 people to the Crook County High School gym on Sunday afternoon, by addressing his views and voting regarding the shutdown. "I broke with my party to reopen some of these agencies like the Bureau of Land Management, the Forest Service and others that have nothing to do with debate over border security," the Republican congressman said. "I voted to fund those agencies, and I will continue to do so." Burns Town Hall – Monday, January 21 Walden holds town hall in Harney County U.S. Congressman Greg Walden held a town hall meeting in Burns on Monday, Jan. 21, in which he recapped the issues he’s working on in Washington, D.C., and listened to concerns from residents. Walden began by saying he broke with many other Republicans by voting to fund the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Forest Service, and other agencies during the government shutdown. Walden stated he is a strong supporter of security at the border, and noted it was a bi-partisan issue back in 2006. That’s when Congress passed the Secure Fence Act, signed into law by President George W. Bush. He then listed a number of politicians who voted for the legislation at that time. Ontario Town Hall – Monday, January 21 Walden tells Ontario crowd he wants federal government to be fully open U.S. Rep. Greg Walden, R-Hood River, touched on an array of subjects at a town hall meeting Monday afternoon at Four Rivers Cultural Center. From border security to wolves, Walden delivered an update to about 60 people in the latest of a string of public sessions he has held in Oregon in recent days…. … Walden also lauded congressional work on wildfire legislation, including solving what he called the “fire borrowing issue.” Because of a funding gap, for years the Forest Service raided its own budget to cover the cost of huge wildfires across the West. That meant the Forest Service ended up with less money for other programs such as forest management and restoration designed to cut down on forest fires.
01.24.2019	Greg Walden introduces bipartisan bill to improve training for palliative care professionals WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River), along with a group of bipartisan lawmakers, today introduced legislation that aims to strengthen workforce training for palliative care professionals. “This is a cause that’s near and dear to my heart, and I’m proud to be reintroducing this bill in the new Congress,” said Walden. “The Palliative Care and Hospice Education and Training Act will have a real impact on patients’ lives,” Walden continued. “I’ve heard about the importance of this bill from a broad coalition of supporters in my district, from palliative care specialists to patient advocates. The House passed this bill in the last Congress, and I will work with my colleagues this year to get it across the finish line and signed into law.” The Palliative Care and Hospice Education and Training Act is authored by Representative Eliot Engel (D-NY). Walden cosponsored the bill alongside Reps. Tom Reed (R-NY), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Buddy Carter (R-GA), and Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ). This legislation would require the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to improve the training of health professionals in palliative care. This bill also aims to enhance federal research on palliative care and increase education and awareness through a national campaign on palliative care. Palliative and hospice care professionals specialize in medical practices that focus on increasing comfort and quality of life for patients suffering from serious, life-threatening illnesses such as cancer. ###
01.16.2019	UPDATED: Greg Walden releases revised town hall schedule for week of January 21 WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Due to changes in the calendar for the House of Representatives announced today by Democratic leadership, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released a revised town hall schedule for the week of January 21, 2019. With the House scheduled to be in session beginning Tuesday, January 22, Representative Walden will need to be present in Washington, D.C. for votes in the House. The House of Representatives was scheduled to be out of session the week of January 21 when Walden first announced his town hall schedule for January. “It is disappointing that the Democratic Leader made last minute scheduling changes in the House that interfere with my town hall schedule as it currently stands,” said Walden. “We will reschedule the town halls impacted by the revised House calendar next week and will announce the details for those town halls as soon as we can.” Town halls originally scheduled for Baker, Wallowa, Union, Umatilla, Morrow, Gilliam, Hood River, and Wasco counties the week of January 21 will be rescheduled for later dates and announced accordingly. Details for Walden’s revised town hall schedule are included below: Friday, January 18, 2019 What: Josephine County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 8:30a.m. PTWhere: Grants Pass High School Auditorium, 830 NE 9th St., Grants Pass, 97526 What: Jackson County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 11:00a.m. PTWhere: Central Medford High School Auditorium, 815 S Oakdale Ave., Medford, 97501 What: Klamath County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 3:30p.m. PTWhere: OIT College Union Auditorium, 3201 Campus Dr. Klamath Falls, 97601 Saturday, January 19, 2019 What: Deschutes County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:30pm PTWhere: Mountain View High School Auditorium, 2755 NE 27th St. Bend, 97701 Sunday, January 20, 2019 What: Jefferson County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 11:00a.m. PT Where: Jefferson County Senior Center, 860 SW Madison, Madras, 97741 What: Crook County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:00p.m. PTWhere: Crook County High School, 1100 SE Lynn Blvd. Prineville, 97754 Monday, January 21, 2019 What: Harney County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 9:00a.m. PT Where: Harney County Fairgrounds, Memorial Building 69660 S Egan Ave, Burns, 97720 What: Malheur County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:30p.m. MTWhere: TVCC Four Rivers Cultural Center, Owyhee/Snake River Rooms, 676 SW 5th Ave, Ontario, 97914 ###
01.15.2019	Greg Walden votes ‘no’ on Democrat funding bill that lacks adequate resources for border security, fails to provide long-term solution to government shutdown WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Consistent with his voting record on border security measures, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today voted against a Democratic short-term funding bill that lacked adequate resources to secure America’s borders and address illegal immigration. “Strengthening border security is critical to America’s national security,” said Walden. “We should be taking concrete steps to thwart illegal immigration and secure our borders. Unfortunately, House Democrats instead chose to bring up legislation that ignores the national security threat at our southern border.” On January 3, Walden also voted against a funding measure for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that did not include additional resources to strengthen border security, including money to construct a physical barrier along the southern border. Walden has separately voted to reopen several government agencies such as the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), Forest Service, Farm Service Agency, and others that employ thousands of people and conduct important work in Oregon’s Second Congressional District. Walden said that “this partisan bill introduced by Democrats today fails to reopen the federal government as it will not be taken up in the Senate nor be signed into law by President Trump. This is not a serious legislative solution to the country’s border security challenges and the current government shutdown and it delays needed action on both issues.” “I have repeatedly supported efforts to secure our borders with physical barriers, walls and technology, and will continue to do so,” said Walden. “We need to come together around serious proposals to boost border security and reopen the federal government rather than continue the political tactics exhibited by Democrats today.”
01.14.2019	Greg Walden statement on Steve King WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River), representing Western states on the House Republican Steering Committee, voted tonight to not seat Rep. Steve King (IA-04) on any House Committees for the 116th Congress. Walden released the following statement on the action: “Racism, bigotry, and prejudice have no place in America, where we hold true that all men and women are created equal. The comments of Steve King are reprehensible and unbecoming of any person, much less an elected representative. That’s why I voted alongside my colleagues on the Republican Steering Committee to remove Mr. King from his committee assignments tonight. I join all Americans in condemning his comments and am proud of the action taken to make it clear that we will not tolerate this blatant disregard for common decency.” ###
01.11.2019	Greg Walden releases statement after Democrats cut hazardous fuels reduction funds WASHINGTON, D.C. -- “After one of the most deadly fire seasons in American history, Democrats in the U.S. House cut funding for hazardous fuels reduction efforts and then blocked a plan by Republicans to restore it to previously agreed upon levels,” said Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River). “What were they thinking? The $21 million cut means less thinning and fuel removal and more fires and smoke,” said Oregon’s 2nd District Representative. Walden was the only member of the Oregon delegation to support restoring the funds. In the end, Walden voted for the funding package in order to reopen BLM, Forest Service and Park Service operations. But he said this was a “missed opportunity to improve the health of Oregon’s forests and protect our communities from wildfire.” “After Oregonians suffered through yet another summer of choking on smoke, Congress should do everything in our power to improve forest management to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires. It’s the wrong time to reject adequate resources for forest restoration, hazardous fuels reduction, and wildfire planning. While I am disappointed by the cuts, I will continue my efforts to implement proven fire prevention techniques to protect our communities, our forests, and our environment. With another wildfire season on the horizon, Congress must make forest management a priority to reduce the risk of wildfire in Oregon and across the West.” To read more about Representative Walden’s work to improve forest management in Oregon, please click here.
01.08.2019	Greg Walden announces 16 town halls across Oregon’s Second District in January Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s announcement WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced he will hold 16 town halls in January, with meetings in Josephine, Jackson, Klamath, Deschutes, Jefferson, Crook, Harney, Malheur, Baker, Wallowa, Union, Umatilla, Morrow, Gilliam, Hood River, and Wasco counties. Full details on the town hall meetings are included below. “I’m pleased to announce that I’ll be holding 16 town halls across Oregon’s vast Second District,” said Walden. “I look forward to getting together with people on the ground and hearing your concerns and ideas and suggestions about this new session of Congress, and giving you an update on the things we’ve accomplished and what we want to work on going forward.” Walden has held 148 town hall meetings since 2012, and responded to more than 168,000 letters, emails, and phone calls in the last two years. Walden recently released the top legislative accomplishments for Oregon in the 115th Congress, including work to combat the opioid crisis, improve forest management, and give Oregon veterans access to better care at the VA. Oregonians who cannot attend Walden’s town hall meetings but would still like to ask questions or provide input are encouraged to visit his website at www.walden.house.gov. There, Oregonians can find Walden’s views on local and regional issues, send him an email to provide input, and sign up for his free, regular newsletter. Second District residents can also sign up for telephone town hall meetings through Walden’s website. “I receive very positive feedback from people in our district about telephone town halls, which reach thousands of people in the comfort of their own homes. These are especially important for those who have difficulty with transportation. Telephone town halls give people whose voice might not otherwise be heard a chance to give their input on the issues they care about,” Walden said. Constituents can also follow Walden on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram to learn more about his work around Oregon’s Second District. IMPORTANT NOTE: ALL TIMES AND DATES BELOW ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE PENDING INCLEMENT WEATHER. Friday, January 18, 2019 What: Josephine County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 8:30a.m. PTWhere: Grants Pass High School Auditorium, 830 NE 9th St., Grants Pass, 97526 What: Jackson County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 11:00a.m. PTWhere: Central Medford High School Auditorium, 815 S Oakdale Ave., Medford, 97501 What: Klamath County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 3:30p.m. PTWhere: OIT College Union Auditorium, 3201 Campus Dr. Klamath Falls, 97601 Saturday, January 19, 2019 What: Deschutes County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:30pm PTWhere: Mountain View High School Auditorium, 2755 NE 27th St. Bend, 97701 Sunday, January 20, 2019 What: Jefferson County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 11:00a.m. PT Where: Jefferson County Senior Center, 860 SW Madison, Madras, 97741 What: Crook County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:00p.m. PTWhere: Crook County High School, 1100 SE Lynn Blvd. Prineville, 97754 Monday, January 21, 2019 What: Harney County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 9:00a.m. PT Where: Harney County Fairgrounds, Memorial Building 69660 S Egan Ave, Burns, 97720 What: Malheur County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:30p.m. MTWhere: TVCC Four Rivers Cultural Center, Owyhee/Snake River Rooms, 676 SW 5th Ave, Ontario, 97914 Tuesday, January 22, 2019 What: Baker County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 8:30a.m. PT Where: Baker City Elks Lodge 1896 2nd Street, Baker City, 97814 What: Wallowa County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 1:00p.m. PTWhere: Cloverleaf Hall, 668 NW 1st Street, Enterprise, 97828 What: Union County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 4:30p.m. PTWhere: Maridell Center, 1124 Washington Avenue, La Grande, 97850 Wednesday, January 23, 2019 What: Umatilla County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 8:30a.m. PT Where: Pendleton Convention Center, 1601 West Gate, Pendleton, 97801 What: Morrow County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 12:00p.m. PTWhere: SAGE Center Theater, 101 Olson Road, Boardman, 97818 What: Gilliam County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:30p.m. PTWhere: Arlington Fire Hall, 1500 Railroad Ave, Arlington, 97812 Thursday, January 24, 2019 What: Hood River County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 8:00a.m. PT Where: Hood River at the Armory, 1590 12th St, Hood River, 97031 What: Wasco County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 10:30a.m. PTWhere: The Dalles Veterans Home, 700 Veterans Drive, The Dalles, 97058 ###
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that he has nominated ten Oregon students for acceptance to the prestigious United States service academies. Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board -- retired and active-duty military officers who interview potential candidates for the service academies -- recommended each student based on their academic performance, extracurricular involvement, and character. "I am honored to nominate these outstanding young Oregonians to America’s service academies," Walden said. "Years of hard work, dedication, and commitment to character have earned these future leaders these much-deserved nominations. By pursuing a higher education at one of our country’s select service academies, these students have shown a desire to lead by example, grow intellectually, and serve the United States in uniform. I am confident that each nominee will have tremendous success in this admirable endeavor and that their futures will be bright. "I also thank my Service Academy Nomination Board for recommending these young leaders. Their experience serving our country in uniform is invaluable to the nomination process, and speaks to the caliber of the students they interviewed and recommended for nominations this year. Without their guidance and understanding of what it takes to succeed at the U.S. service academies, these nominations would not be possible," said Walden. Serving on Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board are: Retired U.S. Navy Rear Admiral Paula Brown; Col. Smith, Jeff, Oregon Air National Guard; Lt. Col. Lee, Travis, Oregon Army National Guard; Retired U.S. Navy Commander John Howard; Retired U.S. Army Lt. Col Kirk Mickelsen. The service academies include the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado; the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; and the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Final selection for admission to the service academies will be determined by officials at each respective academy this spring. Students who are interested in learning more about service academy nominations can visit Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/academynominations. The nominees from Oregon are as follows: Baker County Clay Keller, son of Douglas and Theresa Keller of Baker City, attended Baker High School -- nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Deschutes County Jackson Clough, son of James and Jill Clough of Bend, attending Summit High School -- nominated to the Unites States Air Force Academy. Benjamin Roberts, son of Andrew and Kimberly Roberts of Bend, attending Bend Senior High School -- nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Levi Schwarz, son of Janet and Douglas Schwarz of Bend, attended Bend Senior High School -- nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Jackson County Dana Jung, daughter of Dr. Tae Kyung Jung and Mikyoung Yang of Medford, attending North Medford High School -- nominated to the United States Military Academy (West Point), and United States Air Force Academy. Klamath County Brandon VanMeter, son of Stephen and Amy Johnson of Klamath Falls, attending Klamath Union High School -- nominated to the United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, and United States Military Academy (West Point). Nolan Britton, son of Robert and Bobbie Sue Britton of Klamath Falls, attending Lost River High School -- nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Jacob Healy, son of Mike and Julie Healy of Klamath Falls, attending Mazama High School -- nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Maximillian Balakas, son of Martin Balakas and Kathleen Todd of Klamath Falls, attending Mazama High School -- nominated to United States Military Academy (West Point). Umatilla County Kirk Liscom, son of Matthew and Shelley Liscom of Pendleton, attending Pendleton High School -- nominated to the United States Naval Academy.
12.19.2018	Greg Walden releases report detailing alleged opioid-dumping in rural communities WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), today released a report summarizing its findings after concluding its bipartisan investigation into allegations of opioid-dumping in West Virginia. Walden's Energy and Commerce Committee spent more than 18 months investigating large quantities of opioids sent to rural towns. “The Energy and Commerce Committee spent more than 18 months investigating allegations of pill dumping in West Virginia -- the epicenter of the nation’s opioid epidemic and the state with the highest drug overdose death rate in the country," said Chairman Greg Walden and Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ). "Our bipartisan investigation revealed systemic failures by both distributors and the DEA that contributed to -- and failed to abate -- the opioid crisis in West Virginia. The Majority Staff Report released today identified several flaws limiting the effectiveness of the distributors’ compliance programs and DEA’s enforcement. While we’ve already been hard at work this Congress to combat the opioid crisis with the signing of H.R. 6 into law, more work remains.” The report details numerous warning signs and red flags missed by wholesale drug distributors and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) that contributed to the worsening of the opioid epidemic in West Virginia. The report concludes with a series of recommendations and suggested legislative solutions to help improve the effectiveness of the distributors’ compliance programs and the DEA’s enforcement. The recommendations include: Congress should consider enacting additional suspicious order requirements to clarify registrant responsibilities and to supplement the suspicious order requirements recently codified in Walden's SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act; DEA should work to establish a data platform with third-party experts to provide more real-time data to registrants; DEA should establish guidance on delaying Immediate Suspension Orders or other administrative actions for the furtherance of parallel criminal investigations, including a limit on the amount of time the agency will delay action; As part of their prospective customer due diligence, and at regular intervals thereafter, distributors should require the production of dispensing data from a pharmacy, preferably in a manner that would enable the distributor to identify the pharmacy’s prescribing physicians; When red flags are raised and documented regarding a pharmacy, that pharmacy should be subject to heightened monitoring. Distributors’ policies should specify the frequency and type of any such heightened monitoring; and Distributors’ policies should clearly require a proactive review of pharmacies that share common ownership with a pharmacy terminated for compliance reasons within a reasonable, and determined, amount of time, among other recommendations. The report concludes, “Blame for the opioid epidemic is widespread and goes far beyond the bounds of this investigation. Pharmaceutical manufacturers, pharmacists, physicians, drug traffickers, and others have contributed to this problem as well. This investigation has revealed that neither the DEA nor the distributors rose to the occasion to help mitigate the opioid epidemic. The committee will continue its bipartisan work to examine the causes and effects of the opioid epidemic.” Click here to read the full report online. Background In May 2017, the committee opened a bipartisan investigation into the distribution of prescription opioids by wholesale drug distributors, with a specific focus on distribution practices in West Virginia, and enforcement practices by the DEA during the opioid epidemic. Bipartisan committee leaders sent letters to the top drug distributors (AmerisourceBergen Corporation, CardinalHealth, Inc., and McKesson Corporation) and the DEA in May 2017, regarding reports of extremely high amounts of opioids being distributed in the state. Cited in the letters was the example of Kermit, West Virginia, population 406, receiving nearly 9 million hydrocodone pills in a two-year period. Bipartisan committee leaders probed a fourth distributor, Miami-Luken, Inc., in September 2017 and sent a follow up letter to the DEA in October 2017. During October 2017, the full committee held a hearing where Walden grilled the DEA on its lack of cooperation and response to the committee’s investigation. In January 2018, bipartisan committee leaders sent a follow up letter to Miami-Luken and probed a fifth distributor, H.D. Smith Wholesale Drug Co. In February 2018, bipartisan committee leaders sent follow-up letters to McKesson, Cardinal Health, and AmerisourceBergen. In March 2018, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a hearing examining the DEA’s role in combating the opioid crisis. In May 2018, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a hearing with the leadership of national and regional drug distributors to testify about their role in the opioid crisis. --
12.12.2018	Greg Walden applauds 2018 Farm Bill, calls for greater action on forest management reform Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden today applauded H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 (Farm Bill), but said that more work remains to improve forest management to prevent catastrophic wildfires in Oregon. Speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives, Walden said that while he intends to vote in support of the 2018 Farm Bill, he is disappointed that the legislation did not include the sweeping improvements to federal forest policy that he helped secure in the House-passed version of the bill. “These fires are monsters when they light up. They kill. It’s unfortunate that the provisions that the House passed as part of the Farm Bill were rejected by the Democrats in the Senate. It’s unfortunate because after these catastrophic fires, we should be able to get in and remove the fuel load so the next fire does not burn even more intensely, which is what happens,” said Walden. “But Senate Democrats rejected that. And while we’re expanding categorical exclusion authorities in some forests, the House provisions said that we should expand the authority to all forests so that we can begin to catch up and remove the excess fuel load from our forests. Unfortunately, again, Senate Democrats rejected that.” Walden applauded the 2018 Farm Bill’s inclusion of provisions that will help improve the management of federal forests by extending expedited management tools for insect and disease projects in eastern Oregon and expanding it to hazardous fuels reduction to reduce the threat of fire and smoke. The legislation also allows more local involvement from counties in forest management projects and extended funding for collaborative forest projects. However, Walden said that Senate Democrats removed important provisions such as requiring cleanup projects after a fire and the replanting of a new healthy forest. And Democratic senators opposed providing tools that would help improve management of forests in western and southern Oregon, which have suffered the worst fires in the state in recent years. “So we’re left with a bill that is pretty good, but when we’re losing towns, and people, and firefighters, and our communities are choked with smoke, we can do better,” said Walden. Walden concluded by sharing the testimony of a father from southern Oregon, who detailed the impact wildfire smoke had on his family this summer at a public hearing on wildfires that took place before the Jackson County Board of Commissioners yesterday. “Last night, in Medford, Oregon, the Jackson County Commissioners held a public meeting to talk about this fire situation we face. A dad from Jackson County recounted how his daughter with cystic fibrosis had to move away saying ‘it’s been devastating for us a family. We wish our daughter could live with us.’ But, as he went on to say, ‘When you can’t breathe, nothing else matters.’ “So you want to talk about life, and health, and safety issues in America, we should have done better in the Senate,” said Walden. “But we’re doing okay with this bill and I intend to support it.” ###
12.07.2018	Greg Walden announces $19 million grant for Port of Morrow $19,414,875 grant provided by the Department of Transportation for Port of Morrow Columbia River Barge Terminal Rail Access Project WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that the Port of Morrow will receive $19,414,875 from the Department of Transportation through the department’s Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) program. Representative Walden worked with Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao to secure the grant, which will be used for the Port of Morrow’s Columbia River Barge Terminal Rail Access Project. “I spoke with Secretary Chao this morning, and am pleased to announce that the Port of Morrow has been awarded this incredibly important grant to help expand the Port’s rail network to enable rail-to-barge transloading at four marine terminals along the Columbia River. The enhancement to the Port’s rail-to-barge system will enable the transloading of commodities directly between barge ships and rail cars to create cost-effective shipping options for new and existing industries at the Port. This grant is vital for the completion of a project that will help reduce transportation costs, relieve rail congestion, create jobs, and facilitate the movement of U.S. exports. I am proud to have worked with Secretary Chao and the Port of Morrow team to secure this grant funding, and look forward to the Port’s successful completion to this project that will boost job growth and the local economy in our district and state.” “This grant is a huge boost to the Port of Morrow and the economic development of the region,” said Port of Morrow General Manager Gary Neal. “Greg went above and beyond advocating for us at the Department of Transportation with letters of support and working closely with Secretary Chao. I’d like to thank Greg for his help, and I look forward to seeing this project come to fruition.” The Port of Morrow is Oregon’s second largest port, and contributes to the economic competitiveness of Oregon, the Pacific Northwest, and the United States by serving as the primary point for freight distribution, export, and value-added production of agriculture products in the region. The Port is strategically located in northeast Oregon at the confluence of primary trucking routes and is served by Union Pacific Railroad, the Columbia River (barge transport), and a Port-owned airport near Boardman. Along with the Department of Transportation grant funding, the Port plans to provide design and engineering work while leveraging a $6,550,000 grant secured from the State of Oregon for construction. The proposed rail expansions will capitalize on previous rail investments made by the Port and investments from the State of Oregon, a cooperative of grain growers, and private barge shipping lines to expand a Morrow County Grain Growers’ grain terminal facility at the port. ###
11.30.2018	Greg Walden elected as top Republican on Energy and Commerce Committee WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The House Republican Steering Committee has elected Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to serve as the top Republican on the House Energy and Commerce Committee in the upcoming session of Congress. Walden today released the following statement: “I thank my colleagues and am honored to have earned their support to serve as the Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee in the next session of Congress. The Energy and Commerce Committee has broad jurisdiction over many of the issues we face in Oregon and across the West. Under my leadership, the Energy and Commerce Committee has worked in an overwhelmingly bipartisan manner to advance key legislation for our district. "We’ve made historic strides in the fight against the opioid crisis, which takes the lives of more Oregonians than traffic accidents. We’ve modernized the Food and Drug Administration, to help patients in Oregon get access to the best cures and treatments available. Legislation we advanced to bridge the digital divide will help bring high-speed Internet to our district so rural communities can tap into the 21st Century economy. And we’ve passed into law measures that will help Oregon boost hydropower production, put old industrial sites back into active use through the EPA’s Brownfields Program, and ensure people across our state have safe water to drink by upgrading our drinking water infrastructure. There is much more work to be done, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee to ensure that bipartisan success continues for Oregonians.” ###
10.30.2018	Greg Walden announces Air Force Secretary visit to Kingsley Field Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson to join Walden in Klamath Falls to meet with base commanders, troops, and local veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that the Secretary of the Air Force, Heather Wilson, will visit Kingsley Field Air National Guard Base in Klamath Falls this weekend on invitation from Representative Walden. Secretary Wilson will join Walden in Klamath Falls to meet with the troops and commanders at Kingsley Field to learn more about the home of Oregon Air National Guard’s 173rd Fighter Wing, including the base’s capability to become a future home of a next-generation fighter jet, such as the F-35. “I am proud to announce that, for the first time in the base’s history, the Secretary of the United States Air Force is coming to Kingsley Field,” said Walden. “Kingsley Field plays a vital role in America’s military readiness and the local economy, and enjoys overwhelming support from the community in Klamath Falls. Secretary Wilson will get a firsthand look at the expansive air space, top-grade military infrastructure, and the unmatched work ethic of Kingsley’s leaders and the troops stationed here, and learn more about why the base is a fitting home for the F-35. Secretary Wilson and I served together in the House of Representatives, and we have been working together over several months with Colonel Jeff Smith and the Oregon Air National Guard to make this visit a success. I appreciate Secretary Wilson’s willingness to spend the time here on the ground in Klamath Falls to get a better understanding of the military capabilities, vast training space, and broad community support that make Kingsley Field integral to our national defense strategy and uniquely suited for the F-35.” Today’s announcement comes less than two weeks after Representative Walden invited the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Mac Thornberry (R-TX), to Kingsley Field to meet with commanders at Kingsley and hear about their priorities for the base. Representative Walden has been a steadfast advocate in Congress for maintaining a military presence at Kingsley Field and ensuring the base has the long-term support it needs to succeed into the future. The upcoming visit by Secretary Wilson represents the first time that an Air Force Secretary has been to Kingsley Field since the construction of the base in 1928. Kingsley Field and the United States Air Force recently secured a 77-year lease with the City of Klamath Falls to ensure a military presence at the base until 2095. This represents the longest lease currently established between the Air Force and a military base in the United States. Secretary Wilson will join Representative Walden at Kingsley Field on Saturday, November 3. Further details on the agenda of the visit will be provided in the coming days.
10.24.2018	Greg Walden’s historic bill to combat opioid crisis signed into law Walden’s SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act represents largest effort to address a single drug crisis in history Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Greg Walden’s (R-Hood River) comprehensive legislation to combat the nationwide opioid crisis was signed into law by President Trump today at the White House. Walden’s SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, which passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 393-8 in September and the Senate by a vote of 98-1 in October, represents the largest legislative effort to combat a single drug crisis in history. Walden said today that this bill will save lives and help get communities in Oregon on the path to recovery. “Across our district I’ve met with the victims, families, treatment advocates, medical providers, and law enforcement officers who are on the front lines of the opioid crisis in Oregon,” said Walden. “Today is about these people, each of whom puts a name and a face to a crisis that killed more than 72,000 people nationwide in 2017 and takes the lives of more Oregonians than traffic accidents. This bipartisan legislation brings critical support to the communities most desperately in need, provides new tools and resources for those on the ground in this fight, and helps stop the flow of deadly drugs across our borders. Rarely can we say that legislation will save lives, but there is no doubt that this bill will do just that. While there is much more work to be done, today is an important step forward to help stem the tide and get communities in Oregon on the road to recovery.” Walden’s legislation, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6), is a bipartisan bill that will help in our overall efforts to combat the opioid crisis by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting our communities, and bolstering our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act follows the passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act and the 21st Century Cures Act that Walden helped pass into law last Congress, the $4 billion appropriated in the government funding measure earlier this year to help combat the opioid crisis, as well as the $6.7 billion included in a recent appropriations package to boost programs that fight, treat, and stop substance abuse, and support access to mental health services. How the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act will Help Combat the Opioid Crisis: Treatment and Recovery ▪ Improve and expand access to treatment and recovery services ▪ Provide incentives for enhanced care, coordination, and innovation ▪ Establish comprehensive opioid recovery centers Prevention ▪ Encourage non-addictive opioid alternatives to treat pain ▪ Improve data to identify and help at-risk patients and families ▪ Address high prescribing rates while enhancing prescription drug monitoring programs Protecting Communities ▪ Give law enforcement tools to get dangerous drugs out of our communities ▪ Better intercept illicit opioids at international mail facilities ▪ Improve access to federal resources for local communities Fighting Fentanyl ▪ Better tackle ever-changing synthetic drugs ▪ Crack down on foreign shipments of illicit drugs ▪ Provide grants for local communities to combat fentanyl For a section-by-section summary of Walden’s legislation, please click here. To learn more about the House’s comprehensive efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click here. ###
10.23.2018	Greg Walden applauds signing of water bill that includes drought relief for Klamath farmers America’s Water Infrastructure Act also includes measures to boost hydropower development and improve safe drinking water Click here or on the image above to view Walden's remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) attended a ceremony at the White House today for the signing of a landmark water package that includes drought relief for farmers in the Klamath Basin. Walden secured a key provision in the America’s Water Infrastructure Act, which President Trump signed into law today, that authorizes $10 million annually for four years to the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) to implement needed drought relief measures for the agriculture community in the Klamath Basin. “This is good news for farmers, ranchers, and water users in the Klamath Basin who are just getting through another challenging water year,” said Walden. “Authorizing $10 million annually for four years to the Bureau of Reclamation will assist with groundwater pumping and other drought relief measures for basin farmers that we secured in law earlier this year. This will ensure needed relief makes it to irrigators who suffered added costs and losses this water year, and will help ensure we are prepared if our farmers are hit again in a future drought year. I am proud to have worked with my Oregon colleagues to secure this provision in the larger legislation, and applaud the Trump Administration for prioritizing this needed relief for farmers in the Klamath basin. The provisions Walden worked with his colleagues to include in the America’s Water Infrastructure Act will provide direction to BOR on how the agency is to spend the funds acquired earlier this year and any that are appropriated in succeeding years. This will give BOR the authority to spend $10 million each year over the next four years to implement measures such as: Groundwater pumping to increase the flexibility, reliability, and efficient use of water in the Klamath Basin; Temporary and voluntary land idling on Bureau of Reclamation property to make additional water available; and, Facilitating the movement of non-Project water through Bureau of Reclamation facilities to assist irrigators. Representative Walden also included provisions in the America’s Water Infrastructure Act related to hydropower development and safe drinking water. “Importantly, this legislation also includes measures to boost hydropower development in Oregon and modernize our drinking water infrastructure so communities have safe water to drink when they turn on the faucet,” said Walden. “Each of these issues have been priorities for me in Congress and I am pleased to see that they were included in this landmark water package.” Promoting Hydropower This package combines several bills from Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee that passed the House including, H.R. 2880, the Promoting Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Hydropower Act; H.R. 2872, the Promoting Hydropower Development at Existing Nonpowered Dams Act; H.R. 2786, To Amend the Federal Power Act with Respect to the Criteria and Process to Qualify as a Qualifying Conduit Hydropower Facility; as well as key provisions from H.R. 3043, the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act. These bills: Encourage the use of clean, baseload hydropower by streamlining the regulatory permitting process. Get new hydropower projects to market faster, saving time and money. Remove barriers to investments in hydropower, which create jobs and provide low-cost, emissions-free electricity to consumers. Modernizing Our Drinking Water Infrastructure This package incorporates substantial portions of H.R. 3387, the Drinking Water System Improvement Act, which passed the Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously in July 2017. This bill authorizes more than $4.4 billion over three years for the Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund program. The Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) helps local communities provide their residents with safe drinking water, comply with drinking water rules and improve infrastructure. For example, in Malheur County, the city of Vale used the DWSRF to complete a new 750,000 gallon water storage tank and $8 million water treatment facility to increase the city’s water supply. Nyssa also used the fund for a similar project. Meanwhile, in Umatilla County, the city of Pendleton secured funding through the DWSRF to replace 33 miles of pipe nearing a century in age. Other key provisions to improve safe drinking water include: Improving accountability by aiding states and utilities with compliance and asset management. Protecting communities by updating anti-terrorism and resilience measures at public water systems. Enhancing transparency for consumers about the quality of their drinking water. Authorization of $100 million over the next two fiscal years for areas affected by natural disasters that need help repairing their drinking water systems or hooking up to other ones to obtain potable drinking water. Click here to learn more about the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018. ###
10.03.2018	Greg Walden bill to combat opioid crisis passes Senate Walden’s SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act now heads to president WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden’s (R-Hood River) comprehensive legislation to combat the opioid crisis passed the Senate today, less than a week after receiving sweeping bipartisan support as it passed in the House of Representatives. Walden’s SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6) passed the Senate by a vote of 98-1 today, bringing the bill one step closer to becoming law. “After months of bipartisan work, landmark legislation to combat the opioid crisis is now headed to President Trump’s desk," said Walden. "This comprehensive bill provides critical support to desperate communities in Oregon and all across the country and gives those fighting on the front lines new tools to help treat addiction and slow the flow of illicit drugs across our borders. While there is still much work to be done, this historic effort will undoubtedly save lives and put families and communities across our country on the road to recovery. I look forward to seeing this legislation signed into law and continuing to work with the president to combat the opioid crisis.” Last week, Walden’s legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 393-8. H.R. 6 will help efforts to advance treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, protect our communities, and bolster our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. This legislation represents the largest Congressional effort to address a single drug crisis in history. Walden’s legislation now heads to the president’s desk to be signed into law. For more information on H.R. 6, please click here. ###
10.02.2018	Greg Walden bill to protect Crooked River Ranch from wildfire clears key Senate committee Walden’s Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act unanimously passes Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden’s (R-Hood River) plan to protect a central Oregon community from wildfire cleared a key Senate committee today, paving the way for an upcoming vote in the full Senate. Walden’s Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act (H.R. 2075) aims to reduce the risk of wildfire for the approximately 5,500 residents living at Crooked River Ranch in Jefferson County, and passed unanimously through the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Walden’s bill unanimously passed the House of Representatives in July. “I applaud the Senate for moving forward with this common-sense public safety measure," said Walden. "With more than 5,000 people living at Crooked River Ranch, this legislation has the potential to save lives and prevent deadly wildfires from endangering the community. I was proud to work alongside Senator Wyden to find common ground on certain provisions to move this bill forward without undermining the key substance of this legislation. By allowing proper management of the surrounding fire fuels, we can protect people and property at Crooked River Ranch. I look forward to moving this bill across the finish line and signed into law.” Crooked River Ranch is an unincorporated community of about 5,500 residents in Jefferson County. The lands adjacent to the community are managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and are classified as a Wilderness Study Area (WSA). These lands are in the highest risk category for exposure to devastating wildfire due to overstocked juniper stands under the federally mandated, and locally promulgated, Jefferson County Community Wildfire Protection Plan. The current WSA classification prevents mechanical fire prevention activities within these overstocked juniper stands. Walden’s bill would adjust the boundaries of the WSAs to allow much-needed management of the excess fire fuels that surround Crooked River Ranch, reducing the danger of wildfire for the community who lives there. Representative Walden’s proposal also has broad support from fire officials and first responders in Jefferson County and throughout Oregon: “This bill is long overdue and will be a welcome addition to all first responders responsible for protecting the life and property of Crooked River Ranch citizens. Additionally, it will allow local first responders and BLM managers to address the severe fire dangers that exist along the borders which abut private property.” -- Oregon Fire Chiefs Association “This bill has the potential to save lives and property at Crooked River Ranch and I’m glad to see Congressman Walden continuing to move this plan forward. With the current wilderness study area (WSA) boundary, practical firefighting and fire prevention activities are unavailable. The lack of fuel mitigation around Crooked River Ranch, due to wilderness restrictions codified in law, has created a dangerous environment and continues to threaten the people that live here.” -- Harry Ward, Fire Chief of Crooked River Ranch Fire & Rescue “As the elected Sheriff of Jefferson County, Oregon, this bill is extremely important to the life and property of an area under my protection. This bill will help mitigate wildfire from Crooked River Ranch by providing a defensible fire protection along the border of the Ranch which is presently contiguous with the WSAs.” -- Jefferson County Sheriff Jim Adkins The Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act now awaits action in the full Senate. To read more about Representative Walden’s legislation, please click here. ###
09.28.2018	Greg Walden comprehensive bill to combat opioid crisis moves closer to President’s desk Walden’s SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act clears final House vote in bipartisan fashion Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6), Representative Greg Walden’s (R-Hood River) comprehensive legislation to combat the nationwide opioid crisis, cleared a final House vote today as it continues to move forward to the President’s desk. In sweeping bipartisan fashion, Walden’s bill today passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 393-8. Representative Walden highlighted how this legislation will help victims and families of the opioid crisis in Oregon, who Walden has met with repeatedly at roundtables throughout the Second District. “At more than 10 roundtables throughout my district in Oregon, I’ve heard from the everyday people on the front lines of this fight in our communities. They are the victims and families; medical providers and treatment advocates; local law enforcement and first responders; and our neighbors and loved ones. Each of these people puts a name and a face to what I would say is the worst drug epidemic we have ever seen in America – the opioid crisis. I’ve heard from Oregon families. I’ve heard from Mike and Winnie from Grants Pass, who have seen the their loved ones struggle with addiction,” said Walden in a speech on the House floor today. “I’ve heard from Paula, whose two sons and step-son struggle with their opioid addiction today. As a parent, I can only imagine how parents of children with an opioid addiction must feel every time the phone rings.” Walden shared the story of Grants Pass resident Mike, whose family has been personally impacted by opioid addiction. Mike has attended multiple meetings Walden has held in southern Oregon to discuss solutions to combat the opioid crisis. Walden also referenced the story of Paula, a mother from Grants Pass, who is a founding member of the Oregon chapter of Families Anonymous, a nationwide program for friends and family members of those struggling with addiction, and whose family has been impacted by opioid abuse. Walden’s legislation has received wide bipartisan support in both the House and Senate since being introduced. In June, the House passed Walden’s legislation by a vote of 396-14. That bipartisan support continued today. “H.R. 6 represents the best of bipartisan and bicameral negotiation,” said Representative Richard Neal (D-MA), a top Democrat in the House of Representatives in support of Walden’s legislation. “This indeed is the way policy can and should be done.” H.R. 6 will help efforts to advance treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, protect our communities, and bolster our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. This legislation represents the largest Congressional effort to address a single drug crisis in history. In his closing remarks today, Walden said this legislation will save lives by incorporating the feedback he has heard from Oregonians about how to tackle the opioid crisis from all angles. “Seldom are there times when you’re legislating, that you can say that what you’re doing will actually save lives. This is one of those times,” said Walden in his speech today. “Today’s effort is about people like Mike and Winnie, and Paula. It is about a woman I met in Hermiston who had to travel five hours to find a physician who could oversee her treatment on suboxone because no one in the community was available. We helped fix that in this legislation. It is about my friends at Winding Waters in Enterprise, Oregon, who I was with last week with the Sheriff and others who talked about the continued problems and challenges they face, and who have given me great guidance on these and other issues. “From one end of my district to the other; from one end of the country to the other, we have all listened and we have frankly cried as we have heard the stories of parents who helped their children through addiction only to drop them off at college and only a matter of days later retrieve a body. That’s what brings us together here today. It is their stories that are woven deeply into this legislation. It is because of them that we will make a difference.” Walden’s legislation now heads to the Senate for a final vote and then to the President’s desk to be signed into law. For more information on H.R. 6, please click here. ###
09.26.2018	Greg Walden highlights historic revival of U.S. manufacturing sector Cites tax cuts and regulatory relief as driving force for record setting economic growth and job creation Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today highlighted the historic revival of America’s manufacturing sector as a result of economic policies he has helped pass into law this Congress. Citing the landmark tax cuts for middle class families and businesses that were signed into law in December, and record setting regulatory relief, Walden today said American workers are witnessing the strongest economy in decades. “We have provided the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan. We’ve had significant regulatory relief, taking the dead hand of excessive government regulation off the throats of America’s entrepreneurs. And they have responded at record pace to create jobs in America and to give us the best economy nearly anyone in the working world has seen in their time,” said Walden. “Thanks to historic achievements in tax and regulatory reform, our country is undergoing a manufacturing revival unlike any we’ve seen in a long time. The latest manufacturing index from the Institute for Supply Management has reached its highest level in 14 years. This number translates to surging growth and increased production of goods made in America.” The Washington Post recently reported that, “Jobs in goods-producing industries -- mining, construction and manufacturing -- grew 3.3 percent in the year preceding July, the best rate since 1984.” This increase in manufacturing jobs has also resulted in rising wages. According to the August Bureau of Labor Statistics quarterly release, compensation for workers has risen to a nearly 10-year high. Representative Walden in November voted to pass the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which provided tax relief to middle class families and small businesses in Oregon. Since its enactment in December, nearly 1.7 million jobs have been created nationwide, average wages have risen 2.7 percent, and more than $4 billion has been paid out in the form of bonuses. Directly crediting the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, over 100 manufacturers have invested more in their businesses, including hiring new employees and increasing wages and benefits for current employees. Representative Walden has also supported efforts to rein in excessive rules and regulations that were hurting business owners in Oregon and across the country. As of January 2018, Walden helped repeal 14 regulations through the Congressional Review Act, and the current administration has taken action to cut regulatory costs by $8.1 billion. During today’s hearing before the Energy and Commerce Committee today, which was entitled “Built in America: Jobs and Growth in the Manufacturing Sector”, Walden said this strong economic performance has dispelled previous notions by the previous administration of mediocre growth as the new normal. “This notion from the last president that we should get used to a 1.5% or 2% GDP and that’s the best America could do is just garbage,” said Walden. “We’re moving forward now with 4.2% GDP growth and a very strong economy because of the Republican policies we passed out of this Committee and others down to the President for his signature.” For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, please click here. ###
09.25.2018	Greg Walden leads passage of legislation to lower drug prices, increase control for patients Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act and Know the Lowest Price Act pass House with Walden’s support Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today led the House passage of two bipartisan bills that aim to lower drug costs and give patients more control over their health care. With Walden’s support, the Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act and the Know the Lowest Price Act passed the House unanimously after being passed in the Senate last week. These bills will ban the use of so-called “gag clauses,” which restrict a pharmacist’s ability to inform a patient that their drug would be cheaper if they paid out of pocket than if they paid through their insurance. While there is already a regulation on this practice in Medicare Part D, this legislation if signed into law will end the practice across Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plans, Medicare Part D, and group and individual health insurance. Walden said today this legislation marks an important step forward to end this troubling practice of limiting information disclosed to patients, which he first heard about from an Oregon pharmacist. “I rise in support of two bills that will bring some much-needed transparency into the drug supply chain, and help patients afford the medicines they need,” said Walden in a speech on the House floor. “I first heard about the gag clause issue from Michele, an independent pharmacist from Grants Pass, Oregon, in my district. She told me that as a pharmacist she was precluded -- under certain insurance contracts -- from telling a patient that their cash price would be cheaper than going through their insurance. Michele told me that she once even received a cease and desist letter for trying to help a child with a terminal disease access his medication. That is simply unacceptable.” Michele Belcher, owner and pharmacist at Grants Pass Pharmacy, said earlier this month that gag clauses prevent pharmacists from fully disclosing pricing options to patients and need to be banned. “Gag clauses are an unnecessary restriction on our ability as pharmacists to communicate with our patients," said Belcher. “That should never happen. I applaud Representative Walden for taking this issue on.” On September 13, the House Energy and Commerce Committee -- where Walden serves as Chairman -- unanimously advanced a combined version of these two bills to the full House of Representatives for consideration. Both pieces of legislation that passed in the House today now head to the President’s desk to be signed into law. To read more about the Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act, please click here. To read more about the Know the Lowest Price Act, please click here. ###
09.20.2018	Greg Walden highlights $17 million in new grants to combat opioid crisis in Oregon WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is highlighting new resources to combat the opioid crisis in Oregon. As part of newly released grant funding from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Oregon will receive more than $17 million to increase access to a wide range of opioid abuse and addiction treatment services across the state, specifically targeted to rural areas. “The opioid crisis has hit every community in Oregon and touched millions of families across the country – it truly is the crisis next door. Combating this epidemic requires an all-hands-on-deck approach, and I applaud the President for taking another important step forward in this fight,” said Walden. “These resources will provide critical support to those on the front lines of this fight in Oregon, including the providers at community health centers across our district. This bolsters our efforts in the House to tackle the opioid crisis from all angles with the passage of my legislation, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act. I am continuing to work with my counterparts in the Senate to get a final package to combat the opioid crisis across the finish line and to the President’s desk in the coming weeks.” The Department of Health and Human Services yesterday awarded more than $1 billion in opioid-related grants to help combat the opioid epidemic. These grants were awarded in all 50 states. Included in this grant funding is $396 million for community health centers and rural health programs through HHS’ Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). Oregon will receive $6.7 million in funding through HRSA, including $2.2 million for Oregon’s Second District. Representative Walden led the effort in Congress to increase and extend funding for community health centers for two years. Walden also continues to lead the Congressional response to the nationwide opioid crisis. Representative Walden’s legislation – the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6) – passed the House in June by a bipartisan vote of 396-14. This is the largest legislative effort to combat a single drug crisis in history. Representative Walden applauded the passage of a Senate opioid package earlier this week, calling that action “an important step forward in our collective fight to end this epidemic that takes 115 American lives each and every day.” Walden says lawmakers hope to have a final package ready for consideration next week. To learn more about this new round of grant funding for the Department of Health and Human Services, please click here. To read more about Representative Walden’s work to combat the opioid crisis, please click here.
09.17.2018	Greg Walden welcomes southern Oregon veterans to Washington, D.C. Click here or on the image above for video of Walden welcoming southern Oregon veterans to nation’s capital WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) greeted 25 veterans from southern Oregon who came to Washington, D.C. last week to visit their memorials on the National Mall through the Honor Flight of Southern Oregon. Walden welcomed the veterans when they arrived to the nation’s capital on Friday, and presented each of them with an American flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their service to our country. “Every time I have the chance to meet one of these heroes, I am reminded of the poignant words of General Dwight D. Eisenhower. In a message to Allied troops just before D-Day, he said, ‘The eyes of the world are upon you. The hopes and prayers of liberty-loving people everywhere march with you,’” said Walden. “Over seventy years later, liberty-loving people everywhere continue to owe heroes like the veterans from southern Oregon who traveled to the nation’s capital last week for their extraordinary service, and their incredible sacrifice and bravery on behalf of our country.” Al Axtell, a 100 year-old WWII United States Air Force Veteran from Medford poses for picture with Representative Walden. Walden said the nation “can never fully repay the debt of gratitude owed to them for their honor, commitment, and sacrifice in defense of the freedoms we have today.” In addition to presenting the veterans with an American flag flown over the Capitol building, Walden entered into the Congressional Record the names of each veteran who participated in the Honor Flight of Southern Oregon. Walden expressed gratitude for the veterans and their service on behalf of the entire House of Representatives. “Each of us in this chamber and in this nation should be humbled by the courage of these brave veterans who put themselves in harm's way for our country and way of life,” wrote Walden in the Congressional Record. “As a nation, we can never fully repay the debt of gratitude owed to them for their honor, commitment, and sacrifice in defense of the freedoms we have today. My colleagues, please join me in thanking these veterans and the volunteers of Honor Flight of Southern Oregon for their exemplary dedication and service to this great country.” The Honor Flight Network is a non-profit organization created to honor America’s veterans. The organization transports veterans to Washington, D.C. to visit and reflect at their memorials -- with priority given to World War II survivors and veterans who may be terminally ill. Over 200,000 veterans have been honored through the Honor Flight Network of volunteers nationwide since 2005. Walden often meets with Oregon veterans who come to Washington, D.C. as part of the Honor Flight Network, and flies flags over the Capitol in honor of each veteran participating in the Honor Flight, along with entering their names into the Congressional Record. Over the past year, Walden has helped more than 600 Oregon veterans and their families with health care, benefits, and claims at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). If you or a loved one needs help with the VA or any other federal agency, you can reach out to Walden’s office from Oregon at 800-533-3303. Walden has a full team on his staff ready to assist you. ###
09.17.2018	Greg Walden applauds Senate passage of opioid package WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today issued the following statement after the Senate passed the Opioid Crisis Response Act of 2018. “I applaud the Senate for passing critical legislation to help combat the opioid crisis, which is taking the lives of more Oregonians than traffic accidents. With the House’s overwhelmingly bipartisan passage of my legislation, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act, in June, the Senate’s actions clear the way for the House and Senate to iron out the differences in our proposals. This is an important step forward in our collective fight to end this epidemic that takes 115 American lives each and every day. Victims and families in Oregon cannot wait any longer, and I look forward to continuing to work to advance a final legislative package that will be signed into law.” Background: Over the course of two weeks in June, the House passed dozens of individual bills to combat the opioid crisis. The vast majority of those bills were included in Walden’s legislation, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6). H.R. 6 is a bipartisan bill that will help in our overall efforts to combat the opioid crisis by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting our communities, and bolstering our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. H.R. 6 passed the House by a vote of 396-14. To learn more about Energy and Commerce’s comprehensive efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click here. To learn more about the House’s comprehensive efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click here. ###
09.13.2018	House passes water infrastructure package that includes drought relief for Klamath farmers America’s Water Infrastructure Act includes Walden provision to authorize drought relief measures for irrigators in the Klamath Basin Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The House of Representatives today unanimously passed legislation that secures drought relief measures for Klamath Basin irrigators. Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) included a provision in the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (S. 3021) that authorizes $10 million annually for four years to the Bureau of Reclamation to implement needed drought relief measures for the agriculture community in the Klamath Basin. Earlier this week, Walden announced that this provision was included in the Water Resources Development Act, which is part of the America’s Infrastructure Act legislative package. In a speech on the House floor today, Representative Walden further highlighted the importance of this legislation to Klamath Basin farmers. “This legislation includes important language to assist irrigators in the Klamath Basin who are enduring another challenging water year and it helps ensure we are prepared if our farmers are hit again with severe drought conditions in the years ahead,” said Walden. “The bill provides the Bureau of Reclamation with the authority to use the funds we secured earlier this year to implement measures such as groundwater pumping and other priorities for our irrigators, and ensures they have that authority to survive difficult water years we may face over the next four years.” In the government funding measure that was passed into law in March, Walden worked to secure more than $10 million in emergency aid and worked with the Office of Management and Budget to get it released to the Bureau of Reclamation, (BoR). The provision Walden worked with his colleagues to include in the America’s Water Infrastructure Act will provide direction to BoR on how the agency is to spend the funds acquired earlier this year and any that are appropriated in succeeding years. This will give BoR the authority to spend $10 million each year over the next four years to implement measures such as: Groundwater pumping to increase the flexibility, reliability, and efficient use of water in the Klamath Basin; Temporary and voluntary land idling on Bureau of Reclamation property to make additional water available; and, Facilitating the movement of non-Project water through Bureau of Reclamation facilities to assist irrigators. The America’s Water Infrastructure Act also includes additional priorities for Representative Walden related to hydropower development and safe drinking water, including: Promoting Hydropower This package combines several bills from Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee that passed the House including, H.R. 2880, the Promoting Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Hydropower Act; H.R. 2872, the Promoting Hydropower Development at Existing Nonpowered Dams Act; H.R. 2786, To Amend the Federal Power Act with Respect to the Criteria and Process to Qualify as a Qualifying Conduit Hydropower Facility; as well as key provisions from H.R. 3043, the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act. These bills: Encourage the use of clean, baseload hydropower by streamlining the regulatory permitting process. Get new hydropower projects to market faster, saving time and money. Remove barriers to investments in hydropower, which create jobs and provide low-cost, emissions-free electricity to consumers. Modernizing Our Drinking Water Infrastructure This package incorporates substantial portions of H.R. 3387, the Drinking Water System Improvement Act, which passed the Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously in July 2017. Key provisions include: Authorization of more than $4.4 billion over three years for the Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund program. Improving accountability by aiding states and utilities with compliance and asset management. Protecting communities by updating antiterrorism and resilience measures at public water systems. Enhancing transparency for consumers about the quality of their drinking water. Authorization of $100 million over the next two fiscal years for areas affected by natural disasters that need help repairing their drinking water systems or hooking up to other ones to obtain potable drinking water. Click here to learn more about the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018. ###
09.13.2018	Greg Walden calls for active forest management to reduce catastrophic wildfires Holds hearing to examine health impacts of wildfire smoke and discuss needed changes to federal forest policy Representative Walden holds car cabin air filter clogged with particulate matter from wildfire smoke during Energy and Commerce Committee hearing today. Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s opening remarks during the hearing. WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his push for active forest management to prevent unnaturally catastrophic wildfires, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today held a hearing to examine the health impacts of wildfire smoke that has inundated communities in Oregon and across the West this summer. The hearing, entitled, “Air Quality Impacts of Wildfires: Mitigation and Management Strategies,” also focused on needed changes to federal forest policy to help reduce the risk, size, and intensity of wildfires, which have burned over 700,000 acres in Oregon already this year. “These fires have left communities in my district blanketed with smoke and with the worst air quality in the world. Medford, Oregon experienced the worst run of 'unhealthy' air quality since EPA began recording in 2000,” said Walden. “A leading offender is particulate matter. An article in the New England Journal of Medicine in March pointed out the robust evidence linking exposure to particulate matter to cardiopulmonary mortality and issues with asthma and COPD. According to EPA research, premature deaths tied to wildfire air pollution were as high as 2,500 per year between 2008 and 2012. Other research out of Colorado State University suggests it could be as high as 25,000 people a year.” Wildfires are a significant source of emissions, especially particulate matter, and often cause the worst air quality days of the year in smoke impacted communities. Researchers have found that wildfires can cause air quality to be five to 15 times worse than the air quality on an average day. Moreover, severe wildfire seasons can result in communities experiencing continuous unhealthy air quality conditions for weeks at a time. “Curt in Eagle Point, Oregon, dropped off this air filter from his C-PAP machine. He had to replace it after two days -- it is supposed to last two weeks,” said Walden, referring to the below photo of a C-PAP air filter that was showcased during today’s hearing. Clean air filters for C-PAP machines are crucial to ensuring effective therapy for those suffering from obstructive sleep apnea. Walden also showcased a cabin air filter from an automobile after just two months of driving through smoky conditions in southern Oregon. The below photo was shown during the hearing, contrasting a new cabin air filter with an air filter clogged with particulate matter from wildfire smoke. In addition to public health impacts, smoke from wildfires can also harm a community’s local economy due to the negative impacts on agricultural output, forest industry production, tourism activity, transportation, real estate markets, and many other facets of the economy. For example, an analysis of the 2017 Oregon wildfire season estimates that 600 jobs were cut from the leisure and hospitality businesses in central Oregon and southern Oregon due to the decline in tourism caused by active wildfires. Walden invited State Senator Herman Baertschiger from Grants Pass, Oregon to testify during the hearing. Senator Baertschiger serves as the chair of the bipartisan fire caucus in the Oregon state legislature and has over 40 years of firsthand experience in wildland fire and forest management activities. During his questions, Walden asked Senator Baertschiger what the consequences are of wildfires that strike in areas where burned timber from previous fires is not removed and a new forest is not replanted. Senator Baertschiger testified that subsequent fires that strike in these areas will inhibit the ability of forests to naturally regenerate. “On Forest Service land, you’re not going to replant after a fire. When the first fire goes through, the mortality rate of the live trees is pretty high. The second or third time it goes through, it typically takes out the rest of the trees,” said Senator Baertschiger. “It changes the entire ecosystem of that forest. You will not have the same forest that you had.” Representative Walden worked to include provisions in the House passed Farm Bill that would require the Forest Service to remove the burned, dead trees after a fire while they still have value and replant to restore the forest for the next generation. The Farm Bill is currently being negotiated by members of the House and Senate. Studies by the Nature Conservancy, Forest Service, and others have found that active management of fire fuels can reduce the size and intensity of wildfires by up to 70 percent, and can reduce carbon emissions from wildfires by up to 85 percent. During the hearing, Walden shared a message he received from a mother in southern Oregon, named Jennifer, who told Walden, “This is now the third or fourth year that we are hostages in our own homes, that my children are robbed of being able to play outside.” “We are here today to help address the concerns I hear from people like Jennifer and families across my district who have one simple message: something needs to change,” said Walden. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, please click here. For more information on Representative Walden’s efforts to reform federal forest policy, please click here. ###
09.11.2018	Greg Walden to examine air quality, health impacts of wildfire smoke WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, announced a hearing for this Thursday, September 13, 2018 at 10:00am PT. The hearing will be held before the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on the Environment, and is entitled, “Air Quality Impacts of Wildfires: Mitigation and Management Strategies.” In light of the devastating wildfires ravaging Oregon and much of the West this summer, Walden will examine the impacts that wildfire smoke has on public health and local communities, and the air quality impacts from wildfire emissions. Walden will also look at how increasing forest management activities, such as prescribed burns and mechanical thinning, can reduce the severity and size of future wildfires. “Oregonians and people across the West are suffering through yet another summer of air-choking smoke from wildfires,” said Walden. “As a result, families are trapped in their homes and breathing through masks, local businesses are taking a hit financially, and we have been robbed of the enjoyment of Oregon’s outdoors. I hear one message loud and clear from concerned citizens throughout my district whose communities have been blanketed with smoke: something needs to change. This hearing will call attention to the impact of wildfire smoke on our health, and examine improvements that can be made to the way we manage our forests to help prevent the unnaturally catastrophic wildfires season that we are battling once again.” Walden has invited State Senator Herman Baertschiger from Grants Pass, Oregon to testify during the hearing on Thursday. Senator Baertschiger serves as the chair of the bipartisan fire caucus in the Oregon state legislature and has over 40 years of firsthand experience in wildland fire and forest management activities. Walden called attention to the air quality, environmental, and health impacts of wildfire smoke during an October 2017 hearing on this issue. Studies by the Nature Conservancy, Forest Service, and others have found that active management of fire fuels can reduce the size and intensity of wildfires by up to 70 percent, and can reduce carbon emissions from wildfires by up to 85 percent. Walden is continuing his push for forest management reforms to prevent catastrophic wildfires in Oregon and across the West. To learn more about Walden’s efforts to reform federal forest policy, please click here. More information on the hearing, including a background memo and live webcast, will be made available as they are posted on the Energy and Commerce Committee’s website here. ###
09.10.2018	Greg Walden secures drought relief for Klamath Basin in upcoming legislation Bill authorizes $10 million annually for four years to support drought relief activities in the Klamath Basin WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that he has secured drought relief for Klamath Basin irrigators in legislation that the House of Representatives will consider this week. Walden included a provision in the Water Resources Development Act that authorizes $10 million annually for four years to the Bureau of Reclamation to implement needed drought relief measures for the $181 million agriculture economy in the Klamath Basin. “Irrigators in the Klamath Basin are enduring another challenging water year and we need to be prepared if our farmers are hit again with severe drought conditions in the years ahead,” said Walden. “The Bureau of Reclamation needs the authority to use the funds we secured earlier this year to implement measures such as groundwater pumping and other priorities for our irrigators. This bill will ensure Reclamation has that authority for the next four years to help farmers, ranchers, and water users navigate the current water year and survive the difficult water years we may face in the near future. I want to thank my Senate colleagues and Rep. Peter DeFazio for working with me to keep this measure included in the bigger bill,” said Walden. Walden is continuing his efforts to support the agriculture community in Klamath County. There are more than 950 farms in Klamath County that generate approximately $181,485,000 in revenue according to census data. In the government funding measure that was passed into law in March, Walden worked to secure more than $10 million in emergency aid and worked with the Office of Management and Budget to get it released to the Bureau of Reclamation, (BoR). This latest effort will provide direction to BoR on how the agency is to spend the funds acquired earlier this year and any that are appropriated in succeeding years. This will give BoR the authority to spend $10 million each year over the next four years to implement measures such as: Groundwater pumping to increase the flexibility, reliability, and efficient use of water in the Klamath Basin; Temporary and voluntary land idling on Bureau of Reclamation property to make additional water available; and, Facilitating the movement of non-Project water through Bureau of Reclamation facilities to assist irrigators. The House of Representatives is expected to vote on the Water Resources Development Act in the coming days. For more information on this legislation, please click here. ###
09.07.2018	Greg Walden to Twitter CEO: “It is critical that users are confident that you are living up to your own promises” Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s opening remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today led a hearing before the Energy and Commerce Committee with Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to seek answers as to how the social media company moderates its platforms. The hearing, entitled, “Twitter: Transparency and Accountability,” addressed concerns about Twitter’s algorithms and its policies for policing content. “It is critical that users are confident that you are living up to your own promises. According to Twitter’s rules, the company believes ‘that everyone should have the power to create and share ideas and information instantly, without barriers,’” said Walden. “The American people want to be assured that you are continuing to live up to that mission.” On July 25, 2018, “Vice News” reported that Twitter was limiting the visibility of certain public figures by preventing their profiles from appearing in the site’s auto-populated drop-down search bar results. The highest profile individuals impacted were associated with one political party, therefore, allegations were made that, whether intentionally or as the result of unintentional algorithmic bias, the incident reflected a willingness to limit exposure of to censor disfavored viewpoints and political ideas. In advance of the hearing, Walden took to his own Twitter page to ask users what questions should be asked to Mr. Dorsey. “Oregonians and millions of Americans deserve answers as to how their content is policed on social media,” wrote Walden in the tweet, which was posted yesterday morning. During the hearing, Walden raised a question to Dorsey that was posed in response to his tweet. The question related to Twitter’s reliance on other users for reporting content that potentially violates the company’s policies. “I asked my Twitter followers for questions for today’s hearing,” said Walden. “One from Oregon asked why Twitter relies exclusively on users to report violations.” Mr. Dorsey explained that Twitter utilizes both user-reporting and algorithms to remove content from the platform when violations occur. “In order to remove tweets or to remove accounts, we do require a report of the violation. That report is reviewed by an individual. Those reports are prioritized based on the severity of the report, so death threats have a higher prioritization than all others, and we take action on them much faster,” said Dorsey. “We do have algorithms that are constantly, proactively searching the network -- and specifically the behavior on the network -- and filtering and downgrading accordingly.” Walden urged Mr. Dorsey to promote transparency and accountability to the American people given Twitter’s vast influence on society. “The company you and your co-founders created plays an instrumental role in sharing news and information around the world,” said Walden. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, please click here. ###
09.06.2018	Greg Walden secures relief for Oregon farmers and ranchers impacted by wildfires WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has secured relief for Oregon farmers and ranchers who suffered severe losses after wildfires in Wasco and Sherman counties. In a letter to Representative Walden today, Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue said the agency was authorizing Walden’s request to grant emergency grazing to local ranchers and flexibility for wheat producers whose crop was impacted by the wildfires. “This wildfire season has not only impacted our forests and choked our communities with smoke, but also has devastated farmers and ranchers in Oregon," said Walden. "Farmers and ranchers -- especially in Wasco and Sherman counties -- have lost some or nearly all of their crops to rangeland fires that burned across the region. Secretary Perdue came to Oregon to meet with me and the local ag community shortly before these fires devastated one of the very farms where we met in Sherman County. I applaud Secretary Perdue’s prompt approval of my request to get our farmers and ranchers the assistance they need to get back on their feet after these fires.” Walden wrote to Secretary Perdue on August 2 requesting assistance from the Department of Agriculture (USDA) for wheat farmers and ranchers impacted by the Substation Fire. “Oregon again finds itself in the middle of another terrible fire year. Fires from one end of the state to the other have consumed over 250,000 acres already. Sadly, the very wheat farm we visited in Sherman County, and many of their neighbors, recently lost some or all of their crops to fire,” wrote Walden in the August letter. “Farmers and ranchers affected by the fire have told me that USDA could greatly assist them in dealing with this disaster by both authorizing emergency grazing on Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) ground, and by ensuring Risk Management Agency (RMA) gives flexibility to summer fallow producers who utilize cover crop this year for emergency soil stabilization. I ask that you ensure USDA Farm Service Agency and RMA act promptly to provide this needed relief.” In response to Walden’s request, Secretary Perdue stated that USDA will authorize emergency grazing on Conservation Reserve Program land, and will grant necessary flexibility to summer fallow wheat producers. Walden also requested in August that UDSA approve the state of Oregon’s disaster declaration after the fires. Secretary Perdue stated that USDA is currently compiling reported losses, recommendations for counties as disaster areas, and additional information to complete the review process before making a determination on the disaster declaration. To read Secretary Perdue’s full letter to Representative Walden, please click here. To read Representative Walden’s August letter to Secretary Perdue, please click here. ###
09.05.2018	Walden highlights legislation to reduce drug prices and increase control for patients Bill to prohibit so-called “gag clauses” that limit pricing option disclosure to patients is moving through Walden’s committee Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to reduce drug prices and increase control for patients in Oregon and across the country, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today highlighted bipartisan legislation that would make important progress toward that goal. Walden, who chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee, said his committee is moving forward with a bill that would prohibit the use of so-called “gag clauses,” which limit the disclosure of lower pricing options available to patients purchasing prescription medications. “The Energy and Commerce Committee is working on legislation that would ban ‘gag clauses’,” said Walden. “This was first brought to my attention from a pharmacist from Grants Pass, Michele. She told me that as a pharmacist she was precluded -- under certain insurance contracts -- from telling consumers that if they simply paid for their drugs out of pocket, it would actually be cheaper than paying through their insurance plan and the deductible. These gag clauses have no business in an open and free marketplace and the Committee on Energy and Commerce, which I lead, will be moving legislation forward to get rid of them.” “Gag clauses are an unnecessary restriction on our ability as pharmacists to communicate with our patients," said Michele Belcher, owner and pharmacist at Grants Pass Pharmacy, and board member of the National Community Pharmacists Association. "I once received a cease and desist letter for trying to help a child with a terminal disease access his medication. That should never happen. I applaud Representative Walden for taking this issue on.” It has been widely reported that some health insurance contracts prevent pharmacists from informing patients when the cash price for their prescription costs less than their insurance cost-sharing arrangement unless the individual directly asks. As a result, consumers may be paying more for their prescriptions than is warranted. The legislation aims to ban group health plans offered by employers and individual health insurance plans -- as well as Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D Plans -- from restricting a pharmacy’s ability to inform a customer about the lower cost, out-of-pocket price for their prescription. Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee today held a hearing to examine the legislation before the committee’s health panel. During the hearing, Walden further highlighted the bill’s potential to give patients more information about their pricing options for prescription medications. “Many patients who are struggling to afford costly prescription drug prices may not know that paying for their medications with cash can sometimes be cheaper than using their health insurance. What’s worse is some contracts prohibit pharmacists from telling their customers when this is the case,” said Walden during the hearing. “Banning these so-called ‘gag clauses’ has gained tremendous bipartisan support, with bills in both the Senate Finance and Senate HELP committees advancing without objection.” For additional information on the legislation, including a background memo and archived webcast from today’s hearing, please click here. ###
09.05.2018	Greg Walden to press Twitter CEO for answers on algorithms and content moderation Click here or on the image above to watch Walden’s interview on today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today will press Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey for answers as to how the social media company moderates its platform. Walden will hold a hearing before the Energy and Commerce Committee today to address concerns about Twitter’s algorithms and its methods for policing content. “We want to know who’s behind the curtain. Who is the Wizard of Oz, if you will, that’s pulling all the levers that may cause shadow banning and censorship,” said Walden in an interview with Fox News yesterday. “If the conservatives just leave then only the liberal voices will be on Twitter and Twitter is a very powerful tool.” Today’s hearing will begin at 1:30pm ET, and is entitled, “Twitter: Transparency and Accountability.” For a background memo, witness testimony, and live webcast for the hearing, please click here. Walden also discussed the upcoming hearing with Fox Business this morning. To watch Walden's interview, please click here. ###
08.29.2018	Greg Walden applauds support for broadband expansion in rural Oregon Oregon to receive $13.7 million through Federal Communications Commission auction to facilitate rural broadband distribution WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today applauded an announcement from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) that Oregon will receive $13.7 million to support rural broadband expansion. The funding is made available through the FCC’s Connect America Fund Phase II auction, which allocated $1.488 billion in support to be distributed over the next decade to expand broadband to unserved communities in 45 states. “These resources are crucial to help make sure all Oregonians can participate in the 21st century economy regardless of where they live,” said Walden. “Too many Oregon families and people across rural America lack the broadband necessary to realize the full benefits of the digital age. Throughout eastern Oregon, I hear from people who are among the 23 million Americans unable to access telemedicine, remote learning, next generation emergency services, and video streaming because of insufficient Internet service. This funding will further our efforts to close this digital divide in Oregon, and I look forward to continuing to work alongside Chairman Pai and my colleagues in Congress to ensure all Americans are connected to high speed broadband.” According to the FCC, 103 providers won support from the Connect America Fund to expand broadband in rural areas where, without the funding, this type of broadband expansion and ongoing service would not be economically feasible. Locations in all 20 counties of Oregon’s Second Congressional District are served by Viasat, one of the bidders in Oregon along with Rural Electric Cooperative Consortium that won support from the Connect America Fund auction. In his statement, FCC Chairman Ajit Pai said these funds will help open new opportunities for rural communities in Oregon. “The successful conclusion of this first-of-its kind auction is great news for the residents of Oregon and across the country, who will be able to get on the right side of the digital divide. I’m pleased that more than $13 million is going to Oregon to help connect more than 10,000 homes and small businesses. This is the latest step the FCC has taken to expand rural broadband, and we will continue working until all Americans have access to digital opportunity,” said Chairman Pai. Walden invited Chairman Pai to eastern Oregon recently to discuss efforts to improve connectivity in rural communities, including making sure patients in remote areas have access to the best doctors through technology like telehealth. Walden continues to partner with Chairman Pai and the FCC to expand broadband infrastructure to rural communities in Oregon, which is a priority for Representative Walden. Walden led the effort to pass the RAY BAUM’S Act into law, which reauthorized the FCC and gave the agency additional tools to enhance broadband expansion. To learn more about the FCC’s Connect America Auction, please click here. ###
08.20.2018	Guest Opinion: "Fix broken policies to help restore forests" By Representative Greg Walden “We are hostages in our own homes.” That’s how Jennifer, a mother from Medford, described to me what communities in Southern Oregon and across the West are enduring yet again: a summer filled with smoke and fire. Jennifer continued in her letter to me saying, “my children are robbed of being able to play outside. I absolutely hate that nothing is done to prevent this from happening.” As I traveled throughout Southern Oregon in recent weeks, I met with concerned citizens, veterans, small business owners, and community leaders who had the same deep frustration as Jennifer. I share that frustration as well, as do people I meet with throughout our state. Year after year, we are suffering from the effects of catastrophic wildfires and the smoke that comes with it. Our airsheds are choked and smoke blankets our communities, giving us some of the worst air quality in the world this summer. We cannot accept this as our “new normal.” The only way to fix this problem that impacts us all is to fix the broken policies that have led to these overstocked forests and unnaturally catastrophic wildfires in the first place. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I announced that we are going to hold a hearing this fall to examine the health consequences of the smoke from these fires and explore the various contributing factors, from climate change to overstocked forests. This hearing will serve as an opportunity to address the current state of our forests and what policy changes need to be made. In parts of Oregon, our forests are packed with nearly 1,000 trees per acre on land that historically had 20 trees per acre -- a clear sign that our forests are overstocked and need to be restored to their natural balance. Moreover, a recent study by The Nature Conservancy, Forest Service, and others found that fuel management projects can reduce the size and intensity of fire up to 70 percent and reduce carbon emissions from the fire by up to 85 percent. That’s why we need to give our forest managers additional tools to remove the excess fuel loads that have built up in our forests. To help mitigate the risk of these fires, we need to speed up and increase our work in the woods. And after fires, we should remove the burned, dead trees -- where appropriate and while they still have value -- and use the proceeds to pay for replanting a new, healthy forest for the next generation. That’s called stewardship, and that’s what happens on private, county and state lands. These needed reforms were included in the Farm Bill that passed the House earlier this year with my support. Unfortunately, the Senate’s version of the legislation failed to include these common-sense changes. As negotiations on the final bill proceed, it’s time for the Senate to act and include these needed provisions. The Farm Bill builds on the progress we made toward fixing federal forest policy earlier this year when we passed into law the most significant reforms in over a decade. We provided the Forest Service with tools for rapid implementation of wildfire resiliency and hazardous fuels reduction projects. And we took steps to fix fire borrowing starting in 2020, which will help end the vicious cycle of depleting resources for fire prevention to pay for fire suppression. This progress is important, but we have a long way to go. Nearly 30 years of poor management have created a tinderbox in our federal forests that ignites every summer. It will take significant time and effort to restore balance to our public lands. But we must push forward. Working together with people on the ground in Oregon, my colleagues in Congress, and the administration, I am confident that we can continue moving in a better direction for communities across the West, our airsheds, water sheds, and federal lands. I’ve heard the same message loud and clear from Oregonians like Jennifer no matter where I go in our state: something needs to change in the way we manage our forests. I am committed to making that change happen. Greg Walden represents Oregon’s 2nd Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Click here to read Representative Walden's guest opinion online.
08.20.2018	Greg Walden encourages Oregon students to apply for nominations to U.S. service academies Interested students must send applications to Representative Walden by the end of October 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is encouraging Oregon students who are interested in attending one of the prestigious United States service academies to apply for an official nomination through his office. Nomination applications must be submitted to Representative Walden by the end of October 2018, and can be completed on Walden’s website at walden.house.gov/academynominations. “It is always an honor and privilege to nominate outstanding young Oregonians to our nation’s service academies each year,” said Walden. “I encourage students who are eager to grow intellectually, lead by example, and serve our country to apply for a nomination to one of the prestigious service academies through my office. My Service Academy Nomination Board has unique experience serving our country in uniform, and their guidance and understanding of what it takes to excel at the service academies speaks to the caliber of the students they recommend. I look forward to nominating another remarkable group of Oregonians to the U.S. service academies once again this year.” Each year, students from across Oregon’s Second District are nominated by Walden for acceptance to the service academies after being recommended by Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board. Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board -- active and retired military officers who interview potential candidates for the service academies -- recommends each student based on their academic performance, extracurricular involvement, and character. This year seven students from Oregon’s Second District were accepted to the service academies of their choice after being nominated by Walden. The service academies include the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado; the Military Academy at West Point, New York; the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Representative Walden’s formal nominations will be announced in late December. Final selection for admission to the service academies will be determined by officials at each respective academy in early spring. For more information on the application process to receive a nomination from Representative Walden, please click here. ###
08.06.2018	Greg Walden presses opioid manufacturers about their role in crisis Letters Continue Comprehensive Review of Opioid Epidemic WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River), joined by a group of bipartisan Energy and Commerce Committee leaders, sent letters yesterday to three opioid manufacturers requesting detailed information about each manufacturer’s role in the opioid crisis. The individual letters highlight the complexity of the opioid crisis, which claims the lives of more than 115 Americans every day. The letters were sent to: Mr. Saeed Motahari, President and CEO, Insys Therapeutics, Inc. Mr. Mark Trudeau, President and CEO, Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals Dr. Craig Landau, President and CEO, Purdue Pharma L.P. The letters were signed by Walden, Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Representative Gregg Harper (R-MS), Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO), Representative Morgan Griffith (R-VA), and Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Ranking Member Kathy Castor (D-FL). In all three letters, the bipartisan leaders write, “For more than a year, the Committee has been investigating potential breakdowns in the controlled substances supply chain which may have contributed to the nation’s opioid epidemic. Pharmaceutical manufacturers play a unique and critical role in this supply chain by researching and developing products for the consumer market as well as marketing such products after obtaining approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).” The letters to each manufacturer request similar information and documents, as well as requests that are unique to each manufacturer. In the letter to Insys, the leaders pose questions about an alleged kickback scheme designed to boost sales of Subsys, a sublingual fentanyl spray. In the letter to Mallinckrodt, the leaders pose questions about the company’s efforts to monitor its opioid sales for suspicious orders. In the letter to Purdue Pharma, the leaders pose questions about when the company first knew about the dangers of OxyContin, which was approved by the FDA in 1995 and available for use the following year. For more information regarding the committee’s bipartisan investigation into pill dumping, including a complete timeline, click HERE. For more information about Energy and Commerce’s comprehensive efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click HERE. Click HERE to read the letters. ###
08.02.2018	Greg Walden announces hearing to examine air quality impacts of wildfire smoke Hearing comes following meeting with local business owners and community leaders in southern Oregon today Click here or on the image above to view Walden's video message MEDFORD, OR -- During a meeting with local business owners and community leaders in Medford today, Representative Greg Walden (R -- Hood River) announced that the Energy and Commerce Committee will hold a hearing to examine the air quality impacts of wildfire smoke. Walden gathered members of the business community and local leaders in southern Oregon -- where residents are experiencing the worst air quality in the nation -- to discuss improvements to forest management to reduce the wildfires that have blanketed the region with smoke. Walden, who chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee, called attention to the air quality, environmental, and health impacts of wildfire smoke during an October 2017 hearing on this issue. Walden said today that the upcoming hearing will serve as another opportunity to address needed changes to federal forest policy that will help prevent unnaturally catastrophic wildfires. "Year after year, people in the West are suffering from the effects of catastrophic fire and the smoke that comes with it," said Walden in a video message today. "People end up having to wear masks, stay inside, and events are canceled. It's time for Congress to act. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I'm announcing that we are going to hold a hearing this fall to look at the health consequences of the smoke from these catastrophic wildfires." Recent studies by the Nature Conservancy, Forest Service, and others have found that active management of fire fuels can reduce the size and intensity of wildfires by up to 70 percent, and can reduce carbon emissions from wildfires by up to 85 percent. Walden is continuing his push for forest management reforms to prevent catastrophic wildfires in Oregon and across the West. Walden secured significant reforms to federal forest policy in the government funding measure that was signed into law in March, such as: Streamlines authorities for rapid implementation for wildfire resiliency and hazardous fuels reduction projects; Progress to fix fire borrowing, to help end the vicious cycle of depleting resources for fire prevention to pay for fire suppression, which increases the risk of catastrophic wildfires year after year; Expands Healthy Forest Restoration Act authority for fuel and fire break projects; Gives the Forest Service and BLM the ability to offer stewardship contracts with a 20-year term; and Expands “Good Neighbor Policy” to allow states to help with road maintenance, culverts, and other similar projects on Forest Service land. Walden also secured sweeping improvements to federal forest policy in the 2018 Farm Bill that recently passed the House, and this week urged for those needed changes to be included in the Senate passed version of the legislation. The additional reforms Walden secured in the Farm Bill that passed the House include: Streamlined and expedited authorities for projects, including: Critical response for insect and disease infestation, watershed protection, hazardous fuels reduction, and forest restoration projects; Cleaning up after a fire and requiring replanting of our forests; Early successional wildlife habitat development; and Collaborative projects. Today, Walden wrote to the Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, to request needed relief for wheat farmers and ranchers who were impacted by wildfires across the state. For a copy of Walden’s letter, please click here. More details on Walden’s upcoming hearing to examine air quality impacts of wildfire smoke will be posted on www.walden.house.gov as they become available. ###
07.31.2018	Greg Walden calls for forest management reforms in Farm Bill Urges sweeping improvements to federal forest policy that were passed in the House to be included in final legislation MEDFORD, OR -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today spoke in southern Oregon -- where communities have faced unhealthy air quality from surrounding wildfires -- to call for forest management reforms in the upcoming Farm Bill. Walden secured sweeping improvements to federal forest policy in the 2018 Farm Bill that passed the House in June and today urged for those needed changes to be included in the Senate passed version of the legislation. Walden today sent a letter to the lawmakers who will negotiate the differences between the House and Senate versions of the 2018 Farm Bill, which reads: "The West is burning. Lives have been tragically lost. Homes and other property have been destroyed. Smoke is choking our skies, leaving residents of southern Oregon and elsewhere with the worst air quality in the nation. It does not have to be this way. As you finalize the Farm Bill in 2018, I urge you to include the important forest management tools included in the House bill to make needed steps toward preventing these fires into the future. "Years of poor management have left our federal forests overgrown and at risk of these unnaturally catastrophic fires. John Bailey, a professor at Oregon State University, testified last fall before the Energy and Commerce Committee that in some parts of eastern Oregon we have nearly 1,000 trees per acre on land that historically had 20 trees per acre. Across the West, these overstocked tree stands fuel the catastrophic fires we see each summer. Active management that thins out these forest stands and removes this fuel reduces the threat of fire, smoke, and other emissions. A recent study in California by The Nature Conservancy, Forest Service, and others found that fuels projects can reduce the size and intensity of fire up to 70 percent. These projects also reduce carbon emissions from the fire by up to 85 percent. "Unfortunately, red tape and litigation from outside special interest groups hampers land managers’ ability to implement these needed forest management projects. The forestry title in the House passed Farm Bill builds on the forestry provisions we passed into law earlier this year and provides needed tools to reduce this red tape and streamline forest management projects to get more work done in the woods. When fire does strike, we ensure that the Forest Service and BLM can remove the burned, dead trees while they still have value and replant to restore our forests for the next generation. Just like what happens on private lands across Oregon. "Communities across the West should not have to face the increasing threat of wildfire and choke on smoke each summer because of mismanagement of our public lands. We can do better. The forestry provisions in the House passed Farm Bill would help improve management and prevent fire in Oregon and across the West. I strongly urge you to include them in the final 2018 Farm Bill." Representative Walden continues to lead the effort in Congress to improve forest management to reduce the risk of wildfire and put people back to work in the woods. Walden secured significant reforms to federal forest policy in the government funding measure that was signed into law in March, such as: Streamlined authorities for rapid implementation for wildfire resiliency and hazardous fuels reduction projects. Progress to fix fire borrowing, to help end the vicious cycle of depleting resources for fire prevention to pay for fire suppression, which increases the risk of catastrophic wildfires year after year. Expanded Healthy Forest Restoration Act authority for fuel and fire break projects. Gives the Forest Service and BLM the ability to offer stewardship contracts with a 20-year term. Expands “Good Neighbor Policy” to allow states to help with road maintenance, culverts, and other similar projects on Forest Service land. The additional reforms Walden secured in the Farm Bill that passed the House include: Streamlined and expedited authorities for projects, including: Critical response for insect and disease infestation, watershed protection, hazardous fuels reduction, and forest restoration projects; Cleaning up after a fire and requiring replanting of our forests; Early successional wildlife habitat development; and Collaborative projects. The House of Representative also agreed with Walden’s plan to protect a central Oregon community from wildfire, unanimously passing the Crooked River Ranch Wildfire Protection Act (H.R. 2075) earlier this month. Crooked River Ranch is an unincorporated community of about 5,500 residents in Jefferson County. The lands adjacent to the community are managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and are classified as a Wilderness Study Area (WSA). These lands are in the highest risk category for exposure to devastating wildfire due to overstocked juniper stands under the federally mandated and locally promulgated Jefferson County Community Wildfire Protection Plan. The current WSA classification prevents mechanical fire prevention activities within these overstocked juniper stands. Walden’s bill would adjust the boundaries of the WSAs in order to better facilitate fire prevention activities on public lands and the adjacent private property. The Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act will allow much-needed management of the excess fire fuels that surround Crooked River Ranch, reducing the danger of wildfire for the community who lives there. To read more about Representative Walden’s efforts to improve federal forest policy, please click here. ###
07.25.2018	Greg Walden discusses rural broadband expansion with FCC Chairman Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today held a hearing with Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai to examine solutions to expand broadband to underserved areas. During the hearing, Walden highlighted the positive impact broadband expansion can have on rural communities, which Chairman Pai experienced firsthand when Walden invited him to eastern Oregon in June. “I want to thank you for coming out to my district last month,” said Walden to Chairman Pai. “We traveled around and saw a health clinic and what telehealth means. I want to thank the Commission for the decision to lift the cap on the rural health telemedicine piece. That made a huge and positive difference for our rural clinics when you added $171 million over the $400 million cap. You heard it firsthand when you were out there meeting with the clinic. And I appreciated the discussion we had with the broadcasters and the small ISPs. I think you got a taste for how large the 7th largest Congressional district is, even though we never got out of one county.” Walden invited Chairman Pai to eastern Oregon to discuss efforts to improve connectivity in rural communities, including making sure patients in remote areas have access to the best doctors through technology like telehealth. Chairman Pai told Walden today that the top goal of the FCC is connecting people with Internet access regardless of where they live. “From the beginning of my tenure as head of the agency, I’ve made clear that my top priority would be to close the digital divide,” said Pai. “I take this issue personally, having grown up in a small town in rural Kansas. And in order to inform our efforts on how to connect unserved areas, I’ve travelled to 33 states and two U.S. territories and have logged nearly 9,000 road miles to learn about rural communities around the country. I’ve seen places that are using the Internet to open new doors of opportunity as well as towns that are being bypassed by the digital revolution.” Walden continues to partner with Chairman Pai and the FCC to expand broadband infrastructure to rural communities in Oregon, which is a priority for Representative Walden. Walden led the effort to pass the RAY BAUM’S Act into law, which reauthorized the FCC and gave the agency additional tools to enhance broadband expansion. Today Walden stressed the need to connect underserved communities across the country with broadband access, and asked Chairman Pai what actions the FCC was taking to achieve that goal. “As you have heard from many members on both sides of the aisle, we need to do more as a country to connect each other with highspeed data and broadband connections,” said Walden. “What can you tell us, Chairman, about the work the FCC is doing today to close this digital divide?” Chairman Pai highlighted steps the FCC is taking to ensure the benefits of broadband are accessible to people in rural communities like eastern Oregon. “We are making major steps towards closing the digital divide,” said Chairman Pai. “And some of the initiatives that may appear smaller, but I can tell you that when I’m on the ground in places like Pendleton, Oregon, they’re not small. Telemedicine -- this is one of the things that the American people just understand, especially in rural communities where it is hard to attract a specialist. The only way that some of these folks in rural communities will get adequate health care is through telemedicine. “You saw the response for yourself, as did I, at Mirasol Health Clinic in Oregon when they heard the news that we were proposing to increase by 43% the budget for the rural health care program. If you remember, they broke out into applause because they recognize that this is a lifeline, quite literally, for some of these communities.” For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo and archived webcast, please click here. ###
07.24.2018	Greg Walden examines fraud and abuse within opioid addiction treatment industry Hearing comes following year-long bipartisan investigation into patient brokering Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to combat the nationwide opioid crisis, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today examined potential fraud and abuse within the substance use treatment industry. Today’s hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee, where Walden serves as Chairman, comes following a year-long bipartisan investigation into patient brokering. Patient brokering is a practice through which individuals are paid by treatment facilities for successfully enrolling people suffering from addiction in their treatment programs. During the hearing, Walden stressed the need to ensure patients and families are not taken advantage of when seeking treatment for opioid use disorder. “In December, this subcommittee held a hearing examining patient brokering and addiction treatment fraud where concerns were raised about deceptive and sometimes predatory advertising and marketing practices within the treatment industry,” said Walden. “In addition, we’ve read news reports, spoken to treatment facilities, doctors, associations, and stakeholders within the industry, but most importantly, we’ve heard from individuals and their loved ones who have faced some of these aggressive and deceptive advertising practices. In my district in Oregon, a father named Mike told me about the troubling experience he had when his son was seeking treatment for addiction. The recovery center was located in another state and seemed more interested in cashing a check rather than caring for his son.” Today’s hearing specifically focused on advertising and marketing practices within the substance use disorder treatment industry. The increased demand for addiction treatment has created a large and complex industry, with some providers reportedly employing a host of aggressive and sometimes deceptive advertising tactics to reach potential patients. Walden today highlighted examples of the troubling practices revealed as a result of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s investigation. “As the committee dove deeper into the advertising and marketing practices within this industry we found a Pandora’s box of online advertisements, websites, phone numbers, lead generators, call centers, and television commercials. In some cases, an individual or company may own dozens and dozens of websites, and some of these websites contain different 1-800 numbers, despite all being owned by the same person or all leading to the same treatment company,” said Walden. “Some websites and television commercials use forceful language, such as: ‘Call now,’ ‘don’t wait any longer,’ ‘get the help you need,’ ‘talk to someone who cares,’ ‘end your addiction now,’ or ‘for immediate treatment help.’ One individual the committee spoke with shared that the person on the other end of the phone went as far to say, ‘if you don’t get your kid here now, your kid will die.’” Today’s hearing comes as Walden has led the Congressional response to the nationwide opioid crisis. In June, the House of Representatives passed Walden’s SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6) by a bipartisan vote of 396-14. This legislation will help in efforts to combat the opioid crisis by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting our communities, and bolstering our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act is the largest legislative effort to combat the opioid crisis in history. Walden today said that he will continue to push forward in the fight against the opioid crisis that is still gripping communities across the country. “The House recently passed H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, which includes 70 provisions -- largely from this committee -- that seek to address a number of issues within the opioid crisis,” said Walden. “But our work here is not done and the committee continues to conduct oversight because our country is far from seeing the end of the opioid epidemic and its tragic effects.” For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo and archived webcast, please click here. ###
07.17.2018	Greg Walden examines solutions to expand broadband in rural Oregon Invites eastern Oregon medical provider to testify about improving healthcare options for patients in rural communities through broadband Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks during today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to improve connectivity in eastern Oregon, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today held a hearing to examine solutions to expand broadband access for rural communities in Oregon and across the country. Representative Walden, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, detailed the widespread benefits of connecting people with broadband access regardless of where they live. “Farmers and ranchers across my district have taken advantage of precision agriculture technology to reduce inputs. And the transition to next generation 9-1-1 is critical for strengthening public safety. Broadband is the infrastructure of the 21st century,” said Walden. “Broadband means jobs. Jobs come from deployment -- building towers and cell sites, laying fiber, launching satellites, and upgrading facilities that constitute the physical infrastructure. The economic benefits don’t stop at construction. Maintaining this infrastructure requires high-skilled jobs in engineering, network management, cybersecurity, advertising, and customer service. And beyond all that, we know broadband is a force multiplier for job creation, providing efficiencies for every sector of the economy.” Walden’s hearing, entitled “Realizing the Benefits of Rural Broadband: Challenges and Solutions,” also included testimony from Wallowa County nurse, Jenni Word, who serves as Associate Administrator and Chief Nursing Officer of Wallowa Memorial Hospital in eastern Oregon. Walden invited Word to testify before the Energy and Commerce Committee to detail how broadband can help improve access to care for patients in rural communities through technology like telehealth. “Wallowa Memorial Hospital provides oncology, rheumatology, cardiology for adults and children, orthopedic, psychology, neurology and palliative care services through telemedicine,” said Word. “This technology saves patients two-and-a-half hours of driving -- and many gallons of gas – for what is usually a 15 to 30 minute visit with a specialist. Other services are available via telehealth at Wallowa.” Jenni Word (second from right), Associate Administrator and Chief Nursing Officer of Wallowa Memorial Hospital in Oregon, testifies before Energy and Commerce Committee hearing regarding broadband expansion in rural Oregon. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden continues to be at the forefront of expanding broadband infrastructure to rural Oregon. Under Walden’s leadership, Congress passed and the President signed into law the RAY BAUM’s Act, which reauthorized the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for the first time in 25 years and provides new tools to support broadband expansion. Recently, Walden invited FCC Chairman Ajit Pai to eastern Oregon to discuss efforts to improve connectivity in rural communities, including making sure patients in remote areas have access to the best doctors through technology like telehealth. The Energy and Commerce Committee continues to examine additional bipartisan legislation to better coordinate federal efforts to expand broadband in rural Oregon and across the country, which is a top priority of Walden’s as Chairman. During her testimony, Jenni Word applauded Walden and the Energy and Commerce Committee for their consistent work to improve broadband connectivity in rural Oregon. “On behalf of rural eastern Oregon, I would like to thank the committee for its work to expand the broadband infrastructure in rural areas. I want to especially thank you for your work to pass the RAY BAUM’s Act,” said Word. “We appreciate your commitment to removing federal barriers, increasing spectrum availability and funding broadband for rural America. I especially want to acknowledge the work Mr. Walden has done in this area. “Finally, I applaud your continued commitment to addressing the digital divide in unserved and underserved rural areas. Rural hospitals stand ready to work with you to achieve this goal.” For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, please click here. ###
07.17.2018	Greg Walden statement on Russia WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement: “Russia’s interference in our elections and repeated attempts to subvert democracy in America must be condemned by our country’s leaders. As I have said repeatedly, I fully support the findings of the hardworking Americans in our intelligence community that Russia deliberately attacked our democratic process and continues its hostile efforts against our country and our allies. That is why I voted for unprecedented sanctions against the Russian regime, which the President has signed into law, to send the clear signal that these actions are unacceptable. We cannot allow any country to undermine our right to free and fair elections, and I will continue to support efforts to combat Russian aggression against the very bedrock of our principles and values as Americans.”
07.11.2018	House passes Walden bill to protect Crooked River Ranch Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act aims to reduce risk of wildfire for local community Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The House of Representatives today unanimously passed legislation introduced by Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to protect Crooked River Ranch from wildfire. The Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act (H.R. 2075) makes necessary adjustments to the wilderness study areas adjacent to Crooked River Ranch to reduce the risk of wildfire for the local community. “This bill is an important public safety measure. This is a life-and-death measure. There are more than 5,000 people who live in Crooked River Ranch," said Walden in a speech on the House floor today. "We have a serious and deadly threat staring us down every summer. We have fires already burning in the area. If you want to save lives and prevent deadly fires, this is the bill to do it, this is the time to do it. Let's get it done." Crooked River Ranch is an unincorporated community of about 5,500 residents in Jefferson County. The lands adjacent to the community are managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and are classified as a Wilderness Study Area (WSA). These lands are in the highest risk category for exposure to devastating wildfire due to overstocked juniper stand under the federally mandated, and locally promulgated, Jefferson County Community Wildfire Protection Plan. The current WSA classification prevents mechanical fire prevention activities within these overstocked juniper stands. Walden’s bill would adjust the boundaries of the WSAs to allow much-needed management of the excess fire fuels that surround Crooked River Ranch, reducing the danger of wildfire for the community who lives there. Representative Rob Bishop (R-Utah), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, applauded Walden’s bill, calling it a common-sense measure to help protect Crooked River Ranch. “Once again Congress is showing it is serious about protecting communities from devastating wildfires. This bill cuts bureaucratic red-tape that limits the fire prevention tools available to land managers and firefighters. This common-sense bill will help prevent the devastation of life and property by wildfire in the Crooked River Ranch community. I’m thankful for Rep. Walden’s commitment to this issue and look forward to supporting this bill as it works its way through Congress,” said Chairman Bishop. Representative Walden’s proposal also has broad support from fire officials and first responders in Jefferson County and throughout Oregon: “This bill is long overdue and will be a welcome addition to all first responders responsible for protecting the life and property of Crooked River Ranch citizens. Additionally, it will allow local first responders and BLM managers to address the severe fire dangers that exist along the borders which abut private property.” -- Oregon Fire Chiefs Association “This bill has the potential to save lives and property at Crooked River Ranch and I’m glad to see Congressman Walden continuing to move this plan forward. With the current wilderness study area (WSA) boundary, practical firefighting and fire prevention activities are unavailable. The lack of fuel mitigation around Crooked River Ranch, due to wilderness restrictions codified in law, has created a dangerous environment and continues to threaten the people that live here.” -- Harry Ward, Fire Chief of Crooked River Ranch Fire & Rescue “As the elected Sheriff of Jefferson County, Oregon, this bill is extremely important to the life and property of an area under my protection. This bill will help mitigate wildfire from Crooked River Ranch by providing a defensible fire protection along the border of the Ranch which is presently contiguous with the WSAs.” -- Jefferson County Sheriff Jim Adkins The Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act now awaits action in the Senate. To read more about Representative Walden’s legislation, please click here. ###
07.10.2018	Greg Walden applauds pardon of Dwight and Steven Hammond WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement applauding the pardon of Dwight and Steven Hammond: “Today is a win for justice, and an acknowledgement of our unique way of life in the high desert, rural West. I applaud President Trump for thoroughly reviewing the facts of this case, rightly determining the Hammonds were treated unfairly, and taking action to correct this injustice. “For far too long, Dwight and Steven Hammond have been serving a mandatory minimum sentence that was established for terrorists. This is something that would ‘shock the conscience,’ according to Federal Judge Michael Hogan, who presided over the case and used his discretion in sentencing which later was reversed. As ranchers across eastern Oregon frequently tell me, the Hammonds didn’t deserve a five year sentence for using fire as a management tool, something the federal government does all the time. “Moving forward, I’m encouraging the House Judiciary Committee to act on my legislation to prevent this situation from happening to other ranchers. H.R. 983 would ensure farmers and ranchers are not prosecuted as terrorists for using fire for range-management purposes. “For now, though, I am pleased that Dwight and Steven Hammond will return to their families and ranches in Harney County. I look forward to welcoming them back home to eastern Oregon.”
07.01.2018	Greg Walden: President Trump "seriously considering" Hammond pardon WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released a statement following a phone call with President Trump regarding the pardon of Dwight and Steven Hammond: “Late Saturday afternoon, President Trump called me to say he is 'seriously considering' pardoning Dwight and Steven Hammond. The sentencing of Dwight and Steve Hammond to five years in federal prison is unjust. Period. Federal Judge Michael Hogan agreed, when he used his discretion to apply more appropriate sentences, calling the mandatory minimum sentence for this case something that would ‘shock the conscience.' Multiple editorial boards across Oregon have concurred. "Prosecutorial overzealousness by the federal government under the Obama Administration ignored Judge Hogan’s judicial discretion, and doubled down, forcing them to serve a mandatory minimum sentence established for terrorists. "President Trump can right this wrong. I again strongly urged the President to administer the justice that is long overdue for these eastern Oregon ranchers by granting them a pardon so that they can get back to Harney County and their families.” ###
06.29.2018	Greg Walden helps pass legislation to improve care for Vietnam veterans Cosponsors bill to address health impacts for veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to support Oregon veterans, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) helped pass legislation to improve care for Vietnam veterans. This week, the House of Representatives passed the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act (H.R. 299) with Walden’s strong support. The Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act would ensure that veterans who served in the waters off Vietnam are able to access benefits for diseases associated with exposure to herbicide agents such as Agent Orange. Walden said this legislation marks an important step forward in the fight to get Blue Water Navy veterans the care they deserve. “This gets some help for our Blue Water Navy veterans -- the Vietnam veterans who served offshore but were still exposed to Agent Orange,” said Walden. “Their fight to get coverage and care is now closer to fruition with passage of the Blue Water Navy bill, which I supported.” Specifically, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to extend the presumption of service connection for disease associated with exposure to herbicide agents to Blue Water Navy veterans. This legislation would also require VA to conduct outreach to inform Blue Water Navy veterans of the ability to submit a new claim for disability benefits, and authorize the VA to provide retroactive benefits to certain veterans and survivors who had previously filed a claim for benefits based on exposure to herbicides. Walden was a cosponsor of this bill prior to its passage. Walden is also a cosponsor of a bill to address certain health problems of veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Burn Pits Accountability Act (H.R. 5671) would evaluate the exposure of U.S. servicemembers and veterans to open burn pits and toxic airborne chemicals. “I’ve signed onto legislation to help our veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan deal with future health issues they may incur because of the burn pits that took place in both of those countries,” said Walden. “We need to make sure that our Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are being cared for properly as a result of any exposure to toxins they were exposed to by being around those burn pits.” Over 140,000 servicemembers and veterans over the past three decades have reported exposure to burn pits and toxic airborne chemicals. However, since there is no mandatory reporting system, there are likely many more servicemembers affected. Exposure can produce serious and potentially life-threatening health effects, including neurological disorders, rare forms of cancer, lung diseases, and more -- triggering some to call the crisis the ‘Agent Orange’ of the post-9/11 generation. The Burn Pits Accountability Act would evaluate the exposure of servicemembers and veterans to open burn pits and toxic airborne chemicals by: Requiring the Secretary of Defense to record whether servicemembers have been based or stationed at a location where an open burn pit was used or exposed to toxic airborne chemicals, including any information recorded as part of the Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry, in the Periodic Health Assessment (PHAs), Separation History and Physical Examination (SHPEs), and Post-Deployment Health Assessment (PDHAs). Enrolling any servicemember who meets the above criteria in the Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry, unless he or she opts-out. Requiring the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to share information relating to exposure of burn pits and toxic airborne chemicals recorded in PHAs, SHPEs, and PDHAs. To learn more about this legislation, please click here. To learn more about Representative Walden’s legislative efforts to support Oregon veterans, please click here. ###
06.28.2018	Greg Walden urges President Trump to pardon Dwight and Steven Hammond Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- During a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives today, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) urged President Trump to pardon Dwight and Steven Hammond of Harney County. A full transcript of Walden’s remarks is included below: “Today I rise and raise an issue that would, quote, ‘shock the conscience’. Those are not my words, those are the words of a distinguished federal judge when he refused to sentence two ranchers in my district to five years in prison. This Friday, the youngest of those two ranchers will mark his fourth year in prison for starting a fire. By the way, fire on the range is a management tool, and they were using it for that purpose,” said Walden. "They were tried. They got convicted. But they never should have been sentenced to this,” continued Walden. “The Obama Administration came back and resentenced them to five years for 139 acres. We burn hundreds of thousands of acres every year. The government starts fires that burn onto private land and nothing seems to happen. It is time for the President to review this situation and to grant a pardon to Steven and Dwight Hammond -- pull them back together with their families. They have served long enough. This is an issue that shocks the conscience. It’s time for real justice, and President Trump can administer that.” ###
06.27.2018	Greg Walden applauds $36.9 million in PILT funding for rural Oregon Announcement comes as Walden recently secured important forest management reforms into law WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today applauded $36.9 million in funding under the 2018 Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program to support essential services in rural Oregon. The payments will be made to 36 counties in Oregon, and represent the largest amount ever allocated in the 40-year history of the PILT program. “These funds are welcome news for rural communities across our state. I worked with my colleagues in the House to fully fund this program that is part of the federal government’s obligation to our rural counties,” said Walden. “With the majority of Oregon’s land managed by the federal government, these funds, along with Secure Rural Schools funds and timber receipts, help ensure our communities have well-functioning schools, law enforcement, and infrastructure. I applaud President Trump and Secretary Zinke for prioritizing this critical funding, and look forward to continuing to work alongside the Administration to improve the management of our public lands and provide Oregon’s rural communities with the support they need.” In the government funding measure that was signed into law in March, Walden secured $530 million in full funding for PILT, which counties in rural Oregon rely on. PILT program eligibility is reserved for local governments that contain non-taxable Federal lands within their boundaries. These jurisdictions provide significant support for national parks, wildlife refuges, and recreation areas throughout the year. PILT seeks to compensate local governments for the inability to collect property taxes on Federally-owned land. A full list of 2018 PILT funding by county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District is included below: BAKER COUNTY $1,627,967 CROOK COUNTY $2,171,455 DESCHUTES COUNTY $3,033,303 GILLIAM COUNTY $93,655 GRANT COUNTY $923,833 HARNEY COUNTY $1,125,267 HOOD RIVER COUNTY $414,289 JACKSON COUNTY $1,864,853 JEFFERSON COUNTY $722,788 JOSEPHINE COUNTY $1,835,498 KLAMATH COUNTY $3,109,349 LAKE COUNTY $1,193,532 MALHEUR COUNTY $2,642,870 MORROW COUNTY $376,464 SHERMAN COUNTY $145,050 UMATILLA COUNTY $1,057,363 UNION COUNTY $1,603,772 WALLOWA COUNTY $1,053,433 WASCO COUNTY $443,945 WHEELER COUNTY $213,405 Today’s announcement comes as Walden recently secured important forest management reforms into law, including: 3,000 acre categorical exclusion for wildfire resiliency and hazardous fuels reduction projects. 10-year fire borrowing fix, to help end the vicious cycle of depleting resources for fire prevention to pay for fire suppression, which increases the risk of catastrophic wildfires year after year. Expanding Healthy Forest Restoration Act authority for fuel and fire break projects. Give the Forest Service and BLM the ability to offer stewardship contracts with a 20 year term. Expanding “Good Neighbor Policy” to help states with road maintenance, culverts, and other similar projects on Forest Service land. Last week, the House of Representatives passed the 2018 Farm Bill with Walden’s strong support, making important progress to improve federal forest policy. The 2018 Farm Bill includes 10 categorical exclusions and reauthorizes the Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration Program, which is used to increase timber management in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
06.22.2018	Greg Walden bill to combat opioid crisis passes House Walden's SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act receives overwhelming bipartisan vote of 396-14 Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 6, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act, authored by Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River). H.R. 6 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 396-14. The bipartisan bill will help efforts to advance treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, protect our communities, and bolster our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. For a full list of all the measures included in H.R. 6, click HERE. "These past two weeks, the people’s House has dedicated tremendous amounts of time and energy to send a simple message to the millions of Americas impacted by the opioid crisis: 'Help is on the way,'" said Walden in a speech on the House floor today. "Not only are we passing legislation that will save lives, but we want to leave no doubt in the minds of those suffering from addiction that the United States House of Representatives -- Republicans and Democrats alike -- stand with them. For too long, embarrassment and stigma surrounded the disease of addiction. It’s time for that to change." As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Representative Walden has been at the forefront of the Congressional response to the opioid crisis. Under Walden’s leadership, the Energy and Commerce Committee has advanced 57 bills to the House of Representatives aimed at addressing the opioid crisis through treatment and recovery, prevention, protecting communities, and fighting dangerous synthetic opioids like fentanyl. Representative Walden has met with victims, families, treatment advocates, medical providers, and law enforcement officers on the front lines of the opioid crisis in Oregon. Walden says that input has informed his legislative work to put forth concrete solutions to help save lives and stem the tide of the opioid crisis. During his speech today, Representative Walden stressed the need to push forward in the fight against the opioid crisis for families and communities in Oregon and across the country. "Today, we have an opportunity to continue our work in combating this crisis, an opportunity to save lives, and we cannot let it pass," said Walden. "We owe it to our families, friends, communities, and our country to lift people out of addiction and, together, win this fight." To learn more about the House’s efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click HERE. To learn more about Energy and Commerce's comprehensive efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click HERE. ###
06.18.2018	Greg Walden statement on reforming immigration system WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement on reforming the immigration system: “The separation of families arriving illegally to our country is yet another example of the need for reform in our immigration system. Complications from court decisions tracing back through six presidential administrations have led to the heartbreaking situation we have watched unfold recently. This week, the House will consider legislation that takes steps toward improving border security and making needed changes to our immigration policies, including ensuring that children are not separated from parents detained for entering our country illegally. It’s past time to start fixing this system.”
06.14.2018	Walden introduces SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act to combat the opioid crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-Hood River), joined by Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), yesterday introduced the bipartisan H.R. 6, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act. H.R. 6 will serve as the legislative package for the majority of House-passed bills to combat the opioid crisis to move over to the Senate. "All across the country, families and communities have struggled for far too long against the scourge of opioid addiction. These are our friends, our neighbors, and our family members, and we as a Congress are committed to doing all we can to combat the opioid crisis and save lives,” said Walden in a joint statement with Reps. Brady, Pallone, and Neal. “H.R. 6 will be an important step forward in our efforts to stem the tide of addiction by improving prevention and public health efforts, enhancing treatment and recovery programs, and providing communities more tools in our fight.” To learn more about the House’s efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click HERE. To learn more about Energy and Commerce’s comprehensive efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click HERE. ###
06.12.2018	Greg Walden shepherds 25 bills through House of Representatives to combat nationwide opioid crisis Walden says, “We will not rest until we have won the fight against opioid addiction” Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the floor of the House of Representatives WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to address a public health crisis that is killing more than 100 Americans every day, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today led a bipartisan effort to advance 25 bills through the House of Representative to combat the nationwide opioid crisis. During a speech on the floor of the House, Walden stressed the importance of pushing forward in the fight against opioid addiction in Oregon and across the country. “In my Oregon district, I’ve held multiple round table discussions with parents, those addicted and those who treat the addicted. I’ve talked with law enforcement officials and emergency room physicians. I’ve sought the counsel and advice of those who are closest to this national problem and I worked with my colleagues to carefully craft federal legislation that responds to their suggestions,” said Walden. "The headlines are everywhere, and they tell the tragic stories of loved ones gone far too soon. We’re confronting an addiction that mercilessly seizes control and destroys. This killer doesn’t discriminate -- not by age, not by race, not by where you live or what you believe. We’re here because opioid addiction continues to take the lives of more than 100 Americans each and every day. These are real people, in all of our districts.” As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Representative Walden has been at the forefront of the Congressional response to the opioid crisis. Under Walden’s leadership, the Energy and Commerce Committee has advanced 57 bills to the House of Representatives aimed at addressing the opioid crisis through treatment and recovery, prevention, protecting communities, and fighting dangerous synthetic opioids like fentanyl. During his speech today, Walden shared the story of Grants Pass resident Mike Pelfrey, whose family has been personally impacted by opioid addiction. Mr. Pelfrey has attended multiple meetings Walden has held in southern Oregon to discuss solutions to combat the opioid crisis. Walden highlighted the ALTO Act (H.R. 5197), which passed by voice vote today and focuses on alternatives to addictive opioids for pain management. “The first time I met Mike was at a roundtable I held in southern Oregon. Mike didn’t know anyone in the room. He had heard the news about our meeting to discuss opioid abuse and wanted to share his family’s story,” said Walden. “His son was injured in a school sporting accident and became addicted to the prescription painkillers provided by his doctor to aid in his recovery. Eventually, Mike’s son made the all-too-familiar transition to a cheaper source: heroin. "To this day, Mike’s son still struggles with his addiction that began with opioid abuse. Mike went on to speak about his sister who also suffered from addiction. A nurse, his sister found herself with easier access to pills than most. When coworkers and others caught on, she moved and continued to procure pills. She died as a result of her addiction.” Click here or on the image above to hear Walden share the story of Mike Pelfrey, of Grants Pass “At a more recent meeting I held in southern Oregon, Mike was present once more. During our meeting, Mike urged everyone to make combating the opioid crisis a top priority, saying, ‘The only way we are going to do it is address it, do something about it, and make this an everyday part of our thought.’ "Well, Mike, this Congress we have made addressing this scourge an everyday part of our thoughts and efforts, and we will continue to do so no matter how long it takes to rip this terrible menace out of our communities,” said Walden. Walden today vowed to continuing searching for solutions that attack the opioid crisis from all angles. The House of Representative will also consider additional legislation this week and next week to combat the opioid crisis. “So, while the scourge of addiction looms large before us, I believe that we as a Congress, and we the American people, are up to the task,” said Walden. “The bills before us are not our first efforts in this fight, and you have my word that they won’t be our last. I urge my colleagues to support the legislation before the House these next two weeks. We have an opportunity to save lives, and we have a responsibility to our families, friends, communities and nation to lift people out of addiction and get America on a better path.” For a complete list of legislation -- all of which originated in Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee -- that advanced through the House of Representatives today, please see below: H.R. 449, the Synthetic Drug Awareness Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY) and Chris Collins (R-NY), will require the U.S. Surgeon General to submit a comprehensive report to Congress on the public health effects of the rise in synthetic drug use among youth aged 12 to 18 in order to further educate parents and the medical community on the health effects of synthetics. H.R. 449 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5473, the Better Pain Management Through Better Data Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Barbara Comstock (R-VA) and Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), will direct the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to articulate clear data collection methods that could be used to inform opioid-sparing labeling claims for products that may replace, delay, or reduce or the use of opioid analgesics. H.R. 5473 passed by voice vote. H.R. 3331, to amend title XI of the Social Security Act to promote testing of incentive payments for behavioral health providers for adoption and use of certified electronic health record technology, authored by Reps. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) and Doris Matsui (D-CA), will promote the testing of incentive payments for behavioral health providers for adoption and use of certified electronic health record technology. H.R. 3331 passed by voice vote. H.R. 4284, the Indexing Narcotics, Fentanyl, and Opioids (INFO) Act of 2017, authored by #SubDCCP Chairman Bob Latta (R-OH), will direct HHS to create a public and easily accessible electronic dashboard linking to all of the nationwide efforts and strategies to combat the opioid crisis. H.R. 4284 passed by voice vote. H.R. 4684, the Ensuring Access to Quality Sober Living Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Judy Chu (D-CA), Mimi Walters (R-CA), Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), and Raul Ruiz (D-CA), will authorize the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to develop, publish, and disseminate best practices for operating recovery housing that promotes a safe environment for sustained recovery from substance use disorder (SUD). H.R. 4684 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5002, ACE Research Act, authored by Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and #SubEnergy Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), will provide the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research and spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. H.R. 5002 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5800, the Medicaid IMD ADDITIONAL INFO Act, authored by #SubEnergy Chairman Upton, will direct the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC) to conduct a study on institutions for mental disease (IMD) that receive Medicaid reimbursement. The study will report on the requirements and standards that some state Medicaid programs have for IMDs. MACPAC, considering input from stakeholders, will summarize the findings and make recommendations on improvements and best practices and data collection. The report would be due no later than January 2020. H.R. 5800 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5009, Jessie’s Law, authored by Reps. Tim Walberg (R-MI) and Dingell, will ensure medical professionals have access to a consenting patient’s complete health history when making treatment decisions by requiring the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop and disseminate best practices regarding the prominent display of substance use disorder (SUD) history in patient records of patients who have previously provided this information to a health care provider. H.R. 5009 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5041, the Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act, authored by Reps. Walberg and Dingell, will help reduce the number of unused controlled substances at risk of diversion or misuse by allowing hospice employees to safely dispose of these medications onsite after the death of a patient. H.R. 5041 passed by a vote of 398-0. H.R. 5102, the Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Katherine Clark (D-MA) and Hal Rogers (R-KY), will create a loan repayment program for SUD treatment providers. Specifically, the bill will offer student loan repayment of up to $250,000 for participants who agree to work as a SUD treatment professional in areas most in need of their services. The program will be available to a wide range of direct care providers, including physicians, registered nurses, social workers, and other behavioral health professionals. H.R. 5102 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5176, the Preventing Overdoses While in Emergency Rooms (POWER) Act, authored by #SubEnvironment Vice Chairman David McKinley (R-WV) and Michael Doyle (D-PA), will provide resources for hospitals to develop protocols on discharging patients who have presented with an opioid overdose. These protocols would address the provision of naloxone upon discharge, connection with peer-support specialists, and the referral to treatment and other services that best fit the patient’s needs. H.R. 5176 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5228, the Stop Counterfeit drugs by Regulating and Enhancing Enforcement Now (SCREEN) Act, authored by Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), will provide the FDA with stronger recall and destruction authority to disrupt the entry of counterfeit and illicit drugs through International Mail Facilities (IMFs). H.R. 5228 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5261, the TEACH to Combat Addiction Act of 2018, authored by Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH), will support Centers of Excellence, or institutions of learning that have championed SUD treatment education to improve how health professionals are taught about both SUD and pain. H.R. 5261 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5272, to ensure that programs and activities that are funded by a grant, cooperative agreement, loan, or loan guarantee from the Department of Health and Human Services, and whose purpose is to prevent or treat a mental health or substance use disorder, are evidence-based, authored by Reps. Steve Stivers (R-OH) and Eliot Engel (D-NY), will direct SAMHSA to provide guidance for entities applying for SUD and mental illness grants, including guidance to grantees on how best to articulate the rationale for a given program or activity. Additionally, it will also encourage the funding of evidence-based interventions and the replication of promising or effective practices. H.R. 5272 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5327, the Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018, authored by #SubHealth Vice Chairman Brett Guthrie (R-KY) and #SubHealth Ranking Member Green (D-TX), will establish Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers (CORCs) that will serve as models for comprehensive treatment and recovery. CORCs would utilize the full range of FDA-approved medications and evidence-based treatments, have strong linkages with the community, generate meaningful outcomes data, and dramatically improve the opportunities for individuals to establish and maintain long-term recovery as productive members of society. H.R. 5327 passed by a vote of 383-13. H.R. 5329, the Poison Center Network Enhancement Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Susan Brooks R-IN), Engel, and Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chairman Joe Barton (R-TX), will reauthorize the national network of Poison Control Centers, which offer free, confidential, and expert medical advice 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Often times these programs serve as the primary resource for poisoning information and help reduce Emergency Room visits through in-home treatment. H.R. 5329 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5353, the Eliminating Opioid Related Infectious Diseases Act of 2018, authored by #SubCommTech Vice Chairman Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Rep. Joe Kennedy III (D-MA), will authorize the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to undertake an injection drug use-associated infection elimination initiative and work with states to improve education, surveillance and treatment of injection drug-use associated infections, like human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis. H.R. 5353 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5483, the Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Buddy Carter (R-GA), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Karen Handel (R-GA), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), and Bobby Rush (D-IL), will clarify telemedicine waivers. Federal law permits the Attorney General to issue a special registration to health care providers to prescribe controlled substances via telemedicine in legitimate emergency situations, such as a lack of access to an in-person specialist. Unfortunately, the waiver process has never been implemented through regulation, and some patients do not have the emergency access they need to treatment. This bipartisan bill directs the Attorney General, with the Secretary of HHS, to promulgate interim final regulations within one year of passage of the law. H.R. 5483 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5582, the Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Buddy Carter (R-GA), David Loebsack (D-IA), and Tom Reed (R-NY), will direct the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to evaluate the coverage of abuse-deterrent opioids in Medicare plans. H.R. 5582 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5583, to require state Medicaid programs to annually report on certain adult health quality measures, authored by Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY), will require state Medicaid programs to report on the behavioral health measures that are included in CMS’ Core Set of Adult Health Care Quality Measures for Medicaid. In 2018, there were 11 behavioral health measures. H.R. 5583 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5685, the Medicare Opioid Safety Education Act of 2018, authored by Reps. John Faso (R-NY), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Jim Renacci (R-OH), will direct the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to compile education resources for beneficiaries regarding opioid use, pain management, and alternative pain management treatments, and include these resources in the “Medicare and You” Handbook. H.R. 5685 passed by voice vote. H.R. 4275, the Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act, authored by Reps. Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Carter, will help pharmacists detect fraudulent prescriptions. H.R. 4275 will help develop and disseminate materials, giving pharmacists greater understanding and ability to decline to fill controlled substances when they suspect the prescriptions are fraudulent, forged, or appear to be for abuse or diversion. H.R. 4275 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5197, the Alternatives to Opioids (ALTO) Act, as amended, authored by Reps. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) and McKinley, will establish a demonstration program to test alternative pain management protocols to limit the use of opioids in hospital emergency departments. H.R. 5197 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5587, the Peer Support Communities of Recovery Act, authored by Reps. Lujan and Johnson, will enhance the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act’s (CARA’s) Building Communities of Recovery Program and authorize the Department of Health and Human Services to award grants to peer support specialist organizations for the development and expansion of recovery services. Peer support specialists/peer recovery coaches are health workers who are in recovery from SUD. New programs are emerging across the country to use peers in a range of settings, including hospitals, to provide immediate and ongoing support and treatment linkages to individuals who have overdosed from opioids, or support individuals newly in recovery. H.R. 5587 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5812, the Creating Opportunities that Necessitate New and Enhanced Connections That Improve Opioid Navigation Strategies (CONNECTIONS) Act, authored by #SubOversight Vice Chairman Morgan Griffith (R-VA) and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Pallone, will improve current federal support for state-run prescription drug monitoring programs. H.R. 5812 will authorize the CDC to carry out certain controlled substances overdose prevention and surveillance activities in order to improve data collection and integration into physician clinical workflow so that timely, complete, and accurate information will get into the hands of providers and dispensers so that they can make the best clinical decisions for their patients. H.R. 5812 passed by voice vote. To be considered on Wednesday, June 13: H.R. 5752, the Stop Illicit Drug Importation Act of 2018, authored by #SubCommTech Chairman Blackburn, will streamline and enhance FDA’s tools to intercept illegal products. Illicit or unapproved drugs enter the U.S. supply chain through IMFs and pose serious public health threats to individuals across the country. ###
06.11.2018	Central Oregon WWII and Korean War veterans meet Greg Walden in Washington, D.C. Walden greets veterans on National Mall as part of the Honor Flight of Central Oregon Representative Walden meets with 25 WWII and Korean War veterans on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) greeted two World War II and 23 Korean War Veterans who came to Washington, D.C. last week to visit their memorials on the National Mall through the Honor Flight of Central Oregon. The veterans, all of whom come from Deschutes and Jefferson counties, met Walden at the World War II Memorial and were presented American flags flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their service to our country. “Every time I have the chance to meet one of these heroes, I am reminded of the poignant words of General Dwight D. Eisenhower. In a message to Allied troops just before D-Day, he said, ‘The eyes of the world are upon you. The hopes and prayers of liberty-loving people everywhere march with you,’” said Walden. “Over seventy years later, liberty-loving people everywhere continue to owe heroes like the veterans who traveled to the nation’s capital last week for their extraordinary service and their incredible sacrifice and bravery on behalf of our country.” Walden speaks with the Honor Flight of Central Oregon veterans at the World War II Memorial. Walden said the nation “should be humbled by the courage of these brave veterans who put themselves in harm's way for our country and way of life.” In addition to presenting the veterans with an American flag flown over the Capitol building, Walden entered into the Congressional Record the names of each veteran who participated in the Honor Flight of Central Oregon. “Each of us in this chamber and in this nation should be humbled by the courage of these brave veterans who put themselves in harm's way for our country and way of life,” wrote Walden in the Congressional Record. “As a nation, we can never fully repay the debt of gratitude owed to them for their honor, commitment, and sacrifice in defense of the freedoms we have today. My colleagues, please join me in thanking these veterans and the volunteers of Honor Flight of Central Oregon for their exemplary dedication and service to this great country.” The Honor Flight Network is a non-profit organization created to honor America’s veterans. The organization transports veterans to Washington, D.C. to visit and reflect at their memorials -- with priority given to World War II survivors and veterans who may be terminally ill. Over 200,000 veterans have been honored through the Honor Flight Network of volunteers nationwide since 2005. Walden often meets with Oregon veterans who come to Washington, D.C. as part of the Honor Flight Network, and flies flags over the Capitol in honor of each veteran participating in the Honor Flight, along with entering their names into the Congressional Record. ###
06.07.2018	Greg Walden on livestock grazing in eastern Oregon: “this is a life-and-death matter for the ranchers out there” Presses NOAA official for more local input and science-based grazing management policies Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today pressed the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Assistant Administrator Chris Oliver for answers as to the science behind environmental rules that limit grazing activities in eastern Oregon. During a hearing before the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden called for increased local input when determining grazing management policies, and stressed the importance of livestock grazing for rural communities in Oregon. “On Friday, Mr. Oliver, your agency finalized a year-overdue grazing biological opinion for the Malheur National Forest allotments on the Malheur National Forest. I have repeatedly heard concerns about the process and concerns about the science used,” said Walden. “As an example, I understand from your regional staff that there is no science behind using the three trampled redds as a threshold for ‘take’ forest-wide, just that it is an easy way for the agencies to monitor.” Representative Walden was referring to the monitoring process for the destruction of fish egg nests -- referred to as redds -- that is used to determine the severity of the impact on fish populations throughout the Malheur National Forest from cattle grazing. Walden relayed the concerns he has heard from ranchers in the area, and asked Assistant Administrator Oliver to detail how their concerns are being taken into account. “There is no science behind this. Ranchers and others had barely a week to read and comment on the 300 plus page document but they did their best. Can you explain how their concerns are being addressed in the final biological opinion?” asked Walden. “While there may be some questions about the three trampled redds threshold for re-initiation, that was altered from the original one redd per year that was at one point proposed. So that was one way in which we hoped to address some of the concerns or alleviate some of the concerns,” said Assistant Administrator Oliver. "What I would like is the science behind this determination about the redds,” said Walden. Representative Walden also called for more engagement from federal agencies such as NOAA with communities on the ground when implementing policies that impact grazing activities that ranchers in eastern Oregon rely upon. “These communities are pretty upset when it comes to taking all of the hits, applying it all to grazing, when it comes to trying to do a balanced effort to restore salmon and steelhead fishery. They really want a little more face-to-face time with the National Marine Fisheries Service,” said Walden. “This is a life-and-death matter for the ranchers out there. A lot goes on out in the ocean that we’re told is just a black box that you can’t do anything about. Then we watch the fish get devoured by the sea lions coming up the river and then the only thing you can do is shut down cattle operations and blame it all on them. We’re not going to put up with that.” For more information on today’s hearing, including witness testimony, background memo, and archived webcast, please click here. ###
06.06.2018	Walden bill to improve care for Oregon veterans becomes law President signs Walden’s VA Medical Scribe Pilot Act, which will improve timeliness of care at VA facilities WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Legislation introduced by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to improve care for Oregon veterans was signed into law today. President Trump today signed the VA MISSION Act, a legislative package that includes the VA Medical Scribe Pilot Act, a bill co-authored by Walden to help unburden VA doctors by bringing medical scribes into the VA system, which will allow them to see more patients in a timely manner. “This legislation will help improve the care for veterans all across Oregon and America because it frees up doctors to do what they do best: take care of patients,” said Walden. “One thing I’ve learned traveling throughout Oregon and talking to veterans and VA officials is that there aren’t enough providers in the VA system to take timely care of our veterans. Research in the private sector has shown that allowing scribes to handle electronic health records allows the doctor to see more patients in a timely manner, and this bill will help bring that success to our veterans at the VA. I applaud President Trump for signing this commonsense plan into law, and look forward to working alongside the Administration to ensure the successful implementation of this program on the ground in Oregon and across the country.” Medical scribes help relieve physicians of administrative burdens such as paperwork and record keeping, which helps doctors focus their attention on caring for patients. Studies have shown that the use of medical scribes in the private sector resulted in a 59% increase in the number of patients physicians see per hour. Charles Schmidt, Oregon’s first National Commander of The American Legion, said of Walden’s legislation after its passage in June of 2017, “the VA Medical Scribes Pilot Act of 2017 would greatly assist VA doctors in the course of their duties by providing medical scribes to alleviate their administrative burden. This would enable VA doctors to see more veterans per day and spend more time with each patient. Providing doctors medical scribes would help the VA improve the work environment, reduce physician burnout, and recruit and retain quality physicians." Additionally, Walden has heard from leadership at the VA in White City and Bend that implementing a scribes program within the VA system would improve the care Oregon’s veterans receive. The VA MISSION Act also expands the VA’s Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers to pre-9/11 veterans who suffered a serious injury in the line of duty, creates a permanent path to increase veterans' access to see doctors in the community and reduce wait times, and provides funding for the Veterans Choice Program (Choice). Walden has been a longtime supporter of Choice, working to improve the program that provides veterans with needed flexibility when seeking care. The VA MISSION Act was supported by veterans service organizations across the country. In a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives in May, Walden touted his plan as an important step forward in providing veterans with the quality care they deserve. To read more about Walden’s legislation, please click here.
05.28.2018	Greg Walden on Memorial Day: "Let us pause in reverence of the men and women who died while serving our country" Click here or on the image above to view Walden's video message Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following message in honor of Memorial Day: "The men and women who wear our nation’s uniform represent the best of what America has to offer. "On Memorial Day, we honor those who paid the ultimate sacrifice in defense of the way of life we cherish in America. Our country is a beacon of freedom and liberty to the world because of their actions. "As President Ronald Reagan said, Memorial Day is a time when America “stands in silence and remembers those who were loved and who, in return, loved their countrymen enough to die for them.” "While we can never repay the debt of gratitude owed to these men and women, by our actions we can demonstrate our gratefulness. "As we pay tribute today to the brave many who gave their lives in service to our nation, we are working in Congress to ensure our military members, veterans, and their families are receiving the care and support they deserve. "I was proud to support a plan to give our troops the resources they need to safely carry out their missions and defend liberty around the world, as well as the largest pay raise they have seen in nine years. "And just last week, Congress passed a plan I helped craft to improve the timeliness of care Oregon veterans and others around the country receive at the VA. "This sends the message loud and clear that, when our service members put themselves in harm’s way on our behalf, we have their backs. We should especially reinforce this message on Memorial Day. "As we gather with our loved ones and friends, let us not forget the families across the country who are missing someone on this hallowed day. "This Memorial Day, let us pause in reverence of the men and women who died while serving our country. Wherever you are, please join me remembering our fellow Americans who laid down their lives for all of us. "All gave some, but some gave all, and today we reflect on the freedoms we are able to enjoy because of these heroes whose selflessness and dedication to duty can only be found in America’s service members. "Thank you, God bless our service members and God bless America."
05.23.2018	Greg Walden presses Olympic Committee leaders for answers about sexual abuse in organized sports Says that more must be done to ensure athlete safety is the top priority Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce, today pressed Olympic leaders for answers about the pervasiveness of sexual misconduct within the U.S. Olympic community. During a hearing before the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, Walden examined whether the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) has adequate policies and procedures in place to protect athletes at all levels of sport from abuse. "In pursuit of their dreams, athletes of all levels have frequent contact with coaches, doctors, trainers, and volunteers who are given responsibility beyond simply enabling these young athletes to achieve excellence in their chosen sport; we entrust them with athletes’ safety and well-being,” said Walden. “These individuals often hold positions of great power and authority over the athletes. Not only can they control an athlete’s training schedule or medical treatment, those very individuals often have a direct say in that athlete’s career, such as deciding who competes in an upcoming event. As has become abundantly clear, too many authority figures have abused their power and influence and harmed the very athletes that trusted them.” This hearing follows a months-long bipartisan investigation led by Walden into the USOC and all 48 National Governing Bodies (NGB), as well as Michigan State University, related to the management, handling, and prevention of sexual abuse. "The Committee has spoken with numerous survivors in the course of this investigation, and we thank all of them for their assistance in this work. We know that their stories are not easy to tell,” said Walden today. “There were far too many similarities in what we heard. Individuals in positions of power not only abused the trust of their athletes, but physically abused them as well. And when survivors sought help, far too many felt that the system was not built to protect them, but rather to shield their abusers and the sport’s reputation. They felt silenced.” In January, Walden was joined by a bipartisan group of lawmakers in sending letters to USA Gymnastics, the U.S. Olympic Committee, Michigan State University, USA Swimming, and USA Taekwondo regarding sexual abuse in organized sports. Walden’s investigation followed the sentencing of Dr. Larry Nassar for his abuse of more than 150 women and girls, as well as last year’s reports of sexual misconduct allegations in the Taekwondo community, and the 2014 allegations of sexual abuse from 19 former U.S. swimmers. During today’s hearing, Walden said that more must be done to ensure athlete safety in organized sports is the top priority. “In the eyes of many survivors, the culture of ‘medals and money’ won out over athlete safety and protection,” said Walden “Changes have been made in the Olympic community over the past decade, in particular within the last year, that show how things are moving in the right direction. However, many questions remain about whether the community has come far enough and moved fast enough.” For more information about the hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, please click here. ###
05.22.2018	Greg Walden supports comprehensive childhood cancer prevention legislation Votes to send Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research (STAR) Act to President's desk Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to boost medical research and treatments for patients across the country, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) supported comprehensive childhood cancer prevention legislation as it passed through the House of Representatives unanimously today. Walden joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers today in sending the Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research (STAR) Act to the President’s desk. "Being told your child has cancer is every parent’s worst nightmare. Even though childhood cancer is rare, it is still the second leading cause of death in children ages 1 to 14,” said Walden during a speech on the House floor. “By reauthorizing and modifying the National Childhood Cancer Registry; supporting childhood cancer biorepositories; improving the tracking of cancer in children, adolescents, and young adults; and supporting efforts to improve the pediatric cancer survivorship care, the STAR Act will improve both treatment of children currently battling cancer and the quality of life for the young survivors who have beaten this terrible disease.” The Childhood Cancer STAR Act is the most comprehensive childhood cancer legislation ever taken up by Congress, which will help advance both research and treatments for pediatric cancer. The bipartisan bill reauthorizes and modifies the National Childhood Cancer Registry and establishes programs for pediatric cancer survivors. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act will support the collection of donated biospecimens from children, adolescents, and young adults with cancer along with demographic information, create pilot programs to develop and evaluate systems for monitoring and providing treatment for cancer survivors, and provide grants to states to improve childhood cancer registries. Following the landmark 21st Century Cures Act -- which Walden helped pass into law -- the Childhood Cancer STAR Act will further efforts to discover, develop, and deliver new cures and treatments for those suffering from cancer. During his speech in support of the Childhood Cancer STAR Act, Walden said this bipartisan bill will be crucial to saving lives. “This is good work we are doing today in a bipartisan way in the United States House of Representatives. We will save lives. We will help families. And, especially, we will help these children who are suffering mightily,” said Walden. Specifically, the Childhood Cancer STAR Act will: Authorize $30 million a year through FY 2023 for grants to support the National Childhood Cancer Registry. Authorize the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to make awards to support childhood cancer biorepositories available to health care professionals and scientific researchers. Authorize the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to award grants to state cancer registries to enhance and expand infrastructure to track the epidemiology of cancer in children, adolescents, and young adults. Require at least one individual with experience in pediatric oncology to be included on the National Cancer Advisory Board. Require the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to ensure that childhood cancer research projects conducted or supported by NIH are included in the appropriate reports to Congress, which may include reports regarding the Pediatric Research Initiative. Allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to make grants establishing pilot programs to develop, study, or evaluate model systems to improve the quality and efficiency of care for childhood cancer survivors and to improve the coordination of care as survivors transition to adult care. Require the Secretary to conduct a review and report to Congress on the Department’s activities related to workforce development for health care providers who treat pediatric cancer patients and survivors. Allow the NIH Director to make grants to entities to conduct or support research relating to pediatric cancer survivors. Allow the Secretary to identify best practices for quality childhood cancer survivorship care in consultation with experts in late effects of disease and treatment of childhood cancers. ###
05.22.2018	Walden leads House passage of ‘Right to Try’ legislation, sending bill to President's desk Legislation will improve access to experimental treatments for terminally ill patients Click here or on the image above to view Walden's floor speech WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), today led the House passage of S. 204, the Tricket Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2018. This legislation previously passed the Senate on August 3, 2017. S. 204 aims to improve access to investigational treatments for patients with terminal diseases or conditions. In March 2018, the House passed H.R. 5247, its own version of “Right to Try,” by a bipartisan vote of 267-149. “Today’s vote is a beacon of hope for the patients who are desperately seeking the ‘right to try’ investigational treatments and therapies. While some Senate Democrats want to block vulnerable patients from accessing investigative drugs, we refuse to let them delay any longer,” said Walden (R-OR) and Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX). “With the House’s bipartisan support of this bill today, Congress will send groundbreaking ‘Right to Try’ legislation to President Trump’s desk. We look forward to working with the Trump Administration, who have been staunch advocates for this important policy, and the Food and Drug Administration to ensure this soon-to-be law is carried out effectively.” ###
05.21.2018	Greg Walden on combating the opioid crisis: “Our communities are counting on us to deliver on solutions” Fulfills commitment to bring opioid legislation to House of Representatives by Memorial Day Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has fulfilled his commitment to advance legislation to combat the opioid crisis to the House of Representatives by Memorial Day. The House Energy and Commerce Committee, where Walden serves as Chairman, today advanced 32 bills to the House of Representatives that address the opioid crisis in Oregon and across the country. “Our communities are counting on us to deliver on solutions to help turn the tide of addiction and death that is ravaging towns from coast to coast,” said Walden. “These bills are the direct result of hearing from the families impacted by this crisis, those working to remedy it, and compromise by our fellow leaders. Earlier this week, I heard from two such families in southern Oregon whose sons are still struggling with addiction, and I’ve heard from others at roundtables across my state. Their stories are all too familiar.” Under Walden’s leadership, Energy and Commerce has put forth concrete solutions to combat the opioid crisis, seeking to advance legislation to help stem the tide and investigate some of the root causes of the crisis. Specifically, the committee’s legislative efforts have examined bills to: improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools, advance prevention and public health solutions, and address coverage and payment issues within Medicare and Medicaid. “While this Congress has delivered unprecedented resources to combat this crisis, Americans from all backgrounds and walks of life still feel the grasp of this crisis and are asking us for help,” said Walden. “And we will deliver.” After two Energy and Commerce Committee markups: 57 bills advanced to the House of Representatives 53 passed by voice votes 4 passed by roll call votes Today, the Energy and Commerce Committee advanced the following bills to combat the opioid crisis: H.R. 5228, the Stop Counterfeit Drugs by Regulating and Enhancing Enforcement Now (SCREEN) Act, authored by Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), will provide the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with stronger recall and seizure authority to disrupt the entry of counterfeit and illicit drugs through International Mail Facilities (IMFs). The committee adopted an amendment in the nature of a substitute (AINS) offered by Ranking Member Pallone, and an amendment to the AINS offered by Rep. Gene Green (D-TX). H.R. 5228 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5752, the Stop Illicit Drug Importation Act of 2018, authored by Rep. Blackburn, will streamline and enhance FDA’s tools to intercept illegal products. Illicit or unapproved drugs enter the U.S. supply chain through IMFs and pose serious public health threats to individuals across the country. H.R. 5752 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5806, the 21st Century Tools for Pain and Addiction Treatments, authored by Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Rep. Larry Bucshon (R-IN), and Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA), will direct the FDA to issue or update existing guidance on ways existing pathways can be used to bring novel non-addictive treatments for pain and addiction to patients. Several approaches have proven successful in speeding the availability of treatments for serious diseases through the FDA. The FDA’s accelerated approval program facilitates faster approval of medications using surrogate endpoints for serious conditions where there is an unmet medical need. The breakthrough therapy pathway is a process designed to expedite the development and review of drugs, which may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy. H.R. 5806 passed the committee by a vote of 31-23. H.R. 5811, to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to postapproval study requirements for certain controlled substances, and for other purposes. H.R. 5811, authored by Rep. Jerry McNerney (D-CA) and Rep. Griffith will enhance FDA’s authorities and enforcement tools to ensure timely post-marketing studies for chronically administered opioids. Currently, there is limited data on the long-term efficacy of opioids, and their overall place in the treatment of pain. The committee adopted an amendment to the bill, offered by Rep. Griffith, by a vote of 31-22. H.R. 5811 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 1925, the At-Risk Youth Medicaid Protection Act of 2017, authored by Rep. Tony Cardenas (D-CA) and Rep. Griffith, will require state Medicaid programs not terminate a juvenile’s medical assistance eligibility because he/she is incarcerated. A state may suspend coverage while the juvenile is an inmate, but must restore coverage upon release without requiring a new application unless the individual no longer meets the eligibility requirements for medical assistance. H.R. 1925 passed the committee by voice vote. H.R. 3192, the CHIP Mental Health Parity Act, authored by Rep. Joseph Kennedy, III (D-MA), will require state Children’s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP) to cover mental health benefits. All state CHIP programs currently cover such benefits. H.R. 3192 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 4005, the Medicaid Reentry Act, authored by Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY), as amended, will require the Secretary of HHS to convene a stakeholder group that will produce a report of best practices for states to consider in health care related transitions for inmates of public institutions. H.R. 4005 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 4998, the Health Insurance for Former Foster Youth Act, authored by Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA). The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) enabled former foster youth who are in care by their 18th birthday and previously enrolled in Medicaid to receive healthcare until the age of 26. However, PPACA did not extend Medicaid coverage to former foster youth if they move out of state. H.R. 4998 would enable such youth to receive Medicaid coverage if they moved to a different state. The committee adopted an AINS, offered by Rep. G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), which revises the underlying policy and directs the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to publish guidance on how states can remove barriers, track coverage status, and conduct outreach to this population. The AINS passed by voice vote. H.R. 4998 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5477, the Rural Development of Opioid Capacity Services Act, authored by Rep. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), will require CMS to carry out a demonstration project to provide an enhanced federal matching rate for state Medicaid expenditures related to the expansion of substance-use treatment and recovery services targeting provider capacity. H.R. 5477 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5583, to amend title XI of the Social Security Act to require states to annually report on certain adult health quality measures, and for other purposes, authored by Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY), will require state Medicaid programs to report on the 11 behavioral health measures that are included in CMS’ 2018 Core Set of Adult Health Care Quality Measures for Medicaid. H.R. 5583 passed the committee by voice vote. H.R. 5789, to amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicaid coverage protections for pregnant and postpartum women while receiving inpatient treatment for substance use disorder, authored by Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) and Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY), will improve access to inpatient treatment services for women with substance use disorder who are pregnant or who are suffering from postpartum depression. H.R. 5789 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5797, the IMD CARE Act, authored by Rep. Mimi Walters (R-CA), will allow state Medicaid programs from FY2019 through FY2023 to remove the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion for Medicaid beneficiaries aged 21-64 with an opioid use disorder. This bill improves the continuum of care by removing a barrier to care under current law, so Medicaid would pay for up to 30 total days of care in an IMD during a 12-month period and eligible individuals can get the care they need. H.R. 5797 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5799, the Medicaid DRUG Improvement Act, authored by Rep. Blackburn, will build on current state Medicaid drug utilization review activities to help combat the opioid crisis. Under H.R. 5799, state Medicaid programs will be required to have safety edits in place for opioid refills, monitor concurrent prescribing of opioids and certain other drugs, and monitor antipsychotic prescribing for children. H.R. 5799 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5800, the Medicaid IMD ADDITIONAL INFO Act, authored by Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI), will direct the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC) to conduct a study on institutions for mental disease (IMD) that receive Medicaid reimbursement. The study will report on the requirements and standards that state Medicaid programs have for IMDs. MACPAC, considering input from stakeholders, will summarize the findings and make recommendations on improvements and best practices and data collection. The report would be due no later than January 2020. H.R. 5800 passed the committee by voice vote. H.R. 5801, the Medicaid PARTNERSHIP Act, authored by Rep. Griffith, will require the Medicaid program in each state to integrate prescription drug monitoring program (PDMP) usage into Medicaid provider’s clinical workflow and require such providers to check the PDMP before prescribing a Schedule II controlled substance. H.R. 5801 will also establish a standard criteria that a PDMP must meet to be counted as a qualified PDMP, and requires state Medicaid programs to report to CMS on several PDMP issues. H.R. 5801 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5808, the Medicaid Pharmaceutical Home Act of 2018, authored by Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), will require all state Medicaid programs to have a beneficiary assignment program that identifies Medicaid beneficiaries at-risk for substance use disorder and assigns them to a pharmaceutical home program, which must set reasonable limits on the number of prescribers and dispensers that beneficiaries may utilize. H.R. 5808 passed the committee by voice vote. H.R. 5810, the Medicaid Health HOME Act, authored by Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), will improve the state option for Medicaid health homes under current law that improve the coordination of, and access to care for Medicaid beneficiaries with substance use disorder. The bill extends the enhanced matching rate for qualified activities from eight quarters to 10 quarters. H.R. 5810 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5715, the Strengthening Partnerships to Prevent Opioid Abuse Act, authored by Reps. James Renacci (R-OH), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Rep. Guthrie, and Scott Peters (D-CA), will help facilitate communication among Medicare Advantage and Part D plan sponsors, and CMS relating to sharing information on substantiated fraud, waste, and abuse investigations. H.R. 5715 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5716, the Commit to Opioid Medical Prescriber Accountability and Safety for Seniors (COMPASS) Act, authored by Reps. Peter Roskam (R-IL), John Larson (D-CT), Susan Brooks (R-IN), and Welch, will require CMS to establish a prescriber threshold based on specialty and geographic area, which could designate a prescriber as an outlier opioid prescriber. CMS would then be responsible for notifying prescribers identified as outliers of their status. H.R. 5716 passed the committee by voice vote. H.R. 5796, the Responsible Education Achieves Care and Healthy Outcomes for Users’ Treatment (REACH OUT) Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), and Mike Thompson (D-CA), will direct CMS to work with eligible entities, including Quality Improvement Organizations, to engage in outreach with prescribers identified as clinical outliers to share best practices to evaluate their prescribing behavior. H.R. 5796 passed the committee by voice vote. H.R. 5590, the Opioid Addiction Action Plan Act, authored by Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Reps. Clarke, Darin LaHood (R-IL), and Danny Davis (D-IL), will establish an action plan, including studies, reports to Congress authored by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), as well as meetings with stakeholders, for the purpose of addressing the opioid crisis. H.R. 5590 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5603, the Access to Telehealth Services for Opioid Use Disorder, authored by Reps. Doris Matsui (D-CA), Cardenas, and Bill Johnson (R-OH), will instruct CMS to evaluate the utilization of telehealth services in treating substance use disorder. H.R. 5603 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5605, the Advancing High Quality Treatment for Opioid Use Disorders in Medicare Act, authored by Rep. Raul Ruiz (D-CA), will create a demonstration project for treating substance use disorder. This model includes the development of measures to evaluate the quality and outcomes of treatment. H.R. 5605 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5798, the Opioid Screening and Chronic Pain Management Alternatives for Seniors Act, authored by Reps. Bucshon, Debbie Dingell (D-MI), and Erik Paulsen (R-MN), will add a review of current opioid prescriptions and, as appropriate, a screening for opioid use disorder as part of the Welcome to Medicare initial examination. H.R. 5798 passed the committee by voice vote. H.R. 4684, the Ensuring Access to Quality Sober Living Act of 2017, authored by Reps. Judy Chu (D-CA), Walters, Bilirakis, and Ruiz, will authorize the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to develop, publish, and disseminate best practices for operating recovery housing that promotes a safe environment for sustained recovery from substance use disorder (SUD). H.R. 4684 passed the committee by voice vote. H.R. 5329, the Poison Center Network Enhancement Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Brooks, Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chairman Joe Barton (R-TX), will reauthorize the national network of Poison Control Centers, which offer free, confidential, and expert medical advice 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Often times these programs serve as the primary resource for poisoning information and help reduce Emergency Room visits through in-home treatment. H.R. 5329 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5580, the STOP Fentanyl Deaths Act of 2018, authored by Rep. Anne Kuster (D-NH), will authorize grants to federal, state, and local agencies for the establishment or operation of public health laboratories to detect fentanyl, its analogues, and other synthetic opioids. H.R. 5580 passed the committee by voice vote. H.R. 5587, the Peer Support Communities of Recovery Act, authored by Reps. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM) and Johnson, will enhance CARA’s Building Communities of Recovery Program and authorize the Department of Health and Human Services to award grants to peer support specialist organizations for the development and expansion of recovery services. Peer support specialists/peer recovery coaches are health workers who are in recovery from SUD. New programs are emerging across the country to use peers in a range of settings, including hospitals, to provide immediate and ongoing support and treatment linkages to individuals who have overdosed from opioids, or support individuals newly in recovery. H.R. 5587 passed the committee, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5804, the Post-Surgical Injections as an Opioid Alternative Act, authored by Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL), and Reps. Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), and Roskam, seeks to incentivize post-surgical injections as a pain treatment alternative to opioids by reversing a reimbursement cut for these treatments in the Ambulatory Service Center setting, as well as collect data on a subset of codes related to these treatments. An amendment offered by Rep. Welch failed by a vote of 23-27. H.R. 5804 passed the committee by a vote of 36-14. H.R. 5809, Postoperative Opioid Prevention Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Peters and Bucshon, will create a pass-through payment extension to encourage the development of non-opioid drugs for post-surgical pain management in Medicare. An amendment offered by Rep. Dingell failed by a vote of 22-29. H.R. 5809 passed the committee by a vote of 34-17. H.R. 5795, the Overdose Prevention and Patient Safety Act, authored by Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), will align the use of SUD treatment records with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) for the purposes of treatment, payment, and healthcare operations between covered entities. H.R. 5795 will also enhance the penalties in the event of a disclosure of SUD treatment records, add breach notification requirements, and provide strong discrimination prohibitions to protect people seeking and receiving SUD treatment. An amendment offered by Vice Chairman Barton, which was amended by a secondary amendment by Chairman Walden, passed the committee by voice vote. An amendment offered by Ranking Member Pallone failed by a vote of 23-29. H.R. 5795 passed the committee, as amended, by 35-17. H.R. 5812, the Creating Opportunities that Necessitate New and Enhanced Connections That Improve Opioid Navigation Strategies (CONNECTIONS) Act, authored by Rep. Griffith and Ranking Member Pallone, will improve current federal support for state-run PDMPs. H.R. 5812 will authorize the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to carry out certain controlled substances overdose prevention and surveillance activities in order to improve data collection and integration into physician clinical workflow so that timely, complete, and accurate information will get into the hands of providers and dispensers so that they can make the best clinical decisions for their patients. H.R. 5812 passed the committee by voice vote. Last week, Walden's committee held the first of two markups on opioid legislation. During that markup, 25 bills were advanced to the House of Representatives, all of which passed by voice vote. A background memo, electronic copies of the legislation, and live stream of the markup can be found online here. Amendment text and votes will be available at the same link as they are posted. ###
05.17.2018	House passes Greg Walden bill to improve care for Oregon veterans Legislation will help increase the timeliness of care for veterans Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. -- A plan introduced by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to improve the care Oregon veterans receive at the Veterans Administration (VA) is one step closer to being sent to the President’s desk. Today the House passed the VA MISSION Act (S. 2372) by a bipartisan vote of 347-70. This legislative package includes the VA Medical Scribe Pilot Act, a bill co-authored by Walden to help unburden VA doctors by bringing medical scribes into the VA system, which will allow them to see more patients in a timely manner. “Research in the private sector has shown that allowing scribes to handle electronic health records allows the doctor to do what they do best: treat their patients,” said Walden in a speech on the House floor today. “Chairman Roe joined me in my district last fall on a tour of the VA Clinic in White City, Oregon, where we heard first-hand about the administrative challenges VA doctors face and how that affects their ability to care for veterans. This bill will help.” Medical scribes help relieve physicians of administrative burdens such as paperwork and record keeping, which helps doctors focus their attention on caring for patients. Studies have shown that the use of medical scribes in the private sector resulted in a 59% increase in the number of patients physicians see per hour. Walden has heard from officials at both the White City and Bend VA facilities, and veterans themselves, that implementing a scribes program will help improve the care Oregon veterans receive. Walden’s legislation will also help retain quality VA doctors, and recruit new physicians into the VA process. The VA Medical Scribe Pilot Act originally unanimously passed the House of Representatives in June of 2017 before being approved by the Senate. Charles Schmidt, Oregon’s first National Commander of The American Legion, said of Walden’s legislation after its passage in June, “the VA Medical Scribes Pilot Act of 2017 would greatly assist VA doctors in the course of their duties by providing medical scribes to alleviate their administrative burden. This would enable VA doctors to see more veterans per day and spend more time with each patient. Providing doctors medical scribes would help the VA improve the work environment, reduce physician burnout, and recruit and retain quality physicians." The VA MISSION Act also expands the VA’s Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers to pre-9/11 veterans who suffered a serious injury in the line of duty, creates a permanent path to increase veterans' access to see doctors in the community and reduce wait times, and provides funding for the Veterans Choice Program (Choice). Walden has been a longtime supporter of Choice, working to improve the program that provides veterans with needed flexibility when seeking care. After receiving approval in the House today, the VA MISSION Act now heads to the Senate for final approval before being sent to the President’s desk. To read more about Walden’s legislation, please click here.
05.15.2018	Greg Walden advances 25 bills to combat nationwide opioid crisis Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to put forth concrete solutions to combat the opioid crisis in Oregon and throughout the country, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today advanced legislation to address the nationwide scourge. The House Energy and Commerce Committee, where Walden serves as Chairman, today approved 25 pieces of legislation to combat the opioid crisis, which will now receive a vote in the full House of Representatives. “Today marks an important step in this committee’s effort to combat the opioid crisis, which continues to wreak havoc on communities all across the country,” said Walden. “From our legislative and investigative hearings to the roundtable we held just a few weeks ago, it is clear that Americans across the country are asking for more solutions from their elected leaders.” Under Walden’s leadership, Energy and Commerce is in the midst of a two-track push to combat the opioid crisis, seeking to advance legislation to help stem the tide and investigate some of the root causes of the crisis. Specifically, the committee’s legislative efforts have examined bills to: improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools, advance prevention and public health solutions, and address coverage and payment issues within Medicare and Medicaid. “We know there is no silver bullet, no one-size-fits-all approach that will remedy the catastrophic effects of this crisis over the last decade. But much can be done to help vulnerable patients get the treatment they want and need, and to ensure these powerful drugs are not getting into the wrong hands,” said Walden. Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee will hold a second legislative markup on additional bills to combat the opioid crisis on Thursday, May 17, 2018. More information on the second markup will be posted here, as it becomes available. For more information on today’s legislative markup, including an archived webcast, please click here. The Energy and Commerce Committee today advanced the following bills to combat the opioid crisis: H.R. 449, Synthetic Drug Awareness Act of 2017, authored by Reps. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY) and Chris Collins (R-NY), will require the U.S. Surgeon General to submit a comprehensive report to Congress on the public health effects of the rise in synthetic drug use among youth aged 12 to 18 in order to further educate parents and the medical community on the health effects of synthetics. H.R. 449 passed by voice vote. H.R. 4284, Indexing Narcotics, Fentanyl, and Opioids (INFO) Act of 2017, authored by Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH), will direct HHS to create a public and easily accessible electronic dashboard linking to all of the nationwide efforts and strategies to combat the opioid crisis. H.R. 4284 passed, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5002, ACE Research Act, authored by Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI), will provide the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research and spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. H.R. 5002 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5102, Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Katherine Clark (D-MA) and Hal Rogers (R-KY), will create a loan repayment program for SUD treatment providers. Specifically, the bill will offer student loan repayment of up to $250,000 for participants who agree to work as a SUD treatment professional in areas most in need of their services. The program will be available to a wide range of direct care providers, including physicians, registered nurses, social workers, and other behavioral health professionals. H.R. 5102 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5009, Jessie’s Law, authored by Reps. Tim Walberg (R-MI) and Dingell, will ensure medical professionals have access to a consenting patient’s complete health history when making treatment decisions by requiring the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop and disseminate best practices regarding the prominent display of substance use disorder (SUD) history in patient records of patients who have previously provided this information to a health care provider. H.R. 5009 passed, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5176, Preventing Overdoses While in Emergency Rooms (POWER) Act of 2018, authored by Rep. David McKinley (R-WV) and Rep. Michael Doyle (D-PA), will provide resources for hospitals to develop protocols on discharging patients who have presented with an opioid overdose. These protocols would address the provision of naloxone upon discharge, connection with peer-support specialists, and the referral to treatment and other services that best fit the patient’s needs. H.R. 5176 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5197, Alternatives to Opioids (ALTO) in the Emergency Department Act, authored by Reps. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) and McKinley, will establish a demonstration program to test alternative pain management protocols to limit the use of opioids in hospital emergency departments. H.R. 5197 passed, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5261, TEACH to Combat Addiction Act of 2018, authored by Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH), will support Centers of Excellence, or institutions of learning that have championed SUD treatment education to improve how health professionals are taught about both SUD and pain. H.R. 5261 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5272, Reinforcing Evidence-based Standards Under Law in Treating Substance abuse (RESULTS) Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Steve Stivers (R-OH) and Eliot Engel (D-NY), will direct the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to provide guidance for entities applying for SUD and mental illness grants, including guidance to grantees on how best to articulate the rationale for a given program or activity. Additionally, it will also encourage the funding of evidence-based interventions and the replication of promising or effective practices. H.R. 5272 passed the by voice vote. H.R. 5327, Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act 2018, authored by Rep. Guthrie (R-KY) and Rep. Green (D-TX), will establish Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers (CORCs) that will serve as models for comprehensive treatment and recovery. CORCs would utilize the full range of FDA-approved medications and evidence-based treatments, have strong linkages with the community, generate meaningful outcomes data, and dramatically improve the opportunities for individuals to establish and maintain long-term recovery as productive members of society. H.R. 5327 passed, as amended by Rep. Guthrie (R-KY) and Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), by voice vote. H.R. 5353, Eliminating Opioid-Related Infectious Diseases Act of 2018, authored by Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Rep. Joe Kennedy III (D-MA), will authorize the CDC to undertake an injection drug use-associated infection elimination initiative and work with states to improve education, surveillance and treatment of injection drug-use associated infections, like human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis. H.R. 5353 passed by voice vote. H.R. 3331, To amend title XI of the Social Security Act to promote testing of incentive payments for behavioral health providers for adoption and use of certified electronic health record technology, authored by Reps. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) and Doris Matsui (D-CA), will promote the testing of incentive payments for behavioral health providers for adoption and use of certified electronic health record technology. H.R. 3331 passed, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5685, the Medicare Opioid Safety Education Act, authored by Reps. John Faso (R-NY), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Jim Renacci (R-OH), will direct the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to compile education resources for beneficiaries regarding opioid use, pain management, and alternative pain management treatments, and include these resources in the “Medicare and You” Handbook. H.R. 5685 passed by voice vote. H.R. 3528, Every Prescription Conveyed Securely Act, authored by Reps. Katherine Clark (D-MA) and Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), will require e-prescribing, with exceptions, for coverage of prescription drugs that are controlled substances under the Medicare Part D program. H.R. 3528 passed the, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 4841, Standardizing Electronic Prior Authorization for Safe Prescribing Act of 2018, authored by Reps. David Schweikert (R-AZ), Bill Johnson (R-OH), and Lujan, seeks to standardize electronic prior authorization under Medicare Part D. H.R. 4841 passed, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5675, to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require prescription drug plan sponsors under the Medicare program to establish drug management programs for at-risk beneficiaries. H.R. 5675, authored by Reps. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), will build off of work done in the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA), and require prescription drug plan sponsors under the Medicare program establish drug management programs for at-risk beneficiaries. H.R. 5675 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5686, the Medicare Clear Health Options in Care for Enrollees (CHOICE) Act, authored by Reps. Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Chris Collins (R-NY), Terri Sewell (D-AL), and Connor Lamb (D-PA), will require prescription drug plans under Medicare Part D to include information on the adverse effects of opioid overutilization and of coverage of non-pharmacological therapies and non-opioid medications or devices used to treat pain. H.R. 5686 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5582, the Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Buddy Carter (R-GA), David Loebsack (D-IA), and Tom Reed (R-NY), will direct CMS to evaluate the use of abuse-deterrent opioids in Medicare plans. H.R. 5582 passed, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5684, the Protecting Seniors From Opioid Abuse Act, authored by Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA), House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA), and Rep. Michael Doyle (D-PA), will add beneficiaries at-risk for prescription drug abuse to the list of targeted beneficiaries to be eligible for Medication Therapy Management (MTM) under Part D. H.R. 5684 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5473, the Better Pain Management Through Better Data Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Barbara Comstock (R-VA) and Lujan, will direct the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to articulate clear data collection methods that could be used to inform opioid-sparing labeling claims for products that may replace, delay, or reduce or the use of opioid analgesics. H.R. 5473 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5687, the Securing Opioids and Unused Narcotics with Deliberate Disposal and Packaging Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Richard Hudson (R-NC), Rep. G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), and Ted Budd (R-NC) will direct the FDA to work with manufacturers to establish programs for efficient return or destruction of unused Schedule II drugs, with an emphasis on opioids. These methods could include mail-back pouches to secure facilities for incineration, or methods to immediately inactivate/render unattractive unused drugs. In addition, this bill will facilitate utilization of packaging that may reduce overprescribing of opioids. Finally, this bill will require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study new and innovative technologies that claim to be able to safely dispose of opioids and other unused medications. GAO would review and detail the effectiveness of these disposal methods. H.R. 5687 passed by voice vote. H.R. 4275, Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act, authored by Reps. Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Carter, will help pharmacists detect fraudulent prescriptions. H.R. 4275 will help develop and disseminate materials, giving pharmacists greater understanding and ability to decline to fill controlled substances when they suspect the prescriptions are fraudulent, forged, or appear to be for abuse or diversion. H.R. 4275 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5041, Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act, authored by Reps. Walberg and Dingell, will help reduce the number of unused controlled substances at risk of diversion or misuse by allowing hospice employees to safely dispose of these medications on site after the death of a patient. H.R. 5041 passed, as amended, by voice vote. H.R. 5202, Ensuring Patient Access to Substance Use Disorder Treatments Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Ryan Costello (R-PA), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Karen Handel (R-GA), David Rouzer (R-NC), and Elise Stefanik (R-NY), will make long overdue updates federal law to improve dispensing of implantable and injectable therapies – developed to make abuse, misuse, and diversion more difficult. H.R. 5202 passed by voice vote. H.R. 5483, Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Carter, Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Handel, Stefanik, and Bobby Rush (D-IL), will clarify telemedicine waivers. Federal law permits the Attorney General to issue a special registration to health care providers to prescribe controlled substances via telemedicine in legitimate emergency situations, such as a lack of access to an in-person specialist. Unfortunately, the waiver process has never been implemented through regulation, and some patients do not have the emergency access they need to treatment. This bipartisan bill directs the Attorney General, with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to promulgate interim final regulations within one year of passage of the law. H.R. 5483 passed by voice vote.
05.10.2018	Greg Walden shepherds nuclear waste policy reform through House Legislation will establish permanent storage location for nuclear waste currently at Hanford Site Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today helped shepherd nuclear waste policy reform through the House of Representatives. The Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act (H.R. 3053) originated in the House Energy and Commerce Committee -- where Walden serves as Chairman -- and passed the House by a strong bipartisan vote of 340-72 today. In a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives, Walden said this legislation will be important for cleanup efforts at the Hanford Site, and communities across the country where nuclear waste sits idle. “The Department of Energy’s Hanford Site, just up the mighty Columbia River from where I live and where I grew up, helped us win World War II and the site’s nuclear program was instrumental in projecting peace through strength throughout the Cold War. While the community has been a constructive partner in support of our vital national security missions, it did not agree to serve as a perpetual storage site for the resulting nuclear waste,” said Walden. “56 millions of gallons of this toxic waste are sitting in decades-old metal tanks at Hanford -- like the ones pictured here. The amount of waste stored at Hanford could fill the entire House Chamber 20 times. According to a recent GAO report, the oldest of these tanks, some of which date back to the 1940s, have single-layer walls, or shells; and were built to last about 20 years. They will be almost 100 years old by the estimated end of waste treatment. The Department of Energy has reported that 67 of these tanks are assumed or are known to have leaked waste into the soil. There is an understandable sense of urgency behind the cleanup efforts underway at Hanford.” Walden has led the effort to clean up spent nuclear fuel that is sitting in 121 communities across 39 states throughout the country, including at the Hanford Site. The Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act passed the Energy and Commerce Committee by a vote of 49-4 in June of 2017. This legislation provides practical reforms to the nation’s nuclear waste management policy, and reinstates Yucca Mountain as the cornerstone of the country’s nuclear waste disposal. Walden said today that moving forward with this legislation will have broad benefits for the country as a whole. “At the end of the day, this bipartisan legislation is good for communities around the country and their safety, good for consumers and fiscal sanity, good for the environment for secure storage, good for taxpayers, and good for our national security as well,” said Walden. “Let’s put an end to these tanks, before they put an end to us.” To read more about the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act, please click here.
05.08.2018	Greg Walden presses drug distributors for answers following year-long investigation into alleged opioid pill dumping Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks during today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Following a year-long bipartisan investigation into alleged opioid pill dumping in rural communities, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today pressed the nation’s top drug distributors for answers as to their role in the opioid crisis. Walden, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, stressed the need for drug distributors to recognize their responsibility to help combat the crisis. “You have a unique set of resources and tools at your disposal, and a shared responsibility in flagging suspicious activity and diversion. You are supposed to be one of the first lines of defense in this crisis,” said Walden. “Instead, the information uncovered by this investigation over the last year is stunning. There is no logical explanation for why a town of approximately 400 people would receive 9 million opioid pills in two years. Or why a single pharmacy in a town of about 1,800 people would receive nearly 17 million opioid pills in a decade. Then there are the two pharmacies in a nearby town of 2,900 people which received nearly 21 million opioids in the same time frame. No matter how you cut this data, behind each of these numbers was a pill mill. And they proliferated for far too long.” Today’s hearing comes as Walden continues to investigate the opioid distribution practices of national and regional drug distributors, particularly in regards to alleged pill dumping in West Virginia. Walden, along with a bipartisan group of committee leaders, first requested information from the nation’s “top three” distributors -- AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health, and McKesson -- on May 8, 2017. In September 2017, the committee probed a fourth distributor, Miami-Luken. In January 2018, the committee sent a follow-up letter to Miami-Luken and probed a fifth distributor, H.D. Smith. In February 2018, the committee sent follow-up questions to AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health, and McKesson. Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee heard from the following witnesses today: Mr. John Hammergren, Chairman, President and CEO, McKesson Corporation; Mr. George Barrett, Executive Chairman of the Board, Cardinal Health Inc.; Mr. Steven Collis, Chairman, President and CEO, AmerisourceBergen Corporation; Dr. Joseph Mastandrea, Chairman of the Board, Miami-Luken, Inc.; and Mr. J. Christopher Smith, former President and CEO, H.D. Smith Wholesale Drug Company. During the hearing, Walden said that understanding the root causes of the opioid crisis is critical to ending this scourge that is plaguing communities in Oregon and across the country. “We owe it to the 115 Americans who die every day from opioid overdoses, and their loved ones, to understand what led to this crisis and to identify solutions to stem the tide,” said Walden. For more information on today’s hearing, including witness testimony and archived webcast, please click here. ###
05.07.2018	Greg Walden applauds $14 million in Secure Rural Schools payments for Oregon Program provides important resources for county services in rural Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today applauded the announcement of $14 million Oregon will receive from the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) through the Secure Rural Schools Program. The funding will be issued to 18 counties in Oregon eligible under the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act extension. The BLM manages the Secure Rural Schools program in coordination with the U.S. Forest Service, which still must issue its payment. “This announcement is welcome news for Oregon counties who rely on these funds to provide essential services like schools, infrastructure, and law enforcement,” said Walden. “I am proud to have worked with my colleagues to secure two years of full funding for the Secure Rural Schools program to support our rural forested communities, and I applaud Secretary Zinke and the Trump Administration for promptly issuing these payments. While this safety-net funding is important and needed, there is much more work to be done to reform federal forest policy, put people back to work in our woods, and provide sustainable revenue to support local services. I will continue working alongside my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to find long-term solutions to ensure Oregon’s rural communities have the resources they need to succeed.” This announcement comes as Walden recently secured a two-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program. The Secure Rural Schools program provides important resources to support Oregon’s rural forested communities, which is a priority for Walden. Along with a two-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program, Walden also helped secure additional reforms to forest management in the government funding measure that was signed into law in March, including new tools to address wildfire resilience and hazardous fuels reductions and a 10-year fix to fire borrowing. For more information on today’s announcement from the Department of Interior, please click here.
05.07.2018	Greg Walden to hold hearing with drug distributors following year-long bipartisan investigation into alleged pill dumping WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, will hold a hearing with the leadership of national and regional drug distributors in regards to the committee’s bipartisan investigation into opioid distribution practices, particularly alleged pill dumping in West Virginia. The hearing will be held tomorrow, May 8, 2018, at 10 a.m. ET. The hearing is entitled, “Combating the Opioid Epidemic: Examining Concerns About Distribution and Diversion.” The hearing falls on the one-year anniversary of the committee’s initial requests for information regarding distribution practices in West Virginia. Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee has confirmed the following witnesses will testify: Mr. John Hammergren, Chairman, President and CEO, McKesson Corporation; Mr. George Barrett, Executive Chairman of the Board, Cardinal Health Inc.; Mr. Steven Collis, Chairman, President and CEO, AmerisourceBergen Corporation; Dr. Joseph Mastandrea, Chairman of the Board, Miami-Luken, Inc.; and Mr. J. Christopher Smith, former President and CEO, H.D. Smith Wholesale Drug Company. Walden, along with a bipartisan group of committee leaders, first requested information from the nation’s “top three” distributors -- AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health, and McKesson -- on May 8, 2017. In September 2017, the committee probed a fourth distributor, Miami-Luken. In January 2018, the committee sent a follow-up letter to Miami-Luken and probed a fifth distributor, H.D. Smith. In February 2018, the committee sent follow-up questions to AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health, and McKesson. For a full timeline of the committee’s bipartisan investigation, click here. The hearing was first announced on April 12, 2018. For more information on tomorrow’s hearing, please click here. ###
04.26.2018	Greg Walden announces Oregon collection sites for excess opioids, prescription pills Part of DEA’s “National Prescription Drug Take Back Day” initiative to combat opioid epidemic WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to combat the opioid crisis in Oregon, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced collection sites across Oregon's Second Congressional District for the disposal of excess opioid and prescription medications. The announcement is part of the DEA's “National Prescription Drug Take Back Day” initiative on Saturday, April 28, which gives people across the country the opportunity to help address opioid abuse in their communities. Full details on the collection sites in Oregon are included below. "The Drug Enforcement Administration's 'National Prescription Drug Take Back Day' provides a safe, convenient, and responsible way to dispose of excess prescription drugs, while also providing an opportunity to raise awareness of the opioid crisis and to educate our friends, family members, and neighbors about the potential for abuse of medications,” said Walden. “Here in Oregon, more people die from drug overdoses than from car accidents. I hope you’ll join me on this Take Back Day as we work together to make our communities safer.” This initiative comes as Walden recently highlighted more than $6.5 million in grants Oregon will receive to help combat opioid addiction. With Walden’s support, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health voted yesterday to advance 56 bills as part of the committee’s ongoing efforts to combat the opioid crisis. The bills now must be approved by the full Energy and Commerce Committee before being considered by the House of Representatives. Under Walden’s leadership, the House Energy and Commerce Committee has spearheaded a two-track push to combat the opioid crisis, seeking to advance legislation to help stem the tide and investigate some of the root causes of the crisis. Specifically, the committee’s legislative efforts have examined bills to: improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools, advance prevention and public health solutions, and address coverage and payment issues within Medicare and Medicaid. DEA “National Prescription Drug Take Back Day” collection sites in Oregon -- Saturday, April 28 Baker County Where: Baker City Police Department, 1768 Auburn Avenue, Baker City, 97814 When: 10:00am -- 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Baker City Police Department Deschutes County Where: Walgreens, 2727 NE Highway 20, Bend, 97701/Shopko Bend, 60 NE Bend River Mall Drive, Bend, 97701 When: 10:00am -- 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Bend Police Department Where: Redmond Police Department, 777 SW Deschutes Avenue, Redmond, 97756 When: 10:00am -- 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Redmond Police Department Jackson County Where: Eagle Point Police Station, 17 Buchanan Avenue South, Eagle Point, 97524 When: 10:00am -- 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Eagle Point Police Department Josephine County Where: Josephine County Sheriff’s Office, 1901 NE F Street, Grants Pass, 97526 When: 10:00am -- 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Josephine County Sheriff’s Office Klamath County Where: Klamath Falls Police Department, 2501 Shasta Way, Klamath Falls, 97601 When: 10:00am -- 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Klamath Falls Police Department Malheur County Where: Ontario City Hall, 444 SW 4th Street, Ontario 97914 When: 10:00am -- 2:00pm Organizing Participant: Ontario Police Department Umatilla County Where: Hermiston Police Department, 330 South 1st Street, Hermiston, 97838 When: 10:00am -- 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Hermiston Police Department Wasco/Hood River Counties Where: Skyline Hospital, 211 Skyline Drive, White Salmon, WA 98672 When: 10:00am -- 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: White Salmon Police Department
04.26.2018	Greg Walden on opioid crisis: “It is time for us to act” Advances legislation to combat opioid crisis in Oregon and across the country Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – In an important step forward in the fight against the nationwide opioid crisis, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) advanced legislation to combat the crisis during a legislative markup before the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. Walden, who serves as Chairman of the full Energy and Commerce Committee, stressed the need for action to address the public health emergency that is killing more than 100 Americans every day. “It is time for us to act. Not to drag our feet and delay, and wait another day and another 116 people dying,” said Walden. “Today is the day we will move forward. We will do our work.” With Walden’s support, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health voted to advance 56 bills as part of the committee’s ongoing efforts to combat the opioid crisis. The bills now must be approved by the full Energy and Commerce Committee before being considered by the House of Representatives. During the legislative markup, Walden delivered an impassioned call to action for the victims and families of the opioid crisis. Walden held up a picture of Amanda Beatrice Gray, who passed away from overdose in 2018, and whose parents participated in a roundtable discussion Walden held with advocates from across the country in Washington, D.C. last week. Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks “We need to move forward so that there aren’t more victims like Amanda. And the children of the other parents who were here last Thursday who pled with us not to delay, not to wait, but to move forward,” said Walden. Under Walden’s leadership, Energy and Commerce is in the midst of a two-track push to combat the opioid crisis, seeking to advance legislation to help stem the tide and investigate some of the root causes of the crisis. Specifically, the committee’s legislative efforts have examined bills to: improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools, advance prevention and public health solutions, and address coverage and payment issues within Medicare and Medicaid. "I hope our members will walk away from this proceeding and the one that will follow at the full committee knowing we are saving lives. We are keeping our promise to our constituents. We’re going to leave this country in better shape than it is in now,” said Walden. For more information on the legislative markup, including a background memo, electronic copies of the legislation, and archived webcast, please click here. ###
04.25.2018	Bill to Protect Columbia and Snake River Dams Passes House WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, a bipartisan bill to protect the Columbia and Snake River Dams passed the House by a vote of 225 to 189. This effort, introduced by Reps. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), and Kurt Schrader (D-OR), will protect the dams by codifying the 2014 Biological Opinion, a collaborative agreement on how to manage the river system to protect fish and support clean, renewable energy. “In Oregon and throughout the Pacific Northwest, we are blessed with a river system that allows goods to flow to market and provides renewable hydropower that generates 43% of electricity in our state,” said Rep. Walden (R-Hood River). “River operations that have been guided by years of research by federal agencies, tribes and other cooperators have now been threatened by court order, and Northwest families and our communities will likely pay the price in higher power rates. This legislation provides needed certainty for power generation and river operations while federal agencies update the biological opinion and court proceedings continue. This is important for our ag communities, renewable energy generation and power users across our region. I was glad to work with my colleague from Oregon, Kurt Schrader, to pass this legislation through the House, and I hope the Senate will act promptly on this bipartisan plan.” “Dams and fish can coexist, and after more than two decades in the courtroom, let’s let scientists, not judges, manage our river system and get to work to further improve fish recovery efforts,” said McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). “When the sun doesn’t shine and the wind doesn’t blow, our dams provide critical baseload energy to power homes and businesses all across Eastern Washington and the Pacific Northwest. Not only that, they provide transportation and irrigation benefits for our farmers, flood control for our communities, and recreational opportunities that fuel our economy. This isn’t about the merits of protecting salmon, we all agree on that. This is about providing certainty and letting experts and scientists in the region, who know the river best, work collaboratively to meet that goal. I’m proud to usher this legislation through the House.” “I have heard from countless constituents expressing strong support to defend the clean energy and many economic benefits provided by the dams in Central Washington, which is why I introduced this bipartisan legislation with Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Pacific Northwest colleagues,” said Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA). “The current Biological Opinion was negotiated with input from a diverse group of local stakeholders and provides a collaborative framework for dam operations that balances energy production with fish recovery efforts. I strongly encourage my colleagues in the U.S. Senate to act to preserve our dams and maintain low energy rates that families rely on in the Mid-Columbia region. I am grateful for the support from my House colleagues on both sides of the aisle in approving this legislation to save our dams on the lower Snake and Columbia Rivers.” “There’s only one sensible way to balance the health of our salmon runs with residents’ need for low-cost, hydropower energy in the Northwest – and that’s to restore a scientifically-backed operations plan,” said Rep. Herrera Beutler (R-WA). “On behalf of our salmon, our Northwest ratepayers, our economy, and our environment, passing H.R. 3144 is vital to ensure that we’re relying on collaboration and science to best manage our river system.” “Our bill finally codifies that science, not politics or the courts, should dictate the best way to balance fish recovery and the power needs in the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Schrader (D-OR). “Scientific experts steeped in fish recovery and clean renewable energy will be able to do their job based on good science rather than an ideological crusade to eliminate dams on the river system resulting in the loss of our region’s best carbon free energy asset. Simply put, the Columbia River Power System will be managed according to the 2014 Obama Administration approved biological opinion until a new BiOp can be completed by 2022, saving ratepayers millions of dollars. I am pleased to have worked with Rep. McMorris Rodgers, and our Pacific Northwest colleagues, on this bill to bring science back into the equation for our Oregon and Pacific Northwest Salmon recovery efforts.” NOTE: In March of 2017, U.S. District Judge Michael Simon issued a court order requiring federal agencies to increase spill over the Columbia and Snake River dams. This order, which formally began on April 2nd, is expected to cost taxpayers roughly $40 million. Many scientists contend that spill leads to increased dissolved nitrogen and other gases in the water, actually killing fish. Many in opposition to this legislation falsely cite declining salmon returns as the primary reason. In reality, since the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) started tracking fish returns in the 1930’s, fish returns have steadily increased and are at all-time highs currently, largely due to increased collaboration and technology, the kind of collaboration this bipartisan bill will continue. Find more information here. This bipartisan legislation was introduced in June of 2017 by Pacific Northwest Reps.Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (WA-05), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA),and Kurt Schrader (D-OR). Additionally, this legislation has received overwhelming local support with more 20 letters of support from diverse groups and interests including ports, unions, river users, power groups, and other important stakeholders. You can find letters of support here. ###
04.24.2018	Greg Walden announces details for legislative markup of bills to combat opioid crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, announced a legislative markup for tomorrow, April 25, 2018, at 1:00pm ET. The Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health will meet to vote on more than 60 individual bills as part of the committee’s ongoing efforts to combat the opioid crisis. Following tomorrow’s markup, the bills must be approved by the full Energy and Commerce Committee before being considered by the House of Representatives. Walden’s goal is to have legislation to the floor of the House by Memorial Day. Under Walden’s leadership, Energy and Commerce is in the midst of a two-track push to combat the opioid crisis, seeking to advance legislation to help stem the tide and investigate some of the root causes of the crisis. Specifically, the committee’s legislative efforts have examined bills to: improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools, advance prevention and public health solutions, and address coverage and payment issues within Medicare and Medicaid. A background memo, electronic copies of the legislation, and live stream of the markup can be found online here. ###
04.19.2018	Greg Walden holds roundtable discussion to hear personal stories from opioid crisis Grants Pass mother joins advocates from across the country to participate in panel on combating nationwide crisis Rep. Walden listens to testimony from Paula Peterson (on screen) of Grants Pass during a roundtable discussion on the opioid crisis. Click here to view Walden’s opening remarks from today’s roundtable. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to combat the opioid crisis in Oregon and across the country, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today held a roundtable discussion with advocates from across the country who have been personally impacted by the crisis. Walden, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, invited a mother from Grants Pass to participate in the roundtable via video conference and share her story. During the discussion, Walden said these meetings are crucial to putting forth concrete solutions to help stem the tide of the opioid crisis and save lives. "This is probably the most important meeting we’ve held because you all have been there, in the trenches, and have lived this terrible tragedy that has befallen our country. We’ve seen quadrupled opioid deaths since 1999. More people die from opioid overdoses in America than traffic accidents. That is why it is my top priority on this committee and why we are so focused on this,” said Walden to the participants at today’s roundtable. “I had a roundtable -- of many in my district -- and Paula was there with her son and told a very powerful story about what her family is going through right now. Paula thank you for joining us via video conference.” Walden was referencing Paula Peterson, of Grants Pass, who participated in the roundtable via video conference from Walden’s district office in Medford. Paula Peterson is a founding member of the Oregon chapter of Families Anonymous, a nationwide program for friends and family members of those struggling with addiction, and detailed how opioid abuse has personally impacted her family. Click here or on the image above to view Paula Peterson’s testimony during today’s roundtable “I am a middle-class American mom. My husband and I have two sons together, Cole who lives in Eugene and Jacob who lives with us,” began Peterson. “Cole, my oldest, recently spoke with me at a roundtable meeting in Grants Pass, where we met Representative Walden. He gave me permission to share his story. He started using oxycodone occasionally around 15 or 16 years old. It was freely available to him from two or three of his friends whose parents or grandparents had stockpiled unused pain medications. When the formula for oxy got switched so that it couldn’t be crushed to smoke or snort, they looked for other sources. “At that time, he was living in a neighborhood where heroin was plentiful. He was not alone -- almost all of his friends got hooked on heroin. These were, and are, good kids. Two of his close friends are lost to the streets or jail, the others are on Suboxone, including Cole.” Peterson went on to stress the need for Congress to make Suboxone and other medication-assisted treatments more readily available to those struggling with addiction, to remove the stigma of opioid abuse, and to increase research into the root causes of addiction. “We also need to remove the stigma of substance abuse -- we can’t be afraid to ask for help. And more research is needed on the changes that happen to the brain for addicts. I appreciate the work of this committee to make progress on these issues -- we have the potential to make a difference for families like mine, and that is the most important thing.” Today’s roundtable comes as Walden recently highlighted more than $6.5 million in grants Oregon will receive to help combat opioid addiction. Under Walden’s leadership, Energy and Commerce is in the midst of a two-track push to combat the opioid crisis, seeking to advance legislation to help stem the tide and investigate some of the root causes of the crisis. Specifically, the committee’s legislative efforts have examined bills to: improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools, advance prevention and public health solutions, and address coverage and payment issues within Medicare and Medicaid. For more information on today’s roundtable, including a witness list and archived webcast, please click here.
04.19.2018	Greg Walden highlights release of grants to combat the opioid crisis in Oregon Calls combating the opioid crisis his “top priority” during speech on House floor Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the floor of the House of Representatives WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, applauded the announcement of grant funding to tackle opioid addiction in Oregon. As part of the 21st Century Cures Act, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced the second round of grants to help states and territories combat the opioid epidemic. Oregon will receive $6,564,425 in grants that will be administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), and be used toward the prevention of opioid abuse and treatment to those affected. Oregon received $6.5 million in the first round of grants that were announced in April 2017. “These are vital and welcome resources in the fight to combat the opioid crisis. As we continue to hear of loved ones lost, this is another tool in our arsenal,” said Walden. “While this Congress has made available a record amount of financial resources to help stem the tide, it is imperative these critical dollars are being best used in the communities hardest hit. Part of our ongoing legislative efforts will make it easier to track these important resources and ensure they are effectively deployed.” During a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives Wednesday, Walden called combating the opioid crisis in Oregon and across the country his top priority as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Walden has held roundtable discussions and meetings throughout Oregon’s Second Congressional District to understand what is working -- and what is not working -- in the fight against the opioid crisis on the ground in Oregon. “At roundtables throughout my district in Oregon, I’ve met with the victims, families, doctors, treatment advocates, and law enforcement officers on the front lines of this fight,” said Walden during his speech. “Their stories are all too similar, and all too familiar, and they put names and faces to a crisis that has touched every community in our country.” The Energy and Commerce Committee has led the charge in responding to the epidemic. In addition to the state grants within the 21st Century Cures Act, committee investigations also led to legislative solutions that ultimately were included in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) last Congress. Last month, President Trump signed into law a government funding bill that provided $4 billion to help address prevention, treatment, and enforcement issues, as part of the opioid epidemic. Under Walden’s leadership, Energy and Commerce is in the midst of a two-track push to combat the opioid crisis, seeking to advance legislation to help stem the tide and investigate some of the root causes of the crisis. Specifically, the committee’s legislative efforts have examined bills to: improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools, advance prevention and public health solutions, and address coverage and payment issues within Medicare and Medicaid. To learn more about Walden’s efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click HERE. ###
04.18.2018	Greg Walden announces roundtable discussion sharing personal stories from opioid crisis Walden invites Grants Pass mother to participate in discussion with advocates from across the country WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, announced a roundtable discussion for tomorrow, April 19, 2018, at 10:30 a.m. ET in Washington, D.C. The roundtable discussion is entitled, “Personal Stories from the Opioid Crisis,” and will feature participants from across the country who have been personally impacted by the opioid crisis. Walden invited a mother from Grants Pass, who has two sons that have suffered from addiction, to participate in the roundtable via video conference. The roundtable will follow three legislative hearings to examine the opioid crisis and possible legislative solutions. In February, the Energy and Commerce Committee reviewed eight bills pertaining to the Controlled Substances Act that will improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools. In March, Walden held a two-day hearing examining 25 prevention and public health solutions (read a recap of day one here and a recap of day two here). Last week, the Energy and Commerce Committee held its final legislative hearing and reviewed coverage and payment issues within Medicare and Medicaid. The roundtable discussion will feature a first-hand look at many issues within the opioid crisis, including the rise of fentanyl and other synthetic drugs, and patient brokering. Both issues have been the subject of hearings and investigations by Rep. Walden and his Committee. Confirmed participants include: Paula Peterson, of Grants Pass, Oregon, whose two sons have both suffered from addiction. Kathy O’Keefe, Executive Director, Winning the Fight, whose son Brett, passed away from a heroin overdose in 2010. Gary Mendell, Founder, Chairman and CEO of Shatterproof, who lost his son Brian in 2011 to suicide after 13 months substance-free. Mary Winnefeld, Stop the Addiction Fatality Epidemic (S.A.F.E. Project US), mother of Jonathan, who just passed away in 2017 from a fentanyl-laden batch of heroin just days after he started college. Devon Hott, Director of Operations, Recovery Care Partner, and who has been in recovery for more than three years. Aimee Manzoni D’Arpino, Massachusetts State Chair, Addiction Policy Forum, who lost her son Emmett to substance use disorder in 2016. Michael Gray, father of Amanda, who suffered from acute mental illness and passed away after a fentanyl overdose in 2018. Lisa Daniels, mother of Jamie, who fell victim to the nefarious practice of patient brokering and passed away in 2016 from a fentanyl-laced heroin overdose. Gail Smith, Prevention Plus of Burlington County and the Kenny Smith Freedom Foundation, who lost her son Kenny to overdose after he was exploited by a fraudulent recovery residence. More information, including a list of participants and prepared remarks for the roundtable will be available here as they are posted. ###
04.12.2018	Greg Walden secures commitment from DOE Secretary to not privatize BPA Raises concerns over Administration’s proposal, asks Secretary Perry to “leave Bonneville alone” without explicit Congressional authorization Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s questions from today’s hearing with Energy Secretary Rick Perry WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today secured a commitment from Energy Secretary Rick Perry to not sell off assets of the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) without Congressional authorization. During a hearing at the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden said the Administration’s proposal would have a negative impact on Oregonians and consumers throughout the Pacific Northwest. “Mr. Perry I want to start by talking about Bonneville Power Administration. I appreciate your most recent comments about respecting the will of the authorizers, which is what we are. Along those lines, this idea of selling off electric transmission assets and abandoning cost-based rates has been roundly rejected by virtually every member of the Pacific Northwest Congressional delegation,” said Walden. “It is the one idea -- bad idea -- that unites all of us in the Northwest. I’m afraid this move could do nothing but harm my constituents, drive up electricity costs, and hurt consumers across the region.” Along with bipartisan members of Congress from the Pacific Northwest, Walden has repeatedly raised his concerns over the proposal to privatize BPA. Walden signed a letter to Secretary Perry and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney in opposition to a proposal in the President’s budget to sell off BPA assets. During today’s hearing, Walden asked for Secretary Perry’s commitment that the DOE would not move forward with this proposal without first being approved by Congress. "Can you assure me the DOE will leave Bonneville alone unless Congress provides explicit authorization?” asked Walden. Energy Secretary Perry answered simply, “yes, sir.” During the hearing, Walden also stressed the importance of the DOE’s continued efforts to cleanup the Hanford Site, which has been a priority of Rep. Walden’s as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. Walden toured the Hanford Site in August of 2017 with Secretary Perry. “I’m pleased to see that the budget also includes funding to fulfill DOE’s legacy cleanup responsibilities, including the Hanford Site, which is located just across the Columbia River from my constituents. The secretary and I toured Hanford together last year,” said Walden. “The cleanup work at Hanford requires deliberate oversight by DOE and we will continue to monitor the projects, particularly when involving worker safety. While many technical and logistical challenges remain, we’re beginning to see some progress and I trust that Secretary Perry’s renewed focus on Hanford will accelerate these results. I’m pleased the budget includes funding to restart the Yucca Mountain project, so the waste currently sitting at Hanford, and around the country, will be permanently disposed.” This hearing comes as Walden continues to lead the effort to clean up spent nuclear fuel that is sitting idle in 121 communities across 39 states throughout the country, including at the Hanford Site. Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee passed the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act (H.R. 3053), by a vote of 49-4 in June of 2017. This legislation provides practical reforms to the nation’s nuclear waste management policy, and reinstates Yucca Mountain as the cornerstone of the country’s nuclear waste disposal. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and full webcast, please click HERE. ###
04.12.2018	Greg Walden on combating opioid crisis: “We must continue to push forward” Leads third legislative hearing to address nationwide crisis Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today led a hearing entitled, “Combating the Opioid Crisis: Improving the Ability of Medicare and Medicaid to Provide Care For Patients.” This marked the third of three legislative hearings to examine the opioid crisis and possible legislative solutions. During the hearing, Walden stressed the importance of pushing forward in the fight against the opioid crisis in Oregon and across the country. “At roundtables throughout Oregon, most recently in Pendleton and Madras, I’ve met with the people on the frontlines of this fight and with those who have lost a friend or loved one to this epidemic,” said Walden. “These meetings are crucial to our efforts to put forth concrete solutions to stem the tide and save lives. With more than 100 Americans estimated to die each day from opioid overdoses, we simply must do more.” In February, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health reviewed eight bills pertaining to the Controlled Substances Act that will improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools. In March, Walden held a rare two-day hearing examining 25 prevention and public health solutions (read a recap of day one here and a recap of day two here). As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of the response to the nationwide opioid crisis. Rep. Walden intends to bring a legislative package to the floor of the House of Representative by Memorial Day to combat the opioid crisis from all angles. “We must continue to push forward, and I would respectfully ask everyone involved -- stakeholders and members alike -- to push beyond their comfort zones and think creatively and boldly about how we can help. The status quo is not acceptable. The unprecedented scope of the opioid crisis requires an unprecedented response,” said Walden. For a live stream, background memo, and witness list for this hearing, please click here. Bills the Energy and Commerce Committee will consider include: NOTE: Some bills have not yet received formal titles and instead are denoted by working descriptions. Medicaid H.R. __, Provide IMD Services Up to 90 Days for Medicaid Beneficiaries with SUD, will allow states to receive federal Medicaid matching dollars for up to a total of 90 days per year for services in an IMD for Medicaid beneficiaries with a substance use disorder. Beneficiaries would need to be assessed after the first 30 days to determine if continued care (up to 60 more days) is medically necessary. H.R. __, the Medicaid Pharmacy Home Act, will require all states to have a lock-in program that identifies at-risk Medicaid beneficiaries and assigns them to a pharmacy home program that sets reasonable limits on the number of prescribers and dispensers they may utilize, whether under a fee-for-service or managed care arrangement. H.R. __, the Medicaid Drug Review, Utilization, Good governance (DRUG) Improvement Act, will require all state Medicaid programs to use common sense drug utilization review activities to help combat the opioid crisis. States will be required to have state-determined limitations in place for opioid refills, monitor concurrent prescribing of opioids and other drugs (such as benzodiazepines and antipsychotics), monitor antipsychotic prescribing for children, and have at least one buprenorphine/naloxone combination drug on the Medicaid drug formulary. H.R. __, the Medicaid Providers And pharmacists Required To Note Experiences in Record Systems to Help In-need Patients (PARTNERSHIP) Act, will require the Medicaid program in each state to integrate prescription drug monitoring program (PDMP) usage into Medicaid providers’ and pharmacists’ clinical workflow. This bill also establishes basic standard criteria (based on industry best practices) that a PDMP must meet to be counted as a qualified PDMP. The bill would require states to report to CMS on how their PDMPs are working and the number of covered providers who are using the PDMPs, as well statewide trends in controlled substance utilization. H.R. __, Medicaid Incentives for Health Homes to Treat Substance Use Disorder, will amend Section 1945 of Title XIX to incentivize states to create health homes for Medicaid beneficiaries with substance use disorder. This bill extends the enhanced match from 8 quarters to 12 quarters so long as states meet quality, cost, and access targets. H.R. __, the Medicaid Institutes for Mental Disease Are Decisive in Delivering Inpatient Treatment for Individuals but Opportunities for Needed Access are Limited without Information Needed about Facility Obligations Act (The Medicaid IMD ADDITIONAL INFO Act), will direct the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC) to conduct a study on IMDs. The study will report on the requirements, standards, and oversight that state Medicaid programs have for IMDs. MACPAC, considering input from stakeholders, will summarize the findings and make recommendations on improvements and best practices by January 2020. H.R. __, the Improving Medicaid Data Timeliness Act, will reduce the filing window for Medicaid claims from two years to one year. Currently, under a provision of law added in 1980, it is possible to submit claims for up to two years after the date of service. However, medical billing technologies and practices have been dramatically modernized in the last three decades. Today, 99 percent of claims are submitted within one year. This straightforward change will help give the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Congress, and others more timely, accurate, and complete expenditure data on all categories of Medicaid spending, including Medicaid drug spending. With Medicaid as one of the nation’s largest payers of behavioral health services and substance use disorder treatment, more timely and complete information will improve the ability of Congress to properly oversee the Medicaid program and help individuals the program serves. H.R. __, the Improving the Transparency for Graduate Medical Education Funded by Medicaid Act, will improve transparency in the Graduate Medical Education (GME) program by requiring state Medicaid programs to periodically report to CMS data and information on how GME funds are being used to support physician training. Additionally, the state Medicaid program is required to report specific information on how physicians are trained in specialties that are essential in the opioid crisis (i.e., psychiatry, addiction medicine, etc.) and how GME recipients are using Medicaid funds to train physicians on substance use disorder. H.R. __, the Medicaid Helping Unite Managers who have Abilities with Novel Chances to Activate the Possibilities of Innovation, Transformation, And Leadership (HUMAN CAPITAL), will provide enhanced federal medical assistance percentage to use toward hiring and retaining senior leadership for Medicaid programs who meet certain quantifiable professional standards. This policy change improves the ability of state Medicaid programs to recruit and retain high caliber private sector talent to manage state Medicaid programs, and will help reduce the short duration of most Medicaid directors (which averages about 18 months). The enhanced funding will sunset in 2026. H.R. ___, Require HHS to act within a certain timeframe in implementing GAO’s recommendation for HHS to execute a strategy related to infants with neonatal abstinence syndrome. This bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services to establish a strategy to implement the recommendations in a recent Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) report that will enhance the treatment and care of newborns suffering from Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome. The strategy must include a timeline for the implementation, how the Department plans to disseminate best practices to state health agencies, and any additional statutory authorities the Department needs to complete this strategy. H.R. 3192, the CHIP Mental Health Parity Act, authored by Rep. Joseph Kennedy, III (D-MA). The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) provides health coverage to eligible children, through both Medicaid and separate CHIP programs. H.R. 3192 will require all CHIP plans to cover treatment of mental illness and substance use disorders. H.R. 4998, the Health Insurance for Former Foster Youth Act, authored by Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA). Under current law, foster youth who are enrolled in Medicaid before they turn 18 may stay in Medicaid until the age of 26. However, such foster youth lost Medicaid coverage if they move out of their state. This bill will amend current law to allow such foster youth to continue to receive Medicaid benefits even if they move to another state. H.R. __, Creation of a demonstration project for five years for up to 10 states that have committed to Medicaid delivery system advancements through substance use disorder demonstration waivers. This measure would allow certain states to receive an enhanced match for training and technical assistance and other incentive activities to enroll new providers treating substance use disorder in Medicaid or expand existing substance use disorder provider capacity. H.R. __, Require state Medicaid programs to report on the 10 behavioral health measures that are included in CMS’ 2018 Core Set of Adult Health Care Quality Measures for Medicaid. A more complete view of behavioral health quality of care will inform Congress, CMS, and stakeholders on how to target improvement moving forward. H.R. 4005, the Medicaid Reentry Act, authored by Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY), will amend title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to allow state Medicaid programs to receive federal matching dollars for medical services furnished to an incarcerated individual during the 30-day period preceding the individual's release. H.R. __, Allow women who are pregnant and enrolled in Medicaid or who are and post-partum mothers of newborns and enrolled in Medicaid to continue to receive Medicaid benefits when in an IMD (up to first 12 months after delivery). H.R. 1925, the At-Risk Youth Medicaid Protection Act, authored by Rep. Tony Cardenas (D-CA), will prohibit state Medicaid programs from terminating a juvenile's medical assistance eligibility because the juvenile is incarcerated. A state may suspend coverage while the juvenile is an inmate, but must restore coverage upon release without requiring a new application unless the individual no longer meets the eligibility requirements for medical assistance. A state must process an application submitted by, or on behalf of, an incarcerated juvenile, notwithstanding that the juvenile is an inmate. Medicare Part B H.R. 3331, to amend title XI of the Social Security Act to promote testing of incentive payments for behavioral health providers for adoption and use of certified electronic health record technology, authored by Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS). H.R. __, Incentivizing Non-Opioid Drugs, will create a temporary pass through payment to encourage the development of non-opioid drugs for post-surgical pain management in Medicare. H.R. __, CMS Action Plan, will call for the establishment of an Action Plan including studies, reports to Congress, and meetings with stakeholders for the purpose of addressing the opioid crisis. H.R. __, Use of Telehealth to Treat Opioid Use Disorder, will instruct CMS to evaluate the utilization of telehealth services in treating opioid use disorder. H.R. __, Alternative Payment Model for Treating Substance Use Disorder, will create demonstration project for an Alternative Payment Model for treating substance use disorder. This model includes the development of measures to evaluate the quality and outcomes of treatment. H.R. __, Initial Pain Assessment, will add a pain assessment as part of the Welcome to Medicare initial examination and provide intervention about non-opioid alternatives, as appropriate. H.R. __, Adding Resources on Non-Opioid Alternatives to the Medicare Handbook, will direct CMS to compile education resources for beneficiaries regarding opioid use, pain management, and alternative pain management treatments, and include these resources in the “Medicare and You” Handbook. H.R. __, Post-Surgical Injections as an Opioid Alternative, will seek to incentivize post-surgical injections as a pain treatment alternative to opioids by reversing a reimbursement cut for these treatments. Medicare Part D H.R. 3528, the Every Prescription Conveyed Securely Act, authored by Reps. Katherine Clark (D-MA) and Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), will require e-prescribing, with exceptions, for coverage of prescription drugs that are controlled substances under the Medicare Part D program. H.R. __, Mandatory Lock-In, will build off of work done in the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA), and require prescription drug plan sponsors under the Medicare program establish drug management programs for at-risk beneficiaries. H.R. 4841, the Standardizing Electronic Prior Authorization for Safe Prescribing Act, authored by Rep. David Schweikert (R-AZ), seeks to standardize electronic prior authorization under Medicare Part D. H.R. __, Beneficiary Education, will require prescription drug plans under Medicare Part D to include information on the adverse effects of opioid overutilization and of coverage of non-pharmacological therapies and non-opioid medications or devices used to treat pain. H.R. __, Evaluating Abuse Deterrent Formulations, will direct CMS to evaluate the use of abuse-deterrent opioids in Medicare plans. H.R. __, Prescriber Notification, will require CMS to, in consultation with stakeholders, establish a threshold, based on specialty and geographic area, for which a prescriber would be considered an outlier opioid prescriber. CMS would then be responsible for notifying prescribers identified as outliers of their status. H.R. __, Prescriber Education, will direct CMS to work with Quality Improvement Organizations to engage in outreach with prescribers identified as clinical outliers to share best practices. H.R. __, Medication Therapy Management (MTM) Expansion, will add beneficiaries at-risk for prescription drug abuse to the list of targeted beneficiaries to be eligible for MTM under Part D. H.R. __, CMS/Plan Sharing, will help facilitate communication between MA organizations, Part D plan sponsors, and CMS relating to substantiated fraud, waste, and abuse investigations. ###
04.12.2018	Greg Walden presses Facebook CEO on personal data protection online Leads Congressional hearing to seek answers on Facebook’s privacy policies and use of consumer data Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to improve personal privacy in the digital age, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today led a hearing to examine Facebook’s policies for protecting the personal information of its users. Walden, who serves as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, pressed Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg for answers about the social media giant’s use of consumer data. "The American people are concerned about how Facebook protects and profits from its users’ data. In short, does Facebook keep its end of the agreement with its users?,” said Walden. “People are willing to share quite a bit about their lives online based on the belief that they can easily navigate and control privacy settings and trust that their personal information is in good hands. If a company fails to keep its promises about how personal data are being used, that breach of trust must have consequences.” Click here or on the image above to view Walden's questions during the hearing During the hearing, Walden questioned Mr. Zuckerberg about how clearly the company describes its operations to its users, and whether or not the public has a full understanding of how Facebook uses their personal information. “You have recently said that you and Facebook have not done a good job of explaining what Facebook does,” said Walden. “Back in 2012 and 2013 when a lot of this scraping of user and friend data was happening, did it ever cross your mind that you should be communicating more clearly with users about how Facebook is monetizing their data? I understand that Facebook does not sell user data per se, but it is also just as true that Facebook’s user data is probably the most valuable thing about Facebook. In fact, it may be the only truly valuable thing about Facebook. Why wasn’t explaining what Facebook does with users’ data a higher priority for you as a co-founder and now as CEO?” Zuckerberg said that while there is a certain amount of control users have over how their information is shared on Facebook, there is not a broad understanding of how consumer data are shared with advertisers. “I do think that we can do a better job of explaining how advertising works,” said Zuckerberg. “There is a common misperception, as you say, that keeps on being reported, that for some reason we sell data. I can’t be clearer on this topic: we don’t sell data. That’s not how advertising works, and I do think that we could probably be doing a clearer job of explaining that given the misperceptions that are out there.” Walden concluded by raising the question of whether Congressional action is needed to help improve the protection of consumers’ data on platforms like Facebook. "Given the situation, can you manage the issues that are before you? Or does Congress need to intercede?”, asked Walden. The hearing Walden led today marked Mr. Zuckerberg’s first appearance as Facebook CEO before a Congressional committee in the House of Representatives. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, please click here. ###
04.04.2018	Greg Walden Announces Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg Will Testify April 11th WASHINGTON, D.C. -- House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) released the following statement after confirming that Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before the committee on Wednesday, April 11th, at 10:00 a.m. regarding the company’s use and protection of user data. “This hearing will be an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues and help all Americans better understand what happens to their personal information online. We appreciate Mr. Zuckerberg’s willingness to testify before the committee, and we look forward to him answering our questions on April 11th," said Walden and Pallone. More details on the hearing will be posted here as they are available. ###
03.23.2018	Greg Walden supports legislation to increase school safety Highlights action taken to improve mental health care and strengthen school security WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement in regards to legislation to increase school safety and improve the nation’s mental health care system: “No child should feel unsafe in their school. We have to take steps to get at the root causes of acts of violence in our schools. That is why I voted for the landmark 21st Century Cures Act to make significant reforms to our mental health care system and make sure tools are available to get care to children who need it at school and in our communities. We also need to fill the gaps in our federal background check system that allows people with mental health disorders, criminal records, and violent pasts to purchase firearms. Twice in the last year, I have supported legislation that is now law to make sure the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) program actually works and keeps firearms away from truly dangerous people.” Walden has a strong record of supporting commonsense legislation to address the root causes of gun violence in Oregon and throughout the country. As a representative in the Oregon Legislature in 1989, Walden voted in favor of Oregon House Bill 3470, which regulated the sale of handguns to keep them out of the hands of those who should not have access. Given that approximately 80% of students who commit a violent act tell someone beforehand, it is important that students and schools have a mechanism in place to improve reporting, so these issues can be addressed before violence occurs. Last week, Walden supported the STOP School Violence Act, which provides tools for schools to develop reporting systems, and also crisis intervention teams to help respond to warning signs of violence. This legislation recently passed into law. Additionally, Walden helped pass the landmark 21st Century Cures Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in 2016. The mental health reforms included in the 21st Century Cures Act represented the most significant reforms to the mental health system in more than a decade. From improving mental health care for children with serious emotional disturbance, to strengthening community crisis response systems, to developing school-based mental health crisis intervention teams including specialized training for school officials, to active shooter training programs for law enforcement, the 21st Century Cures Act made significant strides in this area and many of these programs are just now coming online. Below are summaries of the sections of the 21st Century Cures Act most relevant to current discussions around mental health: Active-shooter training for law enforcement (Sec. 14011) • Permanently authorizes the existing Department of Justice VALOR Initiative, which provides crisis response training and active-shooter training for federal, state, and local law enforcement officials. • FY2018 Funding: $10,000,000 (included within Sec. 14001 program funding) Develop and operate mental health crisis intervention teams (Sec. 14010) • Amends the Department of Justice program to allow state and local governments to use existing grant funds to develop and operate school-based mental health crisis intervention teams that include coordination with law enforcement agencies and specialized training for school officials. • FY2018 Funding: $75,000,000 to the STOP School Violence Act (previously the Secure our Schools program) Providing support and recovery care for children recovering from trauma (Sec. 10004) • Reauthorizes the National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative (NCTSI), which supports a national network of child trauma centers, including university, hospital, and community-based centers and affiliate members. • Supports the coordinating center’s collection, analysis, and reporting of child outcome and other data to inform evidence-based treatments and services. Also supports the continuum of training initiatives related to such evidence-based treatments, interventions, and practices offered to providers. • Reauthorizes appropriations at the last appropriated level of $46.9 million for each of fiscal years 2018-2022. • FY2018 Funding: $53,887,000 Provide specialized programs for children with serious emotional disturbances (SED) (Sec. 10001) • Reauthorizes and updates programs to provide comprehensive community mental health services to children with SED. • Reauthorizes appropriations at the last appropriated level of $119,026,000 for fiscal years 2018-2022. • FY2018 Funding: $125,000,000 Divert those with mental illnesses to community-based services (Sec. 9002) • Reauthorizes and makes technical updates to develop and implement programs to divert individuals with a mental illness from the criminal justice system to community-based services. • Reauthorizes appropriations at the last appropriated level of $4,269,000 for each of fiscal years 2018-2022. • FY2018 Funding: $4,269,000 Enable law enforcement to use grants for mental health programs (Sec. 14001) • Amends the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program to allow law enforcement to use funds for the creation of mental health response and corrections programs, including police crisis intervention teams. Also allows state and local governments to use Byrne JAG funds in order to comply with current laws requiring the upload of certain mental health records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). • Amends the Community Oriented Policing Services Grant Program (COPS) to allow law enforcement to use funds for specialized mental health response training, including crisis de-escalation. • Amends the Fire Prevention and Control Act to allow existing grant funds to be used for training first responders and paramedics on best practices for responding to mental health emergencies, including crisis de-escalation. • FY2018 Funding: $416,000,000 Increase access to Assisted Outpatient Treatment Programs (Sec. 14002) • Allows federal mental health court grant funds to be used for the creation of court-ordered outpatient treatment programs to prevent the escalation of mental health crises. • FY2018 Funding: $15,000,000 Boost resources for mentally ill individuals in the judicial system (Sec. 14004)* • Amends the America’s Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project Act to allow state and local governments to use funds for the creation and deployment of behavioral health risk and needs assessments for mentally ill individuals in the criminal justice system. Allow state and local governments to use grants for treatment initiatives pertaining to the criminal justice system (Sec. 14005)* • Amends the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction (MIOTCRA) to allow state and local governments to use existing authorized grant funds for the operation of Forensic Assertive Community Treatment (FACT) Initiatives. FACT Initiatives provide high-intensity community-based services for individuals with mental illness who are involved in the criminal justice system. Create the National Criminal Justice and Mental Health Training Center (Sec. 14014)* • Amends MIOTCRA to allow the Attorney General to use existing authorized funds to award grants to non-profit organizations for the creation of a National Criminal Justice and Mental Health Training Center. This entity would coordinate best practices on responding to mental illness in the criminal justice system, and would provide technical assistance to governmental agencies who wish to implement these best practices. Improve existing DoJ data on mental illness involved in crime (Sec. 14015)* • Requires the Attorney General to collect and disseminate data regarding the involvement of mental illness in all homicides, as well as deaths or serious bodily injuries involving law enforcement officers. Expanded training for law enforcement (Sec. 14024)* • Authorizes resources for expanded training activities, providing more officers with a basic understanding of the issues involved when responding situations with individuals with mental health crises. Creation of additional training for federal law enforcement (Sec. 14025)* • Requires the Attorney General to create programs that offer federal first responders and tactical units comprehensive training in procedures to identify and respond appropriately to incidents involving mentally ill individuals. *The FY2018 Consolidated Appropriations Bill included an additional $30,000,000 for mental health programs without further specificity, from which these programs could receive funding. Strengthen community response systems (Sec. 9007) • Authorizes the Secretary to award grants to state and local governments, Indian tribes, and tribal organizations to strengthen community-based crisis response systems or to develop, maintain, or enhance a database of beds at inpatient psychiatric facilities, crisis stabilization units, and residential community mental health and residential substance use disorder treatment facilities. • Authorizes the appropriation of $12.5 million for the period of fiscal years 2018-2022. Expand the National Violent Death Reporting System (Sec. 9013) • Encourages the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to improve, particularly through the inclusion of other states, the existing National Violent Death Reporting System. • The reporting system was created in 2002 and currently collects surveillance data from 32 states. ###
03.23.2018	Greg Walden secures key priorities for Oregon Supports House passage of government funding measure WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement after the House passed a government funding measure that included key priorities for Oregon: “The measure passed today includes several provisions that address key priorities for our state. To improve forest health and prevent catastrophic wildfires in Oregon, I worked hard to ensure this plan makes important reforms to federal forest policy, improves the way we pay to fight wildfires, and also provides two years of Secure Rural Schools funding to support essential county services in Oregon. We also take action to give immediate drought relief for irrigators in the Klamath Basin to ensure our farmers can survive this challenging water year, which has been a priority of myself and my Oregon colleagues, as well as the Administration. “To address the opioid crisis in Oregon and across the country, we are putting forward unprecedented resources to combat this nationwide scourge. We are also dedicating more resources to improving mental health care services in our communities. “I’m also incredibly proud to see inclusion of the RAY BAUM’S Act, legislation named after my dear friend and La Grande native that reauthorizes the FCC for the first time in 28 years and will speed deployment of next generation broadband across the country, which is particularly important for rural communities in Oregon. “The Brownfields program, which is being used successfully in Oregon to redevelop old industrial sites and put them back into active use, is fully reauthorized under our plan. This will help create jobs, grow our local economies, and make our communities cleaner and more prosperous “Most importantly, this plan provides our military with the critical resources our men and women in uniform need to keep us safe, and helps ensure our veterans are receiving the care and support they deserve at VA facilities across the country. This agreement marks an important step forward on critical issues for Oregon and America, and I urge the Senate to quickly send this bill to the President’s desk.” Forest Management Reform Provides the Forest Service with additional tools to streamline the planning process and conduct projects to improve forest resiliency to wildfire and protect communities. Fixes how the federal government pays for wildfire, ensuring that the Forest Service does not rob from fire prevention and forest management accounts to pay to fight fire. Klamath Basin Drought Relief Provides drought relief funding for Klamath Basin irrigators and gives the Bureau of Reclamation additional authorities to implement procedures to minimize the impact of this drought year. Combating the Opioid Crisis: To boost our response to the opioid crisis, the bill provides $4 billion, the largest investment to date, to help address prevention, treatment, and enforcement issues. $130 million for the Rural Communities Opioid Response program, striving to reach rural communities that have been hit especially hard by the opioid crisis. $1 billion in new grants to be dispatched to the states and Indian tribes. Funding Critical Mental Health Programs: The bill appropriates more than $2.3 billion in new funding for mental health programs and other training. Nearly 30 sections of mental health provisions within the landmark 21st Century Cures Act will receive funding, including the Mental Health Block Grant seeing a $160 million increase. Other items include: the National Traumatic Stress Network, the National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative, Mental and Behavioral Health Training Grants, Assisted Outpatient Treatment, and the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. RAY BAUM’S Act: Reauthorizes the FCC and includes reforms to ensure the commission continues to improve its efficiency and transparency. Boosts development of next-generation wireless broadband known as 5G by identifying spectrum for private sector use and cutting red tape associated with building wireless networks. Helps TV broadcasters and rural translator districts relocate channels following the successful mobile broadband spectrum auction. Helps the FCC and law enforcement protect consumers from fraudulent telephone calls, and to educate Americans about their options to stop these illegal calls. Brownfields Reauthorization: Brownfields sites are often abandoned, closed or under-utilized industrial or commercial facilities such as an abandoned factory, a closed commercial building or warehouse, or a former dry-cleaning establishment or gas station. EPA estimates that more than 450,000 brownfields exist across the United States, each of which has the capability to be remediated through the Brownfields Program which in turn will encourage economic development in the local community. Over 129,000 jobs have been leveraged because of the Brownfields Program and almost 70,000 acres have been made ready for reuse. Oregon has been particularly successful using the Brownfields Program to put old industrial sites back in to productive service, such as the Old Mill District in Bend -- one of Oregon’s most successful Brownfields projects. Walden led the House passage of the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment, and Reauthorization Act by a 409-8 vote in November. ###
03.21.2018	Greg Walden secures emergency relief for Klamath Basin irrigators in government funding measure WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement after securing emergency relief for Klamath Basin irrigators in the government funding measure released today: "This plan will provide immediate drought relief for irrigators in the Klamath Basin, helping our farmers survive this challenging water year. I have been working with my Oregon colleagues in the Senate, as well as the Trump Administration, to secure this vital funding and ensure it will be available to help with groundwater pumping and other priorities for water users in the Basin. This addition to funding will ensure the Bureau of Reclamation has the ability to implement these measures as they navigate the current water year. While this short term help is important and needed, we still need a long term solution that provides certainty for farmers, ranchers, tribes and fish in the Basin. I look forward to continue working with the local community, my Oregon colleagues in Congress, and the Administration to accomplish that.” ###
03.21.2018	Greg Walden secures forest management reform, resources for Oregon counties in government funding measure WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement after securing forest management reform and resources for Oregon’s rural counties in the government funding measure released today: “This legislation marks significant progress to improve forest health, reform the way we pay to fight wildfires, and provide two years of Secure Rural Schools funding for essential county services that our communities in Oregon rely on every day. I worked hard to ensure this plan provides additional tools for better forest management to prevent catastrophic wildfires that choke our skies with smoke and threaten our communities year after year. This builds off of the reforms included in the landmark Healthy Forests Restoration Act, which I was proud to help pass through Congress and see signed into law to reduce the fuel loads that build up in our forests and create a tinderbox waiting to ignite. “Importantly, this legislation fixes the way we pay to fight wildfires. Rather than requiring the Forest Service and BLM to rob the accounts used for forest management and fire prevention, we provide funds that will be used specifically for fire fighting. This will help end the vicious cycle of depleting resources for fire prevention to pay for fire suppression, which increases the risk of catastrophic wildfires year after year. “We also provide funding for essential local services like schools, roads, and law enforcement in Oregon’s rural forested communities, which continues to be a priority of mine in Congress. “While there is much more work to be done, this marks an important step forward on key solutions to reform federal forest policy, improve forest health, and support Oregon’s rural communities. I look forward to continue working alongside my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to further achieve that goal." Crook County Judge Seth Crawford said, “These funds are vital to ensuring we have the resources for essential public safety services, roads and schools in our community. We greatly appreciate Congressman Walden’s efforts to get these needed funds included in this legislation.” Hood River County Sheriff Matt English said, "This bill includes a fix that has positive and immediate public safety implications, amending current restrictive Forest Service policy regarding SRS Search and Rescue funds. Currently, sheriffs can only utilize these funds during an active search and rescue event. This bill will now allow for the funds to be expended for training and acquisition of search and rescue equipment before these events occur. It is imperative that our responders are properly equipped and trained when they respond in the field. The expectation that we could obtain needed equipment in the middle of the night, when a call comes in, wasn’t realistic. This fix will end an issue that sheriffs have worked on passionately for over five years. I know I speak for not only myself and Hood River County but all sheriffs in the Western United States affected by this positive change, in thanking Congressman Walden for working with us to make these much needed changes reality." Wallowa County Commissioner Todd Nash said, "This legislation will provide critical funds for our roads, schools and local law enforcement. Congressman Walden worked closely with us to move forward this important safety net, provide some fixes to forest management and how we pay for fire. This bill will be most helpful as we continue to provide important services to our community." Klamath County Commissioner Derrick DeGroot said, "These resources are key to supporting fundamental services our rural county depends upon. Two years of SRS funding will go a long way to help us maintain our roads, bridges, as well as public safety services, all of which have been hurt from a lack of timber receipts. We appreciate Congressman Walden’s efforts for our community to secure these vital funds, along with needed changes to forest management and the fire borrowing problem." ###
03.21.2018	Greg Walden reviews prevention and public health solutions to combat the opioid crisis Energy and Commerce Committee finished day one of two-day legislative hearing Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today held part one of a two-day hearing examining 25 bipartisan prevention and public health solutions to help combat the opioid crisis. “The unprecedented plague of opioid addiction and substance use disorder in our country requires an unprecedented response,” said Walden. “This epidemic knows no geographic, political, or socio-economic bounds. I’ve held roundtables in my district in Oregon, in places like Hermiston, Grants Pass, and Medford -- when you talk to providers, addicts, and their families, you can feel the sting of this crisis in the community.” Walden heard from two panels of witnesses today -- one composed of federal officials and a second panel tailored to bills under the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) jurisdiction and other research, development, and prevention initiatives. Among the 25 bills, Walden’s Committee focused on the following bills today: NOTE: Some bills have not received formal titles and instead are denoted by working descriptions. H.R. 4284, Indexing Narcotics, Fentanyl, and Opioids (INFO) Act (AINS), authored by Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH), will direct HHS to create a public and easily accessible electronic dashboard linking to all of the nationwide efforts and strategies to combat the opioid crisis, and provide states and localities a centralized access point on available funding resources. H.R. 5002, the Advancing Cutting Edge (ACE) Research Act, authored by Reps. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Fred Upton (R-MI), will provide the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research and spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. H.R. __, FDA Accelerated Approval & Breakthrough Therapy Status, will take steps to make FDA pathways like the accelerated approval program available to take on the opioid crisis, leading to quicker access to novel, new treatments to treat pain and addiction. H.R. __, FDA Accelerated Approval & Breakthrough Therapy Status, will take steps to make FDA pathways like the accelerated approval program available to take on the opioid crisis, leading to quicker access to novel, new treatments to treat pain and addiction. H.R. __, FDA Packaging and Disposal, authored by Reps. Richard Hudson (R-NC) and G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), will direct FDA to work with manufacturers to establish programs for efficient return or destruction of unused Schedule II drugs, with an emphasis on opioids. These methods could include mail-back pouches to secure facilities for incineration, or methods to immediately inactivate/render unattractive unused drugs. In addition, this bill will facilitate utilization of packaging that may reduce overprescribing of opioids. Finally, this bill will require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study new and innovative technologies that claim to be able to safely dispose of opioids and other unused medications. GAO would review and detail the effectiveness of these disposal methods. H.R. __, FDA and International Mail, authored by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), will streamline and enhance tools the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has available to effectively intercept illegal products. In doing so, this bill will create efficiencies for government resources and better protect American citizens from dangerous imported substances. H.R. __, FDA Opioid Sparing, authored by Reps. Barbara Comstock (R-VA) and Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), will direct FDA to articulate clear data collection methods that could be used to inform opioid-sparing labeling claims for products that may replace, delay, or reduce or the use of opioid analgesics. H.R. __, FDA Long-term Efficacy, authored by Rep. Jerry McNerney (D-CA) and Morgan Griffith (R-VA), will enhance FDA’s authorities and enforcement tools to ensure timely post-marketing studies for chronically administered opioids. H.R. __, FDA Misuse/Abuse, authored by Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), will clarify FDA’s authority to consider misuse and abuse as part of the drug approval and assessment process for opioids. It would also augment FDA’s capacity to take necessary action to minimize the public health consequences of opioid misuse and abuse. H.R. 449, the Synthetic Drug Awareness Act, authored by Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), will require the U.S. Surgeon General to submit a comprehensive report to Congress on the public health effects of the rise in synthetic drug use among youth aged 12 to 18 in order to further educate parents and the medical community on the health effects of synthetics. H.R. __, the Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018, authored by Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY), will establish Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers (CORCs) that will serve as models for comprehensive treatment and recovery. CORCs would utilize the full range of FDA-approved medications and evidence-based treatments, have strong linkages with the community, generate meaningful outcomes data, and dramatically improve the opportunities for individuals to establish and maintain long-term recovery as productive members of society. H.R. 5261, the Treatment, Education, And Community Help (TEACH) to Combat Addiction Act, authored by Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH), will support Centers of Excellence, or institutions of learning that have championed SUD treatment and pain management education to improve how health professionals are taught about both SUD and pain. Discussion Draft, PDMPs, authored by Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA), will improve current federal support for Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs) to enhance surveillance, data collection, and integration into physician clinical workflow so that timely, complete and accurate information will get into the hands of providers and dispensers, allowing them to make the best clinical decisions for their patients. H.R. 5272, the Reinforcing Evidence-Based Standards Under Law in Treating Substance Abuse (RESULTS) Act, authored by Reps. Steve Stivers (R-OH) and Eliot Engel (D-NY), will require entities applying for funding that would be used for programs or activities that address mental health or SUD, to submit materials to HHS demonstrating that the programs or activities are evidence-based. H.R. 3545, the Overdose Prevention and Patient Safety Act (AINS), authored by Reps. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), will permit SUD records to be shared in accordance with Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and for the purposes of treatment. The bill would also increase the penalties in the event of disclosure, add breach notification requirements, and provide discrimination prohibitions to protect people seeking and receiving SUD treatment. Stay tuned for a full recap of bills reviewed by the Energy and Commerce Committee following the conclusion of Thursday’s part two of this hearing. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, click here. ###
03.20.2018	Greg Walden to hold two-day hearing, examine 25 bills to combat nationwide opioid crisis Hearing is part of Walden’s legislative push to address the opioid crisis in Oregon WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his push for concrete solutions to combat the opioid crisis in Oregon and across the country, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, will hold a two-day hearing beginning tomorrow to examine 25 bills to address the nationwide crisis. The hearing will begin at 9 a.m. ET, and is entitled, “Combating the Opioid Crisis: Prevention and Public Health Solutions.” The second day of the hearing will be held on Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 10 a.m. ET. In February, Walden announced a legislative push to combat the opioid crisis, and the Energy and Commerce Committee has since reviewed eight bills to improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools. Tomorrow’s hearing will be the second of three legislative hearings to examine the opioid crisis and possible legislative solutions. Rep. Walden intends to bring a legislative package to the floor of the House of Representative by Memorial Day. For a live stream, background memo, and witness list for this hearing, please click HERE. Bills the Energy and Commerce Committee will consider include: NOTE: Some bills have not received formal titles and instead are denoted by descriptions. H.R. 5009, Jessie’s Law, authored by Reps. Tim Walberg (R-MI) and Debbie Dingell (D-MI), will ensure medical professionals have access to a consenting patient’s complete health history when making treatment decisions by requiring the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop and disseminate best practices regarding the prominent display of substance use disorder (SUD) history in patient records of patients who have previously provided this information to a health care provider. H.R. 4284, Indexing Narcotics, Fentanyl, and Opioids (INFO) Act (AINS), authored by Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH), will direct HHS to create a public and easily accessible electronic dashboard linking to all of the nationwide efforts and strategies to combat the opioid crisis. H.R. __, FDA Packaging and Disposal, authored by Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC), will direct FDA to work with manufacturers to establish programs for efficient return or destruction of unused Schedule II drugs, with an emphasis on opioids. These methods could include mail-back pouches to secure facilities for incineration, or methods to immediately inactivate/render unattractive unused drugs. In addition, this bill will facilitate utilization of packaging that may reduce overprescribing of opioids. Finally, this bill will require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study new and innovative technologies that claim to be able to safely dispose of opioids and other unused medications. GAO would review and detail the effectiveness of these disposal methods. H.R. 5176, the Preventing Overdoses While in Emergency Rooms (POWER) Act, authored by Reps. David McKinley (R-WV) and Michael Doyle (D-PA), will provide resources for hospitals to develop protocols on discharging patients who have presented with an opioid overdose. These protocols would address the provision of naloxone upon discharge, connection with peer-support specialists, and the referral to treatment and other services that best fit the patient’s needs. H.R. 3545, the Overdose Prevention and Patient Safety Act (AINS), authored by Reps. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), will permit SUD records to be shared without patient consent, in accordance with Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and only for very specific purposes. The bill would also increase the penalties in the event of disclosure, add breach notification requirements, and provide discrimination prohibitions to protect people seeking and receiving SUD treatment. H.R. __, the Eliminating Opioid-Related Infectious Diseases Act, authored by Reps. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Joe Kennedy (D-MA), will authorize the CDC to undertake an injection drug use-associated infection elimination initiative and work with states to improve education, surveillance and treatment of injection drug-use associated infections, like human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis. H.R. 5261, the Treatment, Education, And Community Help (TEACH) to Combat Addiction Act, authored by Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH), will support Centers of Excellence, or institutions of learning that have championed SUD treatment and pain management education to improve how health professionals are taught about both SUD and pain. H.R. __, the Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018, authored by Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY), will establish Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers (CORCs) that will serve as models for comprehensive treatment and recovery. CORCs would utilize the full range of FDA-approved medications and evidence-based treatments, have strong linkages with the community, generate meaningful outcomes data, and dramatically improve the opportunities for individuals to establish and maintain long-term recovery as productive members of society. H.R. 5272, the Reinforcing Evidence-Based Standards Under Law in Treating Substance Abuse (RESULTS) Act, authored by Reps. Steve Stivers (R-OH) and Eliot Engel (D-NY), will require entities applying for funding that would be used to support programs or activities that address mental health or SUD, to submit materials to HHS demonstrating that the programs or activities are evidence-based. Discussion Draft, PDMPs, authored by Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA), will improve current federal support for Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs) by requiring a coordinated effort amongst the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), and the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology to improve surveillance, data collection, and integration into physician clinical workflow so that timely, complete and accurate information will get into the hands of providers and dispensers, allowing them to make the best clinical decisions for their patients. H.R. __, the Poison Center Network Enhancement Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Susan Brooks (R-IN) and Eliot Engel, will reauthorize the important network of centers within the National Poison Data System that offer free, confidential, expert medical advice 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Oftentimes these programs serve as the primary resource for poisoning information and help reduce Emergency Room visits through in-home treatment. H.R. 5140, Tribal Addiction and Recovery Act of 2018 (TARA), authored by Rep. Mullin would make Indian tribes eligible to be direct grantees of State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis Grants to fight the opioid epidemic in Indian Country, reflecting the government-to-government relationship between Indian tribes and the United States. Tribes would receive their own $25 million allocation that they could apply directly to the federal government, instead of having to go through their states. H.R. __, FDA Accelerated Approval & Breakthrough Therapy Status, will take steps to make FDA pathways like the accelerated approval program available to take on the opioid crisis, leading to expedited development and review of drugs which may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapies. H.R. __, FDA and International Mail, authored by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), will streamline and enhance tools the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has available to effectively intercept illegal products. In doing so, this bill will create efficiencies for government resources and better protect American citizens from dangerous imported substances. H.R. __, FDA Opioid Sparing, authored by Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-VA), will direct FDA to articulate clear data collection methods that could be used to inform opioid-sparing labeling claims for products that may replace, delay, or reduce or the use of opioid analgesics. H.R. 4684, the Ensuring Access to Quality Sober Living Act, authored by Reps. Judy Chu (D-CA), Mimi Walters (R-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), and Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) will authorize SAMHSA to develop, publish, and disseminate best practices for operating recovery housing that promotes a safe environment for sustained recovery from SUD. H.R. 5002, the Advancing Cutting Edge (ACE) Research Act, authored by Reps. Debbie Dingell and Fred Upton (R-MI), will provide the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research and spur urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. H.R. 5197, the Alternatives to Opioids (ALTO) in the Emergency Department Act, authored by Reps. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) and David McKinley, will establish a demonstration program to test alternative pain management protocols to limit the use of opioids in hospital emergency departments. H.R. 5102, the Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act of 2018, authored by Reps. Katherine Clark (D-MA) and Hal Rogers (R-KY), will create a loan repayment program for SUD treatment providers. Specifically, the bill will offer student loan repayment of up to $250,000 for participants who agree to work as a SUD treatment professional in areas most in need of their services. The program will be available to a wide range of direct care providers, including physicians, registered nurses, social workers, and other behavioral health professionals. H.R. 449, the Synthetic Drug Awareness Act, authored by Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), will require the U.S. Surgeon General to submit a comprehensive report to Congress on the public health effects of the rise in synthetic drug use among youth aged 12 to 18 in order to further educate parents and the medical community on the health effects of synthetics. H.R. 3692, the Addiction Treatment Access Improvement Act, authored by Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY), will expand access to medication-assisted treatment (MAT) by allowing clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse midwives, and certified registered nurse anesthetists to prescribe buprenorphine and permanently authorize non-physician providers to prescribe buprenorphine. The bill would also codify regulations that increased the cap on the number of patients a physician can treat with buprenorphine to 275 patients. H.R. __, Fentanyl Testing, authored by Rep. Ann Kuster (D-NH), will provide grants to federal, state, and local agencies for the establishment or operation of public health laboratories to detect fentanyl, its analogs, and other synthetic opioids. H.R. __, Peer Support Specialists Workforce Grants, authored by Reps. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), and Johnson would increase the funding for the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act’s Building Communities of Recovery Program and authorize HHS to award grants to peer support specialist organizations for the development and expansion of recovery services. H.R. __, FDA Long-term Efficacy, authored by Rep. Jerry McNerney (D-CA), will enhance FDA’s authorities and enforcement tools to ensure timely post-marketing studies for chronically administered opioids. H.R. __, FDA Misuse/Abuse, authored by Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), will clarify FDA’s authority to consider misuse and abuse as part of the drug approval and assessment process for opioids. It would also augment FDA’s capacity to take necessary action to minimize the public health consequences of opioid misuse and abuse. ###
03.08.2018	Greg Walden announces next hearing to combat nationwide opioid crisis Hearing will feature 20+ public health and prevention bills Last month, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, announced a legislative push to combat the opioid crisis in Oregon and throughout the country. Since then, Walden's Committee has reviewed eight bills to improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools. Today, Walden announced the details of the second legislative hearing, which will take place over two days -- on Wednesday, March 21, and Thursday, March 22. Over the course of the two days, the Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Health will consider more than 20 bills relating to public health and prevention efforts to combat the opioid crisis. More information will be posted as it becomes available here. To learn more about the Energy and Commerce Committee’s comprehensive efforts to combat the opioid crisis, click here. House to hold two-day hearing to consider more than 20 opioids bills The House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee will hear a set of more than 20 bipartisan bills during its second hearing focusing on addressing the opioid crisis, CNN has learned. While most hearings on legislation don't last more than a day, this hearing is scheduled to begin on March 21 and will last for two days, committee Republican aides tell CNN. Last week at the US Chamber of Commerce, Energy and Commerce Committee chair Greg Walden announced four of the bills that would be included among the 20 being considered later this month. They include: GOP Rep. Bob Latta's bill, the INFO Act, which would streamline efforts within health organizations for grants and other funding related to opioids The bipartisan bill called Jessie's Law, which would require the Department of Health and Human Services to develop standards for hospitals and physicians to show a patient's history of opioid addiction when receiving treatment GOP Rep. Richard Hudson's GAO request for research on ways to properly dispose of unused opioids The bipartisan ACE Research Act, which would expand research efforts into opioids for the National Institutes of Health The committee wants to send all of the opioids-related bills to the House floor for passage by Memorial Day. This marks the second of three hearings the committee will hear on opioid-related legislation. Earlier this month, the subcommittee held a hearing to discuss eight bills, which focused on drug scheduling guidelines, disposal of medications, updating patient care laws and expanding access to underserved communities. The committee is simultaneously conducting an investigation into high concentrations of opioid pills being distributed to pharmacies in communities in West Virginia, also known as "pill dumping." The House's push for opioids legislation comes amid other Republican-led efforts in Washington to combat the opioid crisis, including the White House's public campaign to address the issue. But so far, it's unclear exactly how much of an impact, if any, the federal response has had on preventing overdose addiction and death among the American population. A Vital Signs report released Tuesday by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention finds that the problem may actually be getting worse. The report shows that emergency department visits due to suspected opioid overdoses continued to climb -- by about 30% -- from July 2016 to September 2017 across the country. Click HERE to read the article online
03.07.2018	Greg Walden examines fast-changing world of retail operations and logistics Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to examine the way emerging technology is impacting the everyday lives of consumers, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today led a hearing on the effect the Internet and advanced technology is having on retail, e-commerce, and delivery logistics. Highlighting the importance of the buildout of data centers in Oregon’s Second District to the state’s economy, Walden stressed the need to ensure continued innovation is not constrained by federal policy or regulation. “My district is home to a number of data centers including Google, Facebook, Apple, and Amazon. It is pretty impressive the buildout that is happening there and the jobs that come with it, and how our economy is changing dramatically and rapidly,” said Walden. “So this is another part of our hearing sequence in looking at the future of innovation, and legacy rules and regulations that can actually constrain and hold back innovation. The Internet’s incredible ability to transform old ways of doing business is by now widely known, and in the retail space e-commerce has closed this gap between buyer and seller to the point where I can use a phone to order whatever I need.” Today’s hearing, entitled “Review of Emerging Tech’s Impact on Retail Operations and Logistics,” focused on how the consumer-retailer relationship has been transformed in recent years due to the growth of e-commerce, new methods of payment, and convenient options for delivery. Walden’s committee today examined the impact this will have on the future of retail, e-commerce, and supply chain logistics. Walden said policy makers should focus on the best interest of consumers, and not inhibit the growth of innovation and emerging technology in the retail marketplace. “The long and the short of it is, the customer is in charge. That is the way markets really work. We want to make sure that this marketplace continues to grow, and that we don’t stand in the way with federal policy and things that inhibit that growth,” said Walden. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, click here.
03.06.2018	Greg Walden leads House passage of broadband growth and FCC modernization agreement RAY BAUM’S Act, named after La Grande native, reauthorizes FCC for first time in 28 years Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s floor speech WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) led the passage of H.R. 4986, the Repack Airwaves Yielding Better Access for Users of Modern Services, or RAY BAUM’S Act, through the House of Representatives. Named after La Grande native, Ray Baum, this legislation reauthorizes the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for the first time in 28 years. “The RAY BAUM’S Act reauthorizes the Federal Communications Commission, includes efficiency and transparency reforms for the FCC, and spurs the development of next-generation 5G technologies,” said Walden in a speech on the House floor today. “It’s good for consumers, and it’s good for our nation’s critical telecommunications services.” RAY BAUM’S Act is a bipartisan, bicameral agreement among House and Senate leaders to reauthorize the FCC and support the deployment of next-generation wireless broadband services. The Energy and Commerce Committee approved an earlier version of H.R. 4986 by voice vote last month. The legislation that passed today will: Reauthorize the FCC and include reforms to ensure the commission continues to improve its efficiency and transparency. Boosts development of next-generation wireless broadband known as 5G by identifying spectrum for private sector use and cutting red tape associated with building wireless networks. Help TV broadcasters and rural translator districts relocate channels following the successful mobile broadband spectrum auction. Help the FCC and law enforcement protect consumers from fraudulent telephone calls, and to educate Americans about their options to stop these illegal calls. Ray Baum, the former Staff Director of the Energy and Commerce Committee, was a champion of telecommunications policy and long-time personal friend of Walden and lost his battle with cancer in February 2018. “My dear friend of nearly 30 years, Ray dedicated much of his public service to telecom policy, including working on this very legislation. These issues were a priority and a passion for him. He left us a legacy of optimism, perseverance, and working across the aisle to get things done -- I hope our bipartisan efforts today reflect his commitment to good public policy. It’s fitting that this important bill is named in his honor,” Walden added. ###
03.06.2018	Greg Walden calls for action on nuclear waste clean up Stresses importance of cleaning up Hanford Site for Oregon and Pacific Northwest Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s floor speech WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives yesterday evening, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) called for action to clean up nuclear waste that is sitting idle in communities across the country. During his speech, Walden stressed the importance of cleaning up the Hanford Site for Oregon and communities along the Columbia River, and finding a permanent geologic repository for that nuclear waste. "Over 35 years ago, we in Congress made a commitment to communities throughout the country which host spent nuclear fuel and nuclear waste. We assigned the Department of Energy the responsibility to permanently dispose of the hazardous material by 1998,” Walden said. “Many of those communities, like the Tri-Cities co-located with DOE’s Hanford Site just up the Columbia River from where I live and the people I represent, we have been DOE’s partners to help win World War II, maintain a nuclear weapons deterrent, and power our fleet of nuclear submarines and aircraft carriers. “Additionally, electricity consumers in many other communities have paid the federal government over forty billion dollars to develop, license, construct and operate a nuclear waste repository, pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. Yet, ratepayers have little to see for their investment because political science has deprived the public of the actual science to prove that nuclear waste can be safely permanently disposed.” Walden continues to lead the effort to clean up spent nuclear fuel that is sitting idle in 121 communities across 39 states throughout the country, including at the Hanford Site. Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee passed the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act (H.R. 3053), by a vote of 49-4 in June of 2017. This legislation provides practical reforms to the nation’s nuclear waste management policy, and reinstates Yucca Mountain as the cornerstone of the country’s nuclear waste disposal. During his floor speech, Walden touted the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act as a concrete solution to help clean up spent nuclear fuel. “This legislation makes targeted reforms to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 to set the federal government up to finally keep its promise,” said Walden. “This nuclear waste challenge has vexed policy makers for generations. We -- this Congress -- have the chance now in a bipartisan way to successfully build a durable solution and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to achieve this goal.” To read more about the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act, please click here. ###
03.01.2018	Greg Walden on efforts to combat the opioid crisis: “The rubber has really hit the road” WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Earlier today, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) delivered keynote remarks at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, as part of a forum examining solutions to combat the opioid crisis. Spearheading a two-track push to combat the opioid crisis, by legislating and investigating the causes of the epidemic, Rep. Walden has made it a top priority to help put an end to this scourge. Representative Walden delivers his remarks. In his keynote remarks, Walden stated, “This crisis reaches coast to coast. Fueled by dangerous new chemical versions, illicitly manufactured drugs, and complicit bad actors contributing to the spread of opioid abuse, in one year alone, overdoses have taken more American lives than the entire Vietnam War. Scan the headlines on any given day and it’s clear that this epidemic is spiraling out of control with no end in sight -- unless we take action.” Walden gave a summary of yesterday’s hearing examining ways to improve patient safety and bolster enforcement tools, before previewing the other two hearings to come. Yesterday’s hearing represents the first of three legislative hearings the Energy and Commerce Committee will hold in the coming months to put forth initiatives to address the crisis. Rep. Walden intends to bring a legislative package to the floor of the House of Representative by Memorial Day. “…combating the opioid crisis must be a collaborative, bipartisan effort,” Walden stressed in his speech. “No one person has the answers. And no one bill will provide the solution. Which is why we’ve taken a methodical and expansive approach to moving multiple bipartisan legislative ideas forward.” In concluding his remarks, Walden said, “…we’re moving full speed ahead on two tracks at Energy and Commerce, and with the start of our hearing series this week, the rubber has really hit the road on our legislative efforts.” To read Walden’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, click HERE. Learn more about the Energy and Commerce Committee’s ongoing efforts to combat the opioid crisis HERE. ###
02.28.2018	Greg Walden on opioid epidemic: “We have to act” Kicks off legislative push to advance solutions to combat the nationwide crisis Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks during the hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today kicked off a legislative push to advance concrete solutions to address the opioid epidemic in Oregon and throughout the country. Walden, who Chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, led a hearing today entitled “Combating the Opioid Crisis: Helping Communities Balance Enforcement and Patient Safety,” and examined eight legislative initiatives to combat the nationwide crisis. “No community is immune to the opioid epidemic. It’s ripping apart the very fabric of our neighborhoods,” said Walden. “From Oregon to Ohio. From Connecticut to California. Our friends and our families are experiencing an epic tragedy -- one that’s claiming the lives of more than 100 Americans each and every single day.” The hearing focused on giving law enforcement the tools they need to keep illicit synthetic drugs, like fentanyl, off America’s streets. Fentanyl is so deadly that a piece the size of a grain of salt is lethal, and has led to a reported 49 deaths in Oregon over the course of two years. Combating the opioid epidemic is Rep. Walden’s top priority as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. Today’s hearing represents the first of three legislative hearings the Energy and Commerce Committee will hold in the coming months to put forth initiatives to address the crisis. Rep. Walden intends to bring a legislative package to the floor of the House of Representative by Memorial Day. During the hearing, Walden highlighted roundtable meetings he holds throughout Oregon’s 2nd District with those on the front lines of the opioid crisis in. Walden brings these conversations back to Washington, D.C. as he continues his work in Congress to put an end to opioid abuse. “At a roundtable I held in southern Oregon, a man named ‘Mike’ showed up,” recalled Walden. “Mike’s son was injured in a school sporting accident, and he became addicted to the prescription painkillers provided by his doctor to aid in his recovery. Eventually, Mike’s son made the all-too-familiar transition to a cheaper opioid source: heroin. To this day, Mike's son still struggles with his addiction that began with opioid abuse. “Mike’s story is tragically not a unique one. It is a story that is ripping apart families all across our country. We have to act.” In addition to the Energy and Commerce Committee’s legislative push, Walden continues to investigate alleged opioid pill dumping into rural communities. To read more about Walden’s ongoing investigation, as well as the Energy and Commerce Committee’s broader effort to combat the opioid crisis, please click here. For more information on today’s legislative hearing, including background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, please click here. ###
02.12.2018	Greg Walden on President Trump’s Budget Request WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement on President Trump's budget request for Fiscal Year 2019. “I applaud President Trump for outlining his priorities for the country in today’s budget request. I look forward to working alongside the President and his team to improve American infrastructure and rural broadband deployment, the management of our forests and public lands, and veterans’ access to care. I also share the President’s passion to combat the devastating opioid crisis that is plaguing communities in Oregon and across the country. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I will continue to work to advance legislative solutions and bring even more resources to this fight in the coming months. Our state and nation face many challenges, and I look forward to working with the administration and across the aisle here in Congress to find solutions for Oregonians and the American people.” Background As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. Walden is at the forefront of the effort to combat the nationwide opioid epidemic. Walden’s committee is also continuing to work on important infrastructure priorities, such as expanding high-speed broadband infrastructure to rural America. Combatting the Opioid Crisis The Energy and Commerce Committee has led the charge in combatting the opioid crisis, spearheading landmark legislation such as the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act. The committee will begin another legislative push later this month. Learn more about the committee’s efforts here. After $6 billion in funding to combat the opioid crisis was secured in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, the Energy and Commerce Committee stands ready to craft further reforms and provide even more resources in this fight. The Energy and Commerce Committee is conducting several active investigations into the worst abuses of the opioid crisis, including alleged opioid pill dumping. Learn more here. Energy and Commerce Committee: Infrastructure by the Numbers 24 -- the number of Energy and Commerce Committee infrastructure bills that have passed the House. Several more have passed the full committee or have been reviewed in legislative hearings. 25 -- the number of infrastructure bills reviewed during a legislative hearing on 1/30/2018. 45 -- the number of infrastructure-related hearings held by the Energy and Commerce Committee this Congress. ###
02.09.2018	Greg Walden on the Passing of Ray Baum WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the below statement following the passing of his longtime friend, La Grande native, and Energy and Commerce Committee Staff Director Ray Baum: “Today, Mylene and I mourn the loss of our beloved friend and La Grande native, Ray Baum. After many years fighting cancer, Ray passed peacefully this morning surrounded by his loving family. Ray and I became fast friends nearly 30 years ago while serving in the Oregon state legislature. Ray followed me as House Majority Leader and went on to serve on the Oregon Liquor Control Commission, and the Oregon Public Utility Commission where, as the lone Republican, he was named Chairman. During my time at the Energy and Commerce Committee, Ray served as Senior Policy Advisor and most recently as Staff Director of the committee. True to his eastern Oregon roots, he shared his wisdom, guidance, work ethic, and humor with the Members of Congress and staff lucky enough to work with him every day. “People from Oregon to our nation’s capital are better off because of Ray’s selfless commitment to service. Ray will be deeply missed, but he will never be forgotten. His legacy of decency, kindness, graciousness, and honor will live on in the hearts and memories of those who were blessed to know him. “Mylene and I are deeply saddened by Ray’s passing and we keep his wife, Kristine, and the entire family in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time of loss.” ###
02.09.2018	Greg Walden Statement on the Bipartisan Budget Act WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement on the Bipartisan Budget Act: “Today’s agreement marks an important step forward on key priorities for Oregon. After months of needless delay, Community Health Centers will finally receive the full two-year extension passed out of the House under my legislation last fall. Community Health Centers care for over 240,000 Oregonians across 63 delivery sites throughout our district, and this funding will provide them with the certainty they need to continue serving Oregonians. The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) will receive 10 years of full funding, adding four years to the historic six-year extension I was proud to secure in January. Additionally, the increase in funding to fight the opioid crisis provides much-needed tools to combat this scourge that is plaguing communities in Oregon and across the country. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I’ve made combatting the opioid crisis a priority of our committee, and we plan to move forward with additional important reforms and continue to ramp up our efforts in this fight. “Top scientists at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) will have more resources to continue the ground-breaking research that will yield the next great breakthrough on the diseases and disorders we battle every day. Likewise, I am pleased to see the agreement commits resources to much-needed infrastructure priorities, including broadband for rural communities, clean and safe drinking water, and several energy initiatives -- all of which are critical for our state. “Most importantly, we give our military the tools and training they need to keep us safe. After too many years of asking our military to do more with less, we are providing our men and women in uniform with the necessary funding to complete their missions. “While no bill is perfect, I believe this agreement advances important initiatives for Oregonians. I will continue to work alongside my colleagues on these critical priorities for our state and country.” Rep. Walden was the only member of the Oregon delegation to vote for the Bipartisan Budget Act. ###
02.05.2018	Greg Walden leads hearing on connecting rural America with broadband Stresses importance of bridging the “digital divide” and improving broadband connectivity in Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to improve broadband connectivity in rural Oregon, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today led a hearing to examine legislation aimed at bridging the “digital divide” for rural communities across the country. Today’s hearing, entitled “Closing the Digital Divide: Broadband Infrastructure Solutions,” focused on bipartisan proposals to expand broadband infrastructure to underserved areas. “If you want to talk about rural areas, my district would stretch from the Atlantic Ocean to Ohio. It is 69,341 square miles. I have places in my district where there is one person for every nine miles of power line,” said Walden. “We live this gap every day and we are trying to close it. There are multiple ways to close it, but one of the best ways is to make sure we can expedite closing that gap through reforms in siting, targeting financial resources of ratepayers and the government to those areas that are underserved, and helping move this country forward to connectivity like we’ve never seen before.” During the hearing, Walden stressed the need to reduce unnecessary roadblocks to siting new broadband deployment projects in rural areas. Specifically, Walden raised concerns over the burdensome Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) process that communities in Oregon must complete before expanding basic broadband infrastructure on federal land. Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s questioning during today’s hearing “Again, 55% of my district is federal land so I’m somewhat familiar with this,” said Walden. “I run into this issue all the time on siting. We’re trying to get broadband out there, and we’re trying to get three-phased power in some of our communities that have waited three years to get an EIS to get four power poles on BLM land. So I think there is an issue here with siting.” As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of initiatives to improve mobile broadband, make broadband spectrum more available to consumers, and increase access to telemedicine services and other 21st century technology that requires broadband connectivity in rural Oregon. More than 20 pieces of legislation have been introduced in Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee this year to expand broadband infrastructure, cut unnecessary red tape, encourage innovation, and advance public safety. Approximately 23 million Americans living in rural areas lack sufficient access to high-speed broadband. Expanding broadband infrastructure to these communities in Oregon and throughout the country will help connect people to the 21st century economy no matter where they live, and is a top priority of Walden’s in Congress. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and archived webcast, please click here. ###
02.02.2018	Greg Walden Statement on Intelligence Committee’s FISA Memo WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the release of the House Intelligence Committee's memo regarding the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act: “When I read this memo two weeks ago I found it very troubling and have supported its release as a matter of government transparency. The memo raises serious concerns about the conduct of officials at the FBI and Department of Justice. I look forward to the House Intelligence Committee’s oversight and prompt attention to the issues raised by the document in order to ensure that the American people can have confidence in these important agencies.” To read a full copy of the memo, please click here.
01.26.2018	Greg Walden, Bipartisan Committee Leaders to Investigate Sexual Abuse in Organized Sports WASHINGTON, D.C -- House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-Hood River), along with a bipartisan group of lawmakers, sent letters today to USA Gymnastics, the U.S. Olympic Committee, Michigan State University, USA Swimming, and USA Taekwondo regarding sexual abuse within organized sports. The letters follow the recent sentencing of Dr. Larry Nassar for his abuse of more than 150 women and girls, as well as last year’s reports of sexual misconduct allegations in the Taekwondo community, and the 2014 allegations of sexual abuse from 19 former U.S. swimmers. “The abhorrent abuses associated with Dr. Nassar’s case and the allegations by U.S. Taekwondo athletics and U.S. swimmers are disgusting and outrageous, and raise serious concerns about protecting athletes from abuse and mistreatment in organized sports. These organizations must have mechanisms in place to ensure complete oversight and prevent such abuses from occurring. As we move forward in gathering the facts, this committee intends to hold a hearing in order to investigate these critical issues further,” said Walden. In their letter to USA Gymnastics, the members wrote: “The abhorrent abuses associated with this case are outrageous, and raise serious concerns about your organization’s ability to oversee your sport and protect your athletes from abuse and mistreatment. Accordingly, the Committee is seeking information from USA Gymnastics because of the role it plays in overseeing gymnastics and protecting all of its athletes.” Click here to read the letter to USA Gymnastics. Click here to read the letter to the United States Olympic Committee. Click here to read the letter to Michigan State University. Click here to read the letter to USA Swimming. Click here to read the letter to USA Taekwondo. ###
01.23.2018	ICYMI: Greg Walden Champions CHIP During Government Shutdown, Delivers on its Passage On Monday, Congress advanced a Continuing Resolution (CR) that would reopen the government and its critical services. Also included in the CR was a provision authored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) that provides a six-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), the longest extension in the program’s 20-year history. Over the weekend, Senate Democrats blocked a government funding measure that provided this critical funding extension of CHIP. Rep. Walden was the only member of the Oregon delegation to vote to reopen the government and provide six years of certainty for the Oregon children and pregnant women who rely on CHIP every day. Oregon Public Broadcasting reports, “The children’s health program, which covers about 120,000 children and pregnant women in Oregon, expired at the end of September. Since then, it’s been kept alive by stop-gap funding as lawmakers from both sides squabbled over how to pay for it.” The House of Representatives also previously passed Walden’s CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, extending funding for CHIP, Community Health Centers and other important public health programs, on November 3, 2017, largely without Democratic support. "We didn’t have to be here, and you sure as heck didn’t have to shut down the government. Our choice yesterday was vote to fund the government, or not. Vote to fund children’s health insurance for 9 million children and, by the way, for states like mine that also includes DACA kids,” said Walden in a speech on the House Floor on Saturday. “So when you voted against that yesterday, you voted not to provide insurance to children and pregnant women in our states. That is wrong. We are here to govern. We are governing as Republicans. We will get this government up and running and we will take care of those children.” On Monday, the House and Senate governed, sending a six-year CHIP extension to President Trump that he has signed into law. Greg Walden Wins Shutdown Battle Over Children's Health Care Rep. Greg Walden -- Oregon’s sole Republican member of Congress -- claimed a big legislative victory as the three-day government shutdown was ending Monday. As chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden played a key role in tying continuation of the popular Children’s Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, to a bill ending the government shutdown. "It’s nice to get a critically important health care issue passed and into law and give certainty for families in Oregon,” Walden said in an interview with OPB on Monday, hours before Congress sent the measure to President Donald Trump for his signature. Walden also expressed skepticism about whether Congress could come to any agreements on immigration before the latest government funding extension expires Feb. 8. Congressional Democrats, and some Republicans, pushed hard to provide protection for immigrants brought here illegally by their parents when they were children. "I think that’s pretty unrealistic, if you want to know the truth,” Walden said, adding that immigration reform “is tough stuff to get done or it would have been done a long time ago.” The children’s health program, which covers about 120,000 children and pregnant women in Oregon, expired at the end of September. Since then, it’s been kept alive by stop-gap funding as lawmakers from both sides squabbled over how to pay for it. Walden chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over the issue. Democratic leaders on the committee argued that Walden and other Republicans wanted to gut funding for health programs associated with the Affordable Care Act to pay for CHIP. Walden scoffed at that and repeatedly accused Democrats of jeopardizing the health of the program’s recipients. The dispute was recently resolved when the Congressional Budget Office said a long extension of the program would actually save money by not forcing recipients into insurance coverage that would have more expensive government subsidies. The bill passed on Monday renews the program for six years. To read the article online, click HERE.
01.23.2018	Greg Walden votes to reopen government, provide historic extension of funding for Children's Health Insurance Program Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The House of Representatives today passed a Continuing Resolution (CR) to reopen the government, by a vote of 266-150. The Senate passed this same CR earlier in the day by a vote of 81-18. Included in the CR is a provision authored by Rep. Greg Walden providing six years of funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which is the longest and most generous funding extension of the program. “I was proud to author and see passed into law the biggest extension of children’s health insurance in the history of the program,” said Walden. “This is really important for 122,000 children and pregnant women in Oregon, and 9 million across the country who rely on CHIP for their health insurance. Our legislation gives them certainty for six years, the longest and biggest extension of the program in history. For those who said they were for it but then voted against it, shame on them.” Over the weekend, Senate Democrats blocked a government funding measure that provided the longest extension of CHIP in the program's history. Rep. Walden was the only member of the Oregon delegation to vote to provide a six-year extension of CHIP for the 122,700 Oregon children and pregnant women who rely on the program every day. Background: In November, the House passed Walden's CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act by a bipartisan vote. H.R. 3922 extends funding for CHIP, Community Health Centers, and other important public health programs. H.R. 3922 was fully offset through responsible reforms like reducing federal subsidies for seniors earning more than $500,000 each year (or $40,000 each month) by limiting government contributions for their Part B and D premiums, and disenrolling lottery jackpot winners from Medicaid to prioritize the most vulnerable. Last month, the House acted to provide short-term funding for states to continue their CHIP programs, including over $96 million for children and pregnant women in Oregon. Last Thursday, The House of Representatives passed a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government. Included in the CR is a provision providing six years of funding for CHIP, which is the longest and most generous funding extension of the program. ###
01.23.2018	ICYMI: Greg Walden leads call to action on CHIP funding Pushes for government funding measure, longest extension of children’s health insurance program in history Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the floor of the House of Representatives WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to provide certainty to over 122,700 children and pregnant women in Oregon who rely on the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has led the call to action to pass a government funding measure that includes the longest extension of CHIP in history. “We didn’t have to be here, and you sure as heck didn’t have to shut down the government. Our choice yesterday was vote to fund the government, or not. Vote to fund children’s health insurance for 9 million children and, by the way, for states like mine that also includes DACA kids,” said Walden in a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives Saturday. “So when you voted against that yesterday, you voted not to provide insurance to children and pregnant women in our states. That is wrong. We are here to govern. We are governing as Republicans. We will get this government up and running and we will take care of those children.” On Wednesday, Walden participated in a press conference calling for full funding of CHIP. To watch Walden’s full remarks, please click here or on the image above. On Wednesday, Rep. Greg Walden participated in a press conference calling on Democrats to stop playing politics with funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The press conference fell on the eve of the House’s consideration of a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund government operations, which includes a six-year extension for CHIP. Detailing the Democrats’ delays throughout the legislative process and their resistance to reaching a bipartisan agreement, Walden stated, “It’s time. Enough’s enough.” Walden also called on Oregon Governor Kate Brown to use her leadership position at the National Governor’s Association (NGA) to support passage of funding the children’s health insurance program. “Under my leadership, Republicans in the House have repeatedly passed full funding for CHIP, and the proposal--defeated by Democrats in the Senate last night--funded CHIP for six years at the biggest funding levels, ever. Oregon kids need the Governor’s support at this critical time,” said Walden. Senate Democrats blocked a government funding measure that provided the longest extension of CHIP in the program's history. Rep. Walden was the only member of the Oregon delegation to vote to provide a six-year extension of CHIP for the 122,700 Oregon children and pregnant women who rely on the program every day. Background: In November, the House passed Walden's CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act by a bipartisan vote. H.R. 3922 extends funding for CHIP, Community Health Centers, and other important public health programs. H.R. 3922 was fully offset through responsible reforms like reducing federal subsidies for seniors earning more than $500,000 each year (or $40,000 each month) by limiting government contributions for their Part B and D premiums, and disenrolling lottery jackpot winners from Medicaid to prioritize the most vulnerable. Last month, the House acted to provide short-term funding for states to continue their CHIP programs, including over $96 million for children and pregnant women in Oregon. On Thursday, The House of Representatives passed a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government. Included in the CR is a provision providing six-years of funding for CHIP, which is the longest and most generous funding extension of the program. In recent days, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has updated its scoring of the provision, projecting a net savings over a six-year window. In Oregon, one-out-of-ten children and pregnant women rely on CHIP. Below are calculations for the number of children that rely on CHIP every day in each county of Oregon’s Second Congressional District: Baker 279 Crook 575 Deschutes 4,516 Gilliam 44 Grant 88 Harney 147 Hood River 801 Jackson 5,086 Jefferson 650 Josephine 1,821 Klamath 1,120 Lake 96 Malheur 694 Morrow 325 Sherman 17 Umatilla 1,935 Union 550 Wallowa 211 Wasco 772 Wheeler 20 Walden to Senate Democrats: Fund kids' health care Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, spoke on the House floor Saturday, as the government shutdown took effect, and called on Democrats to put partisan politics aside and support the Children’s Health Insurance Program. Click here to read more from News Channel 21 in Bend. Rep. Walden pushes for 'CHIP' extension amid potential government shutdown Amid a potential government shutdown Friday, Oregon Representative Greg Walden is pushing for the passing of a short term spending bill in order to keep funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, or "CHIP", for short. Click here to read more from News Channel 10 in Medford. ###
01.20.2018	Greg Walden on CHIP: “We will take care of those children” Calls on Democrats to put kids over politics, support government funding measure and children’s health insurance program Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s floor speech WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today called on Democrats to put partisan politics aside and support the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). “We didn’t have to be here, and you sure as heck didn’t have to shut down the government. Our choice yesterday was vote to fund the government, or not. Vote to fund children’s health insurance for 9 million children and, by the way, for states like mine that also includes DACA kids,” said Walden in a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives. “So when you voted against that yesterday, you voted not to provide insurance to children and pregnant women in our states. That is wrong. We are here to govern. We are governing as Republicans. We will get this government up and running and we will take care of those children.” Last night, Senate Democrats blocked a government funding measure that provided the longest extension of CHIP in the program's history. Rep. Walden was the only member of the Oregon delegation to vote to provide a six-year extension of CHIP for the 122,700 Oregon children and pregnant women who rely on the program every day. Background: In November, the House passed Walden's CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act by a bipartisan vote. H.R. 3922 extends funding for CHIP, Community Health Centers, and other important public health programs. H.R. 3922 was fully offset through responsible reforms like reducing federal subsidies for seniors earning more than $500,000 each year (or $40,000 each month) by limiting government contributions for their Part B and D premiums, and disenrolling lottery jackpot winners from Medicaid to prioritize the most vulnerable. Last month, the House acted to provide short-term funding for states to continue their CHIP programs, including over $96 million for children and pregnant women in Oregon. On Thursday, The House of Representatives passed a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government. Included in the CR is a provision providing six-years of funding for CHIP, which is the longest and most generous funding extension of the program. In recent days, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has updated its scoring of the provision, projecting a net savings over a six-year window. ###
01.20.2018	Greg Walden to Governor Brown: "Oregon kids need the Governor’s support at this critical time" Calls on Gov. Brown to support passage of children's health insurance program WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden, chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has called on Gov. Kate Brown to use her leadership position at the National Governor’s Association to support passage of funding children’s health insurance program. “I called Governor Brown yesterday and asked her to use her leadership position with the National Governor’s Association to support fully funding the children’s health insurance program that serves more than 122,700 Oregon children and pregnant mothers. Under my leadership, Republicans in the House have repeatedly passed full funding for CHIP, and the proposal--defeated by Democrats in the Senate last night--funded CHIP for six years at the biggest funding levels, ever. Oregon kids need the Governor’s support at this critical time,” said Walden. Last night, Senate Democrats blocked a government funding measure that provided the longest extension of CHIP in the program's history. Rep. Walden was the only member of the Oregon delegation to vote to provide a six-year extension of CHIP for the 122,700 Oregon children and pregnant women who rely on the program every day. Click here or on the image above to read more from the New York Times. Background: In November, the House passed Walden's CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act by a bipartisan vote. H.R. 3922 extends funding for CHIP, Community Health Centers, and other important public health programs. H.R. 3922 was fully offset through responsible reforms like reducing federal subsidies for seniors earning more than $500,000 each year (or $40,000 each month) by limiting government contributions for their Part B and D premiums, and disenrolling lottery jackpot winners from Medicaid to prioritize the most vulnerable. Last month, the House acted to provide short-term funding for states to continue their CHIP programs, including over $96 million for children and pregnant women in Oregon. On Thursday, The House of Representatives passed a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government. Included in the CR is a provision providing six-years of funding for CHIP, which is the longest and most generous funding extension of the program. In recent days, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has updated its scoring of the provision, projecting a net savings over a six-year window.
01.18.2018	Greg Walden on CHIP funding: “It’s time. Enough’s enough.” WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Earlier this evening, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) participated in a press conference calling on Democrats to stop playing politics with funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The press conference fell on the eve of the House’s consideration of a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund government operations, which includes a six-year extension for CHIP. Detailing the Democrats’ delays throughout the legislative process and their resistance to reaching a bipartisan agreement, Walden stated, “It’s time. Enough’s enough.” Click here or on the image above to watch Walden’s remarks Background: In November, the House passed Walden's CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act (H.R.3922) by a bipartisan vote. H.R. 3922 extends funding for CHIP, Community Health Centers, and other important public health programs. H.R. 3922 was fully offset through responsible reforms like reducing federal subsidies for seniors earning more than $500,000 each year (or $40,000 each month) by limiting government contributions for their Part B and D premiums, and disenrolling lottery jackpot winners from Medicaid to prioritize the most vulnerable. Last month, the House acted to provide short-term funding for states to continue their CHIP programs, giving the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) greater flexibility over the use of redistribution funds. ###
01.11.2018	Greg Walden applauds renomination of Ryan Bounds to Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals Says Bounds is “uniquely qualified for this judgeship” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) applauded the renomination of Ryan Bounds to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. “The President’s nomination of Ryan Bounds to serve on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals is welcome news for rural Oregon. Born and raised in Hermiston, Ryan has never lost touch with his roots and understands well the way of life in our communities,” said Walden. “He knows firsthand the dominant role federal decisions can make in our region where a majority of land is managed by the federal government. Ryan is also a highly talented and accomplished legal practitioner, with a breadth of experience before both trial and appellate courts.” Ryan Bounds serves as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Oregon, where he prosecutes criminal cases on behalf of the United States. Previously, he was a Special Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Columbia. “Rural Oregon deserves both a chance for a more balanced judicial approach and a talented legal practitioner who understands the impact these decisions have on our way of life,” said Walden. “Ryan’s deep roots in rural Oregon, respect for tradition, precedent, and deference to the political branches of the state and federal governments will provide rural Oregon with that important voice on the bench. He is uniquely qualified for this judgeship. His commitment to the rule of law, liberty and self-government are, in my mind, beyond question. I strongly support his nomination and look forward to the Senate moving promptly to confirm him for this seat on the Ninth Circuit.” On January 5, President Trump renominated Ryan Bounds to serve as a Circuit Court Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Mr. Bounds’ nomination has the support of local lawmakers, community leaders, and well respected legal practitioners in Oregon, including: The City Council of Hermiston, Oregon The City Council of Pendleton, Oregon Oregon State Senator Bill Hansell Oregon State Senator Tim Knopp Oregon State Senator Betsy Johnson Oregon State Senator Fred Girod Oregon State Senator Dennis Linthicum Oregon State Senator Kim Thatcher Oregon State Senator Jackie Winters Oregon State Senator Arnie Roblan Oregon State Senator Ted Ferriolli Oregon State Senator Herman Baertschiger Jr. Oregon State Senator Alan DeBoer Oregon State Senator Jeff Kruse Oregon State Senator Alan Olsen Oregon State Senator Chuck Thomsen Oregon State senator Lee Beyer Oregon Wheat Growers League Amy Baggio, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Lawrence Matasar, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Robert Hamilton, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Francesca Freccero, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Michelle Sweet, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Fidel Cassino-DuCloux, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Celia Howes, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Per Olson, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) John Ransom, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Per Ramfjord, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Mark Ahlemeyer, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Thomas E. Price, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Mark C. Cogan, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Thomas J. Hester, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Warren & Sugarman – Attorneys at Law Andrew Bates, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Jeffrey A. Turnoy, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Kristen Tranetzki, Esq. (Oregon criminal defense bar) Kristian Roggendorf, Esq. Darian Stanford, Esq. Robert D. Van Brocklin, Esq. Neil Bryant, Esq. Jim Westwood, Esq. Janet Schroer, Esq. Bill Barton, Esq. Henry Hewitt, Esq. Michael Wise, Esq. Jack Roberts, Esq. Bethany Bacci, Esq. Dan Occhipinti, Esq. Tony Dal Ponte, Esq. Elizabeth Bingold, Esq. David Angeli, Esq. Tom Rask, Esq. Andre Wang, Esq. Timothy J. Bernasek, Esq. Doug Pahl, Esq. Scott Rickard, Esq. Mary Anne Cooper, Esq. Brendan O’Scannlain, Esq. Tom Johnson, Esq. Dave Filippi, Esq. Janet Schroer, Esq. Sara Cotton, Esq. Jeff Bradford, Esq. Kirk Maag, Esq. Duane Bosworth, Esq. Doug Goe, Esq. Tim Snider, Esq. Gene Frasetto, Esq. Heath Curtiss, Esq. Ivan Gutierrez, Esq. Richard Vangelisti, Esq. Phil Nelson, Esq. Chad Stavley, Esq. Shangar Meman, Esq. Shawn Filippi, Esq. Brent Barton, Esq. Emilee S. Preble, Esq. – Member of the Board of Directors of the Multnomah Bar Association Beverly Pearman, Esq. Stephen Peifer, Esq. John Haub Law, LLC For full letters of support for Mr. Bounds’ nomination to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, please click here. To read an editorial from the Pendleton East Oregonian in support of Bounds’ nomination, please click here.
01.10.2018	Walden bill to protect Mt. Hood, local drinking water source, signed into law Click here or on the image above to view Walden's remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Bipartisan legislation authored by Oregon Reps. Greg Walden and Earl Blumenauer, and Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley to help protect Mt. Hood and Crystal Springs, the local water source for communities in the surrounding area, was signed into law today. “This is the final piece in a decade-long effort to protect the upper Hood River Valley,” said Walden. “We passed legislation in 2009 to provide important protections for Mt. Hood -- a treasure to all Oregonians. This ensures that these lands will be transferred and if development occurs it will be in Government Camp, where it belongs. This critical habitat and public land will now have long-term protections for generations to come. I am proud to have worked diligently with my colleagues and move this bipartisan bill forward in the Oregon Way. I applaud President Trump for signing this critical legislation into law.” Oregon Reps. Greg Walden and Earl Blumenauer hiking around Mt. Hood in August 2005 The Omnibus Public Lands Management Act of 2009 authorizes a land exchange to allow development of 120 acres of federal land in Government Camp in exchange for the protection of 770 acres of non-federal land at Cooper Spur. That law clearly stated that the Forest Service should complete the land exchange within 16 months. However, the exchange has yet to be completed, creating frustration and uncertainty in the local communities around Mt. Hood. The Mt. Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act, signed into law today, directs the Forest Service to complete the exchange, addresses disagreements over a conservation easement, and allows for a more transparent appraisal process. The House passed this legislation in February of 2017 by a vote of 415-1, and the Senate passed the bill in December of 2017. ###
01.09.2018	Greg Walden presses for update on Hanford clean up Leads hearing to receive update from DOE officials on progress, timeline of Hanford clean up Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today led a hearing with Department of Energy (DOE) officials to discuss the federal government’s cleanup of nuclear waste at the Hanford Site. During the hearing, Walden stressed the importance of finishing the cleanup for people in Oregon and throughout the Pacific Northwest. “The Office of Environmental Management oversees the environmental remediation projects at some of our nation’s most contaminated sites, including the Hanford Site that is located just up the Columbia River from where I live,” said Walden. “Those of us in the Northwest care deeply about that, and even more deeply about getting it cleaned up and protected, especially given some of the failures that have occurred recently with some of the tanks.” Walden toured the Hanford Site in August of 2017 with Energy Secretary Rick Perry, and today requested an update on the progress of nuclear waste cleanup at Hanford from DOE Under Secretary for Science Paul Dabbar, who recently returned from assessing cleanup efforts at the site. “Give us an update on the latest at Hanford, and where that waste would go if we ever get Yucca opened,” said Walden. “Are we still on target?” “There are things we are moving along with that we are very excited about and think are very positive, and there are areas that have challenges. In terms of the positive areas, finally we are moving down the road of making glass at the plateau,” said Under Secretary Dabbar, referencing the process by which hazardous nuclear waste is immobilized through glass-making. “The DFLAW -- the low activity nuclear waste treatment plant -- is coming online. We’re going to make some glass, and we are going to clean up some tanks. We’re also looking at closing the first tank farm possibly -- the first time ever -- and we’re looking to ship some waste off site for the first time ever. There’s some very positive things that we are executing.” Today’s hearing comes as Walden continues to lead the effort to clean up spent nuclear fuel that is sitting idle in 121 communities across 39 states throughout the country, including at the Hanford Site. Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee passed the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act (H.R. 3053), by a vote of 49-4 in June of 2017. This legislation provides practical reforms to the nation’s nuclear waste management policy, and reinstates Yucca Mountain as the cornerstone of the country’s nuclear waste disposal. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and full webcast, please click HERE.
01.09.2018	Greg Walden applauds rural broadband executive orders Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today applauded two executive orders signed by President Trump aimed at improving rural broadband. “Too many rural communities in Oregon lack the broadband access they need to join the 21st century economy,” said Walden. “I hear this all too frequently from my constituents, and insufficient internet access leaves nearly 23 million Americans across the country without access to telemedicine, streaming video, distance learning, and more. The executive orders signed by President Trump bring us closer to spanning the digital divide and helping Oregonians and all Americans fully realize the innovations made possible by broadband, no matter where they live.” The executive orders signed by the President today aim to streamline and expedite requests for rural broadband projects, and direct the Department of the Interior to develop plans to support rural broadband development by increasing access to tower facilities and other infrastructure assets managed by the department. Today’s action comes as Walden continues to lead the effort to improve mobile broadband, make broadband spectrum more available to consumers, and increase access to telemedicine services and other 21st century technology that requires broadband connectivity in rural Oregon and across the country. To read President Trump’s full executive order on “Streamlining and Expediting Requests to Locate Broadband Facilities in Rural America,” please click here. To read President Trump’s full memorandum for the Secretary of the Interior regarding broadband tower facilities in rural America, please click here.
12.29.2017	Year-in-Review: Greg Walden’s top seven legislative wins for Oregon in 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released a list of top seven legislative wins for Oregon in 2017. Walden authored important bills that have been signed into law and passed in the House of Representatives this year to support America’s military and veterans, protect Oregon’s public lands and grow family wage jobs in local communities, modernize the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), improve forest management to prevent catastrophic wildfire, and helped pass major tax reform to bring much-needed relief for middle class families in Oregon. According to www.congress.gov, Walden leads the Oregon House delegation with 23 bills passed through the House of Representatives this year. Walden also leads the House delegation with five pieces of legislation sent to the President in 2017. Walden has assisted over 1,200 Oregonians this year with problems they were having with federal agencies, including 500 veterans and military service members, and over 120 Oregonians with their Social Security and Medicare benefits. If you or someone you know is having difficulty with a federal agency such as the Veterans Administration (VA) or Internal Revenue Service (IRS), you can all Walden’s office toll free from Oregon at 800-533-3303. Walden bill to protect Mt. Hood, boost family wage jobs sent to President’s desk Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s floor speech Bipartisan legislation authored by Oregon Reps. Greg Walden and Earl Blumenauer, and Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley to help protect the local water source for the City of Hood River and upper Hood River Valley, while promoting economic growth and family wage jobs for the local communities, is heading to the President’s desk. The Mt. Hood-Cooper Spur Land Clarification Act passed the House of Representatives in February on a 415-1 vote, and passed the Senate in December. Walden has worked closely over the years with Rep. Earl Blumenauer to protect Oregon’s public lands around Mt. Hood and grow the local economy. "Completing the Cooper Spur land exchange is key to protecting Crystal Springs, the water source for the City of Hood River and the upper Hood River Valley, while also encouraging economic and job growth around Mt. Hood,” Walden said. “These communities have waited nearly nine years for the Forest Service to complete the exchange Congress gave them 16 months to finish. This is long past due and I look forward to President Trump signing this bill into law so the job can finally get done.” Mt. Hood land exchange heads to Trump’s desk A long-delayed land swap on Mount Hood that sets out areas for commercial development and protected forest land has cleared Congress. The bill unanimously passed the Senate on Thursday night, Dec. 21, which means it’s headed to President Donald Trump’s desk to be signed into law. The bipartisan legislation written by U.S. Senators Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and Representatives Greg Walden, (R-Ore.) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) was aimed at protecting and enhancing Oregon’s land conservation and recreation priorities on the mountain. Please click here to read more from the Hood River News. Greg Walden bill to ensure military access to lifesaving medical treatments signed into law Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s floor speech President Trump signed into law legislation introduced by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to ensure the military has access to lifesaving medical treatments. Walden’s legislation (H.R. 4374) passed the House and Senate unanimously, and will amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to authorize additional emergency uses for medical products to reduce deaths and severity of injuries on the battlefield. ''Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line for this country, and they deserve to have the earliest possible access to medical products that could save their lives on the battlefield,” said Walden in a speech on the House floor when the legislation passed the House in November. “In short, H.R. 4374 addresses the critical issue of military access to the newest available products by expanding the circumstances under which emergency use authorizations can be issued, and by establishing an expedited pathway to full approval of products that the Secretary of Defense requests.” Walden resolution passed President Trump signed House Resolution 4374, a piece of legislation introduced by Representative Greg Walden. The resolution amended a law that would allow for the use of unapproved medical products during a military emergency. It is intended to speed up development and review of medical products for military emergency use within 45 days. Click here for more from KTVL News Channel 10. Greg Walden bill to modernize Food and Drug Administration signed into law Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s floor speech President Trump signed Rep. Walden’s FDA Reauthorization Act (FDARA) of 2017 into law in August. Walden’s legislation passed the House and Senate unanimously, and will help deliver new medical devices, treatments, and therapies to patients in Oregon and across the country. This bill reauthorizes and modernizes the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) critical medical product user fee programs, ensuring the agency has the tools it needs to more efficiently deliver safe and effective drugs, devices, and treatments to patients. “This law will encourage new medical innovations, bring lower cost drugs to market faster, improve the regulatory review process for devices and treatments and, most importantly provide certainty to patients and the health industry,” said Walden. Click here to read more from the Energy and Commerce Committee, where Walden serves as Chairman. Greg Walden helps pass landmark legislation to bring tax-relief to middle class Oregonians Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Continuing his efforts to provide tax relief for middle-class families and boost job growth in Oregon, Rep. Walden voted to pass landmark tax reform through Congress in December. Walden applauded the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1), as a win for hard-working Oregon taxpayers and job creators. “The measure Congress will send to the President this week means that a hardworking family of four in eastern Oregon that earns about $50,000 a year -- which is the median household income in my district -- will receive a tax break of about $1,300 compared to the existing law. Instead of a bloated federal government taking and spending your money, I want families to keep more of what they earn. That’s $10,400 in lower federal income taxes over the next eight years for that one family,” Walden said. Walden has heard from constituents across Oregon’s second district about the importance of this tax reform legislation. To read more about what people in Oregon are saying about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, please click here. Oregon Farm Bureau: Tax reform will help agriculture The Oregon Farm Bureau said the tax reform package passed by Congress and signed Friday by President Trump includes many provisions that will help Oregon's farm and ranch families. "This bill lowers taxes for the vast majority of our agricultural families," said Oregon Farm Bureau President Barry Bushue. Bushue pointed out that the bill simplifies rate structures and eliminates the death tax for estates under $11 million while maintaining annual indexing for inflation, which covers nearly all family ag operations. Click here to read more from News Channel 21. Greg Walden leads forest management reform through House for fifth year in a row Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s floor speech For the fifth time in five years, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) voted in November to pass legislation to improve federal forest management and reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires that ravage Oregon and much of the West every year. The Resilient Federal Forests Act (H.R. 2936), which Walden helped craft, addresses the growing economic and environmental threats of catastrophic wildfire that scorched over 710,000 acres of land across Oregon this year. “My intensity on this issue is almost that of the fires we fight,” said Walden. “We can reduce the size and intensity of fire up to 70 percent, if we do the kinds of projects that thin out the forests and allow us to better manage and be better stewards of our federal forests that are contemplated as a result of this legislation.” Forest reform bill passes House For the fifth time in as many years, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill Wednesday that would expedite certain forest thinning projects to lower the risk of destructive wildfires across the country. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Oregon) hailed it as a big day for the Northwest during a conference call with reporters, saying the bill not only solves the issue of “fire borrowing” but gives agencies more leeway to thin overcrowded and diseased forests. Click here to read more from the East Oregonian. Greg Walden bill to improve care for Oregon veterans passes House unanimously Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks The U.S. House of Representatives in June unanimously passed a plan co-authored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to improve the care Oregon’s veterans receive at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Walden worked with House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman, Dr. Phil Roe, to introduce the VA Medical Scribes Pilot Act of 2017. Walden’s legislation would implement a pilot program for medical scribes at VA facilities, which will help unburden VA doctors and allow them to see more patients. “Good news for Oregon veterans: the House passed legislation I co-authored with Chairman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Dr. Phil Roe, that will allow veterans’ doctors to do what they do best -- spend more time taking care of veterans,” said Walden. “This legislation sets up a pilot program to try something that has worked successfully in the private sector -- having scribes work side-by-side with doctors, so that doctors can focus on the patient and scribes can focus on the paperwork.” Guest Opinion: Bills would improve the VA for Oregon veterans Veterans in Oregon and across the country deserve quality care in a timely manner when they go to the VA. Unfortunately, long wait times at many facilities have resulted in delayed access to essential health services, especially in rural and underserved areas in Oregon. We can and must solve this problem, and I’ve sponsored legislation to help. Let’s start by making sure the VA is adequately staffed with qualified medical providers, and that these providers are able to devote their undivided attention to serving those who’ve served our country. Click here to read Rep. Walden’s guest column in the Medford Mail Tribune. Walden paves the way for self-driving cars Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s floor speech Rep. Walden, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, helped pass landmark legislation through the House of Representatives in September to pave the way for self-driving cars. Walden has led a bipartisan effort to advance self-driving vehicle technology to help make Oregon’s roads safer, create new economic opportunities, and help seniors and those with disabilities live more independently. "Almost 40,000 lives were lost on our roads last year. This represents yet another yearly increase in traffic-related fatalities. In my home state of Oregon, traffic fatalities were the highest they’ve been in 14 years, increasing by an alarming 20 percent from the year before,” said Walden. “Statistics show that 94 percent of accidents relate to human behavior. During our morning commute into work, just look around. We all see folks on their phones in the cars next to us. While National Highway Traffic Safety Administration cannot write a safety standard to make us all perfect drivers, it can work to advance life-saving technologies -- which is the underlying goal of today’s bipartisan legislation.” Rep. Greg Walden Is Oregon's Champion Of Self-Driving Cars The U.S. House on Tuesday passed a bill to spur the widespread use of self-driving cars that was partly crafted by Rep. Greg Walden, R-Oregon. Walden used his chairmanship of the House Energy and Commerce Committee to work with automakers and tech companies to hammer out a measure that allows testing of more self-driving cars on American roads. “Today marks a really important milestone in our pursuit to make our roadways safer and support American leadership in self-driving innovation,” Walden said on the House floor before the measure passed on a voice vote with no objection. Click here to read more from Oregon Public Broadcasting.
12.22.2017	Greg Walden nominates sixteen Oregon students for acceptance to U.S. service academies WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that he has nominated sixteen Oregon students for acceptance to one of the prestigious United States service academies. Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board -- retired military officers who interview potential candidates for the service academies -- recommended each student based on their academic performance, extracurricular involvement, and character. “It is an honor and privilege to nominate these remarkable young Oregonians to our nation’s service academies,” Walden said. “They have earned these much-deserved nominations through years of hard work, dedication, and commitment to character. These students have shown a desire to grow intellectually, lead by example, and serve their country by pursuing a higher education at one of our country’s select service academies. I am confident that each will be successful in this admirable endeavor, and that America’s future is in good hands. “I’d like to thank my Service Academy Nomination Board for recommending these future leaders. Their service to our country and experience wearing our nation’s uniform speaks to the unique qualities of the students they interviewed and referred for nomination. These nominations would not be possible without their guidance and understanding of what it takes to excel and succeed at the U.S. service academies,” said Walden. Serving on Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board are: retired U.S. Army Brig. Gen. Frank Toney, retired U.S. Navy Capt. Harriet Harris, retired U.S. Navy Capt. Bud Hart, retired U.S. Marine Corps. Lt. Col. Richard Halsted, and retired U.S. Marine Corps. Col. Dave Dotterer. Retired U.S. Navy Com. John Howard served as the Recorder for the Service Academy Nomination Board. The service academies include the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado; the Military Academy at West Point, New York; the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Final selection for admission to the service academies will be determined by officials at each respective academy this spring. Students who are interested in learning more about service academy nominations can visit Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/academynominations. The nominees from Oregon are as follows: Baker County Clay Keller, son of Douglas and Theresa Keller of Baker City, attending Baker High School – nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Austin Rasmussen, son of Julie Rasmussen of Baker City, attending Baker High school –nominated to the United States Military Academy. Deschutes County Emily Brockman, daughter of Chuck and Toni Brockman of Bend, attending Bend Sr. High School – nominated to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. Jordan Andrews, daughter of Corey Andrews and Lisa Jacobs of Sisters, attending Sisters High School -- nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Jonathan Gregory, son of Brian Gregory and Tina Ogle of Redmond, attending Redmond High School –nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Jackson County Garrett Bates, son of Patrick and Lisa Bates of Central Point, attending St. Mary’s School – nominated to the United States Military Academy, the United States Airforce Academy, and the United States Naval Academy. Rosemary Weston, daughter of Cael and Marcella Weston of Ashland, attending St. Mary’s School –nominated to the United States Naval Academy, the United States Military Academy, and the United States Air Force Academy. Patrick Royal, son of Jole and Debra Royal of Central Point, attending South Medford High School – nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Caleb Cheshire, son of Walter and Kathryn Cheshire of Central Point, homeschool—nominated to the United States Naval Academy, United States Military Academy, United States Air Force Academy. Trent Snyder, son of Richard Snyder and Gail Schneider-Ross of Medford, attending South Medford High School –nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Josephine County Nathan Burton, son of Guy and Leanne Burton of Grants Pass, attending Grants Pass High School -- nominated to United States Naval Academy. Klamath County Thomas Morgan, son of Robert and Tanya Morgan of Klamath Falls, homeschool – nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Matthew Yuckniuk, son of Scott and Debbie Yuckniuck of Klamath Falls, homeschooled– nominated to the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Matthew Edwards, son of Jeffrey and Teresa Edwards of Klamath Falls, attending Henley High School – nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Malheur County Kirk Eiguren, son of Michael and Robbin Eiguren of Jordan Valley, attending Jordan Valley High School – nominated to the United States Air Force Academy. Wallowa County James Wells, son of Larry and Ilene Wells of Joseph, attending Enterprise High School – nominated to the United States Naval Academy and the United States Air Force Academy. ###
12.22.2017	What People in Oregon Are Saying About Tax Plan Calculators: A number of news outlets and others have developed tax calculators based on the provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Try them out below and see the numbers for yourself. Washington Post Tax Calculator: https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2017/business/tax-bill-calculator/?utm_term=.bb788b9c2558 New York Times Tax Calculator: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/12/17/upshot/tax-calculator.html Tax Plan Calculator by Maxim Lott: http://taxplancalculator.com/ "Pro-growth tax reform is on its way to hardworking, middle-class Americans. And it’s about time. The biggest percentage of tax reductions next year will go to those earning between $20,000 and $50,000 a year. That’s according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. An Eastern Oregon family earning the median income of approximately $50,000 a year will pay about $1,300 less next year. Over the next eight years that’s a savings of $10,400 for that family." - Representative Greg Walden http://www.bendbulletin.com/opinion/5858096-151/guest-column-tax-reform-for-oregons-middle-class Pacific Power: “We strive to provide our customers reliable service while keeping rates low. The benefit of this tax cut should be passed on to our customers – and we will work with our regulators and stakeholders on the best way to do that.” – Stefan Bird, President and CEO of Pacific Power. http://www.mycolumbiabasin.com/2018/01/03/pacific-power-says-they-will-lower-rates-with-tax-cuts/ Capital Press Ag Weekly: "The tax reform bill passed by Congress and signed by President Trump last week appears to have provisions that favor farmers, ranchers and agribusinesses. In a year when the prices of many commodity are depressed, that’s good news." - Capital Press Ag Weekly Editorial Board. http://www.capitalpress.com/Opinion/Editorials/20171228/new-federal-tax-law-a-plus-for-agriculture Grants Pass Chamber - “The small businesses in rural southern Oregon will enjoy the benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act with the 20% tax deduction for small businesses, as well as the ability to immediately write-off the cost of new equipment without previous limitations. This will help business reinvest in their community, and we look forward to job growth in manufacturing and trades for our companies and their employees. We appreciate Congressman Walden’s efforts to pass this bill into law.” – Colene Martin, President, CEO, Grants Pass and Josephine County Chamber of Commerce. Oregon Farm Bureau - “This bill lowers taxes for the vast majority of our agricultural families. We thank Congressman Greg Walden for his work on this bill, and his success in restoring key provisions like state tax deductibility. This was a huge lift and we know family agriculture will see the benefits for many years to come. Beyond the ag-specific benefits of this bill, we are happy to see good the economic policy it implements. The bill brings corporate tax rates closer to those of our competitor nations, and should encourage greater capital investment in the United States.” - said Oregon Farm Bureau President Barry Bushue. Insitu - “Boeing and Insitu applaud Congress for taking critical steps to reform the tax code, which will help us in the Columbia Gorge region become more competitive and invest more in innovative technologies that drive expansion of the use of unmanned systems. We thank Chairman Greg Walden for his leadership in this area.” – Ryan Hartman, President and CEO of Insitu, a Boeing wholly-owned subsidiary. Intel - Intel. William Moss, a spokesman for the company. "Although it's too early for us to detail specific business decisions, we believe this tax reform bill can help level the playing field for U.S. manufacturers and make us more competitive in today's global economy," Moss wrote in an email. "The bill should also spur further investment in American manufacturing and (research and development)." - http://www.oregonlive.com/politics/index.ssf/2017/12/greg_walden_defends_republican.html Oregon Cattlemen’s Association – “The Oregon Cattlemen’s Association would like to recognize and thank Congressman Walden for his hard work and dedication towards the tax reform. Several elements, such as lowering individual tax rates and increasing levels of estate tax exemption will be particularly helpful to ranchers in Oregon.” Washington Federal – “…announced with the signing of tax reform legislation, the Bank will accelerate strategic investments in its employees, client service capabilities and community development funding. Specifically, effective when the bill becomes law all Washington Federal employees in good standing and earning less than $100,000 per year will receive a 5% increase on top of their normal merit increase. In addition, a substantial investment will be made in the training and development of all employees, enabling them to upgrade their skills to more effectively compete in today’s rapidly changing business environment. The training will focus on leadership, technology, and client service skills.” -- https://www.streetinsider.com/Corporate+News/Washington+Federal+%28WAFD%29+Announces+5%25+Wage+Increase+Following+Tax+Reform/13621451.html Bend Brewers “Yes, this tax cut that reduces the federal excise/alcohol tax of small producers by 50 percent is helpful and gratefully accepted,” - Steve Anderson of Kobold Brewing, in Bend “It’s a huge relief for us. Every year there are a ton of projects for us to continue to grow and maintain a facility in Bend. That funding will be reinvested.” - Deschutes Brewery CEO Michael LaLonde http://www.bendbulletin.com/business/5858353-151/bend-brewers-welcome-craft-beverage-tax-cut "I know on the excise tax alone, we're probably looking in the neighborhood of $70,000 that we're going to save. That money is going to just go right back in the pockets of the brewery, which is going to be turned into more equipment expansion, and bodies and labor as well." Jason Stuwe, Co-Owner of GoodLife Brewing http://www.ktvz.com/news/small-craft-breweries-to-save-big-under-new-tax-law/678674982
12.20.2017	Greg Walden applauds announcement on Portland Harbor Superfund clean up WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today applauded Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt’s announcement that the Portland Harbor Superfund cleanup is moving forward: “I want to thank Administrator Pruitt and his team for making the cleanup of the Portland Harbor a national priority. After 16 years of study this announcement signifies real progress is being made under Administrator Pruitt’s leadership to finally move this cleanup forward. It is refreshing and welcome news. Cleaning up the Portland Harbor will have positive environmental and economic benefits for all Oregonians. I look forward to continuing to work closely with Administrator Pruitt to achieve the end result we’re all working towards -- a cleaned up Portland Harbor.” ###
12.19.2017	Greg Walden applauds tax relief for middle-class Oregonians Votes to pass landmark tax reform through House of Representatives Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to provide tax relief for middle-class families and boost job growth in Oregon, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today voted to pass landmark tax reform through the House of Representatives. Walden applauded the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1), as a win for hard-working Oregon taxpayers and job creators. “I want to thank the nearly 2,000 Oregonians who called and wrote to me over the last month with suggestions on how we could improve the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to better fit our needs in Oregon,” said Walden. “The measure Congress will send to the President this week means that a hardworking family of four in eastern Oregon that earns about $50,000 a year -- which is the median household income in my district -- will receive a tax break of about $1,300 compared to the existing law. Instead of a bloated federal government taking and spending your money, I want families to keep more of what they earn. That’s $10,400 in lower federal income taxes over the next eight years for that one family.” Based on feedback from Oregonians, Walden worked alongside leaders in both the House and Senate to incorporate changes into the final agreement. Importantly, the bill passed today includes specific provisions particularly important for Oregonians including: State and Local Tax Deductions: Oregonians who itemize their taxes will be able to deduct a combined $10,000 in state property and income taxes Private Activity Bonds: Preserves the tax-exempt private activity bonds used to support economic development and affordable housing projects in Oregon. Student Loan Interest: Preserves the tax deduction for interest paid on federal student loans Medical Expense Deduction: Preserves the ability for Oregonians who itemize to deduct qualified medical expenses Craft Beverage Modernization: Reduces excise taxes on small craft brewers and winemakers in Oregon Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT): Repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, which is important for large employers in Oregon like Nike “The long and public process allowed people from across the country, and especially here at home in Oregon, to help shape and improve this historic legislation,” concluded Walden. “Today, the Washington special interest lobbyists lost, and the hard-working American taxpayers and job creators won.” According to data from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and reports from the nonpartisan Tax Foundation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will positively impact Oregon by: Benefits for Oregon's Second District Doubled Standard Deduction: 224,588 (68%) taxpayers in the 2nd District take the standard deduction under current law. By doubling the standard deduction, these taxpayers will see an immediate tax break under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Increased Child Tax Credit: 50,193 taxpayers in the 2nd District claim the child tax credit. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act doubles the child tax credit from $1,000 per child to $2,000.Tax Relief for Small Businesses: 50,650 taxpayers in the 2nd District have small business income (a business that the taxpayer operated). The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reduces taxes for small business owners by providing a 20 percent tax deduction on the first $315,000 of income. Simpler Taxes: 104,189 taxpayers in the 2nd District itemize their taxes. As a result of the near doubling of the standard deduction and other simplifications, many taxpayers will have much simpler returns. It is estimated that 9 out of 10 Americans will be able to file their taxes on a postcard. For more information on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, please click here. ###
12.15.2017	Greg Walden statement on tax relief for middle-class Oregonians WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which will help bring tax relief to middle-class families in Oregon and grow America’s economy: "This plan will bring much-needed tax relief for hardworking, middle-class families in Oregon and allow them to keep more of what they have earned. That has been my goal and focus from the beginning,” said Walden. “I have been working closely with my colleagues to improve the bill based on feedback I have heard from Oregonians, and I am encouraged to see the changes incorporated into this final plan. “By expanding the ability for Oregon taxpayers to deduct up to $10,000 in combined state income and property taxes, the final plan helps bring further relief to people who currently itemize their taxes. I also worked hard with my colleagues to preserve tax-exempt private activity bonds, which are incredibly important for economic development, affordable housing, and veterans housing projects across Oregon. We have made progress for our students, Oregonians with high medical expenses, Oregon craft brewers and winemakers, and large employers in our state as well. “These improvements build on the strong foundation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed in the House. By nearly doubling the standard deduction, expanding the child tax credit, lowering tax rates across the board, and finally giving American companies a competitive corporate rate, this pro-growth plan makes our tax code work better for middle-class Oregonians and people across the country. I look forward to working alongside my colleagues to get our plan across the finish line and to the President’s desk.” Walden has been working alongside House Ways & Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady and leaders in both the House and Senate to incorporate changes into the final agreement. Importantly, the bill released today includes specific provisions particularly important for Oregonians including: State and Local Tax Deductions: Oregonians who itemize their taxes will be able to deduct a combined $10,000 in state property and income taxes Private Activity Bonds: Preserves the tax-exempt private activity bonds used to support economic development and affordable housing projects in Oregon. Student Loan Interest: Preserves the tax deduction for interest paid on federal student loans Medical Expense Deduction: Preserves the ability for Oregonians who itemize to deduct qualified medical expenses Craft Beverage Modernization: Reduces excise taxes on small craft brewers and winemakers in Oregon Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT): Repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, which is important for large employers in Oregon like Nike According to data from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and reports from the nonpartisan Tax Foundation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will positively impact Oregon by: Benefits for Oregon's Second District Doubled Standard Deduction: 224,588 (68%) taxpayers in the 2nd District take the standard deduction under current law. By doubling the standard deduction, these taxpayers will see an immediate tax break under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Increased Child Tax Credit: 50,193 taxpayers in the 2nd District claim the child tax credit. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act doubles the child tax credit from $1,000 per child to $2,000.Tax Relief for Small Businesses: 50,650 taxpayers in the 2nd District have small business income (a business that the taxpayer operated). The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reduces taxes for small business owners by providing a 20 percent tax deduction on the first $315,000 of income. Simpler Taxes: 104,189 taxpayers in the 2nd District itemize their taxes. As a result of the near doubling of the standard deduction and other simplifications, many taxpayers will have much simpler returns. It is estimated that 9 out of 10 Americans will be able to file their taxes on a postcard. For more information on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, please click here. ###
12.14.2017	Walden, Blackburn on the FCC Restoring Internet Freedom Vote WASHINGTON, DC – House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) released the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved the Restoring Internet Freedom order. “The FCC’s vote today will preserve the open and dynamic Internet the American people have known since the early 1990s. The light-touch Title I rules, under which the Internet flourished for decades, will help more Americans than ever before access the web, video streaming, telemedicine, and the innovations of the future made possible by increased investment in broadband. Now, the table is set for Congress to provide clear, permanent rules through a bipartisan legislative solution. We hope that all stakeholders, and our Democratic colleagues, will finally engage in serious negotiations soon,” said Walden and Blackburn.
12.14.2017	Greg Walden: “It’s important we work together to protect our public lands” Walden stressed that he will not support action to remove millions of acres of America’s public lands Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s statement WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his support for protecting public lands in Oregon and across the country, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released a video message on the importance of working together to steward these lands, protect private property rights, and improve federal land management to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire. Walden also stressed that he will not support action to remove millions of acres of America’s public lands. A full transcript of Walden’s remarks is included below: “I am a strong supporter of America’s public lands, and will not support any effort that wipes 2 million acres off the map in any case,” said Walden. “I want the Trump administration to follow the law when it comes to management of our public lands, especially in southern Oregon. I am a strong supporter of private property rights, and for multiple use on our public lands. "These are the lands we enjoy to go hunting, fishing, hiking, and camping, and I want to make sure that they are available to the public. I’ve also supported legislation like the Steens Mountain Cooperative Management and Protection Act that President Clinton signed into law. I’ve supported management changes on Mount Hood and Soda Mountain as well. “It is important that we work together to protect our public lands, to better manage our public lands, reduce fire on our public lands, and to replant them and restore them when they are damaged.” This comes as the House recently passed legislation Walden helped craft -- the Resilient Federal Forests Act -- which would improve federal land management and forest health. Walden has led the call to action on forest management reform following a historic wildfire season in Oregon and across much of the West. The Resilient Federal Forests Act will bring better management to federal lands in Oregon by reducing unnatural fuel loads to improve the resiliency of forests and watersheds to fire, and improve wildlife habitat. To read more about Walden’s efforts to protect public lands in Oregon from catastrophic wildfire, please click here. ###
12.12.2017	President signs Greg Walden bill to ensure military access to lifesaving medical treatments Legislation will streamline approval process for lifesaving treatments for troops on front lines Click here or on the image above to view Walden's remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, President Trump signed into law legislation introduced by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to ensure the military has access to lifesaving medical treatments. Walden’s legislation (H.R. 4374) passed the House and Senate unanimously, and will amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to authorize additional emergency uses for medical products to reduce deaths and severity of injuries caused by agents of war. “This is an important day for our brave men and women in uniform, ensuring they get the timely care they need while protecting our country,” said Walden. “Today we are well on our way to delivering the newest treatments and devices to our war fighters without forgoing important safety mechanisms.” Specifically, Walden’s legislation corrects language within the National Defense Authorization Act – which was also signed into law today – that could have usurped FDA’s critical authority of ensuring the safety and efficacy of cutting edge medicines for our soldiers on the front lines. Walden’s bill will streamline the processes at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Department of Defense (DoD) to ensure America’s warfighters have access to new, lifesaving medications in a timely manner. ''Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line for this country, and they deserve to have the earliest possible access to medical products that could save their lives on the battlefield,” said Walden in a speech on the House floor when the legislation passed the House in November. “In short, H.R. 4374 addresses the critical issue of military access to the newest available products by expanding the circumstances under which emergency use authorizations can be issued, and by establishing an expedited pathway to full approval of products that the Secretary of Defense requests.” For Representative Walden’s legislation, please click here. ###
12.07.2017	Greg Walden holds Congressional oversight hearing with EPA Administrator Discusses Portland Superfund cleanup, air quality standards following wildfires in Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks at today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today held a Congressional oversight hearing at the Energy and Commerce Committee with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt. The hearing, entitled “The Mission of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,” was Pruitt’s first appearance before Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee since being sworn in as EPA Administrator. During the hearing, Walden stressed the need for the EPA to return to its mission of protecting the environment without sidestepping Congress. "I expect that ‘Back to Basics’ is not an abdication of environmental protection, but rather a rededication to mastering the most fundamental aspects of EPA’s mission – whether it’s cleaning up Superfund sites, ensuring that safe drinking water is being piped into people’s homes, or keeping air clean and safe to breathe,” said Walden. “The public deserves to be protected and common-sense regulations are important and necessary. However, government solutions should be proportional to the problems they are tasked by Congress to solve. I believe the EPA should focus on innovative problem solving and partnerships with the states and the private sector that leverage their resources and expertise.” Walden also discussed several matters under EPA’s jurisdiction that directly impact Oregon, including the Port of Portland Superfund cleanup and air quality standards after this year’s devastating wildfire season. “I want to thank you and your team for your attention to the Superfund cleanup in the Portland Harbor. While this area is not in my district, it is in my state and what happens at the Port of Portland has an impact on all Oregonians,” said Walden. “You have brought a fresh and welcome approach to this complicated and costly cleanup. Unlike the prior administration, you’ve proven that this administration wants to actually clean up environmental messes, and do the work in a commonsense manner in close working partnership with local stakeholders. To paraphrase an old song, if you can do it there, you can do it anywhere.” Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s questioning of Administrator Pruitt Walden also asked Administrator Pruitt how the EPA can better streamline the determination process for the agency's exceptional events rule, which specifically relates to air quality standards after extreme weather events such as wildfires. Walden said that after this year’s devastating wildfire season in Oregon and across much of the West, it is important to increase the efficiency of the process for states like Oregon seeking the exception. “One of the other issues that has come up is the Clean Air Act’s exceptional events process. We’ve had all these wildfires -- they’ve had horrible wildfires again in California -- in the Northwest,” said Walden. “It has been subject of some of our hearing here about how that process works today, and the amount of time and money it takes to go through it to get an exception. What can you do to ensure a more-timely and cost-effective EPA process on exceptional event determinations?” According to the EPA, exceptional events are unusual or naturally occurring events that can affect air quality but are not reasonably controllable using techniques that state or local air agencies may implement in order to adhere to national air quality standards. Exceptional events include wildfires, stratospheric ozone intrusions and volcanic and seismic activities. Pruitt said to Walden that the EPA must do a better job of providing clarity for how the rule is applied and how the determination process is carried out. “We need to provide clarity in that area so that we know how these rules will be enforced and applied going forward. That clarity is not there presently, and that is a focus of the agency presently as we go into 2018.” Walden said the Energy and Commerce Committee would work closely with Administrator Pruitt and his team at the EPA to ensure that clarity is provided. This will allow the EPA to better determine if air quality monitoring data for a specific area has been influenced by exceptional events such as wildfires. “We’d like to work with you on that,” said Walden. “It is important to a number of members on our committee.” For more information on today’s hearing, including witness testimony, background memo, and archived webcast, please click here.
12.06.2017	Greg Walden helps advance bills to boost hydropower production, promote small businesses and manufacturers in Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), today advanced seven bills to the full House of Representatives for consideration. These bills will help empower consumers, promote clean, renewable hydropower, and promote small businesses and manufacturers in Oregon and across the country. “These bills expand the nation’s access to domestic energy resources, improve recycling and reuse of materials, and provide small businesses with the regulatory flexibility they need to meet environmental standards while still growing the economy and creating jobs,” said Walden. Particularly important for Oregon, Walden’s committee advanced legislation to boost hydropower production throughout the United States. Over 43% of Oregon’s electricity is generated from hydropower, and legislation moved forward in the Energy and Commerce Committee today will help promote the use of this renewable resource. “Many of us on this committee, if not all of us, want to see America do a better job of harnessing its great hydropower potential so we can produce more clean and reliable domestic energy,” said Walden. “Two of today’s bills do exactly this. H.R. 2872 promotes hydropower development at existing non-powered dams and H.R. 2880 opens the door wider for the construction of more pumped storage hydropower projects, which is of particular interest to my constituents in the Pacific Northwest where we have tremendous opportunities to build new pumped-hydro storage facilities.” H.R. 2872, Promoting Hydropower Development at Existing Nonpowered Dams Act, authored by committee member Rep. Larry Bucshon (R-IN), passed the committee unanimously today. H.R. 2872 would promote hydropower development at existing non-powered dams by providing the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with the discretion to grant exemptions from license requirements for qualifying facilities. H.R. 2880, Promoting Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Hydropower Act, authored by committee member Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA), also passed the committee unanimously today. H.R. 2880 would promote closed-loop pumped storage hydropower development by limiting FERC’s authority to only impose licensing conditions that are necessary to protect public safety; or are reasonable, economically feasible, and essential to protect fish and wildlife resources. The Energy and Commerce Committee also advanced H.R. 453, Relief from New Source Performance Standards Act of 2017, authored by Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN). This legislation would extend the deadlines for the second phase of new source performance standards for new residential wood heaters. Walden has applauded this bill, which is aimed at providing relief from expensive and burdensome regulations on wood heaters that are popular in rural communities in Oregon. “In many parts of Oregon, we’re surrounded by forests and wood stoves are the most economical way to heat a home or a ranch shop. But Oregonians in these areas know all too well how expensive burdensome regulations can be,” said Walden at an Energy and Commerce hearing in November. “Areas like Lakeview and Klamath Falls have found themselves facing no good option between risking air quality restrictions that could prohibit economic growth, or forcing residents to purchase expensive new wood stoves that meet new regulations. These communities ended up spending $1.5 million to help consumers afford new stoves.” All seven pieces of legislation will now head to the full House of Representatives for consideration. For more information on today’s markup, including a background memo, archived webcast, amendments, vote tallies, and text of legislation, click here. ###
12.05.2017	Greg Walden statement on recommendations for Cascade-Siskiyou National Monument WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement on U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke's final report outlining recommendations to the President on the Cascade-Siskiyou National Monument: “I appreciate Secretary Zinke's willingness to come to southern Oregon this summer to meet with passionate people on all sides of the issue before making his decision," said Walden. "This recommendation responds to the concerns I heard raised by foresters, private land owners, county commissioners, ranchers, and others. “Past presidents have ignored federal law that governs much of this forest land and have exceeded the intent of the Antiquities Act by roping in enormous swaths of private land into the monument. The result was a loss of private property rights and reduced revenues for our schools and roads. Meanwhile, the forests become more overstocked, increasing the risk of catastrophic fire. After the devastating fires this summer, it’s time to get back to responsible management of our public lands. “Any monument designation must adhere to the law, reflect the clear mandates of the O&C Act, and stay within the bounds of the Antiquities Act. Secretary Zinke's recommendation follows these principles by advocating a return to sustainable timber harvests -- as required by the O&C Act -- on the O&C lands, and removing private lands from within the monument boundary." In July, Walden welcomed Secretary Zinke to southern Oregon to tour the Cascade-Siskiyou National Monument as part of his review of national monument designations made under the Antiquities Act. "I appreciate all the time Rep. Walden and local stakeholders spent with me in Oregon as part of the monument review for Cascade-Siskyou," said Secretary Zinke. "I heard from locals that we need to conserve the land, care for the forest, respect private property rights, and allow for sustainable timber harvests in O&C lands. I'm confident that the modifications recommended today will help achieve that balance and restore the local voice to the land management process." For a full copy of Secretary Zinke's final report and recommendations, please click HERE.
12.04.2017	Greg Walden announces 2017 Congressional App Challenge Winner: Tyson Seable, Grants Pass High School Click here or on the image to watch a demonstration of Tyson Seable’s app, Flare: WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that Tyson Seable, a freshman at Grants Pass High School, is the 2017 winner of the Congressional App Challenge. Tyson’s app -- called “Flare” -- allows users to distribute quizzes to friends and students, and provides live results for each quiz that are available for download and sharing. Seable said that while the app is designed for classrooms, Flare can be enjoyed by anyone who enjoys a challenge. Christopher Rossetta, a computer science teacher at Grants Pass High School, said Tyson recently tested Flare in a classroom setting with great success. “We hope this home-grown product will be a hit in local schools,” he said. Flare is scheduled to be available on the Google Playstore in December. Congressman Walden called Tyson at school Monday to surprise him with the news and congratulate him on winning this year’s challenge. “I applaud Tyson for participating in this nationwide challenge, and commend him on his coding skills and ability to promote Flare in a way that makes people want to try it out,” Walden said. “The Congressional App Challenge allows ambitious students like Tyson to showcase their unique skill set to the country, and is a tremendous resume-builder in the pursuit of a career in computer, math or science fields. I have full confidence that Tyson’s future will be a bright one.” Tyson Seable, freshman at Grants Pass High School and winner of 2017 Congressional App Challenge, speaks with Congressman Greg Walden Monday afternoon. The Congressional App Challenge is designed to engage student creativity and encourage their participation in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education fields. This nationwide event allows high school students from across the country to compete against their peers by creating and exhibiting their software application, or "app," for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Congressman Walden encourages interested students from across Oregon’s Second District to participate in next year’s Congressional App Challenge. For more information on the Congressional App Challenge and how to participate, please visit https://walden.house.gov/appchallenge. ###
12.01.2017	Reps. Walden and DeFazio applaud tariffs to protect U.S. hardwood plywood market Duties to be levied on Chinese hardwood lumber market to counteract unfair trade practices WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Greg Walden (OR-02) and Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today applauded the U.S. International Trade Commission’s (ITC) final 4-0 vote confirming that the U.S. hardwood plywood industry has been, or is threatened to be, materially injured by unfairly subsidized Chinese imports. Today’s ruling will activate final antidumping and countervailing duties on Chinese hardwood plywood imports as determined by the Department of Commerce earlier this year. The application of these duties will provide much-needed relief to Oregon mills. “For too long, hardwood plywood mills in Oregon have suffered from the unfair trade practices China has used to corner this vital market and threaten family-wage jobs in our state,” said Reps. Walden and DeFazio. “Today’s announcement by the ITC is welcome news that will protect U.S. timber jobs and sends the clear signal that using illegal trade practices to hurt American companies, cost American jobs, and harm our timber-dependent communities is unacceptable. We applaud the thorough investigation conducted by the Department of Commerce into this matter and the ITC’s subsequent affirmative ruling, and will continue to work together to protect manufacturing jobs in Oregon and throughout the United States.” “Our company, as members of the Coalition for Fair Trade of Hardwood Plywood, is pleased with the results of this ruling,” said Joe Gonyea, III, Co-Chair of the Board for Timber Products. “This strong ruling publicly reinforces what we have known for years about unfair Chinese subsidies and dumping of inferior products into the U.S. Market. We are greatly appreciative of the bipartisan support from our Oregon congressional delegation, led in the House of Representatives by Greg Walden and Peter DeFazio, throughout this effort.” Last year the Coalition for Fair Trade of Hardwood Plywood, representing the U.S. hardwood plywood industry, filed a petition with the U.S. government seeking full enforcement of U.S. trade laws against China’s abusive trade practices. Last month, the Department of Commerce issued final determinations on antidumping duties of 183.6 percent and countervailing duties of up to 194.9 percent after completing an extensive investigation into China's unfairly traded hardwood plywood imports. Today’s ruling by the ITC will allow these duties to be fully enforced. In October, Reps. DeFazio and Walden led a bipartisan letter to the ITC in support of an investigation into China’s illegal trade activity. Additionally, on October 26 Reps. DeFazio and Walden both testified before the ITC at their hearing on illegal Chinese hardwood plywood imports. Rep DeFazio’s testimony can viewed here. Rep. Walden’s testimony can be viewed here. Chinese hardwood plywood imports increased 22 percent from 2014 to 2016 and another 26 percent during only the first half of 2017. Oregon is the largest producer of hardwood plywood products in the United States. ###
11.30.2017	Greg Walden on Brownfields reauthorization: “This is a winning scenario for everybody involved” Brownfields Program successfully used in Oregon to clean up old industrial sites for economic use Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Greg Walden, Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, helped shepherd the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment and Reauthorization Act through the House of Representatives with a strong bipartisan vote. During a speech on the House floor, Walden highlighted how the Brownfields Program has spurred economic growth by cleaning up old industrial sites in Oregon and throughout the country, and putting them back into productive service. “Since the Brownfields Program’s inception, more than 27,000 contaminated sites have been remediated, allowing communities across the country to return them to productive use,” said Walden. “Cleaning up brownfield sites increases local tax bases; facilitates job growth and wage increases; promotes the development of new infrastructure; and improves and protects the environment. Over 129,000 jobs have been leveraged because of the Brownfields Program and almost 70,000 acres have been made ready for reuse. “The Brownfields Program has leveraged over $24 billion, a significant return on the federal investment in the program. A 2017 study concluded that cleaning up brownfield properties led to residential property value increases of up to fifteen percent within a mile of brownfield sites. Another study found an estimated twenty-nine to ninety-seven million dollars in additional tax revenue for local governments in a single year after cleanup -- which is two to seven times more than the $12.4 million that EPA contributed to the cleanup of those Brownfields.” Walden noted that Oregon has been particularly successful using the Brownfields Program to put old industrial sites back in to productive service. Standing beside a before-and-after picture of the Old Mill District in Bend -- one of Oregon’s most successful Brownfields projects -- Walden stressed the importance of strengthening the program to ensure this success continues. “Bend isn’t alone. Last year in The Dalles, Google broke ground on an expansion to their data center on 26 acres of former mill land that was cleaned up under this program -- a $600 million investment expected to create 50 new jobs,” said Walden. “Also, in my hometown of Hood River, the Port of Hood River just finished a brownfields cleanup of another former mill site, opening over 12 acres of land for future business opportunities in the area. And in southern Oregon, the city of Grants Pass is in the early stages of working towards the same goal. They've successfully secured assistance through the Brownfields Program to begin planning the cleanup and redevelopment of the old Spalding Mill industrial site.” Before-and-after photo of the Old Mill District in Bend, Oregon, one of Oregon’s most successful Brownfields Program projects. Picture courtesy of Old Mill District Brownfields sites are often abandoned, closed or under-utilized industrial or commercial facilities. Examples of these include abandoned factories, closed lumber mills, a closed commercial building or warehouse, or a former dry-cleaning establishment or gas station. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that there are more than 450,000 brownfields across the United States and each of these sites has the potential to encourage economic development in the local community. The Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment, and Reauthorization Act seeks to reauthorize and make improvements to EPA’s Brownfields Program while encouraging EPA, states, and local governments to work together to redevelop properties, create jobs, and provide for economic development. “At the end of the day, this bipartisan legislation creates jobs, promotes infrastructure and economic development, and cleans up our communities. This is a winning scenario for everybody involved,” said Walden. The Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment, and Reauthorization Act passed the House on a 409-8 vote today, and now awaits action in the Senate. For complete background on this legislation, please click HERE.
11.30.2017	Secretary Zinke Sends Nearly $20 Million in Timber Dollars to Rural Oregon, Doubles Down on Commitment to Future Harvests WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke announced today that the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) will issue payments totaling $19.5 million to 18 counties in western Oregon, which includes $1.4 million previously sequestered funds. Under the previous administration, the sequestered funds were not scheduled to be disbursed to the counties however after working with the counties and the Office of Management and Budget, the Secretary was able to deliver the full funding. "O&C lands were specifically set aside for sustainable timber harvests and they are an important part of the economic foundation of western Oregon," said Secretary Zinke. "Working with the county officials we were able to get these much-needed funds to the local communities, but my next priority is ensuring that these lands continue to provide sustainable timber harvests that support the community and strengthen the health of the forest." "We are happy to report the 18 O&C Counties will receive these disbursements, including those withheld payments, very soon," said Commissioner Tim Freeman of Douglas County, the Association of O&C Counties' President. "We give full credit to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke for his willingness to work with us to persuade OMB to release these sequestered funds. We are also grateful to Congressman Walden for his assistance in facilitating communications between the Association and the Department of the Interior. Every County will use these much-needed funds for vital services according to their local priorities, from public safety and juvenile programs to elections departments and infrastructure maintenance, and everything in between." “The announcement that our communities will receive the full timber receipts payments they are owed under the law is great news," said Chairman Greg Walden. "These resources will be critical to funding essential county services from law enforcement and emergency operations to schools and infrastructure projects. I want to especially thank Secretary Zinke and his team for working so closely with the O&C counties to ensure these funds are disbursed, and for their continued commitment to improving forest management and supporting our local communities in southern Oregon.” Located in 18 counties of western Oregon, the Oregon and California Railroad Lands comprise nearly 2.6 million acres of forests that is managed by the BLM. The 18 O&C counties receive yearly payments under the O&C Act equal to 50 percent of receipts from timber harvested on public lands in these counties. These payments follow a formula established in the 1937 Oregon and California Lands Act, which authorizes timber receipt-based payments to western Oregon counties, and which remains in effect following the expiration of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. ###
11.29.2017	Greg Walden examines consumer protection online Leads hearing on personal data collection and online content management practices Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks at today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to strengthen consumer protection in the digital age, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today led a hearing at the House Energy and Commerce Committee to examine the personal data collection and online content management practices of technology companies. Walden, who chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee, stressed the need for consumer protection online to ensure sensitive personal information is safe, and that consumers maintain control and choice over the content they see online. "The goal for today’s hearing is to help provide all Americans with a better understanding of how their data flows online, how online platforms and online media sources determine what they see or don’t see, and the extent of and methods by which their information is collected and used by online firms,” said Walden. “Americans should be able to feel confident that their well-being, freedom of expression, and access to the content of their choice are not being wholly sacrificed for profit. Americans should have vibrant, competitive markets both offline and online, where consumers know their rights and options, and have the freedom to choose what is best for their circumstances.” Specifically, the Energy and Commerce Committee today examined how companies’ algorithms, and decisions about personal data and online content, are impacting consumers. This hearing comes as the Committee is continuing to investigate the massive Equifax data breach, which compromised the personal information of over 145 million Americans, including over 1.7 million Oregonians. During today’s hearing, Walden said that as the internet economy continues to grow substantially, consumer safety and choice must remain a top priority. “Consumers should remain as safe from unfair, deceptive, and malicious practices by online firms and their algorithms on the internet as they do in the real world,” said Walden. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and full webcast, please click HERE. ###
11.27.2017	Oregon lawmakers applaud TSA decision to maintain security infrastructure as Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport recruits new carrier Maintaining security equipment will ease logistical burdens, help airport’s recruitment efforts WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden, along with Rep. Peter DeFazio and Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, today applauded the decision by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to maintain security infrastructure at Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport in Klamath Falls as the airport recruits another carrier to resume commercial air service. “The decision by TSA to temporarily maintain screening equipment as the airport actively recruits a new carrier is great news,” said the lawmakers. “We want to thank Administrator Pekoske for working with the airport and the Klamath Falls community in response to our request to keep this security infrastructure in place until the recruitment process is complete. This will allow the airport and local community to recruit a replacement carrier without the administrative and logistical burdens of removing the equipment. We look forward to continuing our work with airport officials and the Department of Transportation to bring commercial air service back to Klamath Falls.” The announcement is in response to an October letter the lawmakers sent to TSA Administrator David Pekoske requesting that screening equipment remain in place. In their letter, the lawmakers stated that this would allow the airport to continue its recruitment efforts unhindered by the burden of removing the equipment. “The local community understands well the diverse benefits that air service provides. That’s why they are working to find a replacement,” the lawmakers wrote. “As they do that, we respectfully request that you allow TSA screening equipment to temporarily remain at the airport until such time that a robust recruitment of potential replacement carriers has been completed.” For a copy of the letter, please click here. ###
11.21.2017	Walden, Blackburn on the FCC’s Net Neutrality Announcement WASHINGTON, DC – Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) released the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) put forward their plan on Net Neutrality rules. “Today’s announcement demonstrates that the FCC, under the leadership of Ajit Pai, understands the importance of making sure the internet continues to flourish under a light-touch regulatory regime. The past two years of heavy-handed regulation will be only a blip on the screen of a decades-long bipartisan equilibrium that successfully supported innovation and growth. We also remain committed to ensuring clear, permanent net neutrality rules through the legislative process, encouraging investment in broadband buildout, and closing the digital divide across America,” said Walden and Blackburn. ###
11.16.2017	Greg Walden statement on passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement on the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1): “This is an important step forward to provide a tax code that works better for Oregonians and their families. Our plan will allow Oregon taxpayers to keep more of their hard-earned money and boost critical job growth in our state. This tax reform package will provide much-needed tax relief for individuals, families and small business owners in our district, and make the burdensome process of filing taxes much simpler. “It’s long past time for tax reform that respects and rewards hard work, makes everyone play by the same rules, and lets Oregonians keep more of their pay check. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will help us reach that goal, and I look forward to its continued improvement as it progresses through the legislative process.” According to data from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and reports from the nonpartisan Tax Foundation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will positively impact Oregon by: Benefits for Oregon The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will: Lead to the creation of an additional 12,358 jobs in Oregon. Raise after-tax income for middle class families in Oregon by $2,602. Benefits for Oregon's Second District Increased Child Tax Credit: 50,193 taxpayers in the 2nd District claim the child tax credit. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act increases the child tax credit from $1,000 per child to $1,600. Tax Relief for Small Businesses: 50,650 taxpayers in the 2nd District have small business income (a business that the taxpayer operated). The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reduces taxes for small business owners. First, the bill implements a new, lower 9% tax rate on the first $75,000 of net business income for active small business owners earning less than $150,000 through their business. Second, the bill lowers taxes on small business investment by creating a new 25% small business tax rate. Simpler Taxes: 104,189 taxpayers in the 2nd District itemize their taxes. As a result of the near doubling of the standard deduction and other simplifications, many taxpayers will have much simpler returns. It is estimated that 9 out of 10 Americans will be able to file their taxes on a postcard. ###
11.16.2017	Senate approves Greg Walden bill to ensure military access to lifesaving medical treatments Action comes following unanimous approval of Walden bill in House of Representatives Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The U.S. Senate today approved bipartisan legislation introduced in the House by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to address a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would have undermined the authority of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This action comes following the unanimous approval of Walden’s bill in the House of Representative Wednesday. Walden’s legislation, H.R. 4374, will amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to authorize additional emergency uses for medical products to reduce deaths and severity of injuries caused by agents of war, and for other purposes. “Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line for this country, and they deserve to have the earliest possible access to medical products that could save their lives on the battlefield,” said Walden in a speech on the House floor Wednesday. “H.R. 4374 will establish important new authorities for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Department of Defense (DoD) to ensure that our warfighters have the benefit of new treatments and devices.” Specifically, Walden’s legislation corrects language within the NDAA that could usurp FDA’s vital authority in delivering and reviewing cutting edge medicines, while also ensuring timely access to emergency medications for soldiers on the front lines. “In short, H.R. 4374 addresses the critical issue of military access to the newest available products by expanding the circumstances under which emergency use authorizations can be issued, and by establishing an expedited pathway to full approval of products that the Secretary of Defense requests,” Walden concluded. After unanimous approval of Walden’s legislation in both the House and Senate, H.R. 4374 now heads to the President’s desk. President Trump is expected to sign it into law. ###
11.10.2017	Klamath Infrastructure Improvement Act (H.R.4329) Continuing his efforts address the unique power needs of the Klamath Basin, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) introduced legislation aimed at providing affordable power rates for irrigators in Klamath County. The Klamath Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2017 will help bring Klamath Project power costs in-line with rates at Bureau of Reclamation Projects in other areas of the Pacific Northwest. Background: In 2006, two separate affordable-power agreements between private hydropower producers and the Bureau of Reclamation spanning 90 years expired. Since then, many districts in the Basin and individual operators experienced electric rate increases of up to 2,000%. Achieving Lower Power Rates: The Klamath Infrastructure Improvement Act directs the Department of Interior (DOI) to conduct a study to identify concrete actions to address this rate increase and achieve lower power rates. This may include small hydropower projects where viable, as well as other options DOI deem appropriate following their study. Importantly, this legislation requires DOI to begin implementation of a plan to achieve lower power rates within 180 days of the completion of their study. Tulelake Irrigation District (TID): This bill would allow TID and the Bureau of Reclamation to enter into agreements similar to other pumping plants within the Klamath Projects, where water pumping costs are shared when there is a federal benefit, such as providing water for wildlife refuges like Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge. Currently TID bears the entire cost of water pumping. Water Banking Activities: The benefits of water banking are two-fold. In times of water shortage, Klamath Project water users have a tool to help get through the water-year, and this leaves more water for fish species in the Klamath River and Upper Klamath Lake. Moving or transferring of non-Klamath Project water within the Klamath Project should not create a paperwork burden on the water users or districts that operate the system. Nor should it increase federal workload and costs. This legislation would eliminate an unnecessary permitting process for moving water around the Klamath Project, which will improve efficiency and maintain fiscal responsibility. Infrastructure Improvements: The C-Flume directly serves water to approximately 23,000 acres in both Oregon and California. The Federal Government has consistently claimed that the C-Flume, which crosses over a highway, is on the verge of catastrophic failure and in need of replacement. This legislation uses existing federal authorities to designate this important Klamath Project infrastructure safety improvement as an emergency measure, which will help speed up necessary replacement work. Press Contact: Justin Discigil |202-226-7338|justin.discigil@mail.house.gov
11.08.2017	Greg Walden votes to enhance hydropower in Oregon Helps pass legislation through House to modernize hydropower production and licensing process Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the floor of the House WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to promote renewable hydropower production in Oregon and throughout the Northwest, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today voted to pass the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act (H.R. 3043) through the House of Representatives on a strong bipartisan vote. The Hydropower Policy Modernization Act originated in the Energy and Commerce Committee -- where Walden serves as Chairman -- and would modernize and streamline the licensing process for hydropower projects. “Hydropower plays an enormously important role in electricity generation across the country and especially in my home state of Oregon,” said Walden. “Hydropower generates 43% of electricity in my state. It is dependable; it is baseload; it is carbon free; it is renewable; and it is very important to our region. Nationally, hydropower is the largest source of renewable electricity generation and a recent Department of Energy report found that U.S. hydropower could grow by almost 50 percent by the year 2050. However, as my colleagues from the Pacific Northwest and across the country know, we are not taking full advantage of this valuable resource.” Walden said the legislation will enhance Oregon’s ability to utilize hydropower. Specifically, the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act would modernize the permitting process for hydropower projects by: Clarifying that hydropower is renewable under federal law, Improving administrative efficiency, accountability, and transparency, Requiring timely decision making, and; Reducing duplicative oversight from the multiple federal agencies that review hydro applications by designating the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission as the lead agency. The current licensing process of new hydropower facilities and relicensing of existing facilities is often costly and time consuming. Walden said that the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act will improve hydropower licensing, which will ultimately benefit ratepayers and consumers. “As these entities go to relicense, sometimes it costs tens of millions of dollars just to get a renewal of a government permit to continue doing what you’ve been doing. And it can take seven-to-ten years to work through the process,” said Walden. “By the way, guess who pays for all of those costs? The ratepayers, the people paying their electricity bill end up paying for all of this out of control review and regulation.” The Hydropower Policy Modernization Act passed the House on a bipartisan vote today, and now awaits action in the Senate. To learn more about Walden’s work at the Energy and Commerce Committee to advance energy infrastructure, click here. ###
11.03.2017	Greg Walden’s CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act passes House Walden on extending funding for important health programs: “Patients cannot wait any longer” Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden’s (R-Hood River) plan to extend vital funding for important public health priorities passed the House on a bipartisan vote today. Walden’s legislation -- the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act -- provides funding extensions of public health programs such as: A five-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) A two-year extension of Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) or Community Health Centers A two-year extension for additional public health programs, including: The National Health Service Corps, Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education, Family-to-Family Health Information Centers, the Youth Empowerment Program, and the Personal Responsibility Education Program. During a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives today, Walden highlighted how the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act will be especially important for Oregonians. Community health centers offer health care options in rural and underserved areas in Oregon, and Walden’s legislation ensures they have the funding to continue providing services to Oregonians. “While states still have rollover CHIP funds available and the next wave of community health center funds won’t go out until next year, we cannot wait any longer,” said Walden on the floor of the House of Representatives. “Patients cannot wait any longer. Patients need care, and these critical programs need funding. In my district alone, there are 12 federally-qualified health center organizations, with 63 delivery sites leveraging over $41 million in federal dollars in order to serve over 240,000 patients. These health centers are prevention and public health in action, often serving as the main provider of care for miles.” To read a fact sheet on the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, please click here. ###
11.02.2017	Greg Walden Statement on Tax Reform WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement on the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “For too long, middle class Oregonians and people across the country have been left behind in an economy stagnated by a dated and broken tax code. The plan released today is the first step toward much-needed tax reform to help Oregon’s small business owners, boost job creation, and stimulate economic growth. I look forward to working with my colleagues to provide a simpler, fairer, and more affordable tax system for hardworking Oregonians and their families.” To read the policy highlights in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, please click here. To read the full legislative text of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, please click here. To read the section-by-section summary of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, please click here. To read examples of how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will help Americans of all walks of life, please click here. ###
11.02.2017	Greg Walden applauds passage of Resilient Federal Forests Act Helps advance forest management reform through House for fifth year in a row Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, for the fifth time in five years, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) voted to pass legislation to improve federal forest management and reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires that ravage Oregon and much of the West every year. The Resilient Federal Forests Act (H.R. 2936), which Walden helped craft, addresses the growing economic and environmental threats of catastrophic wildfire that scorched over 678,000 acres of land across Oregon this year. “My intensity on this issue is almost that of the fires we fight,” said Walden. “We can reduce the size and intensity of fire up to 70 percent, if we do the kinds of projects that thin out the forests and allow us to better manage and be better stewards of our federal forests that are contemplated as a result of this legislation.” Walden has led the call to action on forest management reform following a historic wildfire season in Oregon and across much of the West. The Resilient Federal Forests Act will bring proper management to federal lands in Oregon to improve the health and resiliency of forests, and reduce the unnatural fuel loads that increase the threat of devastating wildfires. “In Oregon, this bill would take away an arbitrary prohibition on harvesting trees over 21 inches in diameter that’s tied the hands of forest managers,” continued Walden. “We clarify the timber production mandates of the unique O&C lands in southern and western Oregon to deliver the underlying statute and actually have it enforced. And when fires do happen, we would exchange this for a new, healthy forest and grow green trees that sequester carbon and restore a landscape that we in the West so enjoy,” concluded Walden, holding a jar of ash to illustrate the effects of catastrophic fires that Oregonians endure each summer.” The Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017 provides federal land management agencies immediate tools to increase the pace, scale and cost efficiency of forest management projects without sacrificing environmental protections. In crafting this legislation, Walden included several Oregon-specific provisions, including: Streamlining project planning in southern and western Oregon • Removes costly and time-consuming Survey and Manage requirements on Northwest Forest Plan lands. These requirements cost the agency about $21 million annually and can take up to two years to complete, delaying needed fire prevention projects. O&C Lands • The O&C Lands in southern and western Oregon are uniquely managed by the BLM for timber production under the requirements of the O&C Act. Timber harvests have lagged below these requirements and this legislation makes clear the O&C Act mandates at least 500 million board feet in annual timber harvest. Improving forest restoration in eastern Oregon forests • Removes the arbitrary prohibition on harvesting trees over 21 inches in diameter that stands in the way of land managers and local collaborative efforts to restore forest landscapes. This prohibition was issued temporarily over 20 years ago, and never removed. Promptly address the overcrowded, diseased and insect infested forest lands that pose a risk for catastrophic fire: • Streamlined planning process for projects up to 10,000 acres to treat forest stands suffering from insects and diseased trees, to reduce hazardous fuels, and to protect watersheds. To incentivize collaboration, this authority expands to 30,000 acres for collaborative or Community Wildfire Protection Plan projects that have had success in Oregon. • Ensures the Forest Service and BLM can promptly clean-up after wildfires by removing burned, dead trees and replant our forests following an Environmental Assessment. Includes requirements that the agencies replant 75 percent of the affected area. • Creates a pilot program, allowing some forest projects to go through arbitration, cutting through litigious gridlock by requiring opponents to come to the table with an alternative proposal rather than just saying “no”. The Resilient Federal Forests Act passed the House today on a bipartisan vote, and now awaits action in the Senate. For more information on this legislation, please click here. ###
10.25.2017	Greg Walden on need to combat nationwide opioid epidemic: “Everyone has a stake in this fight” Questions DEA on lack of cooperation, response to committee investigation into opioid pill dumping Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s opening remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- As part of his ongoing efforts to combat the opioid epidemic in Oregon, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today led a hearing on the federal government’s response to the nationwide crisis. Walden, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, cited the deadly effects of drug abuse in Oregon as need for an “all-hands-on-deck” approach to address the opioid epidemic. “In last year alone, opioid overdoses have claimed the lives of more Americans than the entire Vietnam War. In my home state of Oregon, more people died last year from drug overdoses than from car accidents,” said Walden. “We hear these statistics over and over again. At roundtables throughout my district -- most recently in Grants Pass, in southern Oregon, and Bend, in central Oregon -- I’ve heard the stories of Oregonians who put names and faces to these data points.” Walden also questioned the DEA on their lack of cooperation and response to an Energy and Commerce Committee investigation into alleged opioid pill dumping by major drug companies. Walden, joined by a bipartisan group of lawmakers, has repeatedly requested data and information from the DEA, including a specific inquiry into the shipment of 9 million highly addictive opioid painkillers to a rural town of less than 400 people. "I’m going to be very blunt: my patience is wearing thin. Our requests for data from the DEA are met with delay, excuses and, frankly, inadequate response,” Walden said in his opening statement. “People are dying. Lives and families are ruined. It is time for DEA to get this committee the information we need, and to do it quickly. No more dodges. No more delays.” During Walden’s questioning, he followed up on the issues raised during his opening statement, asking Mr. Neil Doherty, DEA’s Deputy Assistant Administrator, Office of Diversion Control, a number of questions pertaining to the committee’s ongoing investigation. Click here or on the image above to view an excerpt from Walden’s questioning “We still don’t have all of the answers to the bipartisan letter we sent in May. And some of the responses the DEA has provided, frankly, are not adequate,” Walden began. “For example, in the May letter we asked the DEA to produce documents about delayed or blocked enforcement actions. Do you know how many documents your agency has produced? The answer is zero. “Your agency responded, and this is a direct quote, ‘DEA is unaware of documents related to delayed or blocked enforcement actions and suspension orders.’ Well, we have obtained some documents that look pretty responsive to our request,” Walden said, referring to documents obtained from an anonymous source. “And yet from the agency, we’re told you’re ‘unaware of documents related to delayed or blocked enforcement actions and suspension orders.’ This is a problem. Enough is enough. Will you, on behalf of the DEA, commit today to producing the documents and information we’ve requested, and soon? Or do I simply need to issue a subpoena, because we are done waiting.” Please click here to view Walden’s full questioning. To learn more about the Energy and Commerce Committee’s bipartisan investigation, click here. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of the federal government’s response to the opioid epidemic, which takes the lives of 91 Americans every day. Walden called for increased urgency to combat the widespread crisis that has plagued Oregon and the country as a whole. “We all want to end this scourge,” Walden said. “We have a duty to our constituents and the American people to combat the epidemic from all angles -- everyone has a stake in this fight.” For more information on today’s hearing, including an archived webcast, background memo, and witness testimony, please click here. ###
10.19.2017	Greg Walden announces Oregon collection sites for excess opioids, prescription pills Part of DEA’s “National Prescription Drug Take Back Day” initiative to combat opioid epidemic WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to combat the opioid epidemic in Oregon, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced collection sites in Oregon for the disposal of excess opioid and prescription medications. The announcement is part of the DEA's “National Prescription Drug Take Back Day” initiative on Saturday, October 28, which gives people across the country the opportunity to help address opioid abuse in their communities. Full details on collection sites in Oregon's Second Congressional District are included below. “The DEA’s National Prescription Drug Take Back Day provides a safe, convenient, and responsible way to dispose of excess prescription drugs, while also providing an opportunity to raise awareness of the opioid crisis and to educate our friends, family members, and neighbors about the potential for abuse of medications,” said Walden. “Here in Oregon, more people died last year from drug overdoses than from car accidents. I hope you’ll join me on this Take Back Day as we work together to make our communities safer.” This initiative comes as Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee recently announced a hearing for next Wednesday, October 25, on the crisis. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of the Congressional response to opioid abuse. For more information on the Committee’s recent efforts to combat the opioid epidemic, please click here. DEA “National Prescription Drug Take Back Day” collection site in Oregon – Saturday, October 28, 2017 Southern Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s announcement for southern Oregon Jackson County Where: Medford City Hall, 411 W 8th Street, Medford, 97501 When: 10:00am – 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Medford Police Department Josephine County Where: Josephine County Sheriff’s Office, 1901 NE F Street, Grants Pass, 97526 When: 10:00am – 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Josephine County Sheriff’s Office Klamath County Where: Klamath Falls Police Department, 2501 Shasta Way, Klamath Falls, 97601 When: 10:00am – 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Klamath Falls Police Department Deschutes County Click here or on the image above to view Walden's announcement for Deschutes County Where: Walgreens, 2727 NE Highway 20, Bend, 97701 When: 10:00am – 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Bend Police Department Wasco & Hood River Counties Click here or on the image above to view Walden's announcement for Wasco and Hood River counties Where: The Dalles City Hall, 313 Court Street, The Dalles, 97058 When: 10:00am – 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: The Dalles Police Department Umatilla County Click here or on the image above to view Walden's announcement for Umatilla County Where: Hermiston Police Department, 330 South 1st Street, Hermiston, 97838 When: 10:00am – 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Hermiston Police Department Baker County Click here or on the image above to view Walden's announcement for Baker County Where: Baker City Police Department, 1768 Auburn Avenue, Baker City, 97814 When: 10:00am – 2:00pm PST Organizing Participant: Baker City Police Department Malheur County Click here or on the image above to view Walden's announcement for Malheur County Where: Ontario Police Department, 444 SW 4th Street, Ontario 97914 When: 10:00am – 2:00pm Organizing Participant: Ontario Police Department For a complete listing of the DEA's collection sites for National Prescription Drug Take Back Day on October 28, please click here. ###
10.19.2017	Greg Walden announces details for Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on opioid crisis next week WASHINGTON, D.C. -- House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) formally announced a hearing for Wednesday, October 25, 2017, at 10 a.m. EST on the opioid crisis plaguing Oregon and the nation. The hearing is entitled, “Federal Efforts to Combat the Opioid Crisis: A Status Update on CARA and Other Initiatives.” Chairman Walden announced last month that the committee would hold a rare full committee hearing, the first of this Congress, on the epidemic. The hearing will provide a status update on the implementation of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and highlight other federal efforts to combat the opioid crisis. “The opioid crisis has been at the forefront of this committee’s work for several years and multiple Congresses. And while substantial work has been done to stem the tide of this epidemic, namely through CARA and grants available through the 21st Century Cures Act, much more work remains,” said Chairman Walden. “Families in every community are hurting, and this hearing will be a much-needed opportunity to learn more about ongoing efforts and what more can be done to put a stop to this horrific crisis.” Confirmed witnesses include: Scott Gottlieb, MD, Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration (FDA); Elinore McCance-Katz, MD, PhD, Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA); Anne Schuchat, MD (RADM, USPHS), Principal Deputy Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); Nora Volkow, MD, Director, National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), National Institutes of Health (NIH); and, Neil Doherty, Deputy Assistant Administrator, Office of Diversion Control, Drug Enforcement Administration Additional details for the hearing will be available here as they are posted. ###
10.16.2017	In Case You Missed It: Greg Walden invites Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman to southern Oregon to meet local veterans, tour SORCC in White City Lawmakers to take input from area veterans, VA officials back to Washington, D.C. Rep. Walden and House Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Dr. Phil Roe (to Walden’s left) meet with VA officials at the Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics (SORCC) in White City on Saturday. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is continuing his efforts to make sure Oregon veterans are receiving the care and benefits they deserve through the VA. Over the weekend, Walden invited House Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Dr. Phil Roe (R-TN) to southern Oregon to meet with local veterans and tour the Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics (SORCC) in White City. Walden and Roe held roundtable discussions to hear about the issues affecting area veterans, and receive an update on how VA officials in the region are working to alleviate veteran homelessness in southern Oregon. Their meetings come as Walden has introduced several proposals in Congress to improve benefits and reduce wait times for Oregon veterans. In July, Walden’s VA Medical Scribes Pilot Act unanimously passed the House of Representatives. Walden’s bill would unburden VA doctors and improve care for veterans by bringing medical scribes into the VA system to handle paperwork and patient record keeping – allowing the doctor to focus their full attention on veterans. Walden also introduced the Doctors for Veterans Act to help Oregon VA facilities recruit medical providers for veterans in rural and underserved areas. Both bills are products of feedback Walden has received from veterans themselves and VA officials in southern Oregon. Walden has also introduced legislation (H.R. 3561) to reduce the appraisal backlog for veterans using their VA home loan benefit to purchase a home. Walden has heard from local veterans about the lengthy process for receiving an appraisal for their VA-guaranteed home loan, and this legislation would help alleviate the wait times for appraisals that has put veterans at a disadvantage when bidding on a home. The House Veterans' Affairs Committee unanimously approved Walden’s bill last week, setting up a potential vote on passing the bill out of the House for later this year. Please read on for excerpts from local news coverage of Walden’s recent meetings in southern Oregon with House Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Dr. Phil Roe. Signs of improvement seen during SORCC tour A just-built residential facility at the Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics and newly redesigned outpatient programs were touted to U.S. Rep Greg Walden and the head of the House Veterans Committee. More than a year after the Department of Veterans Affairs rated the White City facility one star, new construction and restructured programs for homeless veterans were shown to the Republican congressman and Dr. Phil Roe, R-Tennessee. The tour Saturday showcased a residential facility that for 10 days has been housing 30 homeless veterans. The program has the capacity to aid 50 veterans, according to SORCC Nurse Executive Sue Thurston, who said patients are still being integrated into the new building. Roe, a Vietnam veteran, was visibly impressed after checking out a bright, clean TV room inside the new building, complete with a wall-mounted 21-inch flat screen. Click here to read more from the Mail Tribune. Rep. Greg Walden, Rep. Phil Roe (R-Ten.) visit White City VA On Saturday, Representative Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Rep. Phil Roe (R-Ten.) – also the House Committee on Veterans Affairs Chairman – visited the White City VA to address the issues of homeless veterans. Throughout the tour, both Walden and Roe were shown the new in-patient facility as well as the out-patient facility on the campus, including the rooms of the in-patient facility and hearing about the programs at the White City VA for homeless veterans. Click here to watch coverage from KTVL News 10 Congressmen visit VA to find new ideas to bring back to Washington At the Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics, administrators met with Congressmen Greg Walden and Dr. Phil Roe, chairman of the house veterans affairs committee, to discuss how to better assist veterans. “We really are focused on how do you put the patient first. The veteran first,” said Congressman Walden. “And get them access to care as close to home as possible, as soon as possible, in the most efficient way.” Roe and Walden are hoping to take information back to Washington to help shape policy. One issue they’re focusing on -- drug abuse. Click here to watch coverage from KOBI NBC 5 Congressman tours southern Oregon VA Congressman Greg Walden is continuing his mission to help veterans in southern Oregon. He toured the VA facility in White City Saturday. The Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Congressman Phil Roe, also toured that facility. They were able to speak to a few veterans and some administrators and understand how this VA facility helps homeless veterans in southern Oregon. Click here to watch coverage from KDRV Newswatch 12 ###
10.11.2017	Greg Walden on opioid epidemic: “Together, we must continue to fight this crisis” Testifies before Congressional committee about how opioid abuse is impacting Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today shared stories from Oregonians who have been impacted by opioid addiction during a Congressional hearing on how to better combat the epidemic. Walden testified before the House Energy and Commerce Committee -- where he serves as Chairman -- about how opioid abuse has impacted communities in Oregon, where more people died last year from drug overdoses than from car accidents. Walden was joined by a bipartisan group of more than 50 lawmakers from across the country, who testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee about the effects the opioid epidemic is having in their respective states. The hearing was held to give lawmakers the opportunity to share what they have seen in their communities, as well as their ideas for how Congress can help end the crisis. “I come here today on behalf of my constituents, as I do every day, but especially today with the opportunity for all members to make their case to the Energy and Commerce Committee,” said Walden in his testimony. “In my district, I’ve heard the all too familiar tale of a mother whose eldest son was first prescribed opioids after injuring his ankle while playing basketball. It didn’t take long for him to become addicted. Another parent shared with me the story of his sister, a nurse, who died of an overdose after years of suffering from addiction and bouncing between pharmacies, passing off forged prescriptions. He spoke about how better tracking and treatment could have helped catch his sister's problem earlier and perhaps made counseling more effective. She was only caught because two pharmacies in a small town happened to check with each other. By then it was too late, though. These two stories may come have from Oregon, but they are not exclusive to the Beaver State -- they are why we are here today.” Walden’s testimony comes as he recently held roundtables in Grants Pass and Bend to discuss opioid abuse in Oregon. Walden met with local medical professionals, law enforcement officials, and families affected by drug addiction to hear about what is being done on the ground to battle the epidemic. “Meeting with the people on the front lines of this fight in our communities to find out what is working, and what more can be done, is crucial to our efforts to end this scourge,” said Walden. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of the fight against opioid abuse and the bad actors contributing to the spread of the epidemic. The Energy and Commerce Committee has spearheaded recent efforts to crack down on opioid pill dumping and so-called “patient brokers”, who profit from the recruitment of patients seeking treatment for addiction. Walden recently led a letter signed by a bipartisan group of Energy and Commerce Committee lawmakers that expanded an investigation into alleged opioid pill dumping by a major drug company. This action comes as Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee prepares for a full committee hearing on October 23 to examine the federal government’s response to the crisis. For more information on the Energy and Commerce Committee’s work to combat the opioid epidemic, please click here.
10.11.2017	In Case You Missed It: Walden leads call to action on forest management reform Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to improve the way our federal forests are managed, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) led several calls to action recently on the need to pass forest management reform. Walden, joined by his colleagues on the Congressional Western Caucus, stressed the need for Congress to fix broken federal forest policy that leads to catastrophic fires in Oregon and much of the West. “As we saw painfully this summer, smoke chokes our citizens, it chokes children. In my district, elementary school children had to be sent home because of smoke in their schools because of forest fires,” said Walden in a speech on the House floor. “In Oregon, we’ve seen some of the worst fires in our state’s history. It seemed as if every day came with new reports of more fire and more smoke. While this year’s fire season has been particularly intense and devastating, images like these are nothing new for Oregonians.” Walden continued, standing beside a constituent photo of the Eagle Creek fire burning between Cascade Locks and Hood River. Walden also led a hearing before the Energy and Commerce Committee -- where he serves as chairman -- to examine the air quality impacts of wildfire, held a press conference with Congressional leaders on the need to pass the Resilient Federal Forests Act, and gave the Western Caucus Weekly Address where he discussed the horrific wildfire season that burned over 678,000 acres in Oregon. Continue reading for more on Walden’s recent efforts. Greg Walden leads hearing on air quality, health impacts of wildfires in Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks at Wednesday’s air quality hearing On Wednesday, Rep. Greg Walden led a hearing to call attention to the air quality, environmental, and health impacts of wildfire smoke. Walden, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said examining the impact of devastating wildfires on air quality needs to be part of the broader conversation on forest management reform. Wildfire season may be creeping to a close in northeast Oregon, but the fallout is just beginning to ramp up in Washington, D.C. The House Committee on Energy and Commerce, chaired by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Oregon), will hold a hearing Wednesday examining the impacts of large fires on air quality, releasing massive amounts of particulate matter and greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. “Year after year, catastrophic wildfires rage on federal lands, including parts of my district, and our skies are choked with smoke throughout the West,” Walden said during a Sept. 13 House committee hearing. “Air quality issues in my home state continue to rise to dangerous levels because of these fires, forcing cancellations of community events, school closures and lost tourism dollars.” The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality maintains 35 air particulate monitors statewide, including one in Pendleton. Between July 1 and Sept. 6, the local air quality index was listed as “moderate” for 13 days, “unhealthy for sensitive groups” for five days, “unhealthy” for one day and “very unhealthy” for one day. Click here to read more from the East Oregonian Greg Walden applauds wildfire funding request, call for forest management reform from administration Later Wednesday, Rep. Walden applauded additional wildfire funds and a call to action on forest management reform from the administration. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) included $576.5 million in wildfire funding in their supplemental budget request to Congress, as well as recommendations that active forest management and forestry reform be part of the solution to curb wildfire borrowing. Walden led a letter signed by a bipartisan group of 31 lawmakers to OMB Director Mick Mulvaney to ask that wildfires be treated like natural disasters, and that the administration work with Congress to pass forest management reforms. For full text of Walden's letter, please click here. Walden cheers Trump administration wildfire funding and call to action on forest management reform Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., applauded word of additional wildfire funds and a call to action on forest management reform in a supplemental budget request Wednesday from the Trump administration. The Office of Management and Budget included $576.5 million in wildfire funding in their supplemental budget request to Congress on Wednesday, as well as recommendations that active forest management and forestry reform be part of the solution to curb wildfire borrowing. "I want to thank the Trump administration for their request for funds to cover the costs of this fire season, as well as their call for Congress to reform our broken federal forest policy that hinders them from implementing much needed forest management," Walden said. "Another fire season winds down and, once again, the Forest Service needed to rob money from important fire prevention work to pay for fighting wildfires," he said. "We must not only supplement those accounts to pay for the cost of this fire season, but it’s past time that we fix how we pay for fires and treat them like the natural disasters they are.” Click here to read more from News Channel 21 Walden applauds extra firefighting funding request U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is pleased that the Office of Management and Budget added $576.5 million in wildfire funding in the supplemental budget request to Congress. He also praised OMB for recommending that active forest management and forestry reform be a part of the solution to curb wildfire borrowing. "I want to thank the Trump administration for their request for funds to cover the costs of this fire season, as well as their call for Congress to reform our broken federal forest policy that hinders them from implementing much-needed forest management,” he said. “Another fire season winds down and, once again, the Forest Service needed to rob money from important fire prevention work to pay for fighting wildfires.” Walden, along with the Democratic members of the Oregon delegation to Congress argue that the cost for fighting big wildfires should come from disaster funds, not the fire prevention budget of the U.S. Forest Service. Click here to read more from My Columbia Basin Walden, western members of Congress hold press conference on wildfire threat Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks at Thursday’s press conference On Thursday, Walden held a press conference with his colleagues on the Western Caucus to discuss the current wildfire threat in the western United States, a fix to so-called “fire borrowing”, and legislation to improve management of the country’s federal forests. Walden discussed the importance of passing the Resilient Federal Forests Act, introduced by Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Arkansas), which would help bring proper management back to federal forests. “We need this bill passed so we can go in and have our professional, scientific foresters do their work to get back in balance with nature,” said Walden of the Resilient Federal Forests Act. “We need to pass this so we can protect our watersheds, so we can have healthy air sheds, and so we can replant after these forest fires.” Click here to read more about the Resilient Federal Forests Act Greg Walden delivers Western Caucus Weekly Address Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s Western Caucus Weekly Address Finally, Walden delivered the weekly address for the Congressional Western Caucus. During the address Walden discussed the horrific wildfire season that burned over 678,000 acres in Oregon, and further addressed the need to reform federal forest policy to prevent catastrophic fires. “The bottom line is: Enough is enough. Dense fuel loads from a lack of management, caused by red tape and gridlock leave a tinderbox in our forests waiting to ignite,” said Walden in his address. “It is long past time for Congress to reform how federal forests are managed. If we do not act, these fires will continue to destroy our lands, pour carbon and pollutants into our atmosphere, threaten habitat and water supplies, and put people and property in harm’s way. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Western Caucus to get this job done.” To read more about the Congressional Western Caucus, please click here. ###
10.04.2017	October 4, 2017 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director The Office of Management & Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Director Mulvaney: We write to call your immediate attention to the damage catastrophic wildfires cause to our communities, States, national forests and other public lands throughout the country. The National Interagency Fire Center reports that there have been 49,563 fires that burned 8,422,251 acres so far in 2017. According to the U.S. Forest Service (FS), another 80 million acres throughout the country are currently considered high risk. The FS has expended more than $2.3 billion to fight fires in fiscal year 2017 alone - a new record. The House Committee on Natural Resources reports that in 2016, wildfires destroyed 4,312 structures, including 3,192 residences. The House Committee on Natural Resources also stated, “Despite data from the FS indicating that active forest management reduces wildfire intensity and improves forest health, only 1 to 2% of high risk areas are treated.” In fact, the Committee has reported that hazardous fuels are accumulating three times as fast as they can be treated and that the FS only harvested 2.5 billion board feet in 2016 compared to over 10 billion board feet in 1990. To make matters worse, litigation and other challenges have caused a significant reduction in active saw mills nationwide, from 1,311 in 1995 to just over 220 today. Catastrophic fires also cause significant damage to the environment. Robust data from NASA has concluded that one catastrophic wildfire can emit more carbon emissions in a few days than total vehicle emissions in an entire state over the course of a year. As a result of recent wildfires, Seeley Lake, Montana set a record for the worst air quality ever recorded there - 18 times greater than EPA’s safe particle limit. The House Committee on Energy and Commerce recently reported, “In 2005 alone, wildfires resulted in more than 126 million tons of carbon dioxide in the United States.” Rep. Westerman and Ken Fisher recently pointed out that Congress authorized approximately $120 billion for Hurricane Katrina and $50 billion for Hurricane Sandy relief. Meanwhile, the entire 2016 budget for the Forest Service was $7.1 billion. More than half of these funds went to put out wildfires. Catastrophic wildfires are horrific disasters and should be responded to as such – much the same way that we as a nation are currently confronting the incredible devastation wrought by Hurricanes Maria, Harvey and Irma. Eight times in the last twelve years, the FS has moved funds from other operating accounts to fight fire, depleting accounts for forest management in the process that would help prevent catastrophic wildfires. This flawed approach causes us to spend billions of dollars on the backend to suppress fire, neglecting fire prevention and putting our communities at increasing risk of catastrophic fire. This is a treatable problem, and one which we understand the causes of very well. Healthy forest advocates support solutions like Rep. Westerman’s bipartisan H.R. 2936, Resilient Federal Forests Act and Reps. Simpson and Schrader’s bipartisan H.R. 2862, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act. H.R. 2936 is comprehensive legislation that simplifies the cumbersome planning process and reduces the cost of implementing proactive forest management strategies. The bill adopts a forward-thinking, active management strategy that combats dangerous wildfires before they get started and includes reforms that would end the practice of fire borrowing. H.R. 2862 would change how we budget for the costs of suppressing catastrophic wildfires to conform to the method we use to budget for other natural disasters, such as hurricanes and tornados. This reform seeks to ensure resources are available to fight catastrophic wildfires without raiding accounts that prevent these fires in the first place. Mismanagement has left our forests vulnerable to insects and disease and ripe for catastrophic wildfires. The system is broken. We need forest management reforms, and we need them now. We ask that you work with us to help to fix the way we manage our forests and how we pay for wildfire disasters. Two goals we can all agree on are reducing the costs of these fires and breaking out of this destructive, nationwide wildfire cycle. Accordingly, we ask that the Administration send Congress a proposal that includes comprehensive forest management and wildland fire budgeting reforms as part of the next disaster relief request as soon as possible. We look forward to working with you to resolve these long-standing issues for the benefit of the American people and to ensure our natural resource heritage is sustained for future generations.
10.04.2017	Greg Walden applauds wildfire funding request, call for forest management reform from administration WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today applauded additional wildfire funds and a call to action on forest management reform from the administration. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) today included $576.5 million in wildfire funding in their supplemental budget request to Congress, as well as recommendations that active forest management and forestry reform be part of the solution to curb wildfire borrowing. “I want to thank the Trump Administration for their request for funds to cover the costs of this fire season, as well as their call for Congress to reform our broken federal forest policy that hinders them from implementing much needed forest management. Another fire season winds down and, once again, the Forest Service needed to rob money from important fire prevention work to pay for fighting wildfires. We must not only supplement those accounts to pay for the cost of this fire season, but it’s past time that we fix how we pay for fires and treat them like the natural disasters they are,” said Walden. “We also need to streamline our federal forest policy so forest managers can get the much needed fire prevention work done to reduce the risk of catastrophic fire that choke our skies and communities with smoke. I look forward to working with the administration and my colleagues in the House to improve forest management and prevent catastrophic wildfire.” Walden led a letter signed by a bipartisan group of 31 lawmakers to OMB Director Mick Mulvaney to ask that wildfires be treated like natural disasters, and that the administration work with Congress to pass forest management reforms. “Mismanagement has left our forests vulnerable to insects and disease and ripe for catastrophic wildfires. The system is broken. We need forest management reforms, and we need them now,” the lawmakers wrote. “We ask that you work with us to help to fix the way we manage our forests and how we pay for wildfire disasters. Two goals we can all agree on are reducing the costs of these fires and breaking out of this destructive, nationwide wildfire cycle.” Walden has spoken with the administration in recent weeks to call their attention to the severity of this year’s fire season in Oregon and throughout the West, and the need to improve forest management. The supplemental request issued by OMB this afternoon says that forest management reform must be part of any long-term solution to prevent catastrophic fires. “The Administration believes that the problem of wildfire ‘borrowing’ must be addressed in a more structured, long-term manner. However, additional funding alone will not reverse the worsening trend of catastrophic wildfires that threaten our forests, critical habitats, and communities that border public lands,” the request states. “Active forest management and other reforms must be part of the solution to curb the cost and destruction of wildfires.” The administration’s announcement comes as Walden led a hearing today to examine the air quality impacts of catastrophic wildfires. During the hearing, Walden stressed the need to fix the wildfire funding problem cited in the administration’s request often referred to as “fire borrowing”. “Every year we repeat this stupid, stupid cycle. Robbing the accounts that would do the forest thinning to pay for the firefighting while the fires are going on, so we don’t do the preventive work because we have to pay for the fire,” said Walden. “It makes no sense. It is four to five times more expensive to fight fires than to do the treatment.” For more information on today’s hearing at the Energy and Commerce Committee, including a background memo, witness testimony, and full webcast, please click here.
10.04.2017	Greg Walden leads hearing on air quality, health impacts of wildfires in Oregon Shares constituent photos from Oregon of “smoke clogged skies from catastrophic fires” Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his push for forest management reforms to prevent catastrophic fires in Oregon, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) led a hearing today to call attention to the air quality, environmental, and health impacts of wildfire smoke. Walden, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said examining the impact of devastating wildfires on air quality needs to be part of the broader conversation on forest management reform. “It’s time that we looked at air quality as part of the overall mix. Oregonians have been living this problem in the rural West for years -- smoke clogged skies from catastrophic fires,” said Walden. “I can’t tell you how many people I’ve talked to who’ve had health issues develop that they have never had before. People had to see physicians or go to the hospital because the air quality was so bad.” Oregonians have sent Walden their photos of smoke filled air from catastrophic wildfires this summer. Walden shared these photos during today’s hearing to capture the full picture of how fire and smoke has impacted individuals across Oregon. “Decisions on how, when, and how aggressively we fight fires matter. They matter to our forests, to our habitats, to our watersheds, and to the air quality in our communities,” Walden concluded, holding a jar of ash to illustrate what Oregonians endure every year. “Let’s have less of this ash, less of this ruin, and better air quality.” Click here or on the image above to view Walden's questions from today's hearing Walden heard testimony from expert witnesses on the environmental impacts of wildfires that pour carbon into the atmosphere each year. As recent Forest Service studies have shown, young growing forests absorb more carbon, while dead trees, along with fire, are carbon emitters. Active forest management that thins our forests, and cleans up and replants after wildfire are important components to reducing fire risk and air quality impacts. Among the witnesses this morning was Dr. John Bailey of Oregon State University’s College of Forestry, who told Walden how far some forest landscapes have traveled from their historic state. In some cases, the forest landscapes that would have historically held 20 trees to an acre, are at 1,000 or more trees per acre. That unnatural density of trees is merely built up fuel for future fires, unless steps are taken to improve active management to reduce the fuel load. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and full webcast, please click here. ###
10.03.2017	Greg Walden presses former Equifax CEO: “How does this happen when so much is at stake?” Calls for answers to massive data breach that compromised personal data of over 1.7 million Oregonians Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, DC – The Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), today held a hearing to get answers for consumers on the Equifax data breach. Walden pressed former Equifax Chairman and CEO Richard Smith on the unprecedented cybersecurity hack that compromised the personal information of over 145 million Americans, including over 1.7 million Oregonians. “We are here today to do what it appears Equifax failed to do over the last several months: put consumers first. Our job is to get answers for the more than 145 million Americans who have had their personal information compromised and now fear that they could be victims of fraud at any time,” stated Chairman Greg Walden. “How could a major U.S. company like Equifax, which holds the most sensitive and personal data on Americans, so let them down? It’s like the guards at Fort Knox forgot to lock the doors and failed to notice thieves emptying the vaults. The American people deserve to know what went wrong.” Click here or on the image above to view Walden's questioning of Mr. Smith In his opening statement, Mr. Smith told Walden, “Let me say clearly: As CEO I was ultimately responsible for what happened on my watch. Equifax was entrusted with Americans’ private data and we let them down.” For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo, witness testimony, and full webcast, please click HERE.
09.28.2017	ICYMI: Greg Walden Expands Investigation Into Alleged Opioid Pill Dumping Action comes as Walden renews pledge to combat opioid epidemic in Oregon and across the country WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to combat the opioid crisis in Oregon and across the country, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has expanded an investigation into alleged prescription pill dumping by a major drug company. This action comes as Walden recently announced a full committee hearing on the epidemic the week of October 23. More information about the hearing will be posted here, as it becomes available. Walden and a bipartisan group of lawmakers sent a letter Monday to Miami-Luken, a drug distributor with ties to West Virginia, expanding on an existing investigation into alleged pill dumping in the state. The committee has been investigating the alleged pill dumping in West Virginia since earlier this year and stems from news reports by the Charleston Gazette-Mail in West Virginia and The Washington Post, detailing an unusually large opioid presence in the state of West Virginia. The Charleston Gazette-Mail reports, “For years, Miami-Luken did the bulk of its West Virginia business in Mingo County, which has about 27,000 people. Between 2007 and 2012, 63 percent of the distributor’s hydrocodone shipments in West Virginia went to Mingo County, DEA records show. The company sold 14.7 million doses of hydrocodone to Mingo over six years.” “We continue to be troubled by reports and records that show large amounts of these powerful and highly addictive painkillers coming in to small communities at alarming rates. As we have continued our investigation, it became increasingly clear that we needed to extend our oversight into Miami-Luken, a significant opioid distributor that we know has been active with West Virginia’s pharmacies,” Chairman Walden told the Charleston Gazette-Mail. “West Virginia is among the hardest hit states by this epidemic and it’s critical we get to the bottom of how such large quantities of opioids were readily available in such small towns.” As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of battling the epidemic in Oregon and throughout the United States. Walden’s Committee has renewed its pledge to combat the opioid crisis in communities across the country, and the October 23 hearing is the first full committee hearing of the Energy and Commerce Committee since Walden became Chairman. For more information on the Energy and Commerce Committee’s efforts to combat the epidemic, please click here.
09.27.2017	Greg Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee to Examine the Impact Wildfires Have on Air Quality Hearing announced as Walden continues efforts to prevent catastrophic fires and protect air quality in Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from a September 13 hearing WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today announced that his committee will be examining the impact wildfires have on air quality. The Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on the Environment will hold a hearing on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, at 10 a.m. The hearing is entitled, “Air Quality Impacts of Wildfires: Perspectives of Key Stakeholders,” and will be streamed live on the Energy and Commerce Committee's website here. Considering the devastating and widespread wildfires in Oregon and throughout the West this summer, Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee will examine the impacts these wildfires have on air quality and emissions in the affected areas and across the country. Walden will also look at how better management of our forests is needed to avoid and minimize catastrophic wildfires. For example, prescribed burns and fuel reduction are important forestry management tools in preventing uncontrolled wildfires, and the resulting air emissions. “Year after year, catastrophic wildfires rage on federal lands, including parts of my district, and our skies are choked with smoke throughout the West. Air quality issues in my home state continue to rise to dangerous levels because of these fires, forcing cancellations of community events, school closures, and lost tourism dollars,” said Chairman Greg Walden “Enough is enough. It's time that decisions about when and how to fight these fires takes into account the impact they have on air quality and human health. I’m looking forward to hearing from our panel of witnesses on what our nation can do to better prepare for, manage, and fight these fires.” During a September 13 hearing of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden stressed the need for urgent action to prevent catastrophic wildfires and protect air quality in Oregon. Walden recently held a roundtable meeting with community officials and local business leaders in southern Oregon to discuss the economic impact this year’s fire season has had on the region and the state. For more information on that meeting, as well as Congressman Walden’s recent efforts to push for changes in the way we manage our forests to prevent catastrophic fires, please click here. You can also find more information on next week’s hearing here. ###
09.14.2017	Greg Walden on forest management reform: “We have to do better for air quality, for water quality, and for the future of our precious public resources” Stresses the need for urgent action to prevent catastrophic wildfires, protect air quality in Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to improve federal policy to help prevent catastrophic wildfires in Oregon, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) called for action Wednesday on forest management reform. During a hearing of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden stressed the urgent need to address the underlying issues leading to devastating fires, which pour pollutants into the atmosphere and pose a serious threat to air quality, water quality, and Oregon’s public lands. "I want to focus on this air quality issue, especially as it relates to wood stoves and what is happening in the West. Year after year, we have catastrophic wildfires on federal lands, some of which have been set aside and managed in a way that they have no management,” said Walden. “So if you want to do something that is extraordinarily important, join us in reforming the way we manage our precious public lands and federal forests to reduce the fuel loads.” Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee examined the impact of burdensome regulations and policies on wood stoves in rural Oregon. Walden said overbearing regulations force rural communities in Oregon to decide between risking air quality restrictions that could prohibit economic growth, or forcing residents to purchase expensive wood stoves that meet new regulations. Communities in Oregon have spent upwards of $1.5 million to help consumers afford new stoves. Walden said these communities are trying to scrape by to heat their homes in the winter, and are inundated with smoke from devastating fires in the summer that make it difficult to breathe. Walden also highlighted the need to pass the Resilient Federal Forests Act, marking the fifth time in five years the House is moving forward with major federal forest policy reforms. This legislation provides new tools and streamlines forest management to clean up the fuel loads that contribute to large-scale fires. Earlier Wednesday, Walden joined U.S. Forest Service Chief Tony Tooke and his colleagues in the Congressional and Senate Western Caucus at a news conference on the pressing need for forest management reform. During the press conference, Walden noted his Energy and Commerce Committee would be further examining the air quality impacts of large-scale fires that pour pollutants into the atmosphere and choke Oregon’s skies with smoke each summer. The full press conference was livestreamed to Facebook, which you can view here. ###
09.13.2017	Greg Walden helps pass legislation aimed at improving firefighter health Stresses the need to protect the men and women battling devastating fires raging across Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, helped pass H.R. 931, the Firefighter Cancer Registry Act of 2017, through the House of Representatives. This legislation will help improve firefighter health by collecting data on the impacts of smoke inhalation while fighting fires. During a speech on the House floor, Walden stressed the need to protect the brave men and women who battle dangerous fires like those raging across Oregon. “These heroic first responders experience occupational health risks every day. In my district, it’s often from forest fires like we’re having all summer long,” said Walden. “This past weekend I saw firsthand what our firefighters face as they battle a number of fires raging in Oregon, putting themselves in harm’s way to save property, infrastructure, lives, watersheds, habitats, and forests.” The Firefighter Cancer Registry Act is important public health legislation that will require the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to develop and maintain a voluntary registry to collect data regarding the incidence of cancer in firefighters. This registry will allow researchers to have a greater understanding of the impacts smoke inhalation and other occupational hazards have on a firefighter’s health, and lead to better treatment options. "Nationwide, this is a problem facing our firefighters – they came to us and said we need this registry. Close to 8 million acres have burned in wildfires so far this year – over 525,000 acres in Oregon alone – burning both public and private lands. Thousands of residents have been evacuated, but Oregon’s firefighters, of course, stayed behind. That is just what they do.” The Firefighter Cancer Registry Act passed unanimously through the House and now awaits action in the Senate. This comes as Walden is continuing his efforts to reform federal forest management policy to help prevent catastrophic fires in Oregon and throughout the West. For more information on this bill, please click here. ###
09.08.2017	Scenic Columbia Gorge Restoration Act (H.R. 3715) Continuing his efforts to improve forest management policy, Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has introduced legislation to ensure the scenic Columbia Gorge is restored after the devastating Eagle Creek Fire. Walden took immediate action to ensure the Columbia Gorge would be restored for future generations following this catastrophic fire. Walden introduced the Scenic Columbia Gorge Restoration Act (H.R. 3715) on Friday, September 9, 2017. This bill has specific provisions that will help the rebuild Oregon’s treasured area after the Eagle Creek Fire, including: Prioritizes restoration of the Columbia Gorge’s scenic character by requiring the Forest Service to begin developing a cleanup and reforestation plan within 30 days after containment of a scenic area fire. Sets clear timelines for completion of the planning process within 60 days, while ensuring public input. Gives the Forest Service fast track authority to clean up and reforest priority areas including municipal watersheds, key viewing areas, and to help hide human development (e.g. transmission lines). Requires the Forest Service to replant the burned area within two years.
09.07.2017	Walden highlights importance of emergency communications to fire response in Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks form today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee today, Chairman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) cited fires currently raging across Oregon as need for reliable emergency communications systems. Walden highlighted the importance of these emergency communications systems during catastrophic events such as the devastating wildfires that have been ravaging Oregon throughout the summer, as well as hurricanes Harvey and Irma. "I join those who are keeping in our thoughts and prayers all those affected by hurricanes and flooding from Harvey and Irma. I would also add to that list a couple of names you are not familiar with: Chetco, Eagle Creek, Indian Creek, among others, which are the fires that are ravaging the northwest, including just a few miles from where I live. “This week the Eagle Creek took off and has now burned 33,000 acres – I had embers on my deck from 17 miles away. The freeway is closed, the rail lines are closed, and even the mighty Columbia River is not allowing barge traffic at this time. This is in the National Columbia River Scenic Area – it seems like every corner of our country is affected. "The brave citizens, our first responders, the firefighters, and EMTs are helping out every step of the way. Our broadcasters – both public and commercial – are also helping. Cell phone towers are staying up and operating. Emergency communications are working. Our HAM radio operators – of which I am one – are very active in all of this as well. “This all speaks to the importance of this hearing today. We must make sure that we have the most vibrant and modern communications platforms in the world and make sure that they continue to provide emergency and day-to-day operations to our citizens.” Walden is continuing his work in Congress to address how federal forests are managed and how wildfires are controlled. In a recent Facebook post, Walden called for action to improve federal forest policy and address how fires are fought, including policies that affect firefighting in wilderness areas. ###
09.07.2017	Enough smoke. Enough fires. Enough is enough. When Cycle Oregon and performances at the Shakespeare Festival in Ashland get canceled because of fires and the toxic smoke, it’s long past time for Congress to address how federal forests are managed and how fires are fought (or not), including policies that affect firefighting in wilderness areas. When people in Central Oregon, the Gorge (or just about anywhere on the east side this summer) are told to stay inside, it’s time for a change in federal policy so that decisions to let fires burn include a review of how doing so will add carbon and toxic pollutants into the atmosphere, threaten habitat and water quality and destroy private timberlands and property. It’s also time for the U.S. Senate to stop blocking our bipartisan legislation that has passed overwhelmingly in the House year-after-year which would help prevent catastrophic forest fires by allowing proper management. Further, the bill would provide resources to clean up after forest fires and restore the forests with new trees for another generation. The House Resources Committee has once again approved legislation--Resilient Federal Forests Act--that solves the fire borrowing problem, but more importantly, gives foresters and firefighters new tools to help protect our forests, watersheds and airsheds from the kinds of disasters we endured this summer. I know we’re always going to have fires, but we must find better ways to control and extinguish them. Soon the House will take up this measure and send it to the Senate. I’m convinced President Trump will sign it into law if only we can get it to his desk.
09.06.2017	Walden helps pass landmark legislation to pave the way for self-driving cars Leads bipartisan effort to advance technology that will save lives, create new economic opportunities, and help seniors and Americans with disabilities live more independently Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, today helped pass landmark legislation through the House of Representatives to pave the way for self-driving cars. Walden has led a bipartisan effort to advance self-driving vehicle technology to help make America’s roads safer, create new economic opportunities, and help seniors and those with disabilities live more independently. “Self-driving cars hold the promise of making America’s roads safer, creating new economic opportunities, and helping seniors and those with disabilities live more independently. The SELF DRIVE Act strikes the critical balance of enhancing consumer safety while promoting the continued development of this cutting-edge technology,” said Walden. “This bipartisan bill paves the way for advanced collision avoidance systems and self-driving cars nationwide, and ensures that America stays a global leader in innovation.” The SELF-DRIVE Act (H.R. 3388) advanced through Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously in July. This legislation focuses on four key areas: Consumer Protection, Fostering Innovation, Increasing Mobility, and Promoting Research and Development. The SELF-DRIVE Act will help create a clear path for the safe testing, development, and deployment of self-driving cars in the United States. During a speech on the House floor today, Walden cited Oregon’s high rate of traffic fatalities as need for this technology. Researchers have noted that self-driving cars are projected to reduce traffic deaths by 90%, saving 30,000 lives a year nationally. Walden has lauded self-driving vehicles as an innovative solution to reduce vehicle-related deaths in Oregon and across the country. “Almost 40,000 lives were lost on our roads last year. This represents yet another yearly increase in traffic-related fatalities. In my home state of Oregon, traffic fatalities were the highest they’ve been in 14 years, increasing by an alarming 20 percent from the year before,” said Walden. “Statistics show that 94 percent of accidents relate to human behavior. During our morning commute into work, just look around. We all see folks on their phones in the cars next to us. While National Highway Traffic Safety Administration cannot write a safety standard to make us all perfect drivers, it can work to advance life-saving technologies – which is the underlying goal of today’s bipartisan legislation.” Walden also highlighted the importance of this bipartisan initiative for America’s seniors and those living with disabilities. Walden says self-driving vehicle technology will help improve independence for Americans who live with mobility and accessibility challenges. The SELF DRIVE Act establishes a federal advisory council to ensure manufacturers and regulators understand the needs of Americans traditionally underserved by public transportation as well as senior citizens and those living with disabilities. "Additionally, self-driving cars hold the promise of better access to transportation for our nation’s 47 million senior citizens, 27 million Americans with severe disabilities, and the many communities across the country underserved by public transportation,” said Walden. “H.R. 3388 ensures their voices are heard by automakers and regulators as this technology develops.” Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee has held over 250 meetings to develop this legislation with a wide range of stakeholders including manufacturers, suppliers, tech companies, insurance providers, state government officials, seniors groups, and disability advocates. During a meeting in January, Alphabet CEO Eric Schmidt told Walden that they believe the development of automated trucking technology could improve the economic output of a community by up to 10%, simply by moving goods through and around towns more efficiently. Walden spoke of the potential for self-driving cars to boost the automobile industry, which is vital to growing American jobs and stimulating the economy. “This bill is also about ensuring America stays a global leader in the development of self-driving technology. After all, the auto industry is responsible for more than 7 million jobs nationwide and drives more than $900 billion into the economy each year. We want to see those numbers continue to grow and do what we can to keep these jobs in the U.S.” The SELF DRIVE Act passed unanimously through the House today, and now awaits action in the U.S. Senate. For complete background on the SELF DRIVE Act, please click here. ###
09.05.2017	Greg Walden statement regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: "I’ve long been a supporter of stronger security on America’s borders -- countries that do not have control of their borders do not have control of their national security. That is what will lead us to much-needed immigration reform, and it is vital to fixing our broken system. America’s legal immigration system, like other federal bureaucracies, is in need of reform. The current system does not work, and it is past time for Congress to act on this issue. Like all Americans, I have compassion for those who entered our country unlawfully as children and are now in limbo in our immigration system. These are kids who know no other country as their home and were brought here through no fault of their own at a young age. It is up to Congress to find a permanent solution. I appreciate that President Trump recognizes the need for Congress to act to address this problem. As we move forward, I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress and the administration to secure our borders and fix our flawed immigration system." ###
09.01.2017	Enough is enough. When Cycle Oregon and performances at the Shakespeare Festival in Ashland get canceled because of fires and the toxic smoke, it’s long past time for Congress to address how federal forests are managed and how fires are fought (or not), including policies that affect firefighting in wilderness areas. When people in Central Oregon, the Gorge (or just about anywhere on the east side this summer) are told to stay inside, it’s time for a change in federal policy so that decisions to let fires burn include a review of how doing so will add carbon and toxic pollutants into the atmosphere, threaten habitat and water quality and destroy private timberlands and property. It’s also time for the U.S. Senate to stop blocking our bipartisan legislation that has passed overwhelmingly in the House year-after-year which would help prevent catastrophic forest fires by allowing proper management. Further, the bill would provide resources to clean up after forest fires and restore the forests with new trees for another generation. The House Resources Committee has once again approved legislation--Resilient Federal Forests Act--that solves the fire borrowing problem, but more importantly, gives foresters and firefighters new tools to help protect our forests, watersheds and airsheds from the kinds of disasters we endured this summer. I know we’re always going to have fires, but we must find better ways to control and extinguish them. Soon the House will take up this measure and send it to the Senate. I’m convinced President Trump will sign it into law if only we can get it to his desk. Throughout the month of August, I traveled across our vast district meeting with veterans, small business owners, local community leaders, and even introduced the Secretary of Energy to eastern Oregon. These meetings are invaluable to my work as your representative in Congress, and help me update my “to-do” list to take back to the nation’s capital. From improving the care our veterans receive at the VA to strengthening hydropower in our state and cleaning up nuclear waste, I heard from Oregonians on the ground who gave me a lot to add to that list! I hope you’ll continue reading to learn more about my month of August as I met with Oregonians from Grants Pass to Umatilla. Klamath County Kingsley Field Air National Guard Base, Klamath Falls I kicked off the month of August in Klamath County, with a meeting and tour of the Kingsley Air Base. Kingsley is critical to our nation's security and military readiness, and is the only base in the world that trains future F-15 fighter pilots to defend our country, and our allies, in the skies. I want to especially thank Colonel Jeff Smith and the entire team at Kingsley for your service and for taking the time to meet with me. We’re working together to make sure Kingsley is part of future defense missions and has the modern equipment and facilities necessary for the world-class effort they lead. Oregon Institute of Technology, Klamath Falls After my meeting at Kingsley Air Base, I had the opportunity to visit Oregon Institute of Technology’s geothermal plants. Oregon Tech is home to the world’s first combined geothermal heat and power plant on a university campus, and is the only university campus in the United States heated by on-site geothermal energy. Oregon Tech is not only taking advantage of this great renewable resource in the Klamath basin, but also training students to go out and further innovate in the renewable energy space. It was great to meet Oregon Tech’s new President Nagi Naganathan, and see the cutting-edge work taking place on campus. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I’m committed to making sure renewable energy and the latest technological advances are incorporated in federal law. The Committee is in the midst of reviewing the nation’s electrical grid to assess its adequacy and security needs. Making sure we can connect next generation power sources to the grid, and making sure the grid can withstand cyberattacks and effectively manage the power load, are all part of our work. On the Road Unfortunately, our skies were once again choked with smoke from wildfire -- like this one I saw on my way to Lakeview. We need to change federal law and get more active management in our forests to reduce fire fuels and create jobs. Thank you to all of the firefighters who have been knocking down intense fires across our state this summer. I’m committed to giving our firefighters new authority to get their job done. Lake County MC Chuck Wagon Exhibit, Lakeview After my meetings in Klamath, I headed over to Lake County for a glimpse into history that is so unique to our part of Oregon. Early in the year, I was invited to see the MC Chuck Wagon Museum in Lakeview and present an American flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of the museum's new flag pole. This exhibit is home to one of the greatest chuck wagon outfits in the West, and preserves an understanding of the way of life upon which ranching communities like Lakeview were built. I encourage you to visit the museum and check out the rich history preserved there. Jackson County VA Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics (SORCC), White City Click here or on the image above to learn more about my meeting with veterans and VA officials in Jackson County In Jackson County, I convened a meeting with veterans and VA officials at the VA Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics (SORCC) in White City to get an update on their progress to improve care for those who have worn our nation’s uniform. I’ve heard repeatedly from veterans about the challenges of getting in to see a provider at some of the many VA facilities around the Northwest. Too often, these facilities have a difficult time recruiting medical providers, as SORCC officials told me earlier this year. It turns out, the VA lacks the ability to compete with other private or other public employers when it comes to student loan reimbursements as a recruitment tool for providers. That’s why I’ve recently introduced legislation called the Doctors for Veterans Act. This legislation will help reduce wait times for Oregon veterans, improve their access to quality care in a timely manner, and help the VA recruit medical providers to care for veterans in rural and underserved areas in Oregon and throughout the country. By the way, my legislation to set allow medical scribes in the VA sailed through the House unanimously. This measure would test whether having a scribe do the paperwork will free up valuable medical providers to spend more quality time with more patients. It’s worked in the private sector, and we think it can work for the VA. You can read more about the Doctors for Veterans legislation here: https://walden.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/greg-walden-takes-action-reduce-wait-times-oregon-veterans Mercy Flights, Medford Photo courtesy of theDove T.V. For more than a year, I’ve worked with local and national ambulance providers to update federal funding policies to make sure that these first responders are adequately paid, especially for services provided in remote and rural areas. We’re very close to legislation that will accomplish that while also cracking down where there is potential for waste or fraud. During the District Work Period in August, I went to the Rogue Valley International Airport to meet with Mercy Flights. Mercy Flights is a non-profit organization that provides critical emergency response to the local community in southern Oregon. Several months ago, I worked with the Federal Aviation Administration to provide a more-timely processing of the training and certifications their pilots need. You can learn more about my meeting with Mercy Flights here: https://thedove.us/7738-2/ Photo courtesy of theDove T.V. Timber Products, Medford This summer, I organized a meeting with Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross and leaders of the hardwood plywood mills in our region to discuss the unfair trade practices China has used to corner 54% of this market and threaten our family-wage jobs in mills like Timber Products in Medford. The Trump Administration is committed to helping fight back against Chinese companies when they don’t play by the rules. Hundreds of men and women in southern Oregon work at Timber Products’ hardwood plywood plant in Medford. In addition to seeing this modern facility and learning about what all goes into making hardwood plywood, which is primarily used for cabinets, we also discussed the need for access to more federal timber. For the fifth time in five years, the House is moving forward with major forest policy reform legislation, the Resilient Federal Forests Act, which will help protect these workers’ jobs and put people back to work in our woods. The timber industry is incredibly important to our economy and way of life in Oregon. During my meeting, we discussed the importance of pushing back against unfair trade practices from countries like China. You can learn more about my meeting at Timber Products here: http://ktvl.com/news/local/rep-greg-walden-visits-timber-products-to-discuss-timber-legislation-action Josephine County Click here or on the image above to read the Grants Pass Daily Courier’s coverage of my tour of the old Spalding & Son mill site As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I’ve directed an effort this year to update and reauthorize the federal Brownfields Program -- something that hasn’t occurred in more than a decade. This important environmental stewardship program provides a federal partnership with states, local governments and private entities to clean up old, polluted sites and make these lands available once again as industrial sites. Just outside of Grants Pass, I joined local officials in a tour of the old Spalding & Son Mill site. The city of Grants Pass just secured assistance to begin the process of cleaning up this old industrial site through what is known as the “Brownfields Program.” The Brownfields Program has had great success boosting local economies in Oregon by redeveloping sites like the old Spalding & Son mill. The House Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously approved the Brownsfields legislation in June. We anticipate it coming to the whole House for a vote early this fall. You can learn more about this work here: https://walden.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/greg-walden-applauds-brownfields-assistance-secured-grants-pass Deschutes County Click here or on the image above to view a recap of my meeting with Forest Service officials In Deschutes County, I’ve heard concerns about potential changes to access for some of the most popular trails in the Central Cascades Wilderness. I convened a meeting between local Forest Service officials and representatives of outdoor recreation and tourism groups to discuss the need for the agency’s proposals. During a very positive discussion, we heard concerns about limiting access and about making sure the Central Cascades Wilderness is not overcrowded and overused. As good stewards of our precious public lands we have to make sure that they don’t get overrun, especially in the fragile alpine areas. As a native Oregonian, I want to make sure that we also continue to have responsible access to our public lands to recreate. I appreciated hearing the various viewpoints as the Forest Service works to strike the right balance so that we promote responsible use of the wilderness while not unnecessarily limiting public access. Meeting with local Forest Service officials and representatives of outdoor recreation and tourism groups in Bend. Jefferson County Crooked River Ranch, Terrebonne Back to the issue of our fire and smoke-filled summer and what we can do to reduce the risk. I organized a meeting at Crooked River Ranch with local officials and residents who are deeply concerned that federal lands immediately adjacent to the residences could catch fire in a way that could cause a major disaster at the Ranch. Crooked River Ranch Fire and Rescue Chief Rich Hoffman and Jefferson County Sheriff Jim Adkins took me on a tour of the area to drive home their concern. The community has worked hard to provide defensible space and reduce the risk of fire on the private lands. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for the neighboring federal land where dense sagebrush, juniper and other fire fuels within the Wilderness Study Area (WSA) create a tinderbox each summer that puts the community in harm’s way. Hiking through the WSA while visiting with community members and local firefighters made clear the threat. I also heard from local BLM staff about how they would thin and manage the area to restore the landscape and mitigate fire if it were not restricted by federal policy under a WSA. It’s time we make the commonsense change to the WSA boundary, and I’m glad that my legislation to get that done -- the Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act -- is moving forward in the House. All we’re talking about is moving an arbitrary boundary back a few hundred yards to the edge of the cliff, which would allow the kind of thinning treatment that fire officials encourage every homeowner in Central Oregon to do. Learn more about this legislation here: https://walden.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/greg-walden-plan-protect-crooked-river-ranch-wildfire-moves-forward On the Road For more than 20 years, my wife and I owned and operated the radio stations in Hood River and worked closely with the local first responders when emergencies occurred. These brave men and women--mostly volunteers--drop what they are doing and race to save property and lives. Moreover, they spend countless hours in educational classes and hands on training so that they are as prepared and safe as possible. Annually, the Wy’East Volunteer Fire and EMS Association pays tribute to those who lost their lives in service to the community. Fire Chief Greg Borton invited to me participate in the Association’s 15th Annual Memorial and BBQ at the Odell Fire Department. I praised and thanked those who serve and the families who support them. I also presented a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of the firefighters, police officers, and first responders who serve the good people of Hood River County. God Bless you all. Umatilla County McNary Dam, Umatilla Energy Secretary Rick Perry came to Oregon, at my request, to tour McNary Dam and discuss the importance of the Columbia and Snake River hydropower system to this region with local and regional leaders at an energy roundtable in Umatilla County. The Secretary was impressed with the size and scope of the dam and the tremendous, no-carbon-emitting power resource we have that’s helping grow the economy in the Columbia Basin and the Northwest. We were also joined by my Washington State colleague, Rep. Dan Newhouse for the tour. Bonneville Power Administrator Elliot Mainzer joined the Secretary and me in a round table discussion with community leaders and stakeholders after our tour of the dam. The Bonneville Power Administration plays a vital role in the Northwest, and I once again made clear my opposition to the Administration’s idea to sell it off. Of course, Secretary Perry couldn't leave Umatilla County without a famous Hermiston watermelon! Hydropower is incredibly important to Oregon’s energy mix. At the Energy and Commerce Committee -- where I serve as chairman -- we’re working to promote hydro and ensure Oregon consumers continue to have access to reliable and affordable electricity generated from hydropower and other sources including renewables, gas and nuclear. From data centers to value-added agricultural processing, economic opportunities continue to present themselves along the Columbia River and throughout the Northwest thanks to this abundant, affordable energy source. I know Secretary Perry left our region with a new appreciation for the importance of renewable hydropower and the role played by BPA. Secretary Perry holds the microphones as Rep. Dan Newhouse looks on during our news conference in front of McNary Dam. Click here or on the image above to view my remarks with Secretary Perry following our tour of McNary Dam Hanford Site – Richland, Washington The next day, Secretary Perry and I joined Rep. Newhouse and Washington Senator Maria Cantwell to get briefings at the Pacific Northwest National Lab in Richland and to get an update on cleanup efforts at the Hanford Site -- which sits just 40 miles north of our district along the Columbia River. Our first stop was the Hazardous Materials Management and Emergency Response (HAMMER) Federal Training Center. We observed hands-on worker training at HAMMER, that’s helping keep safe the thousands of employees who work at the Hanford Site and deal with hazardous materials on a daily basis. They are truly on the front lines of the cleanup effort and the top-notch training we saw at HAMMER makes sure Hanford employees can safely do their work. Click here or on the image above to view my remarks at the HAMMER training facility about the importance of cleaning up nuclear waste Before we began our tour of the Hanford Site, we took a few questions from local media and discussed the importance of cleaning up nuclear waste across the country. At the Energy and Commerce Committee, we passed bipartisan legislation that establishes permanent and interim nuclear waste storage that will facilitate in cleaning up sites like Hanford. The Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act advanced through the Energy and Commerce Committee with significant bipartisan support -- on a 49-4 basis -- and fulfills the federal government’s obligation to permanently dispose of spent nuclear fuel from our communities. Hanford’s nuclear waste is destined for permanent storage at the Yucca Mountain facility in Nevada. This legislation will make that happen. I was born in The Dalles and live in Hood River, so the Columbia River has always been part of my life. I am fully committed to cleaning up Hanford as soon as possible. The federal government not only has a legal obligation, but also a moral obligation, to get this job done for people who live along the Columbia and the communities surrounding Hanford. During our tour, I had the chance to speak before Hanford employees about the importance of their work and my priorities as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee to finish Yucca Mountain and clean-up sites like Hanford. Hanford employees are truly engaged in historic work, and they should know that the federal government has their back. To learn more about our work at the Energy and Commerce Committee to clean up spent nuclear waste at the Hanford Site and across the country, check out my recent op-ed in the East Oregonian: http://www.eastoregonian.com/eo/columnists/20170626/walden-want-to-clean-up-hanford-finish-yucca-mountain Back to Washington While I only covered the highlights from some of my many meetings in August, as you can see the work I’m doing back in the nation’s capital directly relates to the problems, challenges and opportunities we have here at home. If you’d like to know more about what Congress IS getting done, click on www.didyouknow.gop
08.03.2017	Greg Walden takes action to reduce wait times for Oregon veterans Walden’s Doctors for Veterans Act will help Oregon VA facilities recruit medical providers for veterans in rural and underserved areas WHITE CITY, OREGON – Continuing his efforts to provide Oregon veterans with access to quality, timely care at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is taking action to reduce wait times at VA facilities. During his meeting with VA officials and veterans at the VA Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center & Clinics (VA SORCC) in White City today, Walden announced that he has introduced the Doctors for Veterans Act. Walden’s legislation will help VA facilities recruit medical providers for veterans in rural and underserved areas in Oregon and across the country. “This bipartisan legislation is a product of feedback I’ve heard from veterans themselves and VA officials throughout our district about the difficulties providing veterans in rural Oregon with timely access to quality care,” said Walden. “The Doctors for Veterans Act will allow the VA to better recruit medical providers by offering student loan repayment benefits that compete with what is offered in the private sector. Especially in rural areas, our veterans are underserved and VA facilities in Oregon face difficult recruiting challenges. This bill will help the VA compete with the private sector for qualified physicians to adequately staff their health centers in underserved areas and bring veterans the care they deserve.” Walden’s Doctors for Veterans Act increases the maximum student loan benefit that the VA can offer through its Education Debt Reduction Program, which aims to help the VA recruit and retain medical providers. Walden’s legislation will help address the VA’s provider shortage by improving their ability to attract qualified medical providers, and ultimately improve access to quality, timely care for Oregon veterans. The bill provides additional help to rural and underserved VA centers and clinics, where the provider shortages are often more severe due to increased challenges with recruitment and retention. Today’s announcement comes as a separate piece of legislation Walden introduced -- the VA Medical Scribes Pilot Act -- recently passed the House of Representatives unanimously. This legislation would implement a pilot program for medical scribes at VA facilities, which will help administratively unburden VA doctors and allow them to see more veterans. Both the VA Medical Scribes Pilot Act and the Doctors for Veterans Act seek to address issues Walden has heard about during his recent meetings with veterans and officials at the VA SORCC and throughout his district. A section-by-section summary of the Doctors for Veterans Act is included below. -- Background Section 7682 of Title 38 of the U.S. Code provides a student loan benefit for employees of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) who serve in positions that provide either direct or incident care services for our veterans. The Education Debt Reduction Program aims to help the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) recruit and retain providers to get our veterans access to quality care in a timely manner. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) runs a similar program that places providers in underserved areas: the National Health Service Corps (NHSC). The student loan benefits offered through the NHSC are significantly greater than they are for the VA, even though our nation’s veterans are clearly “underserved” -- wait times and backlogs have plagued the Department and hampered veterans’ access to care. The Doctors for Veterans Act simply increases the maximum student loan benefit available to VA doctors and brings those benefits in line with the NHSC benefits. This will help address the VA’s provider shortage by improving their ability to recruit and retain providers, and ultimately improve access to quality care for our nation’s veterans. Section 1 – Improvement of VA’s Education Debt Reduction Program Subsection A -- Allows VA providers to use their student loan benefit for both graduate and undergraduate education. Current law states that participants may only use their student loan benefit for the degree that pertains to their medical provider position within the VA. Subsection B -- Increases the maximum amount of student loan benefit available to participants in two ways: - The per-year benefit cap is raised from $24,000 to $60,000. - The total allowable benefit is raised from $120,000 to $240,000 Subsection B also directs the VA Secretary to establish a process for offering greater benefits to providers who work in the most underserved VA health centers. HHS uses this process to administer student loan benefits through the National Health Service Corps, and the Secretary is directed to implement a similar determination process for the VA’s student loan benefit. Subsection C -- Increases benefits to account for income taxes levied on the student loan benefit received. Similar to the NHSC provision, this subsection assumes a 39% tax on the benefit and adds that amount to the base student loan benefit. Subsection D -- States that these policies will apply for all participants who enter the program beginning on or after the date this bill is enacted. ###
07.27.2017	Greg Walden helps advance bipartisan legislation to modernize drinking water infrastructure in Oregon WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today helped advance seven pieces of legislation, one of which is H.R. 3387, the Drinking Water System Improvement Act. The Drinking Water System Improvement Act passed unanimously through Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee today, and seeks to strengthen the tools used to modernize drinking water infrastructure in Oregon and throughout the country. “Moving a serious reauthorization of any major environmental law, like the Safe Drinking Water Act, takes a lot of cooperation and willingness to talk out the issues and find common ground,” said Walden. “That common ground brought us to where we are today. H.R. 3387 focuses on addressing drinking water systems’ physical needs, aiding states and utilities with compliance and operation of the drinking water program, and encouraging the wisest use of money that is spent.” Drinking water is delivered across the country via millions of miles of pipes owned by both private and public water systems. While drinking water quality remains high across the country, improvements can be made, and infrastructure modernized. Many of these pipes were laid in the early to mid-20th century with a lifespan of 75 to 100 years -- some communities in Walden’s district still rely on wood stave pipes to deliver drinking water. The Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) helps local communities provide their residents with safe drinking water, comply with drinking water rules and improve infrastructure. In Malheur County, the city of Vale is using the DWSRF to complete a new 750,000 gallon water storage tank and $8 million water treatment facility to increase the city’s water supply. Nyssa is using the fund for a similar project. Meanwhile, in Umatilla County, the city of Pendleton has just secured funding through the DWSRF to replace 33 miles of pipe nearing a century in age. The Drinking Water System Improvement Act passed the Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously. This bill would; Authorize $8 billion over 5 years for the drinking water revolving loan fund program, Open the eligible uses of the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) to now cover costs associated with preconstruction activities and replacing or rehabilitating aging treatment, storage, or distribution facilities. Create a strategic plan to have an electronic system that allows water utilities to send their compliance data to states and states send it to EPA. Reauthorize funding for voluntary source water protection programs. Encourage more readable and understandable consumer confidence reports and solidifies their electronic distribution. For more information on the bill, click here. The Drinking Water System Improvement Act is part of seven pieces of legislation that advanced through Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee today. For complete background on today’s legislation, please click here. ###
07.26.2017	Greg Walden plan to protect Crooked River Ranch from wildfire moves forward House Natural Resources Committee advances Walden’s Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden’s (R-Hood River) plan to protect Crooked River Ranch from wildfire advanced through the House Natural Resources Committee on a bipartisan vote today. The Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act (H.R. 2075) adjusts the wilderness study areas adjacent to Crooked River Ranch to protect the local community from wildfire. “Passage of the Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act through the Resources Committee is really important,” said Walden. “We all know what fire is like in our environment in central Oregon. What we’re trying to do is move a government boundary back so that teams can get in and thin out the excess fuels that could result in a catastrophe if fire ever came over the top into Crooked River Ranch.” Crooked River Ranch is an unincorporated community of about 5,500 residents in Jefferson County. The lands adjacent to the community are managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and are classified as a Wilderness Study Area (WSA). These lands are in the highest risk category for exposure to devastating wildfire due to overstocked juniper stand under the federally mandated and locally promulgated Jefferson County Community Wildfire Protection Plan. And the current WSA classification prevents mechanical fire prevention activities within these overstocked juniper stands. Walden’s bill would adjust the boundaries of the WSAs in order to better facilitate fire prevention activities on public lands and the adjacent private property. Local fire officials and first responders have praised Walden’s bill. “This bill has the potential to save lives and property at Crooked River Ranch and I’m glad to see Congressman Walden continuing to move this plan forward. With the current wilderness study area (WSA) boundary, practical firefighting and fire prevention activities are unavailable. The lack of fuel mitigation around Crooked River Ranch, due to wilderness restrictions codified in law, has created a dangerous environment and continues to threaten the people that live here. This bill will move the boundary away from private properties, eliminate wilderness restrictions and allow us to mitigate these fuels to defend properties and lives on Crooked River Ranch. From a firefighting standpoint, Congressman Walden’s bill is appreciated and is simply commonsense.” Harry Ward, Fire Chief of Crooked River Ranch Fire & Rescue "As the elected Sheriff of Jefferson County, Oregon, this bill is extremely important to the life and property of an area under my protection. This bill will help mitigate wildfire from Crooked River Ranch by providing a defensible fire protection along the border of the Ranch which is presently contiguous with the WSAs. Current WSA restrictions makes it impossible for the fire crew to enter the area and fight the wildfire with modern techniques. The residents of Crooked River Ranch are most appreciative of Greg’s efforts to facilitate the protection of life and property through enactment of the Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act.” Jim Adkins, Sheriff of Jefferson County The Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act advanced through the House Natural Resources Committee and now awaits a vote in the full House of Representatives before moving to the Senate. For a copy of Walden’s legislation, please click here. ###
07.24.2017	Walden bill to unburden VA doctors and improve care for Oregon veterans passes House Legislation co-authored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) would introduce medical scribes into VA system to help process paperwork Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a plan co-authored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to improve the care Oregon’s veterans receive at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Walden worked with House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman, Dr. Phil Roe, to introduce the VA Medical Scribes Pilot Act of 2017. Walden’s legislation would implement a pilot program for medical scribes at VA facilities, which will help unburden VA doctors and allow them to see more patients. “Good news for Oregon veterans: the House passed legislation I co-authored with Chairman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Dr. Phil Roe, that will allow veterans’ doctors to do what they do best -- spend more time taking care of veterans,” said Walden. “This legislation sets up a pilot program to try something that has worked successfully in the private sector -- having scribes work side-by-side with doctors, so that doctors can focus on the patient and scribes can focus on the paperwork.” Medical scribes help relieve physicians of administrative burdens such as paperwork and record keeping, which helps doctors focus their attention on caring for patients. Studies have shown that the use of medical scribes in the private sector resulted in a 59% increase in the number of patients physicians see per hour. Walden has heard from officials at both the White City and Bend VA facilities, and veterans themselves, that implementing a scribes program will help improve the care Oregon veterans receive. Walden’s legislation will also help retain quality VA doctors, and recruit new physicians into the VA process. Charles Schmidt, Oregon’s first National Commander of The American Legion, said of Walden’s legislation, “the VA Medical Scribes Pilot Act of 2017 would greatly assist VA doctors in the course of their duties by providing medical scribes to alleviate their administrative burden. This would enable VA doctors to see more veterans per day and spend more time with each patient. Providing doctors medical scribes would help the VA improve the work environment, reduce physician burnout, and recruit and retain quality physicians." The VA Medical Scribe Pilot Act of 2017 passed the House on a bipartisan vote and now awaits action in the Senate. To read more about Walden’s legislation, please click here. ###
07.20.2017	Greg Walden applauds Brownfields assistance secured by Grants Pass Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today applauded “Brownfields” assistance secured by Grants Pass. Walden said Grants Pass acquiring these funds will allow the city to utilize the Brownfields Program, which has had success in communities across Walden’s district, to clean up and redevelop the old Spalding Mill site. “The success of Grants Pass getting this grant to clean up the old Spalding Mill site is terrific,” said Walden. “We have a great record in Oregon using the Brownfields Program to cleanup these sites and put them back into active, productive use. At the Energy and Commerce Committee -- which I chair -- we’ve moved forward legislation to reauthorize this federal program. It is the first time since 2006 that this program has been reviewed and reauthorized. We prove it on the ground in places like Grants Pass and it plays well across the country to clean up these sites and put them back into productive use. I’m pleased with the announcement by the Trump Administration that they’re making these funds available to Grants Pass.” This announcement comes as Walden has been working on bipartisan legislation at the House Energy and Commerce Committee to reauthorize the Brownfields Program. In June, Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously passed the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Development, and Reauthorization Act. This bipartisan legislation authorizes the Brownfields Program for the first time since 2006 and makes it easier for smaller communities -- like Grants Pass and others in Walden’s district -- to participate in the process of Brownfields cleanup and redevelopment. This legislation now awaits a vote in the full House of Representatives. Grants Pass secured $200,000 in “Brownfields” grant funds from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to help the city develop a plan for the cleanup, restoration, and future development of the area around the old Spalding Mill site in eastern Grants Pass. A Brownfield is a property where the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant may complicate its expansion, redevelopment, or reuse. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt says his agency is committed to working alongside Grants Pass as they work to redevelop this site. “EPA is committed to working with communities like Grants Pass to redevelop Brownfields sites that have can contribute to local growth in both the economy and quality of life,” said Pruitt. “EPA’s area-wide planning grants leverage considerable infrastructure and other investments, improving local economies and creating an environment where jobs can grow.” Background on the Spalding Mill site Grants Pass has long eyed the Spalding Mill area for redevelopment, and the 61-acre site was chosen by the EPA due to environmental concerns, proximity to transportation corridors and sensitive populations, history of disinvestment, reuse potential, and community need for economic development. The mostly vacant former Spalding & Son sawmill site contains relics of former lumber operations such as drying kilns, lumber sheds, dust collection blowers, foundations, and an abandoned plywood factory. While the Spalding Mill site was historically used for industrial purposes, it is surrounded by natural features: Jones Creek, essential habitat for the endangered Coho salmon, flows through the site, and the Rogue River, one of the west's premier recreational assets, lies less than a quarter-mile south. At the far edge of the Grants Pass urban area, directly abuts verdant pastures, treed mountainsides, and a 100- acre park long popular with the community. Finally, the Rogue River Greenway, a 30-mile emerald necklace of parks and public access areas along the Rogue River linked by a ribbon of greenway trail between Grants Pass and Central Point, abruptly terminates at the eastern edge of the project area. The city’s key partners on this project include: • Southern Oregon Regional Economic Development, Inc., a community-based organization; • Business Oregon, through both its Brownfields and economic development divisions; • Oregon Department of Environmental Quality; • Grants Pass Urban Renewal Agency; • Josephine County Solid Waste Agency; and Oregon Health Authority ###
07.19.2017	Greg Walden helps advance self-driving legislation Says technology is an innovative solution to reduce traffic fatalities in Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks at today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to improve safety on Oregon’s roads, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today helped advance groundbreaking self-driving legislation that will prioritize safety and encourage innovation. Walden says self-driving technology is an innovative solution to reduce traffic fatalities in Oregon, which have increased substantially in recent years. "The technology behind highly autonomous vehicles is stunning,” said Walden. “Equally stunning are the latest roadway safety numbers. Almost 40,000 lives were lost on our roads last year. In my home state alone, traffic fatalities were the highest they’ve been in 14 years, increasing an alarming 20 percent from the year before.” As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden has been at the forefront of recent efforts to safely bring self-driving vehicle technology to America’s roads. Walden’s Energy and Commerce Committee has held multiple hearings on the enormous safety potential of self-driving cars. Walden has experienced this technology first-hand, and today stressed the need for the federal government to keep pace with advancements in technology as the speed of innovation increases. “For Americans to enjoy the benefits that self-driving cars have to offer, we must develop an appropriate regulatory structure that SAFELY allows industry to innovate,” said Walden. "We want aggressive oversight of the industry, but with the flexibility needed to test and generate the safest and most affordable technologies possible. There is an important balance we must strike, and I believe this legislation does just that.” This work comes as Oregon and America, as a whole, face an increase in vehicle-related deaths after years of declining traffic fatalities. Today’s bipartisan legislation was advanced unanimously and now moves to the full Energy and Commerce Committee. For more information on today’s hearing, including a background memo and archived webcast, click here. ###
07.18.2017	Greg Walden leads hearing on strengthening electricity delivery across America Cites diverse power mix in Oregon as need to maintain security, reliability, and affordability of electricity Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks at today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to modernize and improve America’s energy infrastructure, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today led a hearing on strengthening electricity delivery across the country. During the hearing, Walden highlighted Oregon’s diverse power mix and stressed the need to maintain the security, reliability, and affordability of electricity delivery. “In my district in Oregon, we receive electricity from just about every source, including coal, natural gas, hydro, solar, and wind. We also receive electricity from cooperatives, public utility districts and municipalities, and investor-owned utilities,” said Walden. “We have just about everything in Oregon. And in all of these situations, we expect to have power when we flip the switch.” Today’s hearing is the first of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s recently announced “Powering America” series. The Powering America series provides members of the Energy and Commerce Committee the opportunity to explore electricity markets, learn more about electricity generation, distribution, and consumption, and the resiliency of the electric grid. The nation’s electricity industry is undergoing a period of transformation due to technological innovation and market competition. At today’s hearing, Walden heard from a variety of industry stakeholders regarding current issues and developments across the electricity sector including efforts to maintain grid reliability, transmission planning, and efforts to ensure electricity markets promote efficient outcomes. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden has called for a consumer-focused approach to improve and modernize energy infrastructure in Oregon and throughout the country. “As I’ve said previously, at the end of the day, our goal is to serve the best interests of consumers,” said Walden. For complete background on today’s hearing, please click here. ###
07.13.2017	Greg Walden applauds progress on Cultus Lake reopening WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement after Forest Service officials announced the boat launch and day use area at Cultus Lake Campground will be reopening: “After expressing my deep frustration with the initial closure of Cultus Lake, I was pleased to see the Forest Service went into high gear to find a better way forward. While no one disputed the need to protect campers from harm, shutting down the campground for the whole season didn’t make sense from a practical view. That is why as soon as I learned of the closure I put together a meeting and a tour of the campground with Forest Service and Cultus Lake officials to get a better sense of the situation on the ground. There’s more work to be done, but today’s announcement is an encouraging sign. I will continue to work alongside the Forest Service to help make sure this progress continues so the campground can open as soon as possible.” Following the announcement of the closure of Cultus Lake in June, Walden called for answers in a letter to Deschutes National Forest Supervisor John Allen. Walden also met with Forest Service officials and the owner of the Cultus Lake Resort to find a solution to open the campground for part of the summer. You can learn more about his visit here: https://www.ktvz.com/news/fs-hopes-to-open-cultus-lake-campground-by-late-july/562547148
07.13.2017	Greg Walden calls for urgency in fight against opioid abuse in Oregon Leads hearing on effective strategies for combatting the crisis in local communities Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts in the battle against opioid addiction in Oregon, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), today called for urgency in the fight against the epidemic across the country. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden led a hearing to examine effective strategies for combatting the crisis in local communities. The hearing entitled, “Combatting the Opioid Crisis: Battles in the States," focused on current challenges in putting an end to opioid abuse, ways the federal government can assist, and efforts on the ground that have begun to make a difference. A full transcript of Walden’s remarks is included below: “Addiction is an equal opportunity destroyer. It is a crisis that does not pick people based on their age, race, or socioeconomic status. And it most certainly does not pick based on political parties. “From my roundtables throughout the Second District of Oregon, it didn’t matter if I was in a rural community or a more populated city; the tragic stories were similar. We all know someone who has been impacted by this epidemic. In Oregon, more people now die from drug-related overdoses than from automobile accidents -- and sadly, that is not unique to my home state. "According to a preliminary data analysis, drug overdose deaths in 2016 most likely exceeded 59,000 -- the largest annual jump ever recorded in the United States. What’s worse? Some of the preliminary numbers from the states indicate that their numbers within the first six months of this year are already surpassing last year’s total numbers. And over the past seven years, opioid addiction diagnoses are up nearly 500 percent, according to a recent report. “Despite a report released by the Centers for Disease Control last week, which indicates that the number of opioid prescriptions has decreased over the past five years, the rates are still three times as high as they were in 1999, and the amount of opioids prescribed in 2015 was enough for every American to be medicated around the clock for three weeks. “That report also found that counties in Oregon have some of the highest levels of opioid prescriptions in the country. Of the top 10 counties in Oregon for opioid prescriptions, five of them are in my rural district. Moreover, Oregonians aged 65 and older are being hospitalized for opioid abuse, overdoses, and other complications at a far higher rate than any other state in our union. “Sadly, overdose deaths continue to escalate. This epidemic is getting more severe. Challenges clearly remain. "First, we need to improve data collection, and a few states are already requiring more specific information related to overdose deaths. Quite simply, we can’t solve what we don’t know. "We need to be able to have more timely and reliable data so we can better understand and address the full scope of the problem. There also needs to be an increase in overdose prevention efforts, improvement with respect to the utilization and interoperability of Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs, and we need to increase access to evidence-based treatment, including Medication-Assisted Treatment. “Combatting this epidemic requires an all-hands-on-deck effort from federal, state, and local officials -- spanning from health care experts to our law enforcement community. That is precisely why we are having this hearing today. “Last year Congress took action to combat this crisis by passing legislation, including the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act and the 21st Century Cures Act, and states have pursued programs to strengthen our fight against this epidemic, but much more needs to be done. We need to work together to ensure that the tools and funding Congress has created are reaching our state and localities, and that they are being used effectively. We hope to hear from the state officials before us today to see how they are utilizing these funds and what programs have proven to be successful. “We greatly appreciate the witnesses who have agreed to appear before us today. We hope to have a constructive dialogue about what the states are doing; how we can improve data collection; what initiatives are working, what isn’t working; and how the federal government can be a partner in this collective fight. I look forward to your testimony, and working with all of you to help our communities and solve this horrific crisis.” Walden is continuing to shed light on the opioid crisis in Oregon. Recently, he spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives and led a panel discussion with The Washington Post on “Addiction in America”. At roundtables throughout his district, Walden has heard firsthand accounts of the impact of the opioid epidemic on Oregonians. The Second Congressional District of Oregon, which Walden’s represents, has experienced particularly high levels of opioid prescriptions, per person, compared to the rest of the country. According to a recent study released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), counties in Oregon have some of the highest levels of opioid prescriptions in the nation -- and five of the top ten counties for opioid prescriptions in the state reside in Walden’s district. This comes as Oregon leads the country in seniors aged 65 and older who are hospitalized for opioid abuse, addiction, and other complications, according to a recent report. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of the battle against the opioid epidemic in Oregon and across the country. For the full “Combatting the Opioid Crisis: Battles in the States”, please click here. ###
07.06.2017	ICYMI: Greg Walden on opioid abuse: “This is a crisis that doesn’t pick parties” Shares personal stories from Oregon to highlight widespread impact of the epidemic WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is continuing his efforts in Congress to shed light on the impact of the nationwide opioid epidemic in Oregon. Most recently, Walden joined The Washington Post for a panel discussion on “Addiction in America” and spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives about how this crisis is hurting Oregon families. Walden shared personal stories he has heard from Oregonians at roundtables throughout southern, central, and eastern Oregon to highlight the widespread reach of opioid abuse in Oregon communities. Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks at the “Addiction in America” panel discussion “These issues don’t pick parties when they show up on your doorstep,” said Walden at The Washington Post’s event. “This is having unbelievable consequences across our country.” Walden joined his colleagues on the floor of the House of Representatives to call for a bipartisan effort to tackle opioid abuse head on. Walden emphasized that the crisis has touched every corner of the country and is an equal opportunity destroyer. “The opioid epidemic has hit close to home in Oregon -- where more people now die from drug overdoses than automobile accidents,” said Walden. “I’ve met with community leaders, first responders, doctors, patients, and those on the front lines of this fight. At roundtables throughout my district, I’ve heard firsthand accounts of the impact of the opioid epidemic on Oregon. And it didn’t matter if I was in a rural eastern Oregon community or a more populated city in southern Oregon – the tragic stories were all too similar and all too familiar.” Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s speech on the floor of the House of Representatives As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of battling the epidemic in Oregon and across the country. Walden noted that the Energy and Commerce Committee will be working to examine effective strategies to combat the crisis in local communities. “At the Energy and Commerce Committee, we stand shoulder to shoulder -- all of us together -- to seize the opportunity before us,” he said. Walden’s committee has announced a hearing for Wednesday, July 12, 2017 at 10 a.m. EST to address this issue. The hearing is entitled, “Combatting the Opioid Crisis: Battles in the States”, and will focus on current challenges in combatting the epidemic, ways the federal government can assist, and efforts on the ground that have begun to make a difference. ###
07.05.2017	Greg Walden applauds new law to increase accountability, expand whistleblower protections at the VA Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his support for legislation to improve the care Oregon veterans receive at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) applauded a new law that would increase accountability at the VA. The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 will streamline the process for removing poor performing VA employees and expand whistleblower protections for those who reveal wrongdoing in the agency. Walden said this legislation is a big step forward in reforming the VA and getting veterans the care they deserve. “One of the commitments we made to the American people, especially our veterans, is to improve the situation at the VA,” said Walden. “We all remember the stories about wait times, where veterans actually died waiting to get access to care, and where the VA actually lied to Congress and the American people about their wait time lists. We’re changing all of that with legislation the President has now signed into law, called the Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. This sets up a streamlined process to deal with the management issues faced by the VA when it comes to VA employees who aren’t doing their jobs or are misleading. They can be replaced and we can get good people in positions quickly. This will be really important for those who every day go to work at the VA to do their job, and do it well and help veterans and they see things that aren’t going right. We give them additional protections as whistleblowers so we can get the VA in the place it should be to provide world-class care for the people who protect our freedom.” Walden has heard from veterans across Oregon about the need to improve accountability at the VA. This legislation creates an efficient process to remove, demote, or suspend any VA employee for poor performance, negligence, or misconduct. Importantly, the law will also expand protections for whistleblowers and would prohibit the VA from removing employees that have an open whistleblower case with the agency. For complete background on this legislation, please click here. If you or a loved one is having trouble with the VA, you can call Walden’s office for assistance toll-free from Oregon at 800-533-3303. Walden has assisted more than 6,000 Oregon veterans in personal matters dealing with the VA. ###
06.28.2017	Greg Walden helps advance eight bills to modernize energy infrastructure, improve environmental laws, and promote job growth in Oregon Highlights positive impact of legislation for Oregonians Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today helped advance eight pieces of legislation to modernize energy infrastructure, improve environmental laws, and promote job growth in Oregon. During today’s legislative session, Walden highlighted the positive impact these bills would have for Oregonians. A full transcript of Walden’s remarks is included below: “While a great deal of the news this year has been focused on health care, both the Subcommittee on Energy and Subcommittee on Environment have been quietly working on legislation that truly makes a difference for folks across the country. We’ve examined barriers to modernizing the nation’s energy infrastructure and looked at opportunities to modernize our environmental laws with an eye on doing what’s best for consumers, the environment, and businesses across the country. To date, the committee has held over 10 energy infrastructure hearings and roundtables and has heard from scores of witnesses. All of this work has brought us here today and I’m looking forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance these eight bills to the full House for consideration on the floor. “While these bills may not grab the headlines or the attention they deserve, let’s be real folks, we’re doing some big things here today that will have a tremendous impact on consumers, the environment, and the economy in the years ahead. “We’ve worked in a bipartisan manner on legislation to authorize the Brownfields Program for the first time since 2006. We’re moving forward on a bipartisan solution to finally have the federal government fulfill its obligations to manage spent nuclear fuel. We’re modernizing our siting and permitting processes for natural gas pipelines and hydropower facilities. We’re taking important steps to ensure the reliability of our electric grid while strengthening states’ capabilities to secure the nation’s energy infrastructure against physical and cybersecurity threats. And we’re also providing states the flexibility needed to implement important air quality standards on an efficient and realistic timeline. “In my home state of Oregon, these bills will help us unlock hydropower’s potential, take steps towards cleaning up the Hanford Site, and strengthen the Brownfields Program to redevelop contaminated sites. All that we do here, we do for our constituents back home that sent us to Washington and entrusted us with the confidence to get things done. “I’m proud of this committee’s record when it comes to working with one another in a bipartisan manner. While we may not agree on all the bills before us today, I know each one of us wants to do what’s best for consumers back home. If we put consumer’s interest first, we will develop solid, sustainable public policy, because that means we’ve created consumer driven markets that work, expanded consumer choices and supported a more vibrant, job-producing economy. “I believe the eight bills before us today fit that consumer-first, market-driven mentality. I stand ready to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to enact these reforms that build on our nation’s energy abundance, modernize our nation’s energy infrastructure and environmental laws, and promote domestic manufacturing and job growth.” Of the bills advanced in the Energy and Commerce Committee today, three are of particular importance to Oregon. Walden has emphasized the potential of these bills to grow hydropower in Oregon, improve the management of nuclear waste in the Pacific Northwest, and promote the Brownfields Program that has had great success in Walden’s district. The Hydropower Modernization Act would help expand hydropower in Oregon by streamlining the permitting process for hydro projects. Hydropower accounts for more than 40% of Oregon’s energy production, and Walden is working to ensure its continued growth as part of the Pacific Northwest’s energy mix. Walden’s committee also advanced the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act. In a recent opinion piece, Walden touted the importance of this legislation to help cleanup nuclear waste across the country, including at the Hanford Site, which sits just 40 miles north of Walden’s district. You can read his full op-ed here. Another important piece of legislation passed through the Energy and Commerce Committee today is the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Development, and Reauthorization Act. This bill authorizes the Brownfields Program for the first time since 2006 and makes it easier for smaller communities like those in Walden’s district to participate in the process of brownfields cleanup and redevelopment. All three of these bills now head to the full House of Representatives for a vote. For a complete background on all eight pieces of legislation advanced in Walden’s committee today, please click here. ###
06.21.2017	Greg Walden calls for action to improve broadband connectivity in rural Oregon Stresses the need to prioritize unserved areas in America when expanding broadband infrastructure Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks at today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today called for action to expand broadband internet access in rural Oregon. During a hearing of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden stressed the importance of prioritizing unserved areas in Oregon and throughout the country when expanding broadband internet infrastructure. Walden’s committee today examined the definition of broadband service in America and improving the “mapping” of broadband coverage across the country. During the hearing, Walden emphasized the importance of ensuring the definition of broadband service meets the needs of consumers and provides a productive level of internet service. Walden also stressed the need to increase the accuracy of mapping broadband coverage to identify unserved areas of the country that do not have internet access. A full transcript of Walden’s remarks is included below: “If you ask someone in rural America -- like my giant district in eastern Oregon -- whether they have broadband access that meets the speeds ‘as defined by the Federal Communications Commission,’ they likely don’t know. “If you ask them whether they get internet access to match their needs, they can probably give you a quick yes or no answer. That should be our primary objective as policy makers looking to allocate federal resources -- accounting for consumer demand, putting the consumer first, and getting the most people the best access to a productive level of internet service. People in the most remote parts of our country, including in Oregon and other unserved parts of our country, would tell you they’d be happy to just have a connection. Some of them do not have that today. That is the importance of the work we are doing moving forward -- to figure out how we connect the unconnected. They should not be left behind in America. Whether if you’re in Montana, Wyoming, or Oregon, or North Dakota, or in urban settings where there are issues as well. This is really important that we have this discussion about mapping. “We learned this lesson the hard way from our experience with the Rural Utilities Service and the 2009 Recovery Act. As outlined by an investigator with the non-partisan Government Accountability Office, “we are left with a program that spent $3 billion and we really don’t know what became of it.” That was because, at the time that went through, the money went out before the maps were drawn. “I hope this time when we look at infrastructure expansion in America to connect places that we get the mapping first. That we focus on the areas that are unserved first. That we connect this country to one of the most important economic and social tools in our history.” To read a background memo on today’s hearing of the Energy and Commerce Committee, please click here. ###
06.19.2017	Greg Walden to lead panel on combatting national opioid epidemic WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today announced that he will lead a panel discussion Wednesday morning on efforts to combat opioid addiction in Oregon and nationwide. The panel discussion, “Addiction in America”, is hosted by The Washington Post and will feature policy makers, researchers, and health care experts to discuss solutions for combatting addiction in America. Walden's panel, “Addiction Crisis: A Nation Responds”, will focus on how the U.S. government and Congress are responding to the opioid epidemic. “This is a vital conversation to have across the country and especially in Oregon, where more people die from drug overdoses every year than car accidents,” said Walden. “Combatting the opioid epidemic is going to require a team effort from our elected officials, health care experts, and those on the front lines of this fight in our local communities. I look forward to participating in this event and taking our discussion back to Oregon as I continue to work towards putting an end to this crisis in our state.” As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of Congress’ response to the national opioid epidemic. Details on the event are included below, and the event will be streamed live to Facebook and online at www.wapo.st/postlive. Wednesday, June 21, 2017 WHAT: The Washington Post Panel Discussion: “Addiction in America” WHEN: 9:00AM EST (6:00AM PST) WHERE: Available to stream live online at www.wapo.st/postlive For more information on this event, please click here: https://www.washingtonpost.com/post-live-2017-addiction-in-america/?utm_term=.47252c7b3960
06.15.2017	Greg Walden helps advance pivotal legislation to improve environmental laws, modernize energy infrastructure for Oregon Energy and Commerce Committee passes two bills to authorize Brownfields Program and better manage nuclear waste Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks at today’s legislative session WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today helped advance pivotal legislation to improve environmental laws and modernize energy infrastructure for Oregon. Walden’s committee passed two bills to authorize the Brownfields Program and better manage nuclear waste, both of which Walden says are especially important in Oregon. During Committee discussion, Walden touted Oregon as being at the forefront of brownfields cleanup and redevelopment, and cited the Department of Energy’s Hanford site as showing the clear need for improvements to nuclear waste disposal programs. A full transcript of Walden’s remarks is included below: “Today’s markup is another important step in this committee’s efforts to modernize our energy infrastructure and update our environmental laws for the 21st century. We’ve examined each of these issues at great length in previous subcommittee hearings and the bills before us today were informed through much of the feedback we received from our witnesses during that time. I would also note that we fully intend to continue to work on these bills as we move towards a full committee markup. “H.R. 806, reintroduced from last Congress, is enjoying its second run through the committee process -- and its importance for reducing the barriers to a more productive American economy remains undiminished. We all support clean air and being good stewards of our environment, but this legislation addresses some necessary issues with respect to the EPA’s ozone standards. For its 2008 ozone standards, EPA did not publish implementing regulations until March 2015, which states are now in the process of implementing. Then in October 2015 the EPA issued new, revised ozone standards. This has created a situation where states currently face the prospect of implementing two different ozone standards simultaneously. “The “Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2017” ensures appropriate timelines to enable states and local authorities to do this while maintaining continued improvements in the nation’s air quality and without unnecessarily restraining new source permitting and economic development -- especially the permitting we need to accelerate our nation’s infrastructure and manufacturing capabilities. “The subcommittee will also consider today the “Brownfields Enhancement Economic Redevelopment and Reauthorization Act of 2017.” Cleaning up contaminated sites through the Brownfields Program can have a tremendous economic impact on a community as well by creating jobs, providing additional funds for redevelopment of the affected area, and increasing property values. “In fact, my home state of Oregon has a very active Brownfields Program and Oregon is on the leading edge of brownfields cleanup. That’s why I am pleased that this bill authorizes the Brownfields Program for the first time since 2006. The bill makes it easier for smaller communities like those in my district to participate in the process of brownfields cleanup and redevelopment– the bill allows states to provide additional grants of up to $20,000 to help small, rural, and disadvantaged communities assess and remediate brownfields. “Finally, the subcommittee will also consider the “Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017.” Reliable, affordable, and clean nuclear power is the cornerstone of our electric system. However, challenges associated with managing the byproduct of nuclear generation remain unresolved. It is time that the federal government finally fulfills its requirement to manage spent nuclear fuel. “Breaking this current stalemate is important, not just for our commercial nuclear power industry and ratepayers, but also for the communities throughout the country that currently store this material despite the government’s legal obligation to dispose of it. This includes the Department of Energy’s Hanford site, just a short distance up the Columbia River from my district. Congress has an obligation to honor its commitment to those communities who have contributed to our nation’s security starting with the Manhattan Project, through the Cold War, and still today. “Enactment of the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017 will advance a solution. The bill provides the tools for DOE and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to complete the pending Yucca Mountain repository license, allows the State of Nevada to enter into an agreement with the federal government to benefit as the host state, requires DOE to initiate an interim storage program, authorizes DOE to contract with a private entity to temporarily store spent nuclear fuel, reforms the broken structure that funds the program, and strengthens the organization and management of DOE’s program. “These bills advance thoughtful solutions that will make a difference for consumers and communities across the country. I’m looking forward to working with my colleagues and hopeful we can get these across the finish line as soon as possible.” The Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act and the Ozone Standards Implementation Act now head to the full House of Representatives for a vote. For additional background on this legislation, please click here. ###
06.13.2017	Greg Walden calls for answers on Cultus Lake closure WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today voiced his concern about the recent closure of the Cultus Lake Campground on the Deschutes National Forest. In a letter sent to Deschutes National Forest Supervisor, John Allen, Walden called for answers on the process for the identification of the hazard trees that led to the closure, and the timeline moving forward for the environmental analysis required to remove these trees and open the lake to the public. The text of the letter follows: Dear Supervisor Allen, I am writing to voice my strong concern about the recent closure of the Cultus Lake Campground and Day-use area located on the Deschutes National Forest (Forest). It is my understanding that the Cultus Campground, Day-use Area, and potentially the area surrounding the Cultus Lake Boat Ramp will be closed for the summer pending the removal of dead and diseased trees. This last minute closure through September of one of central Oregon’s most popular summer recreation spots is disappointing and has a significant impact on the local community and economy. I want to be very clear that safety on the Forest must be a top priority. That said, I found recent comments from District Ranger Kevin Larkin extremely concerning that this issue could have been resolved long before it reached this point. Specifically, Mr. Larkin said in a news article dated June 12, 2017, “It’s definitely the case we could have caught something earlier.” That statement is alarming considering the well-known value of Cultus Lake to summertime recreation in central Oregon. That the Forest Service missed an opportunity to remove hazard trees to ensure the safety of Forest users and allowed this situation to reach the point of closure is unacceptable. It is my understanding that to now remove these dead and diseased hazard trees, the Forest Service must conduct extensive environmental analysis due to the potential presence of the Northern Spotted Owl habitat. Any removal of any hazard trees must take place outside of the owl’s breeding season, which concludes at the end of September. Even though, as Mr. Larkin pointed out in the same news article, the owls “aren’t likely to be nesting in the campground.” I would like to meet with you on-site to see what needs to be done, and better understand the process going forward and what steps are being taken to resolve the situation. In the meantime, I would appreciate you providing details as to when these hazard trees were first identified and what the timeline is for completing the environmental analysis. Further, what is being done to ensure this situation isn’t repeated in the future? Finally, I found it extremely concerning that the Forest Service was unsure whether reservation fees would be refunded to people who pre-booked campsites at the 55 site campground. It is my understanding that camping fees would be refunded, but it was unclear as to the associated reservation fees. This is extremely disappointing to hear and I look forward to hearing your rationale behind this process. I appreciate your prompt attention to this important issue and look forward to working with you to schedule a site visit. ###
06.08.2017	Greg Walden applauds Department of Interior review of sage grouse plans WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement applauding Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke's secretarial order establishing a review of federal sage grouse plans: “I am pleased to see Secretary Zinke order this review and direct the agencies to work more closely with communities in Oregon and across the West to determine a better path forward for the sage grouse plans. Over the last few years, I’ve heard concerns from ranchers and community leaders about the impacts of onerous grazing provisions and mineral withdrawals on local economies. Unfortunately, these concerns were largely ignored in the final sage grouse plans. Ranchers and private landowners in eastern Oregon are doing great cooperative work to help sage grouse and have valuable firsthand knowledge that can improve federal land management. I am encouraged that Secretary Zinke wants to involve and listen to local input in this review to determine how to move forward in a way that doesn't put our rural communities out of business." ###
06.07.2017	Greg Walden helps advance eleven energy infrastructure and efficiency bills Continues work to streamline regulatory process and expand hydropower in Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s legislative session WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), today moved forward eleven bills to advance the nation’s energy infrastructure and improve energy efficiency. This comes as Walden continues his efforts to streamline the regulatory process and expand hydropower in Oregon. "When Congress can take steps that allow for more domestic energy output, lower costs for ratepayers, reduced emissions, and more jobs, it should not hesitate to do so. This is especially true if it can be done at little or no cost to taxpayers. That is what we hope to accomplish with today’s slate of bipartisan energy bills,” said Walden. “From measures to facilitate increased generation of clean and affordable hydropower, to wider use of Energy Savings Performance Contracts that cut down on energy use in federal buildings, to programs for reducing energy costs in public schools, these bills all lead us towards the common goal of smarter energy use. These and other projects are also job creators, which is why we also have provisions to update and improve federal job training programs for the energy and manufacturing sectors.” Legislation advanced in the Energy and Commerce Committee today provides permit timeline flexibility for hydroelectric projects under construction, improve federal building energy and water efficiency and allows for the continuation of various hydroelectric projects. The committee passed the following bills, which will now move to the full House of Representatives for consideration: H.R. 338, to promote a 21st century energy and manufacturing workforce; Authored by Energy Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Rush (D-IL) and committee member Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC), would improve education and training for energy and manufacturing-related jobs, with an emphasis on increasing opportunities for women, veterans, and minorities. H.R. 446, to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project and H.R. 447, to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydro electric project; Authored by committee member Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA), H.R. 446 and 447 would extend the licenses for the Gathright and Flannagan Dams, creating jobs and providing affordable, reliable electricity to their respective communities. H.R. 627, Streamlining Energy Efficiency for Schools Act of 2017; Would make it easier for schools to take advantage of federal programs to help them cut down on energy use. H.R. 723, Energy Savings Through Public-Private Partnerships Act of 2017; Authored by committee members Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) and Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), H.R. 723 would facilitate the use of energy savings contracts to encourage private sector investment to upgrade the energy and water efficiency of federal facilities. H.R. 951, to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project; Would extend the license for the W. Kerr Scott Dam, creating jobs and providing affordable, reliable electricity to the respective community. H.R. 1109, to amend section 203 of the Federal Power Act; Authored by committee member Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) would amend the Federal Power Act to expressly include a minimum monetary threshold of $10,000,000 for mergers and acquisitions of facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). H.R. 2122, to reinstate and extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project involving the Jennings Randolph Dam; Authored by Subcommittee on the Environment Vice Chairman David McKinley (R-WV), H.R. 2122 would authorize FERC to extend the time period during which the licensee is required to commence the construction of the Jennings Randolph hydroelectric project. Construction of the project would create jobs and provide affordable, reliable electricity to the respective community. H.R. 2274, HYdropower Permit Extension (HYPE) Act; Authored by committee member Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA), H.R. 2274 would allow FERC to extend permits for construction of hydroelectric projects. H.R. 2292, to extend a project of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission involving the Cannonsville Dam; Would extend the license of the Cannonsville hydroelectric project, creating jobs and providing affordable, reliable electricity to the respective community. H.R. 2457, J. Bennett Johnston Waterway Hydropower Extension Act of 2017; Would authorize FERC to extend the licenses for the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway projects, creating jobs and providing affordable, reliable electricity to the respective community. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is hard at work examining ways to tap into Oregon’s plentiful supply of affordable, reliable, and clean hydropower. Walden has led hearings on modernizing hydropower infrastructure in Oregon and across the country, and has heard from local stakeholders in his district about the regulatory challenges facing the industry. In Oregon, hydropower is the largest source of electricity generation and provides over half of Oregon’s electricity needs. A recent report from the Department of Energy (DOE) also found that hydropower production could grow by almost 50% by year 2050. Walden sees this potential increase in hydropower production as an opportunity to boost job growth and increase economic investment in Oregon. Congress unanimously passed Walden’s Crooked River Collaborative Water Security and Jobs Act in 2014, which helped pave the way for future hydropower and jobs in central Oregon. Walden’s committee is also developing additional legislation to simplify and streamline the regulatory process for hydropower development. This legislation will aim to spur the development of new hydroelectric and renewable energy projects, and deliver a diverse energy mix to consumers in Oregon and throughout the country. ###
06.06.2017	Greg Walden takes to highway in self-driving carSays technology is a 21st century solution to reduce traffic fatalities in Oregon Walden stands beside Audi’s A7 Concept Vehicle equipped with self-driving technology WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing to push for innovative solutions to reduce traffic fatalities in Oregon, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today took to a busy highway in a self-driving car. The vehicle -- Audi’s A7 concept car -- is equipped with self-driving technology, which Walden calls a 21st century solution to improve the safety of America’s roads. “Experiencing this advanced technology first-hand is exciting, especially when you consider the positive impact self-driving cars can have for Oregonians and people across the country,” said Walden. “On Oregon’s roads, 2016 was the deadliest year in more than a decade with traffic fatalities up 20 percent from the year before. Over 40,000 people lost their lives in vehicle-related accidents across the country last year alone -- a six percent increase from 2015. These numbers are sobering. We should be using all of the tools at our disposal to reduce the dangers facing the driving public. Self-driving cars offer a 21st century solution to a 21st century problem. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I look forward to seeing the continued advancements in this technology as we work toward improving the safety of America’s roads.” Walden discusses the advanced technology which allows this vehicle to operate autonomously Rep. Walden takes to a busy highway in a self-driving vehicle As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden is at the forefront of the effort to safely bring self-driving vehicle technology to America’s roads. Today, many cars on the market are equipped with active safety features or semi-autonomous driving systems. These systems have the potential to keep a vehicle within its designated lane; accelerate to pass another vehicle; change lanes; brake; and park -- all without the input of a human driver. These advanced driver-assistance systems or crash-avoidance technologies represent the building blocks to a fully self-driving car. Walden’s committee continues to examine how the implementation of autonomous vehicles can reduce traffic fatalities, and is producing legislation to develop this innovative technology to make it available throughout the country. This work comes as Oregon and America, as a whole, face an increase in vehicle-related deaths after years of declining traffic fatalities. ###
06.05.2017	Greg Walden applauds action to upgrade VA health records system WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement on Secretary Shulkin's announcement that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is taking action to upgrade its electronic health records system: "I was pleased to hear Secretary Shulkin announce that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is taking decisive action to upgrade the VA’s electronic health records system. Outdated technology at the VA has contributed to longer wait times and reduced quality of care for veterans in Oregon and across the country. I commend the Secretary for bringing forward this important reform, which is an example of how government should work, and frankly is long overdue. I look forward to working with President Trump, Secretary Shulkin, and my colleagues on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee to continue bringing the VA into the 21st Century and ensuring that our veterans have the care and services they were promised." ###
06.05.2017	Pacific Northwest U.S. Representatives Urge Administration to Not Privatize Bonneville Power Administration Members of Congress from Washington, Oregon express concern over the President’s proposal to divest BPA’s assets; point to BPA’s strengths in the region WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Pacific Northwest Members of Congress voiced their opposition to a proposal in the President’s budget to sell off the Bonneville Power Administration’s (BPA) assets. In their letter to Secretary of Energy Rick Perry and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, fifteen Members of Congress -- U.S. Representatives Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Denny Heck (D-WA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Adam Smith (D-WA), and Greg Walden (R-OR) -- express their concern over the proposal to privatize BPA and highlight BPA’s unique role in providing affordable, clean energy to the Pacific Northwest communities. The text of the letter follows, and a PDF of the original letter is available here: Dear Secretary Perry and Director Mulvaney: We write to you to express our concern with a provision in the President’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Budget Request that proposes to sell off transmission assets for federal Power Marketing Agencies, including for the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA). We believe divesting BPA’s transmission assets will harm individuals and businesses, divert capital needed for further infrastructure investment in the Northwest, and undermine regional utility coordination. For these reasons, we are united in opposing implementation of these elements of the FY18 Budget. BPA has a fundamental role in our region that dates back decades. Established by Congress in 1937 as a nonprofit federal power marketing administration, BPA was tasked with helping to manage and sell power generated by the newly constructed Bonneville Dam on the Columbia River. Eighty years later, BPA has helped to develop and administer the complex electrical system that powers the Northwest, now providing affordable and reliable power to over 12 million people and the businesses that help the region thrive. Importantly, BPA is self-funding, and is of no cost to the taxpayer. The entire BPA transmission system -- both the capital investment and operation and maintenance -- is fully paid by the users of the system. In fact, it has benefitted U.S. taxpayers by providing more than $32.5 billion in payments to the U.S Treasury. Divesting these assets to the highest bidder could transfer the benefit and equity of these investments from the Northwest consumers, who have financed the system, to distant investors. Furthermore, this proposal will lead to a certain rate increase for consumers, imposing increased costs on families and economic development, potentially jeopardizing the ability of the BPA to repay the costs of the Federal Columbia River Power System. We are also concerned that the divestiture would put rural communities in the Pacific Northwest at increased risk. Currently, BPA coordinates in transmission and power marketing functions to maximize efficiency. Severing that relationship will undermine this goal. Moreover, privatization could lead to the division of the regional grid, with high-value assets sold off for a premium and lines that serve rural areas and grid reliability abandoned. Private companies are unlikely to give these communities the proper maintenance and attention they need to maintain complex transmission assets. Contrary to the FY18 Budget’s rationale, BPA owns 75% of the transmission in the Pacific Northwest. All Northwest utilities and the customers they serve depend on BPA’s grid to access affordable and reliable power. Selling off BPA’s transmission assets is bad public policy that undermines the President’s economic objectives and betrays a lack of understanding of the Northwest. We oppose this proposal, and instead urge you to work with us to support the continued health of BPA, which has been central to the economic vitality of the Northwest. ###
06.02.2017	Oregon Delegation Honors Heroes of Portland Terrorist Attack CONTACT: Nicole L’Esperance (Blumenauer), 202-225-4811 Hank Stern (Wyden), 503-326-7539 Martina McLennan/Ray Zaccaro (Merkley), 202-224-3753 Maggie Rousseau (Bonamici), 202-754-1649 Beth Schoenbach (DeFazio), 202-225-6416 Carlee Griffeth (Schrader), 202-225-5711 Justin Discigil (Walden), 202-226-7338 Portland, Ore. – Representative Earl Blumenauer, Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, and Representatives Suzanne Bonamici, Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, and Greg Walden today announced that they will introduce a joint resolution to honor the heroism of Rick Best, Taliesin Myrddin Namkai-Meche, and Micah David-Cole Fletcher. On Friday, May 26, these brave individuals were brutally stabbed on local transit in Portland, OR as they protected two young women who were the targets of threatening anti-Muslim hate speech. The resolution calls on Congress to honor these American heroes and to support efforts to overcome hatred, bigotry, and violence. The text of the resolution can be found here. ###
05.31.2017	Greg Walden supports plans to increase access to quality, timely care for Oregon veterans Applauds passage of seven bills in the House aimed at reducing the VA appeals backlog, improving mental health care, and combating opioid addiction for veterans Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to improve the care Oregon’s veterans receive at the Veterans Administration (VA), Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) recently voted for legislation passed in the House of Representatives to help give veterans increased access to quality care in a timely manner. Walden applauded seven bills passed in the House of Representatives to reduce the appeals backlog at the VA, tackle opioid addiction, and expand mental health care treatment options for veterans. “Improving the care Oregon veterans receive at the VA is certainly a priority of mine and I know that it is for all Oregonians,” said Walden. “The House recently passed seven pieces of legislation to take on some of the biggest issues facing our veterans and improve their access to timely care. Legislation the House passed will help the VA move through the backlog of appeals -- this is a big issue for our veterans. This legislation would give veterans more options and increased flexibility in the appeals process, which they deserve. This will answer many of the concerns I’ve heard from veterans and veterans organizations in the district -- some of whom have waited two years just to get through the first step in the appeals process. “We also passed bills to reduce duplicative medical examinations that are unnecessary and make sure all VA facilities comply with scheduling guidelines -- that makes sure our veterans get access to timely care. We also took concrete steps to improve the mental health care our veterans receive and to tackle the opioid epidemic -- which has affected veterans and non-veterans alike across our country. The bills we passed will create a pilot program to explore new, innovative treatment options for veterans suffering from PTSD, traumatic brain injury, military sexual trauma, or chronic pain, and allow for better monitoring of VA prescription drug use. “There is still much work to be done to get veterans access to the care they have earned and deserve in a timely manner. We won’t give up until that is done. These bills are an important first step in making progress on that front," said Walden. Details on each of the seven pieces of legislation Walden recently supported are included below: VA Scheduling Accountability Act (H.R. 467) -- Holds directors of VA medical centers accountable to scheduling standards to ensure veterans receive access to care in a timely manner. Specifically, this bill requires each director of a VA medical center to annually certify compliance with the Veteran Health Administration’s Outpatient Scheduling Processes and Procedures directive. H.R. 467 would prohibit VA medical center leaders from receiving awards or bonuses if their facility fails to certify compliance with the directive. This legislation also requires the VA to ensure that directives and policies apply to all VA offices and facilities in a uniform manner. Veterans Appeal Improvement and Modernization Act (H.R. 2288) -- Provides veterans with more options and flexibility in the appeals process. H.R. 2288 would give veterans three options for their appeal: (1) waive a hearing and the ability to submit additional evidence to expedite their appeal, (2) submit additional evidence and have a hearing, or (3) transfer jurisdiction of their appeal to the Board of Veterans’ Appeals. Veterans who have an appeal pending at the VA prior to the bill’s effective date would also be allowed to opt-in to this new system. This legislation also requires the VA to provide a comprehensive plan for implementing this reform proposal, and requires the VA Secretary to verify that the VA has sufficient resources to address both new and so-called “legacy” appeals in timely manner. Quicker Veterans Benefits Delivery Act (H.R. 1725) -- Requires the VA to report on their initiatives to reduce duplicative and unnecessary medical examinations. During a hearing of the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, the American Legion testified that it had documented many instances of VA scheduling unnecessary and duplicative medical examinations with a VA physician. H.R. 1725 seeks to reduce the number of unnecessary disability examinations by requiring the VA to report on their use of private medical evidence in support of claims for disability compensation. No Hero Left Untreated Act (H.R. 1162) -- Requires the VA to implement a pilot program to treat veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), traumatic brain injury (TBI), chronic pain, or those who have experienced military sexual trauma by using Magnetic Resonant Therapy (MRT). MRT uses technology to identify dysfunctional areas of the brain in patients suffering from a mental health condition and then repeatedly applying magnetic stimulation to help restore proper brain function in those areas. This technology has been approved to treat depression and has been successfully used to treat conditions like PTSD and TBI. VA Prescription Data Accountability Act (H.R. 1545) -- Requires the VA to disclose information about any individual (veteran or non-veteran) who is prescribed medication by a VA employee or authorized non-VA provider. The information would be disclosed to a state-controlled substances monitoring program to prevent misuse and diversion of prescription medications. This legislation aims to improve the VA’s current internal monitoring and information-sharing practices of prescription drugs to help prevent over-prescribing of narcotics. Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act (H.R. 1329) -- Increases disability compensation for veterans, dependents, and survivors by the same cost-of-living adjustment that Social Security recipients receive in 2018. Last Congress, the Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2016 passed the House of Representatives unanimously and was signed into law. H.R. 1005 -- To amend title 38, U.S. Code, to improve the provision of adult day care services for veterans -- Directs the VA to enter into an agreement or a contract with state veterans homes to pay for adult day health care for a veteran eligible for, but not receiving, nursing home care. This bill stipulates that payment under each agreement or contract between the VA and a state veterans home must equal 65% of the payment that the VA would otherwise pay to the state home if the veteran were receiving nursing care. This bill aims to increase access to adult day health care for veterans eligible for nursing home care. All seven pieces of legislation now await consideration in the Senate. Walden has assisted over 5,000 Oregon veterans and their families with issues involving their benefits and care. If you or a loved one needs help with the VA or any other federal agency, you can call his office toll free at 800-533-3303. Walden has a team of veterans on staff ready to assist you. ###
05.30.2017	Greg Walden applauds action to bring cell service to Wheeler County during August solar eclipse WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today applauded the announcement that AT&T will bring temporary cellular service into and around Mitchell, Oregon, in Wheeler County. This action comes as the region prepares for the solar eclipse in August, when large crowds are expected to create new safety challenges for law enforcement and first responders. Walden has heard from local safety officials about the importance of having access to cellular service in emergencies. "Bringing wireless service into and around Mitchell is long overdue and especially important given the crowds that are expected for the solar eclipse in August. At a town hall meeting I held in Mitchell on February 9, community members again emphasized the life and death situations that are a reality when modern communications are lacking. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I raised this issue in a Washington, D.C. meeting with the FCC and with wireless carriers,” said Walden. “This very rural area is highly travelled by tens of thousands of tourists seeking to experience the Painted Hills and the John Day Fossil Beds in the heart of Oregon. The even larger crowds expected in August for the total solar eclipse viewing has only heightened these concerns. When accidents occur in these remote areas, there is literally no way to call for help. I’ve heard from first responders about how the lack of cell coverage impacts their ability to save lives. Getting cellular service to this rural area is just one step toward a long-term solution to create jobs and improve safety. I am hopeful that this will pave the way for future plans to better connect the local community in this part of rural Oregon with cell phone service.” Kiefer Davis, who previously served as Mitchell’s mayor, reached out to Walden to detail how access to cellular service would assist in his emergency response ability. Davis currently operates an ambulance in the Mitchell area, which is positioned on Highway 26 -- the second most traveled highway in the state according to the American Automobile Association and Oregon Department of Transportation. Davis is concerned that an increase in tourism traffic for the solar eclipse will only add to the safety challenges of responding to emergency situations without cellular capabilities. "Do I wish we had cell communications on Highway 26 to be able to save lives? Yes,” Davis said in a letter to Walden. “I’m a member of Mitchell Ambulance and I’ve seen what not being able to dial 911 on Highway 26 has done to people over the past 14 years. From Prineville to John Day (115 miles), there is zero cell service. Not even that little ‘Emergency Calls Only’ screen you get in the middle of nowhere,” Davis continued. Walden chairs the House Energy & Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over telecommunication, and is continuing his efforts to provide rural communities in Oregon with access to cellular service. Walden has worked with national telecommunications providers such as AT&T to stress the importance of providing cellular service to rural eastern Oregon. ###
05.24.2017	Greg Walden Statement on CBO Score of American Health Care Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today issued the following statement regarding the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) score of the American Health Care Act. “The American Health Care Act is the first step in our efforts to repeal Obamacare and rebuild our broken health care system. CBO continues to find that through our patient-focused bill, premiums will go down and that our reforms will help stabilize the market,” said Walden. “Our plan puts states and patients in the driver's seat, creating an innovative fund to help lower premiums and other out-of-pocket costs. As the Senate continues its work on this vital bill, we encourage them to further these critical principles.” ###
05.24.2017	Wyden, Walden, Bipartisan Group of Lawmakers Call on GAO to Review Infrastructure Safety, Unfinished Work at Hanford Nuclear Reservation Following recent tunnel collapse at Hanford, lawmakers push for answers on nuclear waste cleanup Washington, D.C. – Following this month’s tunnel collapse at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in Washington State, a bipartisan group of Pacific Northwest lawmakers today called for a U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) review of the nuclear waste cleanup and environmental remediation work at Hanford. In their letter today, Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., along with Sens. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Reps. Frank Pallone, D-N.J., Dan Newhouse, R-Wash., and Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash., asked the GAO to investigate the work Department of Energy still needs to complete to ensure the safety of workers at Hanford and the public. “We were alarmed by the recent tunnel collapse at the Hanford site, and are concerned that future events could put the safety of workers, the public, and environment at risk,” the members wrote in their request to GAO. “This event was another harsh reminder of the radioactive and toxic hazards that remain at the Hanford site, as well as the importance of ensuring the site has the resources necessary to expeditiously achieve its cleanup mission.” The underground tunnel, located adjacent to the now-closed PUREX processing plant, was used to store railroad cars loaded with radioactively contaminated equipment removed from the plant during its operation to produce plutonium for the U.S. nuclear weapons program. The collapse was first reported by workers at the site on May 9, 2017. The letter requests that GAO review the following: The methods DOE used to monitor the tunnel that collapsed on May 9, as well as how DOE monitors the safety of other infrastructure and equipment. The actions DOE will take to improve monitoring of Hanford’s facilities to ensure structural stability and evaluate safety risks to workers, the public and environment. How DOE will hold its contractors accountable to ensure workers are not exposed to radioactive or toxic materials. How much radioactive waste still needs to be treated and the timeline for completing the treatment of the waste, as well as equipment, facilities, radioactive groundwater and soil surrounding the infrastructure. How DOE identifies and determines the risks Hanford’s aging infrastructure and radioactive waste pose to workers, the public, and environment, and how DOE prioritizes waste treatment work. What DOE’s plans are to remove the waste from and remediate Tunnel 1 and Tunnel 2 at the PUREX plant. A copy of the letter is available here. ###
05.23.2017	Greg Walden Statement on Administration's Budget Request WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today issued the following statement after the administration released their fiscal year 2018 budget request. “This budget proposal demonstrates President Trump’s commitment to balancing the budget and responsibly prioritizing taxpayer dollars. The initiatives modernizing our energy infrastructure and promoting our nation’s energy abundance would undoubtedly make positive impacts on our constituents’ lives. The president’s proposals show the difficult choices facing the country as we work to reduce the deficit, protect our security, and grow jobs.” ###
05.19.2017	Wyden, Merkley, Walden Push FEMA for Transparency in Federal Disaster Declarations Washington, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, both D-Ore., and Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., today pushed the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to be more transparent when it comes to the agency’s process for granting federal disaster declarations. The lawmakers’ push follows FEMA's denial of Oregon’s request for a federal disaster declaration that would bring much-needed relief to communities hit by severe winter weather in January. A federal disaster declaration would allow local governments and residents to seek federal aid to recover from dangerous winter weather that led to more than $17 million in damages. Wyden, Merkley and Walden also pushed FEMA to improve communication with regional offices about new policies that may affect states’ disaster declaration requests. “We write you with great concern over the recent denial of Oregon’s request for a major disaster declaration as a result of the succession of severe winter snow and weather events occurring from January 7 through 20,” they wrote in today’s letter to Acting FEMA Administrator Robert Fenton. “These storms had devastating effects on Oregon’s economy, and hit small rural communities especially hard.” On March 9, Oregon Governor Kate Brown requested a federal disaster declaration for 10 Oregon counties, including Baker, Columbia, Curry, Deschutes Hood River, Josephine, Malheur, Multnomah, Union and Washington. The lawmakers wrote in support of the state’s request on March 16. Brown announced the state would appeal the disaster declaration denial. “Oregon has a long history of successfully working with FEMA after weather disasters,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter to FEMA Acting Administrator Robert Fenton. “It is in this spirit that we encourage you to increase transparency and improve your communication and support to rural communities that have already struggled greatly to recover from this severe weather event.” Read the full text of the letter here. ###
05.18.2017	Greg Walden statement on appointment of special counsel to FBI investigation WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement on the appointment of special counsel Robert Mueller to oversee the FBI's Russia investigation: “I respect the independence of the Department of Justice, and their decision to appoint a special counsel to oversee the FBI’s investigation. Robert Mueller is the right man for the job. He has an impeccable record of integrity and ability. His work will augment ongoing bipartisan investigations, which are already underway in both the House and Senate. The FBI and the Congressional Committees must follow all leads and get to the facts. As I have said before, foreign countries have no business messing with our elections." ###
05.17.2017	Greg Walden stresses the importance of modernizing emergency alert systems Calls for action to ensure first responders have access to advanced emergency alert technology Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks from today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today led a hearing on modernizing America’s emergency alert system. Walden acknowledged the great strides that have been made in emergency alert technology, and called for action to ensure first responders have access to the latest advancements. “As we move forward, we want to make sure that our first responder community, and the citizens they serve and protect, have access to the latest technologies. And we want to make sure that is an evolving force, not something that is simply locked in place,” said Walden. “We’ve come a long way since the 1950s with the emergency broadcast system, and now we’re going into a new age. We need to make sure that federal policy doesn’t inhibit technological advancement. We need to make sure that we are providing the help that our first responders, our broadcasters, and cable providers need when it comes to making sure that people are notified in an emergency.” As a former radio broadcaster in Oregon, Walden has seen first-hand the evolution of emergency alert broadcasting technology. Walden authored legislation that created FirstNet, an independent agency tasked with developing an advanced, nationwide public safety network. FirstNet will provide America’s first responders with a single, interoperable communications platform to utilize in emergencies. This platform is especially important for rural Oregon, and will provide fire fighters and first responders with access to highly reliable connectivity in remote locations. The FirstNet network will also better enable first responders in these areas to connect to emergency room physicians, when the nearest hospital may be hours away. Recently, FirstNet awarded a 25-year competitive contract to build and maintain the public safety network. FirstNet has the potential to supply advanced emergency communication technology to 4 million public safety users nationwide, and the building and maintenance of the FirstNet network is slated to create over 10,000 jobs. To read more about FirstNet, please visit their website at firstnet.gov. ###
05.04.2017	Greg Walden: “The American Health Care Act delivers on our commitment to rebuild our health insurance market and provide relief to the American People.” Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks in support of the American Health Care Act Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks in support of the American Health Care Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement on the passage of the American Health Care Act: “For seven years, our constituents, patients, friends, and family, have suffered under a one-size-fits-all law that is collapsing under its own weight,” said Walden. “The American Health Care Act will put patients, families, and their doctors first. It will protect those with pre-existing conditions and provides states with the flexibility they need to help meet the unique needs of their citizens. Simply put, the American people deserve better than what they received under Obamacare and the American Health Care Act delivers on our commitment to rebuild our health insurance markets and provide relief to the American people. We want to thank President Trump, Vice President Pence, and our colleagues in the House who have worked so hard to get this bill over the finish line today. There’s more work to be done, and we know we are up to the task.” ###
05.03.2017	Congressman Walden and EPA Administrator Pruitt Discuss Environmental and Economic Issues Important to Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden's remarks following today's meeting WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), met with EPA Administrator Pruitt today in Congressman Walden's Washington, D.C. office. The two discussed environmental and economic issues important to both the nation and the people of the State of Oregon. “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with Congressman Walden today and discuss the issues important to our nation and to the people of Oregon,” said Administrator Pruitt. “The people of Oregon and their elected representatives deserve an EPA that is focused on the basics of protecting the environment, engaging with state and local partners, and ensuring sensible regulations for economic growth.” “Administrator Pruitt and I had a productive conversation today about the wide-ranging issues facing Oregonians,” said Congressman Walden. “We discussed the need to ensure water quality standards don’t bankrupt rural communities, a concern I heard about at town hall meetings in Ontario, Oregon, and the latest with the Portland Harbor Superfund plan. “We can protect the clean air and water we enjoy in Oregon, without further burdening jobs and economic growth in our rural communities. I look forward to working with Administrator Pruitt and his team at the EPA to achieve these goals for Oregonians,” Congressman Walden added. ###
05.02.2017	Greg Walden on mismanagement in Medicaid Personal Care Services program: “This is outrageous and this is unacceptable.” Calls for action to root out neglect, fraud, and abuse in critical Medicaid service Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks at today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing his efforts to strengthen Medicaid, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today led a hearing to identify solutions to root out neglect, fraud, and abuse in the Medicaid personal care services (PCS) program. During the hearing, Walden noted the progress Oregon has made to improve the integrity of the critical Medicaid service, and called for the need for continued action. Below is a transcript of Walden’s remarks: “We are here today to talk about a program that serves our nation’s most vulnerable individuals. Through Medicaid, personal care services provide essential care to millions of elderly people, disabled children and adults, and those who need long-term care to cope with a crippling disease,” said Walden. “It used to be that these folks had to be institutionalized or cared for in a nursing home. Instead, personal care services provide an attendant to help people do things like shop for groceries, do the laundry, drive to the doctor and take medication on the right schedule. “Without personal care services -- and home health care at large -- these folks would not be able to live at home, in their communities. Personal care services are quite literally a life-saver for many. I truly believe in programs like personal care services and home health care. Oregon experimented in these types of programs long ago. The vast majority of personal care workers are good people. They take care of people and they care for the most vulnerable populations and make the lives of others healthier, brighter and a little easier. “That’s why I was so disturbed when the Office of Inspector General reported instances of fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in this important program. Stories of attendants stealing pain medication, abandoning mentally ill beneficiaries in public places, leaving elderly folks alone for weeks at a time – this is outrageous and this is unacceptable. What’s worse, is that OIG has made clear that these are not just individual bad actors. The OIG investigations have uncovered more than 200 cases of fraud and abuse in the program just since 2012. And as we learned from witnesses earlier this year, the Government Accountability Office has designated Medicaid as a 'high risk' program since 2003. We have an obligation to get to the bottom of this, for the taxpayers and for the patients, alike. “Late last year, GAO released a report on the need to harmonize requirements for Personal Care Services across the various states. GAO reviewed the policies and procedures of my home state of Oregon and three other states while performing this work. While I was heartened to learn of the safeguards Oregon has in place to prevent this fraud, the audit made clear that there is more work to be done. “More recently, GAO released a second report on the need for better data on PCS. The most recent data at the time of the audit -- released in 2017 -- was from 2012. Five years ago. And the data GAO did receive was incomplete. Without complete and up-to-date data those who are tasked with rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse in this program are hamstrung. "So, both the OIG and GAO have sounded the alarm for years. This fraud and abuse is happening because the states and the federal government failed to put in safeguards to protect these beneficiaries. It is sickening to see hard-earned taxpayer dollars going to people who take advantage of and mistreat elderly and disabled people in their own homes. “And these beneficiaries are particularly susceptible to harm because they often lack the physical or mental ability to speak up. Many times, a personal care worker is the only person a beneficiary will see for weeks, so they go along with fraud or abuse because they are dependent on their attendant for help. “We can do better. Our citizens deserve to know that the attendant they allow into their home, the attendant paid by state and federal taxpayers, will take good care of them and have their best interests at heart. And while most do, it’s clear we have a serious problem in this program. “Today, we are here to talk about the steps we are going to take to correct the problems identified for us by the Office of Inspector General and Government Accountability Office.” Over the last four years, the Office of Inspector General (OIG) has opened over 200 investigations involving PCS fraud and harm caused to enrolled patients throughout the country. Oregon was one of four states examined by the Government Accountability Office to review implemented safeguards to protect beneficiaries receiving in-home personal care services from harm. To view the GAO report released in 2016, please click here. ###
04.28.2017	Oregon Representatives Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Protect Communities, Establish Emergency Response Fund for Rail Accidents Washington, D.C. – Today, members of Oregon’s Congressional Delegation introduced the bipartisan Community Protection and Preparedness Act (H.R.2223), legislation that creates a new trust fund to help communities prepare for accidents involving rail cars transporting flammable liquids, including crude oil and ethanol. The legislation was sponsored by Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and co-sponsored by Representatives Greg Walden (R-OR), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR). The Community Protection and Preparedness Act would create a trust fund to be used for emergency response and clean up after rail accidents involving flammable liquids. The fund would also be used to issue grants to help prepare and protect communities along rail lines. In addition, the legislation would also require the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration to issue a final rule on oil spill response plans and information sharing for high-hazard flammable trains. It also authorizes funding for the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration to hire additional track safety specialists and instructs the Secretary of Transportation to study the effectiveness of track inspections. “Every day, thousands of rail tank cars carrying toxic, hazardous materials crisscross the country. The communities along these train routes shouldn’t be on the hook for clean up or damages after an accident and spill occurs. This legislation would help protect and prepare communities by providing funding to help States and Native American tribes develop and carry out emergency response plans, and provide critical training for emergency responders. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, which will better protect the public and the environment, and help prepare communities both big and small,” said DeFazio. “Safety is a top priority for Oregon communities near highly-trafficked railways. The people who live in areas like the Columbia Gorge deserve peace of mind that, if an accident occurs, the proper emergency response and protection plans are in place and ready to be implemented. Our bipartisan plan takes important steps to improve rail safety, including assessing where inspections need improvement, imposing a fee for older standard tank cars and equipping first-responders with the tools they need to protect lives and property. Rail safety is critical as we work to protect the natural treasures in our state and the people who live here. I’m proud to join my colleagues once again in support of this bill,” said Walden. "Seeing our beautiful Columbia Gorge on fire last summer was an eye-opener for everyone on the dangers of how we transport oil and other hazardous materials. We must do more to minimize the risk of future incidents like the Mosier oil train derailment and make sure communities are better prepared to respond,” said Blumenauer. “Since the fiery derailment in Mosier last year, Oregon residents, businesses, and communities near rail lines worry that the next oil train accident could happen in their backyard,” said Bonamici. “Oregonians deserve to be safe and feel safe from this threat. We also have a responsibility to protect Oregon’s forests, wetlands, streams, and rivers from oil spills and fires. I support this legislation because it will help remove unsafe tank cars from the tracks and make sure that our firefighters and first responders are ready and equipped to respond.” Creating New Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to Help Communities The Community Protection and Preparedness Act of 2017, creates a Rail Account in the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, and authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to collect an annual fee of $1,500 for each outdated DOT-111 and CPC-1232 rail tank car that fails to meet the new Department of Transportation (DOT) standards that drastically improve rail tank car safety. The fees are imposed on each person who ships Class 3 flammable liquid, including crude oil and ethanol, in outdated tank cars. The fee would be applied annually, starting on October 1, 2017 for the use of tank cars the prior year. Funds collected will be provided for the payment of removal and remediation costs and other costs, expenses, claims, and damages related to an accident or incident involving the transportation of Class 3 flammable liquids by rail. Funds can also be used by the Secretary to make grants to States and Native American tribes to develop and carry out emergency plans, develop and train regional response teams, and train emergency responders. The legislation allows the Secretary to collaborate with States and Native American tribes in preparing for an accident or incident. ###
04.26.2017	Greg Walden statement on President Trump’s executive order regarding national monument designations WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement after President Trump signed an executive order directing a review of national monument designations declared under the Antiquities Act since 1996: "Today’s action sends a clear signal to communities throughout the West – including in Oregon – that this administration is serious about taking a new approach to the management of our federal lands. In Oregon we’ve watched the problems left behind in the wake of national monument designations that lock up land without meaningful public input. A review of the Antiquities Act is long overdue. I’m pleased that President Trump has finally ordered one. Farmers, ranchers, and local residents in Oregon have been ignored for too long by presidents who lock up the land without local consultations. This executive order is a refreshing sign that their concerns are being taken seriously. "Now, Congress needs to take action to reform the Antiquities Act. That’s why I’ve also introduced the Public Input for National Monument Act, to require these designations to go through the public National Environmental Policy Act process like all other land management decisions. I will continue to work with the Trump Administration to rebuild public trust in federal land management policies. Today’s action will assist in that effort.” ###
04.25.2017	Greg Walden calls for action to speed up home-loan process for Oregon veterans Cites excessive wait times and appraisal backlog as need for improvements Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- At a recent hearing of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) called for action to improve the sometimes grueling home-loan process for Oregon’s veterans. Walden has heard from veterans throughout Oregon about significant delays in the appraisal process for home loans guaranteed to them by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Due to a shortage in VA appraisers, months-long delays in receiving an appraisal have created great uncertainty for Oregon veterans and their families in the housing market, even resulting in the loss of prospective homes. “Throughout my district, I've heard from veterans who are waiting a long time - too long, frankly - to get an appraisal on their VA-backed home loan,” said Walden. “I've had a dozen or more veterans contact me for assistance while facing significant delays in receiving their VA-guaranteed home loans due to this appraisal backlog. I've also heard from realtors and loan officers who find that in their efforts to secure homes for veterans and their families, receiving a VA-approved appraisal is the most challenging and time-consuming requirement. “Some of these veterans and their advocates have waited up to nine weeks to even have an appraiser assigned to their case, making them far less competitive as prospective buyers in the housing market. One veteran even lost his prospective home when his interest rate lock expired as he waited for an appraisal, and I think we would all agree that is simply unacceptable. At the end of last year I wrote to the VA regional loan center to ask how we can address this problem head-on. I know that higher appraisal fees have been approved for some counties in my district, and I've heard that one of the issues was that you weren't getting paid as much if you were doing a VA appraisal as if you were doing another kind. “The VA has managed to cut down on some of the appraisal backlog in rural Oregon, and I appreciate the attention to that. In my conversations with realtors, veterans groups, and VA employees I've heard that the appraisal shortage is a market-wide issue that may soon spill over into other federal programs and eventually into the private sector. Increased federal regulations and barriers to entry for would-be appraisers seems to be moving us in the wrong direction. An increase in VA appraisal fees may help in the short-run but we need other policy changes as well. We have to look at the longer-term issue but in the meantime, we must take care of our veterans, we must make sure they are not handcuffed by a process when they are just trying to get a roof over their heads.” In December 2016, Walden sent a letter to the VA regional office in Denver, Colorado, to bring attention to this issue. Walden wrote, “These lengthy delays present a hardship both financially and logistically by creating uncertainty of housing for veterans.” The regional office in Denver is responsible for handling home appraisals for veterans in Walden’s district. Walden called on the regional office to report on what strategies, if any, the VA is currently utilizing to address the overall shortage in the VA appraiser market, and reduce the wait times for veterans seeking an appraisal for a VA-backed home loan. Walden continues to work toward a long-term solution to address the current issues in the VA home-loan process and make it easier for Oregon’s veterans to buy a home – not harder. If you or a loved one are experiencing problems with the VA, you can call Walden’s office toll free from the 541 area code at 800-533-3303.
04.20.2017	Greg Walden applauds grant funding to combat opioid addiction in Oregon State will receive $6.5 million from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to tackle the epidemic​ WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today applauded the announcement of grant funding to tackle opioid addiction in Oregon. As part of the 21st Century Cures Act, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced the first round of grants to help states and territories combat the opioid epidemic. Oregon will receive $6.5 million, administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), which will be used toward the prevention of opioid abuse and treatment to those affected. “The opioid crisis has hit every community and knows no bounds – we know that well in Oregon. Combating the epidemic requires an all-hands-on-deck approach, and these critical dollars will play an important role in that effort,” said Walden. “At roundtables throughout our state, I’ve heard from doctors, patients, and those on the front lines in the fight against opioid abuse. Their stories are a constant reminder of why these resources are vitally important to winning this battle. Oregon families have been devastated by this epidemic, and I’m encouraged by the Trump administration’s renewed focus to tackle this crisis head-on.” As chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden has led the charge in responding to the epidemic. In addition to the state grants within the 21st Century Cures Act, committee investigations also led to legislative solutions that ultimately were included in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA). Walden’s committee continues to look at all aspects of the opioid epidemic, most recently holding a hearing examining the federal government's response to fentanyl, a synthetic opioid that is 50 times more potent than heroin and 100 times more potent than morphine. In 2014 and 2015, a reported 49 people died from fentanyl in Oregon. ###
04.19.2017	Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks on the Veterans Affairs Medical Scribe Pilot Act WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts to improve the care Oregon’s veterans receive at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) introduced legislation to unburden VA doctors, and allow them to see more patients. Walden’s legislation would implement a pilot program for medical scribes at VA facilities, which will help ease administrative burdens that are preventing physicians from devoting their full attention to veterans. “The legislation we’ve introduced is really going to be important for our veterans all across Oregon and America because it frees up doctors to do what they do best: take care of patients,” said Walden. “Our plan will set up a pilot program to bring scribes in to do paperwork and record-keeping in the VA process. One thing we’ve learned is that there aren’t enough providers in the VA process to take timely care of our veterans. This legislation should free up the providers we have to actually see the patients and take care of them with their medical needs, and allow others to do the paperwork. I think it makes a lot of sense for our veterans and for the VA, and I look forward to seeing this legislation moving through the Veterans Affairs Committee.” Charles Schmidt, Oregon’s first National Commander of The American Legion, said of Walden’s legislation, “the VA Medical Scribes Pilot Act of 2017 would greatly assist VA doctors in the course of their duties by providing medical scribes to alleviate their administrative burden. This would enable VA doctors to see more veterans per day and spend more time with each patient. Providing doctors medical scribes would help the VA improve the work environment, reduce physician burnout, and recruit and retain quality physicians. The American Legion wholeheartedly supports this proposed legislation as currently written." Additionally, Walden has heard from leadership at the VA in White City and Bend that implementing a scribes program within the VA system is paramount to improving the care Oregon’s veterans receive. Studies have shown that the use of medical scribes in the private sector resulted in a 59% increase in the number of patients physicians see per hour. The bill is also intended to better recruit and retain talented physicians to serve at VA health centers. Walden was joined by House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Rep. Phil Roe (R-TN) in introducing this legislation. ###
04.04.2017	Greg Walden announces town halls around Oregon Click here or on the image above to view Walden's video announcement MEDFORD -- Continuing a series of town hall meetings around Oregon’s Second District, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden announced today that he will hold six town halls in April, with meetings in Medford, Grants Pass, Bend, Prineville, Hood River, and The Dalles. “I’ve been proud to hold regular town hall meetings in all 20 counties in our vast district. They are another great way for me to update my ‘to-do’ list to take back to the nation’s capital,” Walden said. “While Congress and the country face major issues like growing the economy and fixing the health care system, I’m also working on finding solutions for local problems in our communities. Growing jobs in Oregon, finding common-sense health care solutions, better managing our public lands, and taking care of our veterans remain some of my top priorities.” Each year, Walden holds at least one town hall meeting in all 20 counties in the vast Second Congressional District. By April 14, Walden will have held 13 town hall meetings in 2017. He held 27 in 2016 alone and 137 since 2012. At the end of February, a national press analysis found that Walden held more in-person town halls in February than all but two other members of the U.S. House and Senate. Oregonians who cannot attend Walden’s town hall meetings but would still like to ask questions or provide input are encouraged to visit his website at www.walden.house.gov. There, Oregonians can find Walden’s views on local and regional issues, send him an email to provide input, and sign up for his free, regular newsletter. Second District residents can also sign up for telephone town hall meetings through Walden’s website. “I’ve gotten very favorable feedback from people in our district from the telephone town halls. These are especially important for those who have difficulty with transportation. They give people whose voice might not otherwise be heard a chance to weigh in on public policy,” Walden said. Constituents can also follow Walden on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram to learn more about his work around southern, central, and eastern Oregon. Wednesday, April 12, 2017 What: Wasco County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 11:00a.m. - 12:00p.m. PDTWhere: Fort Dalles Readiness Center Assembly Hall, 402 E Scenic Drive, The Dalles 97058 What: Hood River County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 3:00p.m. - 4:00p.m. PDTWhere: Hood River Middle School Auditorium, 1602 May Street, Hood River 97031 Thursday, April 13, 2017 What: Crook County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 8:30a.m. - 9:30a.m. PDT Where: Crook County High School Auditorium, 1100 SE Lynn Blvd, Prineville 97754 What: Deschutes County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 5:00p.m. - 6:00p.m. PDT Where: Mountain View High School Main Gym, 2755 NE 27th Street, Bend 97701 Friday, April 14, 2017 What: Jackson County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 7:30a.m. - 8:30a.m. PDT Where: North Medford High School Performing Arts Auditorium, 1900 N Keene Way Drive, Medford 97504 What: Josephine County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 10:30a.m. - 11:30a.m. PDTWhere: Grants Pass High School Performing Arts Center, 830 NE 9th Street, Grants Pass 97526 ###
03.30.2017	Greg Walden applauds Senate committee action on bill to force Forest Service to complete Mt. Hood land exchange WASHINGTON -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) applauded the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee for unanimously approving his bill to force the U.S. Forest Service to complete a land exchange on Mt. Hood. The Mt. Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act (H.R. 699) directs the Forest Service to move forward with a land exchange first approved by Congress in 2009. “Nearly eight years ago, Congress told the Forest Service to complete this land exchange on Mt. Hood, which would help protect the local water source and grow family wage jobs in the community. They still haven’t gotten it done, so we need to pass new legislation to force them to do so,” Walden said. “Last month, the House overwhelmingly passed our bill, and I’m glad the Senate moved forward with it today. I hope the full Senate will quickly pass it so we can get it to the President’s desk and get this done—finally.” The 2009 law authorizes a land exchange to allow development of 120 acres of federal land in Government Camp in exchange for 770 acres of non-federal land at Cooper Spur. That law clearly stated that the Forest Service should complete the land exchange within 16 months. However, the exchange has yet to be completed, creating frustration and uncertainty in the local communities around Mt. Hood. H.R. 699, introduced by Walden and Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland), expresses Congress’ intent that the Forest Service move quickly to complete the exchange, addresses disagreements over a conservation easement, and allows for a more transparent appraisal process. Walden and Blumenauer introduced identical legislation in the previous session of Congress, which passed the House on a near-unanimous vote of 401-2, but failed to pass the Senate. Walden plans to discuss this bill -- and other local issues -- at upcoming town hall meetings in Hood River and The Dalles in April. Stay tuned for further details. ###
03.21.2017	Greg Walden calls for “all-hands-on-deck” to combat opioid abuse in Oregon Leads hearing on how to address deadly drug that is accelerating the addiction crisis Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks at today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his efforts in the fight against opioid addiction in Oregon, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) led a hearing today on how to address the crisis that is plaguing the state. During the hearing, Walden discussed how to best combat fentanyl, a deadly drug that is accelerating opioid abuse in Oregon and across the country. “Fentanyl makes the deadly threat of opioid abuse even deadlier. In 2014 and 2015 in my home state of Oregon, a reported 49 people died from fentanyl. The number of deaths from fentanyl appears to be rising, and that’s just what we know,” said Walden. “As we work to combat this quickly evolving public health threat, there’s an important question to be asked. How can we fight this threat when we don’t even know how quickly it is spreading? “Combating this growing, multi-faceted fentanyl threat will require more than the drug-control strategies aimed at opioid overprescribing and heroin. Fentanyl is a global problem that requires an urgent response. I commend the efforts of our government, Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and the State Department, particularly, for their success in gaining cooperation with China and the United Nations. We need to continue and support this international engagement to be successful. Like our work on the opioid epidemic last Congress, combating fentanyl truly requires an all-hands-on-deck effort.” ###
03.15.2017	Greg Walden calls for streamlining regulatory process to expand hydropower in Oregon Hears testimony from Bonneville Power Administration official; cites stalled power projects in Oregon as need for improvements Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and a strong proponent of hydropower, led a hearing today on modernizing America’s hydropower infrastructure. During the hearing, Walden discussed the opportunities to expand hydropower in Oregon and across the country, and heard testimony on the regulatory challenges facing the industry. A transcript of Walden’s remarks is included below: "One of the many advantages of living in Oregon is the plentiful supply of affordable, reliable, and clean hydropower. Hydro is great for homeowners as well as job-creating businesses. However, in the Pacific Northwest and across the country, we are not taking full advantage of this valuable resource," said Walden. "This hearing is a crucial step in the Energy subcommittee’s efforts to modernize our nation’s energy infrastructure, and today we will focus on the challenges and opportunities in expanding hydropower generation. "For over a century, hydropower has provided electricity to millions of Americans across our nation. The United States and Canada led the way in hydropower engineering for the first half of the 20th century. In 1936, the Hoover Dam became the world’s largest hydroelectric plant generating 1,345 megawatts. Six years later in 1942, the Grand Coulee Dam in Washington State surpassed the Hoover Dam in electricity generation capacity. In my home state of Oregon, hydropower is the largest source of electricity generation and provides over half of Oregon’s electricity generation needs. In fact, one of our witnesses here today, Mr. Connolly, is representing the Bonneville Power Administration, the nonprofit federal organization responsible for marketing the Northwest’s wholesale electrical hydropower. I look forward to hearing how Bonneville Power balances multiple objectives while carrying out its mission of producing and delivering reliable power to customers across the Pacific Northwest. "The electricity generated from hydropower allows for a diverse energy mix, which in turn increases our nation’s energy security and reliability. A recent DOE report found that U.S. hydropower production could grow by almost 50% by year 2050. This potential increase in hydropower production would boost job growth, increase economic investment, facilitate the use of wind and other intermittent renewables, and avoid harmful emissions from the electric power sector. "Despite the numerous benefits of hydropower, the greatest impediment facing its growth is the regulatory process. Take the Bowman Dam in Crook County, Oregon. For many years I and others in the delegation worked to pass legislation to help pave the way for future hydropower and jobs in central Oregon. Even after the bill was passed unanimously and signed into law in 2014, it took more than a year for that new law to be implemented. "It's not just the delays, the licensing of new hydropower facilities and the relicensing of existing facilities is costly and time consuming. The process often requires seven to ten years to complete and costs tens of millions of dollars. We need to find a way to streamline that and also recognize the importance of stakeholders having an opportunity to make their case. "As I’ve stated before, my objectives at the committee are to put consumers first in all that we do. A diverse energy mix empowers consumers by giving them choices in different energy sources. The electricity generated by hydropower is as clean and renewable as its gets. Not every day do we in Congress have the opportunity to reach across the aisle on such a common sense issue such as hydropower. As this subcommittee continues its efforts to modernize our nation’s energy infrastructure through technology-neutral improvement and expansion, we must bring greater transparency and accountability to the regulatory processes affecting hydropower."
03.09.2017	Greg Walden shares Obamacare stories from Oregon during nightlong session of House Energy and Commerce Committee Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s remarks WASHIGNTON, D.C. -- During an overnight session of the House Energy and Commerce Committee on repealing and replacing Obamacare, Chairman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) shared stories from Oregonians who have reached out to him describing the negative effects Obamacare has had on their lives. Walden’s full remarks are included above. ###
03.09.2017	Greg Walden on replacing Obamacare: “We're proud to put forth a plan that presents a better way for patients, and for families” Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks at the Energy and Commerce Committee session WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today led a session on repealing and replacing Obamacare in his committee. During the session, Walden outlined the plan put forth by House Republicans to give patients greater choice, more control, and lower costs when it comes to their health care. Members were given the opportunity to debate the bill and offer amendments. A full transcript of Walden’s remarks is included below: “More than eight months ago House Republicans unveiled a Better Way, which included our vision for repealing Obamacare and replacing it with a patient-centered, 21st century health care system. Today we begin the process of implementing that vision,” said Walden. “After years of Obamacare's broken promises we're proud to put forth a plan that presents a better way for patients, and for families.” “Let me be clear, under our plan we are not going backward – we are going forward. We are protecting those patients living with pre-existing conditions. We're not returning to the days of lifetime caps or annual limits. We will continue to allow young adults to remain on their parents’ policies until age 26. We will keep our promise to not pull the rug out from anyone as we transition away from this failing law. Under our plan, we're moving forward. “We're moving away from a government-run system that is in collapse, and where bureaucrats stand in the way between patients and their doctors. Instead we move forward toward a health care system where one-size-fits-all mandates are a thing of the past. Where states are empowered to innovate and care for their citizens and, most importantly, where patients are actually in charge. We create a new and innovative Patient and State Stability Fund to help low-income Americans afford health care and repair the damage done to state insurance markets by Obamacare. Those state insurance markets are in collapse. This fund gives states broad flexibility to design programs that best serve their unique populations. "We responsibly unwind the Obamacare Medicaid expansion while treating those covered under the expansion today fairly. We refocus Medicaid's limited resources to patients most in-need. We propose a per capita allotment to determine a fair level of funding for states. This type of allotment has been supported not just by Republicans, but also by key Democrats like former President Bill Clinton who recommended it. "Simply put, we have a better way to deliver solutions that put patients, not bureaucrats first. We provide the American people with what they've asked for all along: greater choice, lower cost, flexibility to choose the plan that best suits their needs.” Earlier this week, Walden released legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare. For details on this plan, including the full text of the bill, please visit www.readthebill.gop. ###
03.06.2017	Greg Walden releases legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare The House Energy and Commerce will hold a markup of this legislation on Wednesday, March 8th WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today released legislation as part of House Republicans’ effort to repeal and replace Obamacare through a budget process known as reconciliation. The legislation, part of House Republicans’ American Health Care Act, creates a new and innovative Patient and State Stability Fund to help low-income Americans afford health care and to repair the damage done to state insurance markets by Obamacare. Additionally, the legislation lays out a plan to responsibly unwind Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion while prioritizing the program’s funds to the most vulnerable through a per capita allotment. “At town halls and meetings I’ve held throughout my district, Oregonians have asked for the same things when it comes to their care: greater choice, lower cost, and flexibility to choose the plan that best suits their needs. Our plan provides Oregonians with just that. It maintains important protections for consumers -- including for those with pre-existing conditions and for young adults on their parents’ plans -- and it doesn’t pull the rug out from anyone currently on Medicaid,” said Walden. “I’m proud that the plan we’ve put forth today reflects eight years’ worth of conversations with families, patients, and doctors. Simply put, we have a Better Way to deliver solutions that put patients -- not bureaucrats -- first, and we are moving forward united in our efforts to rescue the American people from the mess Obamacare has created. Today is the first step in helping families across this country obtain truly affordable health care, and we’re eager to get this rescue mission started.” The Energy and Commerce Committee has scheduled a markup of this legislation on Wednesday, March 8, at 10:30 a.m. EST. CLICK HERE to read the entire bill, which includes legislative recommendations from the Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means Committees. CLICK HERE to read a section-by-section of the Energy and Commerce legislation. BACKGROUND: More than eight months ago, House Republicans unveiled A Better Way, our vision for repealing Obamacare and replacing it with a patient-centers, 21st century health care system. On January 13, the House passed a budget resolution to begin turning that vision into legislation through reconciliation -- a process that allows legislation to be passed with a simple majority in the Senate and quickly signed into law. The budget resolution outlined specific instructions for the Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means Committees -- the primary Committees with jurisdiction over health care -- to draft legislative recommendations that the Budget Committee could compile into one reconciliation package. When combined with the legislation released by Ways and Means, the legislation Energy and Commerce released today meets those instructions. Specifically, the Energy and Commerce legislation: Creates a Patient and State Stability Fund -- this new and innovative fund give states broad flexibility to design programs that best serve their unique populations. They can also use funds to increase access to preventative services. Responsibly unwinds Obamacare's Medicaid expansion -- By freezing new enrollment after 2 years and grandfathering in current enrollees, we protect patients and offer a stable transition. Strengthens Medicaid -- Using a per capita allotment, our legislation ensures a fair funding formula for states while creating a viable financial future for the program. ###
03.01.2017	Greg Walden statement on confirmation of Ryan Zinke as Interior Secretary WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement on Ryan Zinke's confirmation as Secretary of the Interior: "This is a great day for Oregon and the West. My good friend Ryan Zinke will make a tremendous Secretary of the Interior. Together, we have a lot of work to do to improve the health of our forests, increases access to our public lands, clean up our national parks, and boost American energy production. I look forward to working with Secretary Zinke and my colleagues in Congress to accomplish these important goals while creating quality jobs in Oregon and throughout the West." The U.S. Senate confirmed Ryan Zinke as Secretary of the Interior today by a vote of 68-31. ###
03.01.2017	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden reacts to President Trump's address to Congress Click here or on the image above to view Walden's full reaction WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued a video statement following President Trump's address to a joint session of Congress today. Click here to watch his message.
02.28.2017	Greg Walden welcomes Olympians Michael Phelps, Adam Nelson to Capitol for hearing on strengthening global anti-doping laws Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks at today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today welcomed 23-time Olympic gold medalist Michael Phelps and gold medalist Adam Nelson to the Capitol to testify at a hearing on strengthening the global anti-doping system. During the hearing, Walden spoke of the importance of protecting the integrity of fair competition for clean athletes around the world. Below is a full transcript from Walden’s remarks: “For centuries athletes, cultures, and nations have been brought together by the spirit of competition. From the slopes of Olympus to the stands of Autzen Stadium - home of the Oregon Ducks - people from all walks of life have gathered to pursue and celebrate athletic achievement,” said Walden. “We relish with anticipation the possibility of witnessing the impossible. We celebrate the thrill of victory, and agonize in defeat. Whether in our own pursuits or the pursuits of others, everyone in this room knows the emotion, collective experience, and beauty of sport. “Nothing embodies the spirit and potential of sport more than the Olympic games. It is the hallmark of international competition uniting people from around the world, regardless of social, political, or religious differences in celebration of our greatest athletes. It envelopes national pride to the highest degree. It invokes a noble vision of sport rooted in participation over individual achievement. There is a lot of truth to that message, but we also cannot be blind to reality. Athletes and nations compete to win. They do not invest countless hours of training to lose. They sacrifice for success and their victories are rewarded. “This is why, for centuries, athletes have sought performance enhancing substances to gain an advantage on competition. In fact, Greek Olympians and Roman gladiators used herbs and wine to get an edge on their opponents. In the early 1900s mixtures of heroin, cocaine, and other substances became prevalent among athletes. Over time - especially following the introduction of anti-doping testing at the Olympics in the 1970s - the drugs have become more sophisticated and the cheaters more creative. Despite improvements in global anti-doping efforts at the turn of the century and the establishment of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), the fight for clean sport remains an uphill battle. “The temptation to cheat will always be present to those looking for a shortcut. Recent events, however, revealed a far more startling and difficult challenge. Thanks to the courage and tenacity of whistleblowers, of journalists and others, we were exposed to a level of deception and cheating that felt more like a movie script than reality of international sport. It was not the case of individual athletes looking for an edge, it was a tale of nation state-sponsored doping. Hundreds of athletes knowingly or unknowingly became part of a widespread campaign to enhance performance, alter test results, and evade detection by international ant-doping authorities. "Despite these shocking allegations, later bolstered by a series of independent commissions and reports, the response from the respective governing bodies for international sport has become a hodgepodge of indecisive and inconsistent actions. So what went wrong? It is one thing for an individual to beat the system, but how could such a massive program go undetected for so long? And what has the response been? It's been a quagmire. Clearly these events point to larger challenges in international anti-doping efforts. That's why we're here today - to learn from the past in pursuit of a better future for clean sport. “There will always be those who seek to gain an advantage - personal and financial motivations are undeniable. The opportunities afforded by scientific innovation are too tempting. The challenge is daunting and may never be totally solved. But that is not an excuse for inaction. We can and must do better, even if that requires difficult and frankly uncomfortable reforms. “Success in sport is not achieved sitting on the sideline waiting for others to act. It requires leadership, team work, and most of all it requires dedication - as our athletes here have clearly shown. For the millions of clean athletes around the world who push the limits of physical and mental exhaustion, who sacrifice so much - don't they deserve a similar commitment from those responsible for protecting the integrity of their sport? I believe they do.” ###
02.28.2017	Walden, Blumenauer bill to force Forest Service to complete Mt. Hood land exchange passes House Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full floor speech in support of his bill Click here or on the image above to view Rep. Blumenauer’s remarks in support of the bill WASHINGTON, D.C. -- A bill authored by U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) to force the U.S. Forest Service to complete a land exchange on Mt. Hood today passed the House of Representatives in an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote, 415-1. The Mount Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act (H.R. 699) directs the Forest Service to move forward with the underlying land exchange -- first approved by Congress in 2009 -- which would help protect the local water source and grow family wage jobs in the community. “The Forest Service was directed to do this transfer and do it in 16 months. That is what the law said. We are nearly eight years later, and this is still languishing. Unfortunately, we're back trying again -- because we're never going to quit until we're done -- and we're getting much closer.” said Walden. “In fact, Section 1206 (F) of the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11) deals with the ‘Deadline for Completion of Land Exchange” and reads as follows: ‘It is the intent of the Congress that the land exchange under this subsection shall be completed not later than 16 months after the date of enactment of this Act.’ “It's important to protect this water shed. It is important that, where development occurs, it occurs in the right places -- we've always felt that way in Oregon. Indeed, facilitating this exchange resolves a decades long controversy and puts development where it belongs, protects a special area in the Upper Hood River Valley that needs protection, and finally brings certainty and resolution to the local communities.” “Once again, the House has passed this bipartisan legislation, while the Forest Service continues to drag its feet,” said Blumenauer. “It has been eight years since Congress authorized this land exchange, which stands as a remarkable example of local cooperation between the recreational community, environmentalists, and local and tribal governments. It’s past time that this exchange be completed. The U.S. Forest Service must build on the Mt Hood community’s hard work and follow through on its obligations on this important action.” The 2009 law authorizes a land exchange to allow development of 120 acres of federal land in Government Camp in exchange for 770 acres of non-federal land at Cooper Spur. That law clearly stated that the Forest Service should complete the land exchange within 16 months. However, the exchange has yet to be completed, creating frustration and uncertainty in the local communities around Mt. Hood. H.R. 699, expresses Congress’ intent that the Forest Service move quickly to complete the exchange, addresses disagreements over a conservation easement, and allows for a more transparent appraisal process. Walden and Blumenauer introduced identical legislation in the previous session of Congress, which passed the House on a near-unanimous vote of 401-2, but failed to pass the Senate. ###
02.21.2017	Greg Walden discusses Oregon’s infrastructure with Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao Greg Walden discusses Oregon's infrastructure priorities with Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement on his conversation with Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao today: “I had a great discussion with Secretary Chao today on our nation's infrastructure needs and on Oregon’s transportation priorities. I've known Elaine for years and am confident she will work closely with me on our district's needs. “Additionally, she confirmed to me that -- contrary to some reports -- there is no list of her department’s priorities that excludes Oregon. Period. I look forward to working alongside Secretary Chao as we seek to achieve Oregon’s long-term transportation goals and upgrade America’s vast infrastructure.” Secretary Chao assumed office as the 18thUnited States Secretary of Transportation on January 31. She was confirmed by the U.S. Senate earlier that day by a vote of 93-6. ###
02.16.2017	Walden Introduces Bill to Protect Patients with Pre-Existing Conditions WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), the Chairman of the House Energy& Commerce Committee, today introduced H.R. __, the Pre-Existing Conditions Protection Act of 2017. “At town hall meetings around Oregon, I’ve heard a clear message: we need to guarantee our health care system works better for all Oregonians. I am committed to protecting patients living with pre-existing conditions, period,” said Walden. “I am committed to patient-centered reforms that increase access to quality, affordable care and guarantee that all Oregonians are protected from unfair, higher premium costs simply due to how healthy or sick they may be.” The Pre-Existing Conditions Protection Act aims to reaffirm guaranteed health care access, ensure that enrollees cannot have benefits excluded from a plan due to a pre-existing condition, and that patients will not pay more based on their health care status. "This is another step toward keeping our commitment to fix the problems with our health care system and protect vulnerable patients from being treated unfairly. As we continue to repeal and replace Obamacare, we will always put what's best for patients first,” Walden added. This bill is a continuation of the step-by-step process to rebuild our health care system. The Energy and Commerce Committee will continue to advance solutions to protect patients, stabilize health care markets, and promote continuous coverage incentives to help Americans get – and keep – coverage. Click HERE to read a copy of the bill. ###
02.15.2017	Greg Walden calls for action to improve America’s energy infrastructure Cites growing electricity demand in central Oregon as need for modernization Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks at today’s hearing WASHINGTON, D.C. -- House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) spoke of the importance of updating America’s energy infrastructure at a hearing of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy today. During his remarks, Walden cited a meeting he held with the Bonneville Power Administration in Prineville, and the outdated electrical grid in the city that is hampering economic development. “As technology continues to change the way we go about our daily lives, we also have to rethink how we deliver and consume electricity. This could provide opportunities for consumers both large and small to save money and be more competitive,” Walden said. “At a meeting I held in my district one month ago in Prineville, Oregon, they were talking to an outfit that wanted to locate there and bring hundreds of jobs, and do a major buildout. Then they found out the electrical grid is not sufficient to support that. When I pursued that with Bonneville Power Administration and others, they're telling me it could be two to three years before they could get the capacity this community needs. This community during the downturn had the highest unemployment rate consistently in the state of Oregon. How the heck did we get to this point? When you finally think you have a chance to grow jobs, and put people to work building things, you discover somehow the electrical grid is not up to snuff. And that it could take a couple of years to get it there. That's not where we want to be. That's why we're here today. We have to do a better job of forecasting. We have to clear the roadblocks out of the way that aren't necessary while still protecting the environment, while still providing appropriate ability for people to weigh in with their views.” ###
02.14.2017	Greg Walden gives update on health care at House Republican news conference today Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks at today’s news conference WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, provided an update on the committee’s health care work at a news conference today with members of the House Republican conference. Walden spoke of providing Oregonians with access to affordable health insurance, and providing states like Oregon with flexibility to innovate when it comes to their individual health care systems. “I've heard from farmers, and ranchers, and small business people about what's happened to their premiums and how they didn't get to keep their plan, how they didn't get to keep their doctor. We've met with states and we've met with governors across the country over the last couple of weeks, who understand that this is not sustainable,” Walden said. “You're going to see us move forward in the Energy and Commerce Committee looking at reforms. Looking at a better way to provide help to those most in need in our states in the Medicaid population. And to allow states to innovate. Our state of Oregon has had quite a bit of innovation over the years. We have the CCOs in place that have brought better health care outcomes at lower costs. There are great ideas out there in our states, but right now they have to come back and beg permission from the federal bureaucrats to be able to do anything innovative. We want to give states flexibility and we want to give people better health care. We're going to accomplish both in legislation we'll be marking up in the near future.” In recent weeks, the committee held hearings looking beyond Obamacare. The Oversight subcommittee examined Medicaid expansion, and Health subcommittee examined commonsense reforms to modernize Medicaid and insurance reforms to deliver relief to patients. ###
02.08.2017	Greg Walden helps advance two bills to combat waste, fraud, and abuse in Medicaid Energy and Commerce Committee panel moves forward two common-sense bills Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks from today’s committee session WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), today moved forward with two bills to address problems of waste, fraud, and abuse within the Medicaid program. The bills were approved by the Subcommittee on Health and now move on to the full Committee for a vote. Walden’s full remarks from today’s session are below: “This is our first markup of this Congress, and it opens a new chapter and opportunity for us to lead. It's a big opportunity and one that we are not taking lightly. Our goal is straight forward - to modernize America's health care laws by making what's best for patients our top priority,” said Walden. “Indeed we do start today by going after bad actors, not ignoring them. By going after people who shield their income and deprive people who need help in Medicaid the services that they need. “As the committee of jurisdiction, we're focused on ways to strengthen and improve the Medicaid program. We all agree that Medicaid is a critically important safety net for millions of our nation's citizens, low-income adults, children, pregnant women, the elderly, or those who are blind or have disabilities. We're committed to protecting these patients and to supporting innovative, patient-centered solutions at the state and local levels, particularly as we work to ensure the solvency of this program. “We want to prioritize federal funding to make sure that those most in need of medical services in our communities get better quality and affordable care. Today we continue our work with those goals in mind, starting with bills authored by former Chairman Fred Upton and Representative Markwayne Mullin. These bills will empower states with more flexibility. They will help prioritize the Medicaid program for the most vulnerable. "This important flexibility and reform are exactly what our governors are begging us to give them. Just a couple of weeks ago, I had the opportunity to meet and listen to more than a dozen governors from around the country. Their requests were as clear as they were common. They said, ‘Give states the flexibility to care for our people in ways we know work.’ That's what they want to do. “The bills we're considering today originated from our members who listen to their constituents and their leaders from back home who called on Congress to do more to root out waste, fraud, and abuse. “For the last 14 years, the Government Accountability Office has put Medicaid on the list of high-risk federal programs. Last week before our Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, the Government Accountability Office and Office of Inspector General both reminded us of how a lack of data and transparency impedes their work. They just recently issued their report – the GAO did – confirming their investigation and what they found. We need to act. “Today's commonsense proposals close loopholes, they root out abusers and bad actors, they target savings to help patients most in-need. This is where you make real, serious choices that affect the people in our district by rooting out bad actors and people who shield their income so that the taxpayer money is actually there to help people who are most in-need. That's what these bills do. “Know that these are just the first steps – and they are small steps – but they are steps forward in a journey. In the weeks and months ahead we will actively work to improve the healthcare choices and the affordability of that health care for all patients. Today's bills represent only a fraction of the work we need to do, but they are an excellent start to our step-by-step approach to improving our health care system for all Americans.” ###
02.02.2017	Greg Walden: “Today we begin the important work of laying the foundation to rebuild America’s health care markets” Walden holds hearing on rebuilding the current health care system under the Affordable Care Act Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full remarks from the hearing. Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, held a hearing today to begin the process of rebuilding the nation’s health care system. During the hearing, Walden discussed legislation he will be introducing to ensure patients with pre-existing conditions will always have access to health insurance. He also spoke of giving patients lower costs, more choices, and more control when it comes to their health care. Below are Walden’s opening remarks from the hearing: “I would note for the record, there have been multiple pieces of legislation since Obamacare was enacted that have received Democrat and Republican votes, and actually signed by the President to repeal problems in Obamacare. Those became law. To argue that nothing has ever been done to try to straighten it out is false. I think Democrats combined cast 4,775 votes to repeal, to reform, to change Obamacare. Check the facts,” said Walden. “We're here today, because, on our side, we're working to repeal Obamacare. It's not working. It's left a lot of wreckage. We're here to clean it up. "We know what Obamacare has done to the health care system, it's why we're hard at work crafting reconciliation language to repeal it. Today we begin the important work of laying the foundation to rebuild America's health care markets. As we dismantle Obamacare, we have to save this individual health care insurance market. It is collapsing. If you want to walk away and just let it collapse, that is a pox on your side. That's not what I'm about. I've always been a problem solver, and you'll hear us talk about bipartisan legislation to go after those who try to corner certain markets, and drive up costs for things like EpiPen. I'm happy to work with you, so we can move this forward and take care of people. “There's no shortage of evidence that patients and families are hurting under the overwhelming weight of Obamacare. Patients in 21 states have an average premium increase of 25% or more this year. People in seven states will experience premium increases of 50% or more. That's not sustainable. In 2016, there were 225 counties across America that had just one insurance choice in the market. Just one on the exchange. This year that number has climbed to 1,022 counties with just one insurer. That's one third of the entire number of counties in the country. One third. Five entire states now and patients there have just one choice. If you focus on what those plans are saying, they're evaluating right now whether they can even stay in these markets in the outlying years because of what is coming in existing law passed in a partisan manner by Democrats. Only five out of the original 23 insurance co-ops remain in vis-a-vis. Five out of 23. They tried it, it didn't work. Two of those failed co-ops are sadly in my own state of Oregon and we're pretty progressive about trying new things. And a lot of it has worked. These did not. "We have the responsibility to prevent a real train wreck for millions of Americans. Not only can we solve this problem but we must solve this problem. It's time to end the partisan rhetoric and actually come to the table and solve these problems and I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who're willing to do that. The proposals before us today close enrollment gaps, protect taxpayers, and give patients cost relief. The first three bills should come as no surprise. They were introduced last Congress and come from two hearings of this Subcommittee. The other proposals are equally important to all of us. We will all ensure patients with pre-existing conditions will always have access to coverage and care - period. "Our Better Way agenda envisions a new patient protection in the individual market where healthy patients keep health coverage. HIPAA, Medicare Part B, and Medicare Part D can serve as guidance for the Congress as we consider how to best achieve the goals of protecting America's sickest patients and maintaining market stability. We can do both without Obamacare's unpopular individual mandate where all these carve outs have occurred. We've got the best minds focused on helping us, including our witnesses today. We're going to get this right. We're going to take the time to get this right.” Additionally, Walden noted that his committee will soon advance a bill introduced by fellow Oregon lawmaker, Rep. Kurt Schrader and Rep. Gus Bilirakis of Florida to modernize drug development and lower the costs of pharmaceuticals. “While I know our focus today is on insurance reform, we're also working on other areas of health care to bring relief to patients. Next week, we will take up legislation sponsored by Representatives Bilirakis and Schrader. A bipartisan bill to modernize generic drug development and increase competition in the market,” Walden said. “And for those in the industry who think it is OK to corner a market and drive up prices and rip-off consumers, know that your days are numbered. “President Trump made it clear in the White House meeting I attended with him and Vice President Pence that he wants competition to bring lower drug prices, and that is precisely what this measure will help accomplish. Patients are tired of waiting for relief, we're going to move forward in a bipartisan way to give them help. It's an important first step, it needs to happen now. “Specifically, the bill would require the FDA to prioritize and expedite the review of generic applications for drug products that are currently in shortage or where there are too few manufacturers on the market. We all remember recent situations where bad actors jacked up the prices of older drugs because there was no competition. We want to make sure that does not happen again. “This bill would also increase transparency around the current generic drug backlog at the FDA. While progress has been made, there are still an unacceptably high number of generic drug applications sitting at the Food and Drug Administration that, if and when approved, could bring additional lower cost alternatives to patients. "Whether it is examples like Daraprim or EpiPen, patients need solutions. I believe this bipartisan bill gives us a new tool to fight back on their behalf.” ###
02.02.2017	Greg Walden invites Oregonians to live telephone town hall event on Monday Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that he will host a live telephone town hall event on Monday, February 6, from his office in the nation’s capital. During the event, Walden will discuss his recent efforts in Congress to grow the economy and solve the issues confronting Oregonians. He will take questions and hear from participants about the key issues facing our families and nation. Details on the telephone town hall and information on registration are included below. “I’m excited to invite Oregonians to join a live, telephone town hall discussion I will be holding on Monday,” Walden said. “I have received positive feedback from people who enjoy the substantive discussions, and listening to what others from around our enormous district have to say during these events. Telephone town halls are a great way to communicate with people in the comfort of their own homes, and allows me to connect with Oregonians who are unable to travel long distances to attend the town halls and other meetings I hold throughout our district.” Monday’s telephone town hall is Walden’s first of 2017. Walden also recently held an in-person town hall event in Lake County, which marked his 130th town hall event since 2012. Those who wish to participate in the telephone town hall can sign up here or visit Walden’s website at www.walden.house.gov. Monday, February 6, 2017 What: Live Telephone Town Hall Event When: 10:45am Registration Link: https://walden.house.gov/contact-greg/telephone-townhall-signup-form
01.30.2017	Greg Walden statement on President Trump's executive order regarding national security Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement on President Trump's executive order regarding national security: “The number one job of the President is to keep America safe. While I, too, seek additional clarity on the details of the President’s plan, we need to make sure that extremists who seek to do us harm are not able to infiltrate a system designed for legitimate visitors, refugees, and immigrants.”
01.26.2017	Oregon Lawmakers Introduce Mt. Hood Land Exchange Bill Bipartisan Bill would Complete long-delayed Exchange to Conserve Land, Allow Development for Visitors and Recreation Opportunities Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., and Representatives Greg Walden, R-Ore., and Earl Blumenauer, D-Ore., this week introduced legislation to protect and enhance Oregon’s land conservation priorities on Mt. Hood. Wyden and Merkley introduced the Mt. Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act in the Senate to help resolve a decades-long dispute over proposed land development on the northeast side of Mt. Hood. Walden and Blumenauer introduced the bill in the House of Representatives. The bill would allow development of 107 acres of the mountain while protecting 770 acres – a land exchange that was approved eight years ago and should have been completed more than six years ago. The Forest Service has taken steps to complete the exchange, including releasing a draft Environmental Impact Statement last November, but legislation is still needed to ensure the process is completed without further delay. “This years- and years-long holdup on Mt. Hood has delayed wilderness protections for this stunning landscape and hindered responsible development that would expand recreational opportunities on Mt. Hood. The delay has frustrated Oregonians and forced the local community to take the Forest Service to court,” Wyden said. “It’s far past time to close the book on this chapter of Mt. Hood’s history and move forward with environmental protections and smart development so visitors and wildlife can enjoy the mountain for years to come.” "This bill will help to preserve unique and beautiful areas on Mt. Hood while boosting the economy of the surrounding community," Merkley said. "When we can enhance the wilderness areas and create new economic opportunities, everybody wins." “Congress first passed our bipartisan bill in 2009, clearly stating that the Forest Service should complete the Mt. Hood Cooper Spur land exchange within 16 months. After eight years, the Forest Service still hasn’t done their job, which is why we are once again introducing legislation directing them to do so,” Walden said. “This land exchange is critical for protecting Crystal Springs, the water source for the City of Hood River and the upper Hood River Valley, and will promote economic growth and family wage jobs in the area. The communities around Mt. Hood have waited long enough, it’s time for the Forest Service to finish the job. I am confident this bill will receive the overwhelming bipartisan support that moved it through the House last year, and hope the Senate will swiftly send this legislation to the President’s desk.” “It's been almost eight years since Congress authorized the Cooper-Spur land exchange, and it has yet to be completed,” Blumenauer said. “This is a no brainer, and should no longer be delayed. The Forest Service should do its job and complete this important exchange for Oregon. I’m proud to have worked with Congressman Walden to get this bill across the finish line in the House last Congress, and I’ll continue working with my colleagues in the delegation to make sure that this land exchange finally happens.” In 2009, Congress passed a broad public lands bill that included the Mt. Hood land exchange as part of the Mt. Hood Wilderness designation. The bill directed the U.S. Forest Service to complete the exchange within 16 months. Multiple delays over the past several years have led to conservation and development uncertainty, community frustration, and a lawsuit against the Forest Service. The bill passed the Senate in April as part of a series of amendments added to a broad energy bill. The House passed its version of the bill in June. ###
01.20.2017	Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement on the successful effort to block a national monument designation in the Owyhee Canyonlands: “The conclusion of the Obama Administration, without a national monument designation in the Owyhee Canyonlands, marks a long-awaited victory for the people of Eastern Oregon. The vast majority of ranchers, farmers, and local residents in the area made their voices heard in opposition to this proposal pushed by big-city corporate and special interests. Without their consistent pushback, it is quite likely that the outgoing administration would have – yet again – locked up more of our lands without meaningful public input. Their hard work allowed me to make the case to the President that a monument would bring yet another layer of federal regulation to the Eastern Oregon landscape and the people who live there. “I look forward to working with President Trump and his administration to rebuild public trust in the management of our federal lands. That work begins today.” ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement on President Obama’s unilateral expansion of the Cascade-Siskiyou National Monument: “With this designation, the outgoing administration is locking up more of our public lands through a process that cut out many in the surrounding communities. It appears like it was rigged from the beginning. I’ve heard from landowners and county commissioners who were not even consulted in the crafting of the proposal. The Clinton Administration similarly rushed to declare the original Cascade-Siskiyou National Monument at the last minute without the necessary work upfront. As a result, I had to come back and legislate a solution around Soda Mountain. It is unfortunate that the current administration has followed the same failed pattern. I will work with the Trump Administration to do what we can to roll back this midnight expansion.” ###
01.06.2017	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden applauds plans to rein in costly, overreaching federal regulations Click here or on the image above to view Walden's full statement Washington, D.C. -- Committed to growing the economy and protecting small businesses in Oregon, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) supported bills passed by the House this week to rein in costly, burdensome, and overreaching federal regulations. Below is a transcript from Walden’s video release applauding the legislation: “Regulations imposed about $15,000 per household from the federal government just in 2015. When you think about how some of them have come out of agencies like the EPA, and their unilateral expansions of Waters of the U.S., and what that means for family farmers and ranchers.” “We took action in the House -- in the first week -- to pass the REINS Act, that says unelected bureaucrats have to follow the law. And Congress has the opportunity to make sure they do, by making sure no major regulations takes effect unless it complies with the law and Congress has the chance to approve it. This is part of reining in out of control regulators.” “We are also working on other things that are really important. Like making sure that when presidents of either party leave office, they can’t jam the process with midnight rules that no one sees coming -- and do it on their way out the door. The House has spoken, we hope the Senate will, and I know incoming President Trump will sign both into law if they get to his desk.” Just one week into the new session of Congress, the House passed two pieces of legislation that would require Congressional approval for major regulations, and prohibit presidents from implementing so-called “midnight rules” during their final days in office. The Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act requires government agencies to submit all major regulations to Congress for approval. Under this law, a major regulation would not become effective until Congress approves it, which must happen through a vote within 70 legislative days. President-elect Donald Trump has signaled he supports the REINS Act, and intends to sign it into law should it reach his desk as President. The Midnight Rules Relief Act (H.R. 21), another bill passed in the House this week, would prohibit presidents from implementing regulations during their final months in office -- referred to as the “midnight period” -- without proper vetting by Congress first. Currently, the Congressional Review Act (CRA) authorizes Congress to disapprove only one rule at a time, while numerous rules can be handed down at once by the President. The Midnight Rules Relief Act amends the CRA to allow Congress to disapprove multiple rules at once -- including midnight rules -- to prevent a flood of regulations from overwhelming the review process. This critical legislative work comes after federal regulations imposed an estimated $1.885 trillion burden on America’s economy in 2015 alone, equaling roughly $15,000 per household. The Regulatory Studies Center at George Washington University also found that there is a significant increase in regulations implemented during the final months of presidential administrations, often reducing the review time necessary to justify new rules. Walden’s support for these plans continues his efforts to push back against onerous federal regulations that burden economies in rural Oregon. Walden has repeatedly spoken out against the EPA’s Waters of the U.S. rule, which greatly expanded the agency’s regulatory authority without approval from Congress. Both the REINS Act and Midnight Rules Relief Act now await consideration in the Senate. ###
01.03.2017	VIDEO RELEASE: As new session of Congress convenes, Greg Walden predicts swift action on jobs, health care, regulations Click here or on the image above to view Walden’s full statement Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) predicted swift action on growing jobs, fixing health care, and doing away with excessive federal regulations as the new session of Congress convenes today. “I’m excited about the new session of Congress kicking-off today,” said Walden in a video message. “I’ll take over as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, where we will address the real issues that hold back job growth and wage growth in America, and reform how our health care is delivered, so that it is patient-centered and doctor-centered. And then we are going to take on these excessive and unnecessary rules and regulations as well. I think it is a new chapter in American history. We’re looking forward to the inauguration coming up and a lot of work getting done this year.” In December, Walden was selected to chair the House Energy and Commerce Committee. As Chairman, Walden will oversee a broad legislative portfolio that includes health care, energy policy, telecommunications, consumer protection, food and drug safety, environmental quality, and interstate and foreign commerce. Walden is the first Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman from the Pacific Northwest. ###
12.21.2016	Greg Walden nominates Southern Oregon students for acceptance to U.S. service academies Medford -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that he has nominated 15 Oregon students for acceptance to one of the prestigious United States service academies. Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board -- active and retired military officers who interview potential candidates for the service academies -- recommended each student based on their academic performance, extracurricular involvement, and character. “I am honored and privileged to nominate these remarkable young Oregonians to our nation’s service academies,” Walden said. “Their years of hard work and dedication have led to these much deserved nominations. These students have shown a desire to grow intellectually, lead by example, and serve their country by pursuing a higher education at one of our country’s select service academies. I am confident that each will be successful in this admirable endeavor, and that America’s future is in good hands. “I’d like to thank my Service Academy Nomination Board for recommending these young leaders. Their service to our country and experience wearing our nation’s uniform speaks to the character of the students they interviewed and referred for nomination. These nominations would not be possible without their guidance and understanding of what it takes to excel and succeed at the U.S. service academies,” said Walden. Serving on Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board are: retired U.S. Army Brig. Gen. Frank Toney, retired U.S. Navy Capt. Harriet Harris, retired U.S. Navy Cmdr. John Howard, retired U.S. Marine Corps. Lt. Col. Richard Halsted, and Oregon Army National Guard Lt. Col. Travis Lee. The service academies include the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado; the Military Academy at West Point, New York; the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Final selection for admission to the service academies will be determined by officials at each respective academy this spring. Students who are interested in learning more about service academy nominations can visit Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/academynominations. The nominees are as follows: Deschutes County Kade Sundvall, son of Timothy & Laura Sundvall of Sisters, attending Stafford High School in Fredericksburg, Virginia -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy. Jackson County Jesse Carroll, son of Robert & Jennifer Carroll of Ashland, attending Ashland High School -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Military Academy. Daniel Edmund, son of David & Kim Edmund of Central Point, attending North Medford High School -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Military Academy. Griffin Hokanson, son of Matthew & Jill Hokanson of Central Point, attending Crater School of Business, Innovation, and Science -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Military Academy Patrick Royal, son of Joel & Debra Royal of Central Point, attending South Medford High School -- nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jax Bell, son of Paul & Stephanie Bell of Eagle Point, attending Eagle Point High School -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Grady Wells, son of Sara Prendergast of Jacksonville & Bill Cruze of Medford, attending Logos Charter School -- nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jefferson County Savannah Holliday, daughter of Alfredo Holliday & Rose Ball of Warm Springs, attending Madras High School -- nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Josephine County Gage Flaming, son of Tyler Flaming of Grants Pass & Laura Buksar of Wilsonville, attending Grants Pass High School -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Klamath County Daniel Cooper, son of John & Laurie Cooper of Klamath Falls, graduate of Hosanna Christian School and attending Oregon Institute of Technology -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Jesse Kandra, son of Loren & Denise Kandra of Merrill, attending Lost River Jr./Sr. High School -- nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Matthew Yuchniuk, son of Scott & Debbie Yuchniuk of Klamath Falls, attending Mazama High School -- nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Umatilla County Hayden Scott, son of Paul & Kara Scott of Athena, attending Weston-McEwen High school -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Military Academy. Union County Wyatt Perry, son of Andy & Michelle Perry of La Grande, attending La Grande High School -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Wasco County William Decker, son of Stan & Tanya Decker of The Dalles, attending Horizon Christian School -- nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. ###
12.14.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden applauds signing of 21st Century Cures Act “This plan will help save the lives of countless patients and bring hope to their families. I’m proud that it is now the law of the land.” Click here or on the image above to view Walden's full statement on the signing of 21st Century Cures Act WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today praised a new disease research initiative -- the 21st Century Cures Act -- after it was signed into law by the President at the White House today. Walden was a strong supporter of the bill, which cleared the House and Senate with overwhelmingly bipartisan votes. “All of us know someone who has fought a horrible disease like cancer, Alzheimer’s, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis. This plan will help save the lives of countless patients and bring hope to their families. I’m proud that it is now the law of the land,” Walden said. The signing of the 21st Century Cures Act represents the culmination of many years of work by the Energy and Commerce Committee and its chairman, Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.). “None of this work would have been possible without the tireless work of Fred Upton, his staff, and his partners on both sides of the aisle. Millions of patients and their families owe them a debt of gratitude.” Over the past two years, Walden held seven roundtable meetings with patients and health care professionals in southern, central, and eastern Oregon to solicit feedback on the 21st Century Cures Act and how it can improve the lives of people in Oregon and nationwide. Of the 10,000 known diseases in the world (7,000 of which are considered rare), there are treatments for only about 500 of them. Yet, the cost and time associated with conducting clinical trials are at all-time highs (it takes upwards of 15 years to bring a new drug to the market, and the cost of developing new drugs has doubled since the early 1980s). This bill would boost medical research and streamline the approval process for new treatments to help accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of cures. For testimonies from Oregon researchers, health professionals, and patients themselves in support of the 21st Century Cures Act, please click here. The 21st Century Cures Act also brings sweeping reforms to the treatment of drug addiction and mental illness, largely based off of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act (H.R. 2646), a separate bill Walden cosponsored that passed the House in July. ###
12.06.2016	Greg Walden names experienced policymaker Ray Baum as Energy and Commerce Committee Staff Director, thanks Gary Andres for his many years of dedicated service Baum brings deep experience as long-time Energy and Commerce staffer, state regulatory board chairman, Oregon House Majority Leader WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced today that Ray Baum will bring his decades-long experience in policy making back to Capitol Hill as Staff Director of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Last week, Walden was elected by his colleagues as Chairman of that Committee, which has broad jurisdiction over health care, energy, and telecommunications policy. Baum will replace Gary Andres. “Ray Baum is a gifted policy leader and a true pro who will bring nearly three decades of policy experience to the Committee’s top staff role. As a long-time Energy and Commerce staffer, state regulatory board chairman, and Oregon House Majority Leader, Ray has put into place common-sense policies to help consumers and grow jobs in America. We’re fortunate to have him on our team. “I’d like to thank outgoing Staff Director Gary Andres for his long record of dedicated service to the Committee. Gary is a remarkable leader who has done great work for the American people. I will continue to turn to him for advice, counsel, and friendship,” Walden said. Baum, a native of La Grande, Oregon, joined the staff of the Energy and Commerce Committee in 2011, serving as senior policy advisor and chief strategist on state initiatives, cybersecurity, telecommunications, and technology. Prior to that, he served as the Chairman of the Oregon Public Utility Commission, as well as the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners Telecommunications Committee. He has chaired the Oregon Broadband Advisory Council, served as a member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC), and was state chair of the Federal–State Joint Board on Universal Service. Walden and Baum were both elected to the Oregon state House of Representatives in 1988. Baum served in the legislature for eight years, the last two as House Majority Leader. He holds a B.A. from Brigham Young University and a J.D. from Willamette University. ###
12.01.2016	Greg Walden selected as Chairman of House Energy and Commerce Committee WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The House GOP Steering Committee today elected U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) to serve as the next Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Walden released the following statement: “I am deeply honored to earn the support of my colleagues to chair this incredibly important committee. Americans are looking for big improvements out of Washington, and that’s just what we’re going to give them as we work with the Trump Administration, the Senate, and the governors, to move forward on the Better Way agenda. Our work will focus on what’s best for consumers, on creating better paying jobs and providing patient-centered health care. “I commend my friends and fellow committee members, former Chairman Joe Barton and Subcommittee Chairman John Shimkus, for stepping forward to compete for this chairmanship. They are talented legislators and leaders to whom I will turn for help as we embark on our legislative work. I also want to thank outgoing Chairman Fred Upton who proved again yesterday with overwhelming passage of the 21st Century Cures legislation, that our committee does great, bipartisan work for the American people," said Walden. Walden said he and other committee chairs will not make subcommittee chairmanship decisions until after the Steering Committee finalizes committee rosters in early January. About the Energy and Commerce Committee As the oldest standing legislative committee in the U.S. House, the Energy and Commerce Committee has broad jurisdiction. It has responsibility for the nation's telecommunications, consumer protection, food and drug safety, public health research, environmental quality, energy policy, and interstate and foreign commerce. Walden is the first Energy and Commerce Chairman from the Pacific Northwest. For a complete history of the committee, please click here. About Greg Walden Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon's Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in central, southern, and eastern Oregon. Walden, 59, is a lifelong Oregonian whose ancestors came to Oregon by wagon train in 1845. He graduated from the University of Oregon with a degree in journalism. He and his wife, Mylene, owned and operated small market radio stations in Oregon for 21 years. In 1998, he was elected to the U.S. House, winning a seat on the Energy and Commerce Committee in 2001. Since 2011, he has served as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. He’s also served four years as Deputy Chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) and four years as Chairman. Walden served eight years in the Oregon Legislature before coming to Congress. In addition to his small business and legislative experience, Walden also served several years on various boards, including a local community hospital board, a community bank board, the Oregon Health Sciences Foundation board, and the Associated Oregon Industries board. He’s a Member of the Elks, and Rotary International, and is an Eagle Scout. ###
12.01.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden applauds passage of landmark medical research and disease prevention bill The 21st Century Cures Act will help Americans live longer, healthier lives Click here or on the image above to watch Walden’s speech in support of the bill WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34), a sweeping, bipartisan initiative cosponsored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to bring hope to millions of Americans suffering from deadly diseases. “This really means a lot. This will make a difference in real people’s lives back home in our communities. And I’ve heard from those people, like Carol Fulkerson in Bend, who has MS. She’s ecstatic about this. She said ‘it’s a great step toward making it possible to find a cure to MS.’ Can you imagine what that means in a person’s life?” said Walden in support of the bill. “These are critical reforms and improvements on mental health and substance abuse programs, as we’ve heard. These changes will help people all across America, and certainly in Oregon.” Of the 10,000 known diseases in the world (7,000 of which are considered rare), there are treatments for only about 500 of them. Yet, the cost and time associated with conducting clinical trials are at all-time highs (it takes upwards of 15 years to bring a new drug to the market, and the cost of developing new drugs has doubled since the early 1980s). This bill would boost medical research and streamline the approval process for new treatments to help accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of cures. The 21st Century Cures Act also brings sweeping reforms to the treatment of drug addiction and mental illness, largely based off of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act (H.R. 2646), a separate bill Walden cosponsored that passed the House in July. Walden has held seven roundtable meetings with patients and health care professionals in southern, central, and eastern Oregon to solicit feedback. He spoke of input he received from community health providers in Oregon such as Judy Kennedy, Director of Marketing at Interpath Laboratory in Pendleton, who would benefit from this initiative. And Walden talked about Oregonians like Justin Hon and Carol Fulkerson, whose lives will be positively impacted by the hope 21st Century Cures brings to patients and their families. He concluded by saying, “We’re going to do so much to improve the health -- both mental and physical -- of the lives of the people we represent when this legislation becomes law. I think it is an enormous step forward in so many ways.” The research and technology community in Oregon praised this bill. “The 21st Century Cures Act is important new legislation that will help our country leverage the benefits of Precision Medicine-based approaches for improved public health, as well as improved efficiency and success rates in the development of new medicines. It provides much needed funding to expand the use of these specific, molecular approaches to understanding disease. Furthermore, it provides the framework and funding for speeding up the process of getting these new approaches to the patients that need them most. As a Bend, Oregon-based company, we are enthusiastic about the leadership role that Oregon is taking, both in Congress and in the private sector, in this space. We believe that the changes this Act will encourage will lead to improved public health and profitable medicines.” said Dr. Adam Carroll, Chief Science Officer of Amplion Inc. in Bend. “Clinical laboratory services are vital to the promise of precision medicine, providing physicians the tools needed to ensure individuals receive the right treatment at the right time. Community laboratories in Oregon employ a skilled scientific workforce right in the community, bringing the more precise diagnostic testing services to rural and other underserved communities across the state. It is reassuring to know our leaders recognize the devastation and cost of chronic diseases. The funding will put an emphasis on solving this significant burden in the U.S. We are thankful for that.” said Judy Kennedy, Director of Marketing at Interpath Laboratory in Pendleton about the provisions advancing precision medicine in the bill. Patients in Oregon suffering debilitating diseases such as Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and addiction also lauded the initiative. “As a person who has lived with Multiple Sclerosis for almost 24 years, and having made many friends who also live with MS, I have seen a wide range of issues related to MS. Many people experience a reduced ability to lead their lives independently and have been impacted by lost or reduced income, and needed medical care brings significant increases in health care and medicine costs. The 21st Century Cures Act will benefit a large segment of society, is a great step towards making it possible to find a cure for MS, will improve the quality of life for people who live with MS and their loved ones, and will give researchers access to vital information.” said Carol Fulkerson, an MS advocate in Bend. “Drug addiction and mental health issues go hand in hand. My addiction manifested for 20 plus years because I never got the right diagnosis or mental health support early on. It wasn't until I was an adult with numerous convictions for drugs, and after multiple attempts at treatment, did I finally get the help I needed through dual diagnosis treatment program where they got to the core of my addiction and why I was using drugs,” noted Justin Hon, a Medford resident who overcame his battle with addiction through a dual diagnosis treatment program that got to the root of his addiction. “So my opinion is we definitely need a boost in resources to help people in need and to save their lives.” Provisions in the 21st Century Cures Act represent the most significant reforms to the mental health system in more than a decade, including funding for addiction treatment programs like the one that helped Justin overcome his own battle. This bill represents an agreement between House and Senate leaders. After receiving strong support in the House, this bill now heads to the Senate for final approval, expected in the coming days. ###
10.25.2016	In Case You Missed It: Walden meets with local veterans, continues work to ensure they get the benefits and care they’ve earned U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has worked hard to make sure Oregon veterans get the care and benefits they’ve earned through years of service. He’s worked on legislation that improves healthcare options and resources for veterans, boosts flexibility, and brings transparency and accountability to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in Washington, D.C. and across the country at clinics and hospitals. He’s also assisted over 5,000 veterans and their families with issues involving their benefits and care at the VA. In recent days, Walden has met with veterans in Medford, Klamath Falls, La Pine, Madras, Hermiston, Enterprise, Milton-Freewater, and La Grande to learn more about what’s working at the VA and what more needs to be done. Read on for excerpts from local news coverage of these meetings. And today Walden penned a special newsletter message to constituents on the recent meetings and the stories he heard from Oregon veterans. Click here to read Walden’s newsletter. “We owe those who wear, and have worn, our nation’s uniform so much of what we cherish in this country, including our freedoms and our way of life. But, too often, they aren’t getting what they’ve been promised by the federal government. A glaring example of this is in California, where thousands of soldiers are being told they have to repay bonuses offered to them for their service in the National Guard. If the Department of Defense made a mistake in awarding the bonuses in the first place, the burden of the mistake shouldn’t fall on the soldier. It’s disgraceful. That’s why the House Majority Leader announced yesterday that the House will fully investigate these reports to ensure these soldiers get what they were promised,” Walden wrote. “Several years ago, I helped resolve a similar issue facing members of the Oregon National Guard. It began when Chelsea Wells, a Guard soldier from Milton-Freewater, was told by the National Guard Bureau that she would not receive her enlistment bonus due to a paperwork glitch on their part. She contacted me, and I told the Guard that that they had to make things right, not only for PFC Wells but also for the 75 service members in Oregon and 5,449 nationwide who had their bonuses improperly denied due to that issue. We got results. “Over the past week, I’ve had the honor of meeting with a wide range of veterans -- and the people who advocate on their behalf--from White City and Klamath Falls, to La Pine and Madras, to Hermiston and Enterprise. Much of what I heard echoed the same theme: our veterans deserve much better than they are getting from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in Washington, D.C. Addressing this problem is job number one for me.” Walden listens to veteran concerns during Hermiston VFW stop Walden shared with veterans in attendance the work that Congress has done to promote their welfare, including the recent passage of an appropriations bill that allocated additional funding for veteran health care and housing in rural areas. “Additional help is on the way for that,” he said. After the 2014 controversy caused by revelations that the Department of Veterans Affairs had been covering up the extent of its claims backlog while veterans died waiting for care, Walden said Congress has worked to hold the VA more accountable. They have begun requiring quarterly reports on the backlog and have improved whistle blower protections for VA employees who come forward about unethical practices. They also banned the practice of giving administrators bonuses despite failing to meet their performance standards, and expanded the Secretary of Veterans Affairs’ power to hire and fire VA employees who are performing poorly. After veterans in attendance complained that all of that has not seemed to fix the backlog of claims and appeals at the VA, Walden agreed with them that Department of Veterans Affairs administrators should be doing more to fix the VA’s ongoing problems on their own instead of waiting for mandates from Congress. Click here to read more Walden: Navigating VA bureaucracy is a big problem U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) says as he travels through his district and listens to calls for help to his office from his constituents, the number-one cry for help comes from veterans trying to get benefits from the Veterans Administration, which he calls a massive bureaucracy. “We come in to try and help navigate through the process,” he said. “I do hear that, for the most part, if veterans can get through the process they’re pleased with the quality of the health care they get, especially at Walla Walla.” Walden said the request for help from veterans to his office are enough work to keep two full-time employees busy. He said 50 percent of all their calls for help come from veterans. Click here to read more Rep. Walden meets with veterans in Enterprise Walden also described the accountability measures added to recent bills the House passed before adjourning for the elections. “It astounds me that it takes two years for an appeal to a veteran claim to be processed,” said Walden. “The VA funding bill we passed calls for VA employees to report their daily work, same as my sales representatives did when I owned a radio business.” Walden also discussed veterans’ mental health care, especially in regards to the suicide rate. “The Vietnam veterans, in coming out of Vietnam, were told to get over it and go home. That was wrong. We learned we want to provide better mental health care services to veterans, especially in regard to (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder). “But I’m not here to talk, I’m here to listen.” Click here to read more Walden visits student veterans Frustrations center around resources and medical care Rep. Greg Walden held a casual get-together with veterans-turned-students at Eastern Oregon University on Friday afternoon. […] This was one stop of many for Walden recently. He said he’s been meeting with veterans to see what’s been working in the system and what hasn’t. “It’s pretty much the same frustrations,” he said of the common complaints. “Getting access to health care in a timely manner. Getting the care they need.” The issue of medical care was brought up at EOU on Friday. The student vets said it is difficult to get the medical care they need here in La Grande. Walden said that’s not a unique issue. “Outside of Medford at their VA clinic, two-thirds of the physician positions are vacant,” Walden said. “Wherever you are, there are going to be issues. There’s delay of care.” Walden cited computer problems as the main culprit. “We’re not building rockets,” he said. “We’re trying to push the VA to update their software to commercial software instead of using their own. That’s what we’re working on. My job is to cut through the red tape. Working with vets is half the case work that comes through my office.” Click here to read more Walden gets an earful from student veterans Some 15 armed services veterans met with Congressman Greg Walden on the Oregon Institute of Technology campus Tuesday and nearly every one of them had a frustrating story to tell when it comes to working with the Veterans Association and health care. Walden, R-Ore., is touring his district collecting stories in hopes of improving the VA. Of some of the issues he’s heard, he remarked, “You can’t make this stuff up.” “I struggle with the fact that I can order my hotel rooms over the next few days online or get a rental car,” Walden noted, “but you can’t set a medical appointment with the VA online at all. There’s got to be a better way to do this.” Click here to read more. Walden meets with local Band of Brothers There are more than 300,000 veterans in Oregon and a state survey shows that only 3 out of 10 access all of the benefits available to them. That’s one of the reasons why U.S. Representative Greg Walden paid a visit to the La Pine Band of Brothers today, to hear their stories, and tell them help is on the way. Click here to watch coverage from KOHD Central Oregon Daily Rep. Greg Walden Meets With Southern Oregon Veterans Rep. Greg Walden was in Medford today to meet with veterans, veterans' advocates and the local chamber. He stopped by NewsWatch 12 to talk about the upcoming general election, 21st Century Cures Act and legislation that benefits veterans. Click here to watch coverage from KDRV Newswatch 12
09.29.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden supports plans to boost funding, expedite support for Oregon veterans Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Continuing his strong efforts to support Oregon’s veterans, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) supported several plans passed by Congress this week to boost funding for the Veterans Administration and expedite care so our veterans can get the help they need and deserve. Below is a transcript of his video release: "Congress did a lot of good work this week to take care of our veterans. We have 80,000 veterans across Oregon's Second Congressional District, and we are working every day to try to make sure they get access to affordable, quality care in a timely manner. The legislation we approved increases funding to reduce the disability caseload so that we can get claims processed faster, and it improves the medical records process. “Among other things, we passed legislation that deals with this horrible problem we have with veterans committing suicide - about 20 a day. One of these suicide hotlines was so poorly run, that up to one third of the calls never got through to a frontline worker. We're fixing that with this legislation, so when a veteran in need calls they can actually talk to a caregiver “And we're working on other issues to make sure that your veterans’ healthcare record can be coordinated with private healthcare providers – there’s been a problem there too. We’ve got a lot more work to do, but this is a big step in a better direction for our veterans.” The funding measure, which has passed both the House and Senate with strong bipartisan support, increases funding for the VA by $2.9 billion to help alleviate the claims backlogs and wait-times issues our veterans are facing. The funding is accompanied by increased oversight at the VA to provide accountability for the mismanagement and fraud that has plagued the agency over the past few years. The bill also provides for the modernization of the VA’s health records, and boosts funding for the VA caregivers’ program. The President signed this bill into law today. This week, the House also passed three pieces of legislation to improve veterans’ health care options and address mismanagement problems at VA facilities. The No Veterans Crisis Line Should Go Unanswered Act (H.R. 5392) requires the VA to develop a plan to ensure that each telephone call and text message to a crisis hotline is answered by a qualified, live person so veterans are not sent to voicemail when seeking emergency care. This comes after an inspector general report revealed that, on numerous occasions, calls to VA crisis hotlines were being sent to voicemail rather than answered by a live staff member. The VET Act (H.R. 3216) makes clear the VA’s obligation to provide emergency care for veterans seeking help, and prohibits VA facilities from transferring sick or injured veterans without their consent or clinical necessity. This bill also prevents VA facilities from delaying or denying a veteran emergency care to assess whether or not a veteran has the ability to pay. The Vet Connect Act (H.R. 5162) – another bill passed in the House this week – would require the VA to share medical record information with private community health care providers where a veteran is receiving care. This ensures that veterans are able to seek care outside of a VA facility and that the healthcare providers have access to all necessary health records for a veteran. All three of these measures now head to the Senate. Walden has assisted over 5,000 Oregon veterans and their families with issues involving their benefits and care. If you or a loved one needs help with the VA or any other federal agency, you can call his office toll free at 800-533-3303. Walden has a team of veterans on staff ready to assist you. ###
09.28.2016	Greg Walden supports passage of major water resources infrastructure bill Includes Walden proposal to help grow jobs in Cascade Locks WASHINGTON, DC--The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), legislation supported by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to address the needs of the Pacific Northwest’s harbors, locks, dams, flood prevention programs, and other water resources infrastructure critical to our economy. “Infrastructure--especially water infrastructure--is incredibly important to our economy in the Pacific Northwest. Today, the House passed a bipartisan plan that helps ensure that our region’s water infrastructure is prepared for future growth and growing global competition,” Walden said. “I’m proud that it includes a provision to remove outdated red tape that has restricted economic activity on portions of land owned by the Port of Cascade Locks. This fix gets the federal government out of the way and opens up doors to projects, and provides better certainty for companies looking to build, invest and create jobs in Cascade Locks.” The Cascade Locks language, supported by Walden and Oregon’s Senators, fixes an outdated regulation that requires the Port to get approval from the Army Corps of Engineers for activity and development on land near Cascade Locks, even though the Port owns that land. This process is often slow and expensive, creating uncertainty for Port projects and limiting opportunities for economic development in the area. Annually, nearly $1.4 trillion worth of goods transport through U.S. ports and more than 600 million tons of cargo valued at over $230 billion move on inland waterways. WRDA will help protect inland waterways in Oregon and the Columbia Basin from costly invasive species like zebra mussels by authorizing the Corps to continue watercraft inspection programs. According to the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, there are currently five watercraft inspection sites operating under the Corps’ authority in Oregon, four of which are stationed in Walden’s district. In 2014, Walden supported the passage of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act, which was signed into law by the President and established a process for a new, transparent, and locally driven process for Congressional review and consideration of water resources development activities of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. WRDA returns Congress to the two-year cycle of authorizing investments in America’s ports, channels, locks, dams, and other infrastructure that supports the maritime and waterways transportation system and provides flood protection for homes and businesses. This bill also authorizes studies for future water resources improvements, makes modifications to previous authorizations to ensure fiscal responsibility, and maintains reforms established under the 2014 bill to allow for greater local participation in project selection. The Water Resources Development Act passed the Senate and House with bipartisan support, and will now be reviewed in a conference committee of both legislative chambers before heading to the President’s desk. ###
09.27.2016	Greg Walden applauds U.S. House bill to improve health of public trails Walden meeting with backcountry horsemen, snowmobilers, and other forest enthusiasts last year in the Deschutes National Forest to discuss the bill. WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the National Forest System Trails Stewardship Act (H.R. 845), legislation championed by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to help better maintain public trails on national forests and ensure they are accessible for outdoor recreation. “Hunting, fishing, camping, and other outdoor activities are cherished pastimes here in Oregon, and they should be enjoyed for generations to come. But as many people in Oregon know, the public trails in our state are in desperate need of better management,” said Walden. “The National Forest System Trails Stewardship Act makes a number of common-sense improvements to how the Forest Service maintains our state’s trails and landscape, and helps put us on the path to more sustainable trail management.” Last year, Walden met with backcountry horsemen, snowmobile users, and other forest enthusiasts to discuss the legislation in Bend. The National Forest System Trails Stewardship Act addresses many of their concerns with trail management by breaking down barriers for volunteer efforts and collaboration with outside groups. Notably, the bill would encourage fire crews to perform maintenance during the offseason, and allow outfitters and guides to reduce their fees by providing trail maintenance. According to a 2013 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the Forest Service is only able to maintain about one quarter of trails up to standard, and nearly two-thirds of trails receive no maintenance at all. The report also recognizes the benefits of utilizing volunteers for trail maintenance, and recommends steps to help the Forest Service maximize use of volunteers and partners. The National Forest System Trails Stewardship Act passed the House with unanimous support, and now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
09.20.2016	Greg Walden honored as “Guardian of Small Business” by major small business group Walden is presented the “Guardian of Small Business” award by Juanita Duggan, president and CEO of the National Federation of Independent Business (high resolution photo available upon request). WASHINGTON, D.C.-- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has been named a “Guardian of Small Business” by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). Walden received this award for his outstanding voting record in the U.S. House on behalf of Oregon’s small businesses. “As a small business owner with my wife for over two decades, I understand what it means to risk everything to grow your business and create jobs. Now, I’m committed to cutting the unnecessary red tape that stands in the way of growth for so many small businesses in Oregon and across the country. After all, we should be focused on making things easier for small business owners and local job creators, not harder. It’s an honor to receive this special recognition from the nation’s leading voice for small businesses, and I will continue to work on commonsense solutions to help Oregon’s small businesses succeed,” said Walden. NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan praised Walden for his record of standing up for small businesses. “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them,” said Duggan. “Based on his voting record, Rep. Walden is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington.” NFIB is made up of small businesses nationwide, including over 7,000 in Oregon. According to the Oregon Secretary of State, small businesses employ more than half of Oregon’s workforce and make up 98% of the state’s total businesses. The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award. It is reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently with NFIB on the key issues identified by small business owners. NFIB tracks the votes of every member of Congress. House members and Senators who vote with NFIB members at least 70 percent of the time are eligible for the Guardian Award. Walden received a 100 percent voting record during this session of Congress. ###
09.14.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden: “We need to reform the VA, and we need to take care of our men and women in uniform” U.S. House passes bill to continue reforms at the Veterans Administration Please click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s full floor speech WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Days after meeting with local veterans in Medford, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that the House of Representatives has passed bipartisan legislation to bring accountability and reform to the Veterans Administration (VA). Walden took to the House floor in support of the bill, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act (H.R. 5620). Please see below for abbreviated remarks. “On Saturday morning in Medford, Oregon, I met with about 40 veterans who are furious about the delays in getting access to care, and the fact that they can’t maintain providers at the local facility. "And everything in this bill, interestingly enough, came up in our discussion. ‘How come you’re paying bonuses to people that aren’t doing their job?’—this bill fixes that. ‘Why is it when we raise complaints internally, there’s retribution?’—this bill protects whistleblowers. ‘Why isn’t there more transparency about what happens inside the VA?’—this bill gets at that. Accountability and transparency will lead us to a better VA. "We need to reform the VA. We need to take care of our men and women in uniform. We need to claw back bonuses. We need to get this ship righted. This is a fundamentally broken system that needs repair—I think we all agree on that, that’s not a partisan issue. "Most of all, we need to start with what matters, and that is the veteran. That, ladies and gentlemen, should be our foremost commitment and our starting place: what’s best for that veteran and that veteran’s family.” A recent study by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that on average, it can take up to one year or longer to remove a permanent civil servant in the VA and other federal agencies. Under the VA’s existing civil service rules, the department often fails to hold misbehaving employees accountable for their actions, and when they do take disciplinary action, it rarely occurs in a swift and meaningful way. The VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act would give the department more flexibility to remove VA employees for poor performance or misconduct. The legislation would also increase whistleblower protections for individuals who speak up about misconduct, and would recoup bonuses from undeserving employees. Additionally, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act takes important steps to reform the department’s broken disability benefits appeals process. By allowing veterans to waive a hearing, limit the introduction of new evidence, and have the option to bring their appeal to a regional office, this bill streamlines the antiquated appeals process for VA disability benefits. The bill passed the House by a vote of 310-116, and now heads to the Senate for consideration.
09.09.2016	As 15th anniversary approaches, Greg Walden remembers September 11, 2001 Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video statement WASHINGTON, D.C.-- In honor of the 15th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) shared his memories of the tragic day in a video statement. Walden joined fellow U.S. House members on the Capitol steps for a remembrance ceremony to pay tribute to the thousands of Americans whose lives were taken on September 11, 2001. Full statement below: “On the morning of 9/11, that horrible day when America was attacked, I was standing right here in what's called the House Triangle with the Capitol behind me. We were doing a news conference at the time on some endangered species issues affecting the country, and an officer came by and yelled at us to evacuate the plaza here because the plane had just hit the Pentagon. Today, our prayers go out to the families, the survivors, those who lost loved ones, and to all our men and women in uniform, our veterans especially, for their service and their sacrifice.” Walden is also encouraging Oregonians to share their memories of September 11 on his Facebook page at Facebook.com/RepGregWalden.
09.01.2016	Greg Walden announces 2016 Congressional App Challenge for Oregon students Winner’s app to be displayed in the U.S. Capitol WASHINGTON, D.C. -- As Oregon students head back to school, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced an exciting opportunity for students to design an app as part of a nationwide competition. The 2016 Congressional App Challenge is a chance for tech-savvy students across central, southern, and eastern Oregon to put their creativity to the test and design their own original smartphone or desktop apps. The winner’s app will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol among the best student apps in the country. A panel of local experts from Oregon, including app developers and computer science professors, will judge each student’s work and select the winner and runners-up. “The Congressional App Challenge is a fantastic opportunity for students to showcase their creativity in science, technology, and math. App development and coding are 21st century skills, and I believe somewhere in Oregon there could be a student with an idea that could become the next Facebook or Uber,” said Walden. “One talented winner will have the chance to be recognized on the national stage. I look forward to seeing this year’s entries and wish all Oregon’s budding coders the best of luck.” In addition to having their apps featured in the U.S. Capitol, $50,000 in Amazon Web Services credits will be divided among the student winners from around the country to be used for cloud computing services and other resources to advance their coding education. To enter the challenge, students must submit a video demonstration explaining their app and what they learned, as well as the app’s source code. The deadline for entries is November 2, 2016. For additional details and steps to enter, please visit Walden’s website at www.walden.house.gov/appchallenge.
08.19.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden in Klamath Falls: “There’s A Better Way to break Oregon families out of the cycle of poverty” Walden attends Klamath Works groundbreaking ceremony, highlighting plan to fight poverty in Oregon and across the country Click here or on the image below to watch Walden's video statement KLAMATH FALLS— At a groundbreaking ceremony for the new site of the Klamath Falls Gospel Mission, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) highlighted a plan in the U.S. House of Representatives that will help fight poverty in Oregon and across the country. Walden has worked closely with Klamath Works to support their goal of providing job training and services to help struggling individuals get back on their feet. Now, Walden says the House’s proposal, called “A Better Way,” will similarly focus on breaking people out of the cycle of poverty. “In town halls and meetings with people throughout our state, Oregonians frequently voice their concerns to me about a stagnant economy, with minimal job growth and little mobility for those struggling with unemployment and poverty. That’s why the efforts of Klamath Works are so important to the people of the Basin. Their good work focuses on helping those who are down on their luck by offering them the tools they need to become self-sustaining,” Walden said. “Our Better Way agenda in the House seeks to do just that, too, and would make sure that there are more programs like Klamath Works around the country. Over 16% of Oregonians are living in poverty, and that number even surpasses 20% in poverty in our rural areas. We must to do more to break Oregon families out of the cycle of poverty, and we’ve taken a great step in that direction with the Better Way poverty agenda.” The Better Way plan to fight poverty includes ideas to improve skills and education, reward hard work, tailor benefits to people’s needs, help families save for the future, and demand results from the welfare system. Earlier this year, House Speaker Paul Ryan set up task forces in six important areas: fighting poverty, enhancing national security, growing the economy, upholding the Constitution, improving the healthcare system, and reforming the tax code. These plans serve as a clear agenda for House Republican solutions to some of the biggest challenges facing Oregon and America. Click here for more information and specifics on the Better Way agenda.
07.14.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden applauds U.S. House plan to help reduce federal overreach in rural Oregon Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video statement WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation to provide annual funding for the Department of the Interior, and U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) highlighted how the plan will help reduce federal overreach in rural communities across the West: “The passage of this measure to fund the Department of the Interior is really important because we've got excellent policy changes in there. We’ve voted to prevent the listing of the sage grouse, to stop funds from being spent to declare a huge new national monument in Malheur County, and to rein in the overzealous regulatory regime of the EPA,” said Walden. “This plan really gives us an opportunity to do what we do best in Oregon: to work together to find solutions to our natural resource issues. I'm glad the House passed the bill with these important policy changes included, and I look forward to getting support from the Senate so we can get it down to the President.” The plan cuts the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s budget by $164 million from last year, reducing regulatory programs by 21% and stopping the agency from expanding its jurisdiction over water and private property under the “Waters of the United States” rule. Additionally, it prohibits listing of the sage grouse as an endangered species and fully funds Payment-in-Lieu of Taxes (PILT) for Oregon’s rural counties. Additionally, the plan fully funds wildfire fighting at the ten year average cost and increases funding for forest management efforts that prevent fire. Also included in this legislation are Walden’s provisions to remove gray wolves from the federal endangered species list and to prohibit funds from being used to make a Presidential declaration of a national monument in Malheur County, which would lock up 2.5 million acres of public land. This is the latest step in Walden’s continued efforts to urge the President and top members of the Administration to back off the proposal to ease tensions in the rural west. The bill passed by a vote of 231-196 today, and now heads to the Senate for consideration.
07.13.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden plan to remove gray wolves from the federal endangered species list passes U.S. House Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video statement WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that his plan to remove gray wolves from the federal endangered species list has been approved by the U.S. House by a vote of 223-201. “Oregon's wolf population has grown by more than 40 percent, and yet we have this divided management strategy in the federal government where in part of the state wolves are still listed and part of the state they’re not. We need a single management strategy where we have local control under the Oregon state plan,” said Walden. “That's why this amendment is so important. We need to repeal the endangered species listing for the gray wolf, and get it under state management where we've got the most local control so Oregonians can make the decisions.” Management of wolves in Oregon is currently divided by an arbitrary line that leaves wolves in the eastern third of the state under state management, while the remainder are still managed under the federal Endangered Species Act. Oregon’s wolf population has grown by almost 40 percent in the last year, and their range continues to spread south and west creating issues of split jurisdiction. Meanwhile, wolves continue to kill livestock in the area under federal management, with little recourse for area ranchers and even creating challenges for the five year review of the Oregon Wolf Plan. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has recognized the recovery of this species and proposed delisting it three years ago, but litigation by outside groups has brought the process to a crawl. This proposal allows the agency to implement their proposal while ensuring that a delisting occurs by next summer. Walden’s plan is part of a larger bill that sets the annual budget for the Department of the Interior and other agencies. He teamed up with Washington Reps. Dan Newhouse and Cathy McMorris Rodgers to introduce the amendment to get it passed the finish line in the House. A vote on the underlying bill is expected soon.
07.08.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden applauds U.S. House approval of plan to combat nation’s opioid epidemic Landmark agreement passes House 407-5; plan now heads to Senate Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video statement WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has advanced major legislation to help combat the nation’s opioid abuse epidemic. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (S.524) focuses on improving drug abuse treatments, addressing the underlying causes of addiction, and helping those most at risk. The plan is an agreement between the House and Senate and passed the House on an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 407-5. “At the recent roundtables I held in Bend, Medford, and Hermiston, I heard from family members, law enforcement, and treatment specialists who are trying to deal with the growing epidemic of opioid abuse in our communities. The legislation approved by the U.S. House today addresses their core issues, and I’m confident we will be able to make a difference over time,” said Walden. “We can get better access to treatment, we can reduce the number of pills that shouldn’t be out there, and we can save lives. This is a big day to help solve a huge problem throughout Oregon and the country.” The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act provides state government and local law enforcement more tools to tackle this epidemic head on, including support for increased education, recovery, and treatment efforts. Click here for a summary of the bill. This legislation has been met with strong support from local advocates in the fight against opioid abuse. “The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act helps address the opioid crisis that has hit rural eastern Oregon incredibly hard. With this bill, healthcare providers in eastern Oregon will be able to more effectively address the needs of patients suffering from addiction. I thank Representative Walden for his efforts supporting this bill that throws a life ring to the patients and their families who have been devastated by this disease and to those who provide them care,” said Baker City physician Dr. Charles Hofmann. “This bill is a necessary and critical first step in addressing the opioid epidemic. Too many people have been affected. Too many people have died. Swift legislative action is needed. I am grateful for the collaboration between the medical community and national leaders to save lives. I hope to continue the conversation to improve access to care and expand on evidence based treatment for chronic non-cancer pain management,” said Bend resident Dr. Kimberly Swanson, Licensed Psychologist/Behavioral Health Consultant, St. Charles Family Care-Redmond & The Center for Women’s Health. With today’s vote, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act will head to the Senate for final approval before being sent to the President’s desk for signature.
07.06.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden supports major mental health reform plan passed by U.S. House Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s remarks on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has overwhelmingly approved bipartisan reforms of the country’s mental health care system. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act (H.R. 2646) will help deliver better, more timely care to mentally ill patients and their families. Walden spoke in support of this legislation on the House floor. See remarks below: “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Today I rise in support of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act. “Ten million Americans suffer from serious mental illness. If they get care, they're 16 times less likely to harm themselves or others. But, right now, too many patients fall through the cracks. “At a recent roundtable in Medford, Oregon, I heard from parents about their children who experienced homelessness and violence due to their illness, from caregivers about the difficulty getting patients timely care, and from law enforcement about how the default place for the mentally ill is often the local jail. The consensus among all of them was that the health care system, the government, and society are failing those who need help the most. “It’s clear we must do more to improve treatment, boost resources, and simplify the bureaucracy surrounding the mental health system in America. We can do better, and we will with this bill.” The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act reforms the federal government’s mental health bureaucracy to break down barriers to care. It allows families to better work with health care professionals to care for loved ones, and helps fix the shortage of psychiatric hospital beds in this country. The bill also advances tele-psychiatry to help mentally ill patients in rural areas. Click here for more information on the bill. In November, Walden held a roundtable meeting in Medford with mental health advocates, psychologists, physicians, and members of the law enforcement community to get their input on mental health legislation. Local health providers praised the bill. “Providence St. Joseph Health commends Congressman Walden for his leadership in sponsoring the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act. It takes an important step forward in fixing the fragmented nature of behavioral health care. Mental health and wellness remains a major priority for our health system – our caregivers see the need every day in the many communities we serve across the western U.S. Providence St. Joseph Health is deeply grateful to Rep. Walden and every House member who supports this bill – together, we can make a real difference for some of the most vulnerable people in society,” said Rod Hochman, M.D., CEO, Providence St. Joseph Health. “As a Family Nurse Practitioner working in Emergency Services, I’ve seen firsthand how the lack of coordinated mental health care can have a negative effect in our communities,” said Dr. Cindi Warburton, Family Nurse Practitioner, Bend Memorial Clinic. “I know we can do a better job of providing crisis intervention and treatment programs and the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act will propel these efforts forward. Improving the health of our Nation begins with supporting our communities in providing access to physical and mental health services.” “In our little county of 7,000 people, as everywhere in America, people struggle with significant mental health issues. Anxiety, depression, and various forms of psychosis rob them of the ability to work and have healthy relationships. Their mental health issues rob them of life. There is so much that needs to be done to help these people find healing, and a new capacity to participate the communities that love them. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act is an important beginning. Its emphasis on integration and parity are critical if America is to move forward and address the issue of mental illness,” said Dr. Stephen Kliewer, Licensed Professional Counselor and Director Emeritus, Wallowa Valley Center for Wellness. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, patients with serious mental illness receiving treatment are 16 times less likely to commit violent acts than those who go untreated. These individuals are also 11 times more likely to be victims of violent crime than the general population. The federal government spends $130 billion per year on mental health, yet the rates of violence, suicide, homelessness, and incarceration among the mentally ill have increased over the past two decades. This legislation will now go to the U.S. Senate, where a similar bill has already been introduced. If passed by the Senate, members from both chambers will work out any differences between the two versions of the bill before it is signed into law.
06.27.2016	Greg Walden bill to rename The Dalles veterans’ clinic after local Medal of Honor recipient signed into law WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that his bill to rename The Dalles veterans’ clinic after Sergeant First Class Loren R. Kaufman, a native of The Dalles and one of Oregon’s 14 Medal of Honor recipients, has been signed into law by the President. Sergeant Kaufman was awarded the Medal of Honor posthumously for his bravery and selfless actions to save his company while serving in the U.S. Army during World War II and the Korean War. The clinic named in his honor will be called the Loren R. Kaufman VA Clinic. “Sergeant First Class Loren Kaufman was a true American hero who exemplified courage and selflessness throughout his service,” said Walden. “Fittingly, he will now have a permanent tribute to his service in his hometown. I’d like to offer a special thanks to Loren Kaufman’s family from The Dalles who helped make this all possible. I also want to thank Les Cochenour and the entire Mid-Columbia Veterans Memorial Committee, and the Wasco County Commission for their support. I’m proud to have joined them in helping to honor Loren Kaufman by renaming this clinic after him so he can be a continuing inspiration for the community and the country.” Click here to watch Walden’s speech on the House floor when this bill passed the U.S. House. Born and raised in The Dalles, Sergeant Kaufman joined the Army in the week following the attack on Pearl Harbor, and went on to serve in both World War II and the Korean War. While in Korea, Sergeant Kaufman’s company was attacked near Yongsan. His platoon was two miles away protecting the battalion flank and was ordered to come reinforce the company. On their way to their new location, they came under attack. Selflessly, Sergeant Kaufman ran forward, engaged the enemy, and forced them to retreat in confusion. Once Sergeant Kaufman’s platoon rejoined their company, they found the enemy had taken commanding ground and pinned the company down in a draw. Without hesitation, Sergeant Kaufman again charged the enemy lines, firing his rifle, throwing grenades, using his bayonet, and seizing an unmanned machine gun. Because of his fast thinking and fearlessness, the enemy fled. The company regained their position because of Sergeant Kaufman’s courage and leadership. For these actions and “conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call,” Sergeant Kaufman was awarded the Medal of Honor by President Harry S Truman. In his citation, it was written, “the dauntless courage and resolute intrepid leadership of Sergeant First Class Kaufman were directly responsible for the success of his company in regaining its positions, reflecting distinct credit upon himself and upholding the esteemed traditions of the military service.” Tragically, though, Sergeant Kaufman received this honor posthumously. He was killed in action on February 10, 1951 and was laid to rest in Willamette National Cemetery. The bill was unanimously approved by the House on May 23, and unanimously agreed to by the Senate on June 10. It was signed into law by the President on June 22.
06.27.2016	Greg Walden welcomes Sage Hassell, Congressional Art Competition Winner from Bend, as her artwork is unveiled at U.S. Capitol Walden presents Sage with a special certificate in recognition of her artistic talent. WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) welcomed Congressional Art Competition Winner Sage Hassell, a recent graduate of Mountain View High School in Bend, to the U.S. Capitol to see her winning painting unveiled in the national student art exhibit. Walden presented Sage with a special congressional certificate in recognition of her artistic talent. Sage’s painting, entitled Flaunt It, was selected by a panel of local judges as the overall winner out of 136 student entries from central, southern, and eastern Oregon. “I want to congratulate Sage on being chosen as this year’s winner of the Congressional Art Competition for Oregon’s Second District,” said Walden. “For the next year, Flaunt It will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol among the best student artwork from around the country for members of Congress and thousands of visitors from around the world to appreciate. This is a truly impressive accomplishment and a testament to Sage’s artistic talent.” Sage with her artwork hanging in the U.S. Capitol. The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide program for students to showcase their artistic abilities and to highlight the importance of art education. Since its start in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students from around the country have participated. Photos of the winners and more information on the competition can be found via Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/artcompetition.
06.15.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden supports major mental health reform plan as it is unanimously approved by House committee Click here on the image below to watch Walden’s video message U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that a major mental health reform bill to help mentally ill patients and their families was unanimously approved by the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee, an important step forward for the legislation. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act (H.R. 2646) would help improve the nation’s mental healthcare system to better deliver treatment to those who need it most. “This legislation dramatically improves how the federal government helps when it comes to mental health care,” Walden said. “We know that 10 million Americans suffer from mental health diseases and issues, and that, if they get care, they're 15 times less likely to commit a violent act. Meanwhile, over time some 112 programs have been built up in the federal government costing $130 billion dollars, and yet until this law comes along and is enacted these programs aren't peer reviewed or evidence-based. We're going to change that.” “We're going to make sure that we are funding the most effective programs out there to help people, and get more help into our communities for mental health services and better integrate between mental health and physical health care. This is really, really important to our families, to our communities, and to those who suffer from mental health issues. We can make it much better, and we will with this legislation.” According to the National Institute of Mental Health, patients with mental illness receiving treatment are 15 times less likely to commit violent acts than those who go untreated. Individuals with severe mental illness are also 11 times more likely to be victims of violent crime than the general population. The federal government spends $130 billion per year on mental health, yet the rates of violence, suicide, homelessness, and incarceration among the mentally ill have increased over the past two decades. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act reforms the federal government’s mental health bureaucracy to break down barriers to care. It allows families to better work with health care professionals to care for loved ones, and helps fix the shortage of psychiatric hospital beds in this country. The bill also advances tele-psychiatry to help mentally ill patients in rural areas. For a full summary of the bill, please click here. Walden has been a long-time, strong supporter of mental health programs, especially for young people. He has worked closely with Oregon Partnership/Lines for Life on preventing youth suicide and substance abuse. And he worked across the aisle to pass the nation’s first youth suicide prevention bill into law, the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act (named in memory of the son of former Oregon Senator Gordon Smith). This legislation includes a multi-year reauthorization of the Garrett Lee Smith law. In November, Walden held a roundtable meeting in Medford with mental health advocates, psychologists, physicians, and members of the law enforcement community to get their input on mental health legislation. The next step for the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act is a vote before the full U.S. House.
06.10.2016	Walden and DeFazio Push DOT to Finalize Safety Rules to Help Emergency Responders, Phase Out Unsafe Oil Tank Cars Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Representative Greg Walden (R-OR) urged the Department of Transportation (DOT) to quickly finalize critical safety rules that will better protect communities and environmentally sensitive areas from catastrophic crude oil train accidents. The letter was sent in response to a June 3rd oil train accident, when 16 rail cars from a 96-car Union Pacific crude oil train derailed near Mosier, Oregon. At least one rail car transporting Bakken crude ruptured, several cars caught fire, hundreds of residents were evacuated, and sheen has been detected on the river. “This accident, once again, raises the question of whether railroads should be required to re-route trains carrying flammable liquids around environmentally-sensitive areas like the Gorge and endangered communities. Congress has certainly done its part to address concerns. Now we are awaiting the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) action. The “Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act” (FAST Act), enacted on December 4, 2015, when implemented, will make significant improvements to the transportation of crude-by-rail, as well as other hazardous materials,” the members write. As a top negotiator on the FAST Act, DeFazio successfully included a number of key provisions to increase safety, require railroads to disclose hazardous cargo and develop comprehensive oil spill response plans, and help emergency responders react to catastrophic oil train accidents. In their letter, DeFazio and Walden asked DOT for an update on industry’s progress in meeting the new mandates for improved rail tank cars and the status of a rule requiring railroads to develop and implement comprehensive oil spill response plans that are crucial for adequately preparing federal, state, local, and regional emergency response teams. DeFazio and Walden have heard from a number of communities that little information has been shared with them on the potential consequences of a spill, and that plans for coordinating with federal, state, local and regional response teams and the railroads should a spill occur have not been set-forth. For a PDF version of the letter, click here. A copy of the letter is included below. June 10, 2016 The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Mr. Secretary: We have long been concerned about the impacts of a crude oil train derailment in and around the Columbia River Gorge and what it would mean for local residents and surrounding natural resources. Those concerns became all-too-real on June 3rd when 16 rail cars from a 96-car Union Pacific crude oil train derailed near Mosier, Oregon. At least one rail car transporting Bakken crude ruptured, several cars caught fire, hundreds of residents were evacuated, and sheen has now been detected on the river. This accident, once again, raises the question of whether railroads should be required to re-route trains carrying flammable liquids around environmentally-sensitive areas like the Gorge and endangered communities. Congress has certainly done its part to address concerns. Now we are awaiting the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) action. The “Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act” (FAST Act) (Public Law 114-94), enacted on December 4, 2015, when implemented, will make significant improvements to the transportation of crude-by-rail, as well as other hazardous materials. The bill: Required each Class I railroad transporting any hazardous material to provide accurate, real-time information, including the identity, quantity, and location of hazardous materials on each train, to fusion centers, state and local emergency responders, and law enforcement personnel; Directed each Class I railroad to provide advanced notification and detailed information, including routes, on the movement of trains transporting crude to each state emergency response commission; Phased-out or required retrofitting of all DOT-111 and CPC-1232 tank cars used to transport flammable liquids; Required each tank car built or retrofitted to the new standard be equipped with an insulating blanket and top fittings to mitigate releases during accidents; Established a competitive grant program to assist communities in preparing for and responding to hazardous materials incidents, including crude-by-rail; Reauthorized funding for hazardous materials training grants to states for emergency responder training; and Required regular reporting to Congress on the status of a final rule to require railroads to develop and implement comprehensive oil spill response plans. Additionally, the bill required regular reporting to Congress on industry-wide progress toward modifying rail tank cars. Although the first report is not due until December 1, 2016, we request a status update on implementation of the FAST Act directives and on the manufacture and modification of rail tank cars, including the number of DOT-111 and CPC-1232 tank cars that have been built or retrofitted to the new standards, the number of such tank cars that have been purchased and put in service by shippers and railroads, and the number of such tank cars currently in rail transportation compared to the number of older DOT-111 and CPC-1232s that fail to meet the new standard set forth by the DOT. As these new rail tank cars come online, we urge you to prioritize their use when flammable liquids are transported in National Scenic Areas like the Columbia River Gorge, as well as other environmentally sensitive areas. We also request an update on the status of a final rule requiring railroads to develop and implement comprehensive oil spill response plans, which are crucial for adequately preparing Federal, state, local and regional response teams to respond to an accident or incident involving the transportation of hazardous liquid, including crude oil, ethanol, and other petroleum-based products. They ensure that personnel are trained and available and equipment is in place to respond to a spill, and that procedures are established before a spill occurs. We have heard from many responders in Oregon that little information has been shared with them on the potential consequences of a spill, and that plans for coordinating with federal, state, local and regional response teams and the railroads should a spill occur have not been set-forth. This is especially true for areas where there is limited road access, such as the Columbia River Gorge or the Cascade Mountain Range. We are expecting a record breaking forest fire season again this year and communities need to know what the plan is for addressing accidents that could spark a fire. Responders are not able to determine a railroad’s worst-case discharge on their own, nor are they able to determine what specific resources are available or should be acquired, where those resources will be positioned, or what procedures are in place without significant input from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) and the railroads. While the railroads are providing some information to responders, it is not nearly enough to adequately prepare them for a potential spill. This has been echoed by the Government Accountability Office which is currently evaluating the adequacy of emergency response resources, including training, with respect to crude-by-rail trains. The fact is this rulemaking has languished for far too long at the DOT. Your last letter to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure stated that PHMSA is “working expeditiously” to issue a final rule by June 2017 and even that date, according to your letter, may be adjusted as PHMSA moves forward with the rulemaking process. That is nearly three years, at a minimum, after the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking was published and long after you have left office and a new administration that may or may not finalize this rulemaking is in place. In our view, this is far too long and the accident in the Gorge underscores that. We strongly urge you to re-assess your timeline and make finalizing this rulemaking a DOT priority. Thank you for your consideration of these matters and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO GREG WALDEN Ranking Member Member of Congress Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
06.08.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden addresses U.S. House on rail safety after train derailment near Mosier Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s speech WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today addressed the U.S. House of Representatives after Friday’s train derailment near Mosier in the Columbia Gorge. Walden pledged to continue working with federal, state, and local officials to learn more about what happened and what can be done to make sure it never happens again. Over the weekend, Walden visited the site of the incident to meet with community leaders and first responders. He has also been in close touch with federal, state, and local officials, transportation leaders in Congress, as well as the top executives from Union Pacific and BNSF Railway. A full transcript of Walden’s remarks is below: “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I appreciate the opportunity to support this legislation today, and I commend the committees for their work on pipeline safety and pipeline safety improvement. But I also have to take this opportunity to, because the committee has done very good work on the FAST Act, to talk about rail safety. “This rail accident occurred 7 miles from my home in the National Scenic Area, the Columbia River Gorge, over the weekend. I was there not long after it happened. I met with the Incident Commanders. I met with the Fire Chief. I met with city officials, county officials. Let me just say that while you're protecting pipeline safety, and that's really important, we need to continue to make progress on rail safety and make sure that the new cars that were ordered by this Congress get put into service especially in this critical water way areas as soon as possible. “We need to make sure that track improvements are required, that new fasteners are used to deal with issues, where, in this case perhaps, it is a track separation issue. We need to make sure that our first responders get all the training they need, and the Department of Transportation finishes its work on rules for spill response and for safety. This is a critically important issue for the people I represent on both the Oregon and Washington sides of the Columbia River. These trains are going through, and we're having these kinds of situations. We need to make sure we have the most up to date safety, the most up to date training, and the safest cars and tracks possible. We're going to stay on this until that happens. Mr. Chairman, I yield back.”
06.08.2016	Walden, Blumenauer bill to force Forest Service to complete Mt. Hood land exchange passes U.S. House Click here or on the images below to watch Walden and Blumenauer speak on the House floor about their plan WASHINGTON, DC— A bill authored by U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) to force the U.S. Forest Service to complete a land exchange on Mt. Hood has passed the U.S. House in an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote, 401-2. The Mount Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act (H.R. 3826) directs the Forest Service to move forward with the underlying land exchange—first approved by Congress in 2009— which would help protect the local water source and grow jobs in the community. “Seven years ago, Congress passed our bipartisan bill clearly stating that the Forest Service should complete the Mt. Hood Cooper Spur land exchange within 16 months. And yet here we are some 88 months later having to pass new legislation to get the job done,” said Walden. “This land exchange is critical for protecting Crystal Springs, the water source for the City of Hood River and the upper Hood River Valley, and would allow for economic development and family wage jobs in the area. The communities around Mt. Hood have waited long enough, it’s time for the Forest Service to finish the job.” “This land transfer has been delayed for far too long. Today’s action in the House brings us one step closer to timely completion of the exchange and further cements Congressional direction to get it done—helping to concentrate development on the south side of the mountain, protect new land under federal ownership, and realize additional protections for key areas,” said Blumenauer. “Thank you to Congressman Walden for his partnership on this bill. Together, along with our colleagues in the Senate, we will continue pushing until the Forest Service finishes the job we directed it to complete years ago.” The 2009 law authorizes a land exchange to allow development of 120 acres of federal land in Government Camp in exchange for 770 acres of non-federal land at Cooper Spur. That law clearly stated that the Forest Service should complete the exchange within 16 months. Yet it has still not been completed, frustrating many in the local communities and at Mt. Hood Meadows. H.R. 3826 restates Congress’ intent that the Forest Service move quickly to complete the exchange, addresses disagreements over a conservation easement, and allows for a more transparent appraisal process. Identical legislation introduced in the Senate by Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley was passed by that body in April as part of a broader energy and resources bill.
06.02.2016	Greg Walden announces major federal investment for Easter Seals Oregon program to help homeless veterans find work Walden has led bipartisan effort to boost important veterans program in southern Oregon and nationwide Walden met with the Easter Seals Rogue Valley to tour their Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program facility in Medford earlier this year MEDFORD – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that Easter Seals Oregon has been awarded a major investment through the federal Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program (HVRP) to support programs in Medford and Grants Pass. Walden has led a bipartisan coalition in the Congress to ensure funding for the program gets to the veterans that need it most. “We owe our freedom to our veterans, and we must ensure they get the services and benefits they deserve during times of need. The Easter Seals Rogue Valley HVRP program does great work to help southern Oregon veterans, specifically those facing chronic homelessness and unemployment. Thanks to their tireless efforts, their Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program found meaningful employment for 60% of enrolled veterans in the past year. I am pleased they have been awarded this major funding, and I will continue to work hard to make sure that veterans get the resources they need,” Walden said. Eastern Seals Oregon received $200,000 in grant funding for Jackson and Josephine counties through the HVRP at the U.S. Department of Labor. The program in Marion and Polk counties also received funding. The HVRP focuses on helping homeless veterans find meaningful employment. Veterans receive skills training, career counseling, and resume writing assistance. In addition, veterans are connected to stable housing and other supports to help them reintegrate into the labor force and the community. Earlier this year, Walden led a bipartisan coalition of 66 members of Congress, to ensure that the program receives robust funding in next year’s federal budget. Please click here to read the letter. "We would like to express our deep gratitude to Congressman Walden for all his support and advocacy for this important program. We are honored to be able to continue providing services to help homeless Veterans in Medford and Grants Pass find meaningful employment and stable housing," said Catherine Todd, Director of Employment Services, Easter Seals Oregon. According to the U.S. Census, there were 49,865 homeless veterans nationwide in 2015 and 1,292 in Oregon.
05.27.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden releases Memorial Day video tribute to Oregon World War II veterans Click here or on the photo below to watch video WASHINGTON, D.C. – Just in time for Memorial Day, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released a special video tribute to a group of World War II veterans who traveled from Oregon to Washington, D.C. to see their memorial on the National Mall for the first time. Walden was there to greet the veterans and thank them for their service. He also provided every veteran on the trip with a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in their honor as well as a copy of the speech he entered in the Congressional Record honoring each veteran by name. Below is a transcript of Walden’s remarks: “Twenty World War II veterans from thirteen cities and towns in Oregon. And you represent every branch of the military. Many of you were infantrymen. You were Seabees. You were mechanics and operators, cutters and flight crew, pilots and seamen and more. “It's impossible for us to properly express our profound respect and our deep appreciation for all that you have done. And it is also impossible for us to repay the profound debt we owe to you. For it is because of your bravery and actions that we are free. “What this city represents to Americans and freedom-loving people around the world, and indeed the very beginning of our democracy, we wouldn't have any of it today if it were not for what you and your generation did. Thank you for your service and your sacrifice to this great country. God bless you.” The veterans were able to travel to the nation’s capital free of charge as part of the Honor Flight program, a non-profit organization that helps make sure America’s oldest veterans are able to visit and experience the memorials built in tribute to their service and sacrifice. Click here to learn more. On Monday, Walden will commemorate Memorial Day in Jackson County in southern Oregon.
05.26.2016	For the fourth time in four years, House passes major wildfire prevention, forestry reform plan with Greg Walden’s support Click here or on the photo below for video of Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, DC – As Oregon prepares for yet another fire season, the U.S. House of Representatives has again passed a bipartisan bill to reduce the threat of catastrophic wildfire in national forests with strong support from U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River). The Resilient Federal Forests Act would bring much needed reforms to federal forest policy and help bring active management back to our forests. It was passed as part of a larger energy bill as a way to pressure the U.S. Senate to take action on forestry legislation. “This House, for four years in a row, has considered much needed legislation to fix the management of our federal forests. Now the Senate will have the opportunity to join us in this effort as we amend this legislation and send it over to the Senate. Our rural forested communities have waited long enough. They have choked on smoke summer after summer long enough. They've seen their watersheds get destroyed by catastrophic fire. It's time to fix the problem,” Walden said during debate on the bill on the House floor. “On national forests across eastern Oregon, forest mangers' hands are tied by one-size-fits-all rule prohibiting the harvest of trees over 21 inches in diameter. This measure was implemented temporarily in 1997, but still has not been lifted nearly 20 years later. It represents really poor science. It only serves as a source of frequent appeals and litigation. Repealing this will give our forest managers the flexibility they need to use modern science to actually manage the forests for healthier conditions,” Walden continued. “Last month, the Bureau of Land Management released their proposed Resource Management Plan for Oregon's unique O&C lands in southern and western Oregon. And frankly, it's a terrible plan. Despite a clear statutory requirement that they manage these lands for sustainable timber production and revenue to the counties, dare I say jobs in the communities, the BLM's plan goes the other way. It locks up 75% of the lands and harvests less than half the minimum level directed by the O&C Act. This is a job killer. “This bill includes bipartisan legislation that I wrote working with my colleagues Oregon, Representatives DeFazio and Schrader, to cut costs, increase timber harvest and revenue for the local counties, and directs the BLM to revise their flawed management plan to actually reflect the underlying act. Mr. Speaker, this is good energy legislation. This is good natural resource legislation. This is sound environmental legislation. I urge its passage,” Walden continued. The bill originally passed the House on a bipartisan vote in July of 2015, but the Senate has yet to act on any forestry legislation. The House also passed forestry legislation coauthored by Walden in 2013 and 2014, but those proposals were not acted upon by the Senate either. The Resilient Federal Forests Act seeks to improve forest health and resiliency by simplifying environmental process requirements, reducing project planning times and reducing the cost of implementing forest management projects while still ensuring robust protection of the environment. The bill also helps solve the long-standing “fire borrowing” problem by allowing the Forest Service to request FEMA disaster funds for fire suppression without having to continually rob their internal fire prevention accounts. For more information on the bill, please click here. Passage of this bill continues Walden's mission to make forest policy work for Oregonians. He has been a leader in writing other bipartisan forestry plans, including the Healthy Forest Restoration Act, the Forest Emergency Research and Recovery Act, and the FLAME Act.
05.25.2016	Greg Walden statement on House Oversight Committee report on the failure of Cover Oregon WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement after the U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee released an investigative report on the failure of Cover Oregon: “For over a year, the Oversight Committee has investigated the failure of Cover Oregon, including reviewing over 170,000 pages of emails and reports. Their report is very disturbing, but, sadly, not surprising. It is further confirmation of what really transpired and who was responsible for the Cover Oregon website debacle. Gov. Kitzhaber and his campaign advisors manipulated the process for political gain, and the Obama Administration did not do proper oversight to make sure taxpayer dollars were being spent properly. It is not often that a Congressional committee recommends a matter for criminal investigation. Taxpayers deserve the truth, and, if laws were broken, those responsible should be held accountable.” For more than a year, the House Oversight and Government Reform committee has been investigating the collapse of Cover Oregon, including reviewing over 170,000 pages of emails and reports. For more information on the report, please click here.
05.24.2016	U.S. House unanimously passes bill to rename The Dalles veterans’ clinic after local Medal of Honor recipient Loren R. Kaufman Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C.— The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously approved a bill championed by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to rename The Dalles veterans’ clinic after Sergeant First Class Loren R. Kaufman, a native of The Dalles and one of Oregon’s 14 Medal of Honor recipients. Sergeant Kaufman served in the Army during World War II and the Korean War, where his bravery and selfless actions saved his company, and, ultimately, cost him his life. “Sergeant First Class Kaufman was a true hero, who put others before himself and went above and beyond the call when his company was attacked,” said Walden. “Fittingly, the Loren R. Kaufman Memorial VA Clinic will be a place for local veterans to receive the help and care they need. I’m pleased that the House has passed this bill to honor Sergeant Kaufman’s memory and keep his name alive in The Dalles.” Born and raised in The Dalles, Sergeant Kaufman served in the Army during World War II and the Korean War. While in Korea, Sergeant Kaufman’s company was attacked near Yongsan. His platoon was two miles away protecting the battalion flank and was ordered to come reinforce the company. On their way to their new location, they came under attack. Selflessly, Sergeant Kaufman ran forward, engaged the enemy, and forced them to retreat in confusion. Once Sergeant Kaufman’s platoon rejoined their company, they found the enemy had taken commanding ground and pinned the company down in a draw. Without hesitation, Sergeant Kaufman again charged the enemy lines, firing his rifle, throwing grenades, using his bayonet, and seizing an unmanned machine gun. Because of his fast thinking and fearlessness, the enemy fled. The company regained their position because of Sergeant Kaufman’s courage and leadership. For these actions and “conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call,” Sergeant Kaufman was awarded the Medal of Honor by President Harry S Truman. In his citation, it was written, “the dauntless courage and resolute intrepid leadership of Sergeant First Class Kaufman were directly responsible for the success of his company in regaining its positions, reflecting distinct credit upon himself and upholding the esteemed traditions of the military service.” Tragically, though, Sergeant Kaufman received this honor posthumously. He was killed in action on February 10, 1951 and was laid to rest in Willamette National Cemetery. The bill now heads to the Senate, where Oregon’s Senators have introduced companion legislation.
05.23.2016	Walden responds to House’s failure to pass “Kelsey Smith Act” Click here to watch Walden speak in support of the “Kelsey Smith Act” WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement after the House of Representatives failed to pass H.R. 4889, the Kelsey Smith Act: "The time was now to act. The time was now to help families find abducted children and I’m disappointed my colleagues could not support this narrowly written bill,” said Walden. “We worked diligently to make this a bill that balanced privacy concerns with the importance of saving lives. It's modeled after the law in Oregon that passed unanimously through a Democratic legislature and was signed by a Democratic governor. The majority of the House supported this measure, so, I’m frustrated with my colleagues who voted against providing law enforcement with a critical tool to protect the public in urgent situations where every second counts. This bill respected the rights of the state and local legislatures to determine for themselves the appropriate procedures for law enforcement to protect their citizens’ privacy. I will continue to work to see this life-saving tool made available nationwide." The Kelsey Smith Act, authored by Rep. Kevin Yoder (R-KS), would require telecommunications carriers to share location data if law enforcement believes that someone is in danger of death or serious harm. The bill is named after an 18-year old Kansas woman who was abducted and murdered in 2007. After Kelsey Smith’s car was found in a nearby parking lot, police began an urgent search for her. They were unsuccessful for four days until her cell phone’s location information was turned over to law enforcement. Kelsey was then found in about 45 minutes. As Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, Walden helped lead the effort to pass the bill. The bill is modeled after a version passed by Oregon in 2014, when it was unanimously approved by both houses of the legislature and signed into law by Gov. Kitzhaber. Although the bill won support from a majority of the House, it did not reach the required two-thirds support required under the rules under which the bill was considered today.
05.23.2016	Greg Walden announces 2016 Congressional Art Competition winner: Sage Hassell, Mountain View High School in Bend Click here or on the photo below for full-sized image “Flaunt It”: An acrylic painting of a girl spinning in a white dress BEND— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that Sage Hassell, a senior at Mountain View High School, has been selected as the overall winner for Oregon’s Second Congressional District in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. In a record year for entries, Sage’s painting, entitled Flaunt It, was selected by a panel of local judges, including Central Oregon Community College art professor Bill Hoppe. Sage will travel to Washington, D.C. to see her artwork displayed in the national student art exhibit in the U.S. Capitol and attend a reception in her honor on June 23, 2016. “I want to congratulate Sage on this impressive achievement in such a competitive year,” said Walden. “Her painting will be showcased in the U.S. Capitol among the best student artwork in the nation, where it will be seen by members of Congress and visitors from around the world. Flaunt It is a testament to Sage’s artistic talent, and she should be very proud of this accomplishment.” Walden also announced winners from 9 counties in Oregon’s Second District: Josephine County Winner: Peace of Mind by Ella Sachs, senior at Grants Pass High School Jackson County Winner: Alpha by Andrea Orozco, sophomore at Phoenix High School Klamath County Winner: Stuck in Time by Colt Bruner, junior at Henley High School Hood River County Winner: Ripples in the Water by Elizabeth Munoz, senior at Hood River Valley High School Wasco County Winner: Family Time by Roger Marines, sophomore at South Wasco High School Deschutes County Winner: Surprise City by Braya Robbins, junior at Mountain View High School Malheur County Winner: Wolf and the Springtime Thaw by Shayla Griffin, freshman at Adrian High School Harney County Winner: Old Man by Halle Robertson, junior at Crane Union High School Baker County Winner: Phoebe by Shelby Swindlehurst, senior at Burnt River High School County winners will have their art displayed in one of Walden’s district offices in Bend, Medford, La Grande, and Hood River and posted on his website at https://walden.house.gov/art-competition. This summer, Walden will host receptions at his district offices to honor county winners. Exact time and dates to be announced. “The Congressional Art Competition is a tremendous opportunity for young Oregonians interested in art, and I want to thank all of the students, teachers, and families who made this year’s competition a success,” Walden said. “I would also like to thank our fourteen judges from around Oregon’s Second District for their expertise in judging over one hundred pieces of our talented students’ work.” Judges for this year’s competition included: Rogue Gallery & Art Center board member Nancy Jo Mullen, and their executive director Kim Hearon; Central Oregon Community College art professor Bill Hoppe; former Jackson County Commissioner and high school art teacher Sue Kupillas; associate professor of art at Eastern Oregon University Michael Sell; Southern Oregon University professor of art Peg Sjogren; Southern Oregon University professor of painting and drawing Cody Bustamante; fine arts professor at Treasure Valley Community College Robin Jackson; Treasure Valley Community College photography instructor Ted Fink; Treasure Valley Community College visual arts professor Tammy Kinney; Betty Faves Memorial Art Gallery director Lori Sams; artist and owner of Phinney Gallery of Fine Art Malcolm Phinney; Mark Nilsson, artist and owner of Mark Nilsson Artist Studio; and Cathy Stever, owner and artist at Cathy Stever Gallery.” The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide program for students to showcase their artistic abilities and to highlight the importance of art education. Since its start in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students from around the country have participated. Photos of the winners and more information on the competition can be found via Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/art-competition.
05.12.2016	House panel holds hearing on Greg Walden’s plan to protect Crooked River Ranch from fire Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video message WASHINGTON, D.C. – A key House committee today heard from Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and the Crooked River Ranch fire chief today about a plan to protect Crooked River Ranch from catastrophic wildfire. The hearing today before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands is a major step forward for Walden’s bill, the Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act (H.R. 5132). “Because of misguided federal land policies, the overstocked land adjacent to Crooked River Ranch presents a serious fire threat to homes in the area,” said Walden. “I want to thank Fire Chief Hoffmann for speaking before the panel on the dangers this community faces and the obstacles in the way of his department’s ability to protect property and lives. I’m pleased the Natural Resources Committee has moved forward on the plan so we can ensure the BLM is being a good neighbor and help protect the residents at Crooked River Ranch.” Click here to view Walden’s full testimony. “As a Fire Chief, it is my responsibility to protect the lives and property of those I serve,” said Crooked River Ranch Fire Chief Richard Hoffmann in his testimony. “I was pleased to brief the committee today to make sure they are aware of the need for proper fuel mitigation around Crooked River Ranch. By moving the Wilderness Study Area boundary line away from private properties, we will be able to establish a first line of defense for home owners and reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire before it happens.” Click here to view Chief Hoffmann’s full testimony. Local fire chief Richard Hoffmann testifies in support of the plan before Natural Resources panel Walden introduced the Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act in the House on April 29. The proposal would help protect lives and property at Crooked River Ranch by adjusting the boundary of the adjacent Wilderness Study Area (WSA) in order to better facilitate fire prevention activities on public lands and the adjacent private property. These lands are in the highest risk category for exposure to devastating wildfire due to overstocked juniper stands under the federally mandated and locally promulgated Jefferson County Community Wildfire Protection Plan. And the current WSA classification prevents mechanical fire prevention activities within these overstocked juniper stands. During the hearing, Rep. Tom McClintock (R-Calif.), who chairs the panel, said, “Here’s a song we’ve heard before: despite the high fire risk, BLM is not performing adequate fire prevention activities, particularly mechanical treatments, in the area because it is managed as a WSA. In addition, the location of the WSA hampers firefighting tactics, leaving local firefighters with no maneuvering room to protect life and property in the event of catastrophic wildfire.” The next step for the bill is a vote in the Natural Resources Committee before it goes before the full U.S. House.
05.12.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden statement on federal court siding with House Republicans in Obamacare lawsuit Click here or on the photo below to watch Walden’s video statement WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) applauded a federal judge for ruling in favor of the U.S. House of Representatives in a lawsuit against the Obama Administration’s improper use of taxpayer dollars under Obamacare. “This Administration has repeatedly expanded executive power and flouted basic Constitutional principles. Today’s decision sends a clear message to the Administration: they must follow the Constitution and respect the role of Congress. This is a big step forward towards reining in the Administration and protecting Congress’ power to decide how federal tax dollars should be spent. I am pleased that the court followed the plain meaning of the Constitution and upheld the rule of law,” Walden said. In November 2014, after the House passed a resolution supported by Walden, Speaker of the House John Boehner filed a lawsuit in response to the Administration’s improper use of taxpayer dollars to make payments to insurance companies on the exchanges created by Obamacare. For more information on that, please click here. Although insurance companies would no longer receive federal resources for this program, people buying insurance on the exchanges will not see their payments affected. Today's decision relates solely to payments to insurers, not consumers.
05.12.2016	Greg Walden’s office to host “Academy Day” in Bend on Saturday for students interested in attending U.S. service academies BEND— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is inviting high school students, parents, and educators to his office’s “Academy Day” in Bend on Saturday to learn more about attending one of the prestigious U.S. service academies. At the event, local Academy Liaison Officers representing the U.S. Air Force, Merchant Marine, Military, and Naval Academies will give presentations on the nomination and appointment process. There is also an opportunity to meet one-on-one with the liaison officers to ask questions and learn more about each academy. Full details are below. “Attending a U.S. service academy means a top-notch education, strong leadership skills, and the chance to serve your country in uniform,” said Walden. “Every year I have the honor of nominating a group of young Oregonians who demonstrate outstanding academic, athletic, and leadership characteristics to begin their journey to becoming a military officer. While the appointment process is highly competitive, I encourage all interested students who are willing to work hard to achieve this goal to attend my Academy Day and learn more.” Members of Congress like Walden have the opportunity to nominate students to one of the academies. He has two veterans on staff who will be able to answer questions about the process (Walden will be holding town halls in the area on Saturday, so will not be at this forum). Students, parents, or educators with further questions should contact Troy Ferguson in Walden’s office at troy.ferguson@mail.house.gov or (541) 776-4646. If you cannot attend, but would like more information on the process, please visit Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/academynominations. Saturday, May 14, 2016 What: Academy Day event for students, parents, and educators When: 10:00amWhere: Bend Elks Lodge, 63120 Boyd Acres Road, Bend
05.11.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: “Addiction is an equal opportunity destroyer,” Greg Walden speaks in support of plans to combat opioid abuse Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, DC – After meeting with Oregonians in Bend, Medford, and Hermiston last week on drug addiction, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) addressed the House today on a bipartisan plan to help combat opioid abuse. Walden spoke in support of H.R. 4641, which would address the pain prescribing practices contributing to the crisis. It would ensure that health care professionals have access to up-to-date guidelines and best practices for treating patients with acute and chronic pain. The bill passed the House with strong bipartisan support today by a vote of 412-4. “This is a very important bipartisan step forward to combat opioid abuse. This issue hits close to home. All of our homes. The state of Oregon ranked near the top or at the top for non-medical use of prescription pain relievers in the nation. With opioid prescriptions serving as a gateway to heroin, it's no surprise the deaths from drug overdoses have surpassed those of car accidents in my state,” Walden said. “Last week, in Medford and Bend and Hermiston I hosted roundtables with community leaders and affected families to talk about what they're seeing on the front lines. Physicians, first responders, members of law enforcement, families, all were there sharing their stories about how important the work we're doing here today is to them and our communities. All of them are on the ground combating this problem every day. We had excellent discussions. H.R. 4641, in addition to the seventeen other bipartisan bills we're voting on this week, will help combat this epidemic. This bill will help prevent lawful prescription use from spiraling into abuse by developing best practices for the treatment of pain. “In Medford, I heard from a father who had seen the impacts of addiction on his own family. See, his sister, who was a nurse, died of an overdose after years of suffering from addiction and bouncing between pharmacies passing off forged prescriptions. He spoke about how better tracking and treatment could have helped catch his sister's problem earlier and perhaps made counseling more effective. As it was, she was only caught because two pharmacies in a small town happened to check with each other. You see, by then it was too late. And today this man is working to help his son with an addiction that started with a prescription for a high school sports injury. That drifted to a heroin addiction. He spoke to the importance of counseling, support, and trying to avoid addiction through better prescribing practices. “Addiction is an equal opportunity destroyer. It affects all segments and regions of our country. And often the disease shows no symptoms. I congratulate my colleagues for their work, and I urge passage of this legislation.” This week, the House is voting on a series of bipartisan proposals to tackle this growing epidemic. Click here for more information on the House’s efforts to tackle the opioid epidemic head on. The Senate has also passed opioid proposals. The next step is for negotiators from the House and Senate to work out differences between the various plans.
05.10.2016	Greg Walden’s plan to protect Crooked River Ranch from fire to take step forward in the House; key committee to hold hearing on Thursday Local fire chief to testify before Natural Resources panel on importance of the plan WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that the U.S. House Natural Resources Committee will hold a hearing on his plan to protect Crooked River Ranch from wildfire, a major step forward for the legislation. The Fire Chief for Crooked River Ranch, Mr. Richard Hoffmann, will travel to Washington, D.C. to brief the committee on the need for the changes. “This is a big step forward for our plan to protect lives and property at Crooked River Ranch from fire. I’m pleased that Fire Chief Hoffmann and I will have a chance to brief the committee on why this is so important for the community,” Walden said. “Because of misguided federal land policies, basic fire prevention management isn’t being done around Crooked River Ranch. Our plan would change that so firefighters and land managers can conduct this much needed prevention work to improve public safety during future fire seasons.” Walden introduced the “Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act” (H.R. 5132) in the House on April 29. The proposal would help protect lives and property at Crooked River Ranch by adjusting the boundary of the adjacent Wilderness Study Area (WSA) in order to better facilitate fire prevention activities on public lands and the adjacent private property. These lands are in the highest risk category for exposure to devastating wildfire due to overstocked juniper stands under the federally mandated and locally promulgated Jefferson County Community Wildfire Protection Plan. And the current WSA classification prevents mechanical fire prevention activities within these overstocked juniper stands. The hearing of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands will take place on Thursday, May 12, at 7:00 am Pacific/10:00 am Eastern. For more information, please click here.
05.09.2016	Greg Walden announces economic development assistance for 13 Oregon counties WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that 13 counties in Oregon’s Second Congressional District will receive job creation assistance in an effort to diversify and strengthen the local economy. The 13 counties include: Crook, Deschutes, Jefferson, Hood River, Wasco, Sherman, Gilliam, Grant, Harney, Malheur, Morrow, Umatilla, and Wheeler. The region served by the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation is also receiving assistance. “With this assistance, counties will be able to better coordinate to attract private investment to our region. This is good news for efforts to grow jobs and strengthen the economy in central and eastern Oregon and the Columbia Gorge,” Walden said. The federal Economic Development Agency (EDA) awarded the assistance to the Central Oregon Intergovernmental Council, the Greater Eastern Oregon Development Cooperation, the Mid-Columbia Economic Development District, and the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation. For more information, please contact EDA at (202) 482-2900.
05.06.2016	In Case You Missed It: Greg Walden focuses on combating opioid abuse in Bend, Medford, Hermiston This week, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) met with physicians, first responders, members of the law enforcement community, and families impacted by drug addiction from around the state. The topic of discussion: combating the growing opioid epidemic in Oregon. At three roundtable events in Bend, Medford, and Hermiston, Walden heard firsthand from the people on the ground about which policies are working, and which are not, in the fight to improve treatment and recovery programs for addicts, and prevent more tragic deaths due to drug overdose. In the coming weeks, the House will vote on over a dozen bipartisan bills to help fix this problem. Click here for more information on the House’s efforts to tackle the opioid epidemic head on. In case you missed it, here’s a roundup of local coverage of the events: East Oregonian: “Opioid addiction key theme of Walden’s Oregon tour” “Walden met Tuesday with health care providers, pharmacists, hospital administrators, law enforcement and others at Good Shepherd Medical Center in Hermiston for an opioid roundtable… ‘I don’t think the general public knows how bad this is,’ he said. ‘I think my colleagues didn’t know until we started to get into it.’” Bend Bulletin: “Walden discusses opioid crisis ahead of big votes” “The U.S. House of Representatives is due to vote next week on no fewer than a dozen bills dealing with opioid drug abuse, but after a visit to Bend on Wednesday, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden, R-Hood River, knows there’s still more work to do. Walden participated in a round-table discussion at St. Charles Bend that included doctors, nurses, mental health and addiction professionals. The limits of treating patients for chronic pain and addiction under Medicare was a recurring theme. “Walden said that, in general, he’s looking to create a national response that builds on the best state policies.” KDRV Medford: “Walden Meets With Local Leaders To Address Opioid Epidemic” KOBI Medford: “Congressman discusses opioid abuse in Medford” KTVL Medford: “Rep. Walden plans to take action against opioid abuse in Oregon” KTVZ Bend: “Opioid roundtable bring state and federal leaders to C.O.” My Columbia Basin: “Walden addresses opioid abuse” “U.S. Rep. Greg Walden took part in a round-table discussion on opioid abuse at Good Shepherd Medical Center in Hermiston Tuesday. He says the problem is bigger than many people thought, both nationally and right here at home. “’Most of us didn’t know it was this big and bad,’ he said. ‘You now have more people overdosing and dying from opioids than being killed in traffic accidents. Oregon is like number two in the country with this set of problems.’ “Walden said work is being done at both the federal and state levels, and then said that Eastern and Southern Oregon are also mounting ambitious programs to tackle the issue. “’Those programs offer some common sense changes in the practice of medicine, the availability of opioids and the recapture of them,’ he said.”
05.03.2016	Greg Walden introduces plan to protect Crooked River Ranch from wildfire BEND — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that he has proposed a plan in the U.S. House—the “Crooked River Ranch Fire Protection Act” (H.R. 5132)—to protect Crooked River Ranch from wildfire by adjusting the boundary of the adjacent wilderness study area. For a copy of the bill, please click here. “In the area surrounding Crooked River Ranch, the juniper stands and brush are dense and basic fire prevention management isn’t being done because of misguided federal land policies. As we enter another fire season, people’s lives, safety, and property are at risk. This has to change,” Walden said. “That’s why I’ve introduced a plan to allow more management on public lands in the area to reduce the risk of catastrophic fire. I’m glad the plan is already moving forward in the House. It’s just common sense.” Crooked River Ranch is an unincorporated community of about 5,500 residents in Jefferson County (with one entrance and exit to the community). The lands adjacent to the community are managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and are classified as a Wilderness Study Area (WSA). These lands are in the highest risk category for exposure to devastating wildfire due to overstocked juniper stand under the federally mandated and locally promulgated Jefferson County Community Wildfire Protection Plan. And the current WSA classification prevents mechanical fire prevention activities within these overstocked juniper stands. Walden’s bill would adjust the boundaries of the WSA in order to better facilitate fire prevention activities on public lands and the adjacent private property. Local leaders praised the bill. “With approximately 5,500 residents and the driest climate in Oregon, Crooked River Ranch is constantly facing the issue of wildfire. The current Deschutes Wilderness Study Area boundary borders approximately 250 properties on the west boundary of the Ranch. With only one exit on and off the Ranch our concerns in the face of a catastrophic fire event are real. This bill would move that WSA boundary back to the natural canyon rim and allow our firefighters an opportunity to plan for mitigation in advance and realistically fight the fire before it’s in our backyards and spreading to the rest of the Ranch,” said George (Mitch) Mitchener, President of the Board of Directors of Crooked River Ranch. “I want to thank Greg Walden for his efforts to save lives and property in Central Oregon. This legislation will move the boundary away from private properties and allow us to work with the Bureau of Land Management to begin the process of fuels mitigation to further improve defensible space for our community of over 2,600 properties. The lack of fuel mitigation has created a dangerous environment for tactical firefighting and remains one of our highest threats to Crooked River Ranch. Until proper mitigation is performed, it is unlikely we would place firefighters in such a volatile atmosphere. Our first line of defense today is the property boundaries of our home owners,” said Rich Hoffmann, Fire Chief for Crooked River Ranch. In January, Walden met with community leaders at Crooked River Ranch to learn more about the need for changes to federal land management policy to better facilitate wildfire mitigation.
04.19.2016	Greg Walden helps lead effort to ensure law enforcement can help victims in an emergencyPanel chaired by Walden approves plan to make it easier to dial 911 from any phone, national version of Oregon’s “Kelsey Smith” law that helps officials locate people in an emergency Walden with Greg and Missey Smith, parents of Kelsey Smith Walden with Henry Hunt, father of Kari Dunn WASHINGTON, D.C. – A panel chaired by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today approved the Kelsey Smith Act and Kari’s Law, two proposals in Congress that would help ensure law enforcement can help victims faster in an emergency. The Kelsey Smith Act, which is modeled after a 2014 law passed in Oregon, would require cellphone providers to give law enforcement timely access to location information that can help pinpoint a missing victim. Kari’s Law would make it easier to directly dial 911 from a hotel or business line.“Imagine that your child has gone missing and is unable to be found. They’re carrying a phone that has the potential of giving the police their location, but that information remains locked up behind a bureaucracy at the wireless provider. Or picture trying to frantically dial 911 for help in an emergency, but you’re slowed down by having to dial to get to an outside line. Both the Kelsey Smith Act and Kari’s Law would make sure no family has to go through situations like that ever again by simply giving law enforcement the tools they need to help when time is precious. These proposals would save lives using existing technology and don’t cost taxpayers a dime,” Walden said. “Importantly, the Kelsey Smith Act is already law in 22 states, including Oregon where it passed in 2014. The federal bill mirrors much of the language in the Oregon bill, giving law enforcement the ability to act quickly when every second counts, but only in narrow circumstances of a true emergency. This bill passed unanimously through both the Oregon House and Senate, and was signed into law by a Democratic governor - demonstrating that this isn’t a partisan issue, but just good policy.” The Kelsey Smith Act is named after an 18-year old Kansas woman who was abducted and murdered in 2007. After Kelsey Smith’s car was found in a nearby parking lot, police began an urgent search for her. They were unsuccessful for four days until her cell phone’s location information was turned over to law enforcement. Kelsey was then found in about 45 minutes. Prior to the hearing, Walden met with Kelsey Smith’s parents Greg and Missey Smith last week to hear their story in person. Kari’s Law is named after Kari Dunn, a Texas mother who was murdered by her estranged husband in a hotel room in 2013. Kari Dunn’s 9-year-old daughter tried to call 911 from the hotel phone, but did not realize she had to dial ‘9’ get an outside line. Both bills were unanimously approved by the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which is chaired by Walden. The next step is a vote before the full Energy and Commerce Committee. Walden met with the parents of both victims last week when they testified before the panel.
04.13.2016	U.S. House unanimously approves Greg Walden’s bill to bring commercial air service back to Klamath Falls Click here or on the image below for video of Walden’s remarks WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that the Treating Small Airports with Fairness Act (“TSA Fairness Act”), a bill he authored to restore commercial air service to the Crater Lake-Klamath Falls Regional Airport by bringing back federal TSA screening at the airport, has unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives. “The people of Klamath County deserve safe, reliable air service. That’s why unanimous approval of our plan is excellent news for Oregonians living in and around Klamath, our local economy and tourism, and the Oregon National Guard operating out of Kingsley Field,” said Walden. “The TSA Fairness Act will help make sure the TSA is not able to stonewall an agreement between the local community and a commercial air carrier who wants to resume flights at a small airport. I’m proud of the bipartisan support this bill has received in the House, and will continue to work with the Oregon delegation to get this across the finish line in the Senate. Let’s be safe and secure. Let’s be smart and prudent. Let’s pass this legislation and allow our communities to have the air service they need, and our country to have the security that we demand. This is common-sense legislation that needs to become law. Together we’re going to do the right thing even when the TSA will not.” Community leaders in Klamath have been working to restore commercial air service since carrier SkyWest left the Crater Lake-Klamath Airport in June 2014. Last fall, the City of Klamath Falls received a commitment from Alaska-based carrier PenAir to bring back commercial service with daily flights to Portland. However, the TSA has refused to put back in place screening services at the airport, despite repeated calls from the local community and from Oregon’s congressional delegation. The TSA Fairness Act would require the TSA to restore screening services to any airport that lost service after January 1, 2013 and that has a guarantee from a commercial airline to resume service within one year. There are currently at least six airports nationwide that have commercial airlines seeking to resume flights after undergoing a temporary gap in service, but are being denied TSA security screening and personnel. Instead, the agency directed the airports to allow passengers to fly unscreened to their next destination, and undergo screening there. Walden introduced the legislation along with Oregon Rep. Peter DeFazio. The bill is also cosponsored by Reps. Will Hurd (R-Tex.), Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.), Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Blake Farenthold (R-Tex.), Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), and Tim Huelskamp (R-Kan.). Oregon Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley have introduced identical legislation in the U.S. Senate, and the Senate Commerce Committee has approved inclusion of the bill in aviation legislation pending in that body.
04.01.2016	Greg Walden backs effort to maintain life-saving emergency medical services for patients MEDFORD – Speaking at the Medford Rotary today, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced his support for a proposal in the U.S. House that would help maintain critical emergency medical services in Oregon and nationwide. The Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act (H.R. 4365) is a bipartisan bill that would make clear that emergency medical responders are allowed to administer controlled substances like anti-seizure medication and pain narcotics under the supervision of a doctor. “Especially in rural areas, emergency medical providers do excellent work caring for patients. Unnecessary government red tape shouldn’t get in their way. This bill will help make sure that first responders can continue administering life-saving medicines to patients in emergency situations when they need them most,” Walden said. Walden has heard from physicians and first responders in Jackson, Deschutes, Klamath, Wasco, Hood River, and Sherman counties about the importance of this bill. The Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act specifically clarifies that the current practice of physician medical directors overseeing care provided by first responders via “standing orders” is allowed and protected under the law. The Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) has said that the current practice of “standing orders” may not be allowed under existing law, which has threatened the very existence of this life-saving practice. According to Dr. Paul Rostykus, an emergency physician in Jackson County, “In emergency situations, when seconds or minutes count, ‘standing orders’ are essential for EMS providers to be able to immediately administer DEA controlled substances to save lives and reduce suffering, such as for patients with seizures, breathing difficulties or severe pain from a broken femur.”
03.29.2016	Greg Walden to hold town hall meetings in eastern Oregon this weekend BEND— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) will hold town halls and other meetings in Klamath, Lake, Umatilla, Wallowa, and Malheur counties this weekend. First, Walden will hold a town hall meeting in Klamath Falls where he’ll provide an update on the TSA Fairness Act, legislation he authored in the U.S. House that would restore commercial air service to the Crater Lake-Klamath Falls Regional Airport by bringing back federal TSA screening. The bill was unanimously approved by the House Homeland Security Committee last week, and the next step forward is a vote in the full House of Representatives. More on Walden’s TSA Fairness Act here. Next, Walden will host more public meetings in Lakeview, Enterprise, and Jordan Valley to listen to concerns from communities and local officials on federal land management policies in the region. Walden recently wrote letters to Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell and U.S. Forest Service Regional Forester Jim Pena urging the Administration to heed the voices of local communities, particularly when it comes to decisions about the potential national monument designation in Malheur County and the Blue Mountain Forest Plan. In Pendleton, Walden will meet with local hunters, fishermen, and shooting enthusiasts to update them on the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act, a bill recently approved by the U.S. House to help protect access to public lands and strengthen Second Amendment rights for sportsmen. He will also update residents on his latest work in Congress to strengthen our national security, and grow jobs and the economy in Oregon. Before these meetings, Walden will be in Bend and Medford. Full details on those meetings will be announced soon. Saturday, April 2, 2016 What: Klamath Falls Town Hall Meeting When: 8:00amWhere: VFW Hall, 515 Klamath Ave, Klamath Falls What: Lakeview Town Hall Meeting When: 10:45amWhere: Lake County Courthouse, 513 Center Street, Lakeview What: SHARE Act event with local hunters, fishermen, and shooting enthusiasts Where: Pendleton Convention Center, 1601 Westgate, Pendleton When: 2:45pm What: Enterprise Town Hall Meeting When: 5:45pmWhere: Lear’s Main Street Pub & Grill, 111 West Main Street, Enterprise Sunday, April 3, 2016 What: Jordan Valley Town Hall Meeting When: 1:30pm MTWhere: Jordan Valley High School, 501 Bassett Street, Jordan Valley
03.23.2016	Greg Walden’s bill to bring commercial air service back to Klamath Falls “cleared for takeoff” in U.S. House Bill unanimously approved by House Homeland Security Committee; next step is vote in full House… Click here or on the image below for video U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that a bill he authored to restore commercial air service to the Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport by bringing back federal TSA screening at the airport has taken a major step forward in the U.S. House. The Treating Small Airports with Fairness Act, or “TSA Fairness Act,” was unanimously approved by the House Homeland Security Committee today. The next step forward is a vote in the full House of Representatives. “Today’s bipartisan vote in the Homeland Security Committee means our bill has been cleared for takeoff in the U.S. House. While there is more work to be done, this is a very important step towards returning commercial air service to Klamath Falls,” said Walden. “The people of Klamath County deserve safe, reliable air service. Since TSA won’t restore screening to Klamath Falls on its own--even when a commercial air carrier has expressed a desire to resume flights at the airport--Congress needs to pass a new law forcing them to do so. This will help grow the local economy, attract tourism, and support the national security mission at Kingsley Field. I’m proud this bill will help accomplish that.” The Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport has been working to restore commercial air service since carrier SkyWest left the airport in June 2014. Last fall, the city of Klamath Falls received a commitment from Alaska-based carrier PenAir to bring back commercial service with daily flights to Portland. However, TSA has refused to bring back screening services at the airport after SkyWest’s departure, despite repeated calls from the local community and from Oregon’s congressional delegation. The TSA Fairness Act would require the TSA to restore screening services to any airport that lost service after January 1, 2013 and that has a guarantee from a commercial airline to resume service within one year. Walden introduced the legislation along with Oregon Rep. Peter DeFazio. The bill is also cosponsored by Reps. Will Hurd (R-Tex.), Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.), Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Blake Farenthold (R-Tex.), Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), and Tim Huelskamp (R-Kan.). Oregon Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley have introduced identical legislation in the U.S. Senate.
03.16.2016	U.S. House unanimously passes Greg Walden’s bill to lift burdens on small Internet service providers, improve service for consumers WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House has unanimously passed a bipartisan bill authored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to protect consumers and small businesses by relieving small Internet service providers (ISPs) of overly-burdensome reporting requirements. The Small Business Broadband Deployment Act (H.R. 4596) was introduced in reaction to new rules that many small ISPs in Oregon and nationwide said would force them to spend resources on hiring compliance attorneys rather than improving service for consumers. “One of my top priorities has been extending reliable Internet service to rural areas in Oregon. This bill helps do that. New rules from the Federal Communications Commission would have forced many small Internet service providers to spend time and resources on complying with overly burdensome red tape instead of extending service for consumers. By exempting small providers from these unnecessary rules, this bill allows them to focus on their core mission: providing broadband Internet access to customers in Oregon and across the country, especially in rural and hard to serve areas,” Walden said. “Today’s unanimous vote sends a strong signal that the House supports consumers and small businesses. I am pleased that the White House has said that the President would sign this bill, and I urge the Senate to quickly pass it.” Small service providers in Oregon praised the bill. “The passage of the Small Business Broadband Deployment Act (H. R. 4596) will mean that our companies can continue to focus on spending our time and resources deploying broadband service to our customers in rural Oregon rather than spending those resources complying with overly burdensome red tape from Washington D.C. We commend Congressman Walden for sponsoring and passing this bill through the House,” said Mike Lattin, President of Eagle Telephone System in Richland and Dan Bubb, President of Gorge Networks in Hood River. “Our company is a small, local, non-subsidized team of people that works to deliver high speed Internet in our rural communities. We deliver faster broadband service, better local customer service and do this at a price that is a fair value for our customers. We do not have dedicated staff for legal, regulatory compliance, mapping and reporting. When we actually learn of government reporting or other filing requirements it takes a lot of time to figure out the instructions, develop systems to gather the data (which we usually do not have in the form required), hope the data is what the government agency really wants and actually file the submission,” said Jeff Crews, Chief Technology Officer of Eastern Oregon Net in La Grande.
03.16.2016	Greg Walden’s bill to force Forest Service to complete Mt. Hood land exchange takes major step forward in U.S. House Bill unanimously approved by House Natural Resources Committee; next step is vote in full House WASHINGTON, DC – A bill authored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to force the U.S. Forest Service to complete a land exchange on Mt. Hood—first approved by Congress seven years ago—has taken a major step forward in the U.S. House. The Mount Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act (H.R. 3826), cosponsored by Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland), was approved unanimously by the House Natural Resources Committee today. The next step is a vote in the full House of Representatives. “In 2009, Congress passed our bipartisan legislation that clearly stated that the Forest Service should complete the land exchange within 16 months. Now, 85 months later, the agency still has not complied with the law. In fact, they have said that they made need another year or two even under this new plan to complete the transfer. That’s simply unacceptable,” Walden said. “Our new bill would force the Forest Service to complete its work in a timely manner. I’m pleased that the House Natural Resources Committee has unanimously approved this bill, and hope that the full House will pass it soon.” The 2009 law authorizes a land exchange to allow development of 120 acres of federal land in Government Camp in exchange for 770 acres of non-federal land at Cooper Spur. That law clearly stated that the Forest Service should complete the exchange within 16 months. Yet it has still not been completed, frustrating many in the local communities and at Mt. Hood Meadows. H.R. 3826 would restate Congress’ intent that the Forest Service move quickly to complete the exchange, addresses disagreements over a conservation easement, and allows for a more transparent appraisal process. Oregon Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley have introduced similar legislation, which now awaits consideration by the full Senate. In February, Walden testified about his legislation before the Committee. For video of Walden’s full remarks, click here.
03.11.2016	Greg Walden writes to Interior Secretary, President, after voters in Malheur County overwhelmingly oppose potential monument designation WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has written to Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell to urge her to heed the results of a local referendum overwhelmingly passed by voters in Malheur County on Tuesday in opposition to a potential large national monument designation on the Owyhee Canyonlands. He also shared the news with President Barack Obama and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack. For a copy of the letter, please click here. The full text of Walden’s letter is as follows: Dear Madam Secretary, I’ve appreciated our discussions regarding the proposed Owyhee Canyonlands National Monument and your statements before the House Natural Resources Committee confirming that no one in your department is working on such a proposal. That information is comforting news to me and my constituents who believe, as you do, in building positive, cooperative partnerships when it comes to managing our public lands. I also appreciated your commitment to me that if the Interior Department does engage on such a proposal, that you will let me and the Natural Resources Committee know at your earliest convenience. Nothing will erode public trust more than another “dark-of-night” monument designation that is created without a fair public process that includes the input of the citizens most affected by such an action. Tuesday, the voters of Malheur County weighed in at the ballot box with their views regarding the proposal. Nearly 55% of eligible voters turned out in a special election and nearly 90% voted against the 2.5 million acre proposed monument. Given the intense emotions regarding federal land management in Oregon, and across the West, I knew you would take interest in the strongly held opinions of the residents of this eastern Oregon county. The sooner you and the President can put this matter to rest, the sooner we can move forward in a positive direction. Thank you for your interest in this matter and others related to prudent and productive improvements in federal land management. Sincerely, Greg Walden U.S. Representative Oregon’s 2nd District cc: President Barack Obama Secretary Tom Vilsack At a hearing in the U.S. House last week, Secretary Jewell told Walden that she is not aware of any coordination between her department and the White House on a potential monument designation in Malheur County. She pledged to notify Walden and the House Natural Resources Committee if such a process were to begin. Click here for video of their full exchange. Walden has strongly opposed the possible monument designation in Malheur County. He has repeatedly urged President Obama and top members of the Administration to back off the proposal to ease tensions in the rural West.
03.08.2016	Greg Walden statement regarding investigation into death of LaVoy Finicum BEND– U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement regarding the independent investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of LaVoy Finicum: "This independent investigation gives us some answers to what happened, but leaves me disturbed and bewildered by the role of the FBI agents who are now under federal investigation themselves. Meanwhile, I will continue working with local officials to get results on the Steens Mountain fencing issue, federal reimbursement for the local policing costs, and to stop the monument designation in Malheur County, among other resource-related issues."
03.01.2016	Interior Secretary to Greg Walden: Not aware of any plans for a monument designation on the Owyhee Canyonlands WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to questions from U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) at a U.S. House hearing today, Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell said she is not aware of any coordination between her department and the White House on a potential large national monument designation on the Owyhee Canyonlands in Malheur County that has faced strong local opposition. She pledged to notify Walden if such a process were to begin. “I want to get to the issue of the monument. You and I had a phone conversation about this. I know you met with [Harney County] Judge Grasty and Commissioner Runnells as well. The Malheur County Commission and judge there have written you expressing their opposition to any monument there. I just want to reconfirm that there’s no effort in your agency, there’s no coordination with [the Council on Environmental Quality in the White House] or the White House that you’re aware of to designate an Owyhee Canyons National Monument?” Walden asked. “The concept of Owyhee Canyons came from, I think, Keen Footwear. It’s been kicking around. It’s one of those things people have recommended to us. But we have not held any community meetings, and we haven’t had any discussions in those communities. People haven’t been actively in my office asking about it,” Jewell replied. Walden reiterated to Jewell the strong local opposition to such a monument proposal, and told her of concerns of a “dark of night” designation like in prior administrations. This questioning continues Walden’s long-running efforts to oppose a rumored national monument designation in Malheur County. At 2.5 million acres, the monument could be larger than Yellowstone National Park and twice the size of Grand Canyon National Park. Walden has repeatedly urged President Obama and top members of the Administration to back off the proposal to ease tensions in the rural West. Walden also touched on the situation in Harney County in January and long-running frustration over fencing issues on Steens Mountain. “Now that the standoff is over at the Refuge, I do hope the BLM will move rapidly on complying with federal law regarding Steens Mountain and the fencing issue up there on Steens. Under the Steens Cooperative Management and Protection Act, which I helped author, that fencing, if it’s an issue of doing an EA or an EIS, could cooperatively be done on adjacent private land, and the land owners are open to that to facilitate this to be in compliance with the law. The BLM I think was wrong in this case in their initial analysis, and I hope you can help correct that,” Walden said. He continued: “On another note, thank you for coming out regarding the sage grouse habitat cooperative collaborative. I’m sure you’ll be disappointed to know one of the environmental groups has now sued over that. This is kind of the frustration that we feel very strongly, as I don’t have to tell you, in the West, when the collaboration does come together and then another group sues. It’s really, really frustrating to what we’re trying to do out there…As for law enforcement funding and all, because this was a federal facility, and because most of the people who were there were not from Harney County, let alone from the state of Oregon, I do hope the federal government will help figure out a way to help cover some of the local costs.” “Thank you for your comments and particularly for your advocacy of the people of Harney County and also for the education we had in my conversation about your work on Steens Mountain. I don’t know about the reimbursement and how the process works with the FBI and so on, so that’s certainly something that we’re happy to have dialogue on but I don’t know what the rules are,” Jewell replied.
02.26.2016	Walden and Blumenauer Speak in Support of Mount Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act Washington, DC – Today, in a legislative hearing of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Federal Lands, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Greg Walden (R-OR) spoke in support of their legislation, the Mount Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act (H.R. 3826). This legislation would expedite the Forest Service’s completion of the long-overdue Government Camp/Cooper Spur land exchange on Mount Hood, which Congress mandated in 2009 with broad community support. It clarifies Congressional intent that the Forest Service move forward expeditiously, addresses disagreements over a conservation easement, allows for a more transparent appraisal process, and clarifies certain other provisions. U.S. Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley introduced companion legislation in the Senate, which the Senate Environment & Natural Resources Committee passed on November 19, 2015, and is awaiting full Senate consideration. “This exchange was approved nearly seven years ago and with tremendous bipartisan and regional support. It’s embarrassing that the Forest Service has yet to do what it should have already done,” said Representative Blumenauer. “I hope we approve this legislation – and soon – to clarify any lingering questions and add an exclamation point to the fact that Congress wants the Forest Service to quickly finish the job we directed them to complete years ago.” “Our bipartisan Mt. Hood legislation clearly specified the intent of Congress to get the land exchange completed within 16 months. Some 85 months later the Forest Service still has not complied with the law we enacted,” said Representative Walden. “As unbelievable as it may seem, here we are having to pass another law telling the Forest Service to complete its work. And now, the agency says they might need another year or two even under this new bill to complete the land transfer specified in the law enacted in 2009. That's simply unacceptable.” For video of Walden’s full remarks, click here.
02.25.2016	BLM to finally implement Walden’s Bowman Dam legislation, paving the way for future hydropower development for Central Oregon Walden speaks to the U.S. House in 2013 on the importance of passing his legislation to pave the way for energy generation at Bowman Dam in Crook County. WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) will finally implement the Crooked River Collaborative Water Security and Jobs Act of 2014, a law that he wrote and that was unanimously approved by Congress in 2014 to improve water management and grow jobs in Central Oregon. The law moves the boundary line for the Crooked River Wild and Scenic Area from the crest of Bowman Dam to a quarter of a mile downstream, paving the way for energy generation at the dam. “For many years, I’ve worked hard with community leaders, farmers, fishermen, tribes, and Senator Jeff Merkley to move the wild and scenic boundary line at Bowman Dam. As I’ve long said, there’s nothing wild and scenic about a dam. Making this change paves the way for the development of clean, renewable hydropower at the dam and about fifty construction jobs in Central Oregon,” Walden said. “Over 14 months ago, Congress unanimously approved legislation to do just that, but the BLM hasn’t implemented the law until now. Implementing this legislation is good news for Prineville and Central Oregon as a whole, and I’m pleased the agency has finally heard the calls to get this done.” In January, Walden wrote to BLM Director Neil Kornze to urge him to take immediate action to implement the legislation, more than a year after it was unanimously passed by Congress. “I am very disappointed that this important provision has not been fully implemented even though my legislation became law on December 18, 2014,” Walden wrote on January 15. Click here for a copy of that letter. Walden originally introduced the legislation in May 2011. It unanimously passed the House three times before finally passing the Senate and being signed into law in December 2014. Besides hydropower development at the Dam, the law provides additional water for the City of Prineville, for both city residents and economic development, while also providing more stability for farmers and ranchers who depend on irrigation water for their livelihood. And this plan improves fish and wildlife habitat, including the McKay Creek restoration project, while ensuring that enough water is maintained at Prineville Reservoir to continue to serve as a summer gathering place for fishermen, boaters, and campers.
02.23.2016	Greg Walden announces 2016 Congressional Art Competition for high school students Winner’s artwork to hang in U.S. Capitol; winner receives airfare for two to Washington, D.C. to view exhibit Tess Lewis of Phoenix High School won last year’s Congressional Art Competition for her artwork “Petrichor” (above). This piece is currently on display in the U.S. Capitol. WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that the 2016 Congressional Art Competition is now open to high school students throughout Oregon’s Second District. This nationwide event is an exciting chance for artistically talented high school students to showcase their talents and have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol where it will be seen by members of Congress and visitors from around the world. A panel of experts, including local artists and art professors, will judge each student’s work and choose the winner and the runners-up. “The Congressional Art Competition is an excellent opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of students in southern, central, and eastern Oregon. And one creative student will have the chance to have his or her work displayed on the national stage. I look forward to seeing this year’s entries and wish all the budding artists of Oregon’s Second District the best of luck,” Walden said. Besides having their artwork displayed in the 2016 national student art exhibit in the Capitol, the winner will receive complimentary round-trip airfare for two to visit Washington, D.C., see the exhibit, and attend a reception in their honor. The runners-up will be recognized locally and have their artwork hung in one of Walden’s offices in Bend, Medford, La Grande, or Hood River. To enter the contest, students must submit no more than two pieces of artwork and the Student Information & Release Form by April 20, 2016. Please email photos of the artwork (JPEG format), along with the student release form to Kirby Garrett at kirby.garrett@mail.house.gov. All forms and further information can be found on Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/art-competition
02.11.2016	Greg Walden statement on the end of the situation at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the conclusion of the situation at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Harney County, Ore.: “We can all be grateful that today has ended peacefully, and that this situation is finally over. Now, life in Harney County can begin to return to normal and the community can begin the long process of healing. I will continue working to solve the underlying issues that have caused so much frustration in rural communities. We need meaningful changes to federal forest and land management policies, and we need to foster a more cooperative spirit between the federal agencies and the people who call areas like Harney County home.” Walden represents the people of Oregon's Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in central, southern, and eastern Oregon (including Harney County).
02.11.2016	Merkley, Wyden, Walden, DeFazio Introduce Bipartisan ‘TSA Fairness Act’ to Bring Commercial Air Service Back to Klamath Falls Airport WASHINGTON, D.C. – Oregon’s Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden and Representatives Greg Walden and Peter DeFazio today introduced the bipartisan Treating Small Airports with Fairness Act, or ‘TSA Fairness Act,’ which would restore commercial air service to the Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport by bringing back federal TSA screening at the airport. “The Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport is a critical transportation link for the region, and it’s unacceptable for bureaucrats 3,000 miles away in D.C. to stand in the way of restoring commercial service,” said Merkley. “It’s time for the TSA to restore screening services in Klamath Falls and ensure that local residents, businesses and Kingsley Field have the air travel options that are so essential in today’s interconnected economy.” “Oregonians who live in and around Klamath Falls should be able to count on TSA to work for them just as it does for larger cities,” Wyden said. “Our state’s rural economy depends heavily on the viability of its local airports and our bipartisan bill would require TSA to be a better partner in helping ensure essential connections for rural communities.” “Since TSA won’t restore screening to Klamath Falls on its own, Congress needs to pass a new law forcing them to do so. The people of Klamath County deserve safe, reliable air service,” said Walden. “Returning commercial air service would give greater flexibility to residents, tourists, and business travelers, and it would help grow jobs in rural communities in Klamath County and across the region. I’m proud that this bill will help accomplish that, and I look forward to moving it through the U.S. House.” “Travel is difficult enough for rural Oregonians without the added burden of worrying about safety,” said DeFazio. “Travelers from Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport deserve the same security and peace of mind that other travelers across the country are granted. It’s imperative that TSA resume operations at this airport and restore screening services to the people who depend on this airport for their travel needs.” The Crater Lake-Klamath Regional Airport has been working to restore commercial service since carrier SkyWest left the airport in June 2014. Last fall, the city of Klamath Falls received a commitment from Alaska-based carrier PenAir to bring back commercial service with daily flights to Portland. However, the TSA stopped providing screening services at the airport after SkyWest’s departure. Despite repeated calls from the local community and from Oregon’s congressional delegation for the TSA to resume service so that PenAir can begin commercial flights, the federal agency has thus far refused. The TSA Fairness Act would require the TSA to restore screening services to any airport that lost service after January 1, 2013 and that has a guarantee from a commercial airline to resume service within one year. The Crater Lake-Klamath airport is a key infrastructure link for Crater Lake National Park, which is one of Oregon’s premier tourist destinations; the U.S. Military, which trains all F-15 pilots at the Kingsley Field Air National Guard Base adjacent to the Crater Lake-Klamath airport; and for the entire Southern Oregon community. Without commercial service from Klamath Falls, many Southern Oregon residents are forced to drive several hours each way to access commercial flights from Medford or Bend. The legislation was introduced in both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives today. In addition to Merkley, Wyden, Walden and DeFazio, the bill is cosponsored by Sens. John Barrasso (R-WY), Mike Enzi (R-WY), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Reps. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Will Hurd (R-TX), and Derek Kilmer (D-WA).
02.02.2016	Greg Walden reacts to new Klamath Basin announcement WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement after the States of Oregon and California, PacifiCorp and the federal government – through the U.S. Departments of the Interior and Commerce – announced an agreement-in-principle to move forward with amending the Klamath Hydroelectric Settlement Agreement (KHSA): “Months ago we determined that PacificCorp did not need Congressional approval to remove its dams, despite years of saying it did. That's why our draft legislation did not include dam removal, but did provide for implementation of the other settlement agreements. I was working to find a legislative package that could move in Congress. I will continue to work with the Governor, our Senators, tribal, farm, fisheries, and other affected parties to achieve a long lasting and balanced settlement for the Klamath Basin that is sustainable for our farm and ranch economy.”
01.29.2016	Greg Walden applauds Crook County Commission, Prineville City Council for opposing new wilderness in the Ochocos; pledges he will do all he can to stop plan in House WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today reiterated his opposition to new wilderness and recreation areas in the Ochoco National Forest and pledged to do all he can to stop it. This week, the Prineville City Council voted to oppose the plan, and the Crook County Commission plans to take a formal vote in opposition soon. “I’d like to thank the members of the Crook County Commission and the Prineville City Council for vocally opposing new wilderness and recreation areas in the Ochoco National Forest. At my town hall meeting this month in Prineville, local residents made clear their strong opposition to this plan. I strongly oppose Oregon Wild’s plan to create more wilderness in the Ochocos. If such a plan is passed in the Senate, I will do all I can to stop it in the House and prevent it from becoming law. “Enough is enough. We’ve already seen the impacts of long-time mismanagement of our public lands. Jobs have gone away, mills have closed, and our air has been choked with smoke because our forests aren’t properly managed. Most people in Crook County and throughout eastern Oregon don’t want more of our public lands locked up, increasing fire risk and keeping away people who have camped, snowmobiled, and hunted on these lands for generations.”
01.27.2016	Greg Walden statement on the situation in Harney County HOOD RIVER – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the situation in Harney County: “I've been in close contact with local and federal officials throughout this long standoff, and we had all hoped for a peaceful conclusion to the situation in Harney County. Sadly, our hopes were shattered with the shooting that occurred during last night's arrest. While we wait to learn more details and next steps, we must keep the people of Harney County in our hearts as they are a strong community and have endured a great deal. Once again, I urge those who remain at the refuge to go home before anyone else gets hurt. And when this is done and the cameras' glare turns away from rural Oregon, the healing process will be a long one. Widespread frustration will continue until people in rural America feel like they are being heard and meaningful changes are made to federal land management policy.”
01.13.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden on House vote to overturn EPA’s Waters of the United States rule ***Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video message*** WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued a video statement after the U.S. House voted to overturn the EPA’s Waters of the United States rule, which would expand federal authority over virtually any water in the nation, including canals, irrigation ditches, vernal pools, and stock ponds. This resolution passed the House today with bipartisan support. It had previously passed the Senate, so it now goes to the President’s desk to be signed or vetoed. Click here to watch Walden’s video.
01.12.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden reacts to the State of the Union Address ***Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video message*** WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued a video statement after the President’s State of the Union Address. Click here to watch his message.
01.05.2016	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden addresses U.S. House about situation in Harney County, Oregon, federal overreach in the West Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s floor speech WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden today addressed the U.S. House of Representatives about the current situation in Harney County, where a group of armed protestors have overtaken a federal facility in the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge. He spoke to his colleagues at length about widespread frustration with federal policies in rural communities in eastern Oregon and throughout the West. Click here to watch his remarks and here to view the full transcript. Walden represents the people of Oregon's Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in central, southern, and eastern Oregon.
01.04.2016	Greg Walden statement on the situation in Harney County WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the situation in Harney County: “What’s happening in Harney County is very troubling, and, if history is any gauge, no one comes out of situations like this a winner. Law enforcement at all levels are working hard to keep everyone safe and resolve this peacefully. I’ll continue to be in close touch with community leaders and law enforcement as we monitor this situation.”
12.21.2015	Greg Walden nominates Oregon students for acceptance to U.S. service academies MEDFORD — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that he has nominated thirteen Oregon students for acceptance to one of the prestigious United States service academies. Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board—active and retired military officers who interview potential candidates to the service academies and make recommendations to Walden—recommended each student based on their academic performance, extracurricular involvement, and character. “It is an honor and a privilege to nominate these remarkable young Oregonians to our nation’s service academies,” Walden said. “This nomination represents the culmination of years of hard work and dedication. Their decision to pursue higher education, develop leadership skills, and serve their country in uniform is a deeply admirable endeavor—a journey at which I am confident they will succeed. The future of our nation is in good hands.” The service academies include the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.; the Military Academy at West Point, N.Y.; the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md.; and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N.Y. Final selection for admission to the service academies will be performed by officials at each respective academy this spring. Students who are interested in learning more about service academy nominations can visit Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/academynominations. The nominees are as follows: Wasco County Timarra Roth, daughter of Elizabeth & Luis Leon of The Dalles, attending The Dalles High School—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Morrow County Moroni Jensen, son of Jack & LeeAnn Jensen of Oxbow, attending Pine Eagle High School—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Jackson County Brandon Brooks, son of Ted & Kymberly Brooks of Medford, graduated South Medford High School, attending Southern Oregon University—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Christian Cheshire, son of Walter & Kathryn Cheshire of Central Point, home schooled—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Military Academy. Mark McAlister, son of Mark & Debra McAlister of Medford, attending Phoenix High School—nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Ethan Shepherd, son of David & Kirsten Shepherd of Phoenix, attending Phoenix High School—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Military Academy. Joshua Wu, son of Kevin & Julie Wu of Medford, attending St. Mary’s High School—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Josephine County Easton Bents, son of Robert & Denise Bents of Grants Pass, attending Grants Pass High School—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Deschutes County Benjamin Brockman, son of Chuck & Antoinette Brockman of Bend, attending Bend Senior High School—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Owen Hucke, son of Gary & Janet Hucke of Redmond, home schooled—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy. Noah Nagle, son of Josh & Becky Nagle of Bend, attending Summit High School—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Military Academy. Hannah Wood, daughter of Harry & Helen Wood of Bend, attending the Taipei American School in Taipei, Taiwan—nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Crook County Jordan Rutz, daughter of Travis & Shannon Rutz of Prineville, attending Prineville High School—nominated to the U.S. Military Academy.
12.03.2015	Walden releases draft legislation to help solve long-running water problems in Klamath Basin, asks for input from all parties Bill would provide water and power certainty for agriculture, boost economic development for rural communities and tribes WASHINGTON, D.C. – After nearly a year of discussions with a broad range of parties in the Klamath Basin and key leaders in the U.S. Congress, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden today unveiled a draft of a bill that would help solve long-running water issues in the Basin. “Throughout the year, I’ve worked closely with a broad range of stakeholders in the Klamath Basin as well as my colleagues in Congress to draft a viable plan that would help the Basin and the people who live there. This draft proposal would help provide water and power certainty for agriculture and boost economic development and job creation for rural communities and tribes through a transfer of federal timber lands. I encourage all parties to review the proposal and let me know your feedback,” Walden said. A summary of the draft is below. For the full text of the draft, please click here. To send comments to Walden, please visit walden.house.gov/klamath. Summary of Walden’s draft Klamath legislation Water certainty for agriculture: The draft authorizes and implements the water agreements in both the Upper Klamath Basin and the Klamath Project, providing for a long-term and certain water supply for farmers and ranchers. Power certainty for agriculture: The draft directs the federal Bureau of Reclamation to provide affordable power for farmers, ranchers, and communities in the Basin. Transfer of federal forest lands to Klamath and Siskiyou counties: The draft transfers 100,000 acres of U.S. Forest Service land each to Klamath and Siskiyou counties. The lands would be used for timber production to grow jobs in rural communities and improve forest health. Transfer of federal lands and economic development funds to Klamath Tribes in exchange for waiving senior water rights: Under the draft, the Klamath Tribes would waive their senior water rights claims. In exchange, the Tribes would receive 100,000 acres of U.S. Forest Service land for timber production along with economic development funds for tribal members. No federal dam removal: The draft does not authorize, fund, or expedite federal dam removal. That process is left up to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. It also does not create federal liability from dam removal.
12.02.2015	Walden, Merkley convene Klamath Basin water meeting with key leaders in the U.S. House and Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) issued the following statement on a meeting he has convened with key Congressional leaders to discuss Klamath Basin water issues: “All year, Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and I have worked closely with a broad range of parties in the Klamath Basin and key leaders in the Congress to find a path forward to solve the long running water problems in the Basin. “Tomorrow, Sen. Merkley and I have convened a meeting with key leaders in the Congress to discuss a way forward. Attendees will include Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah), the Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee (which has jurisdiction over this issue), Rep. Tom McClintock (R-Calif.), the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Federal Lands, and Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-Calif.) whose Northern California district includes three out of the four dams slated to be removed under the Klamath Basin Restoration Agreement (KBRA) and a large portion of Klamath Basin water users. Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) will also attend, along with Rep. Jared Huffman (D-Calif.). “During this session of Congress, neither committee of jurisdiction in the Senate or the House has taken any legislative action regarding the KBRA.”
12.01.2015	Greg Walden secures help for Columbia Gorge roads and bridges in final transportation agreement, passage into law expected soon WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that he has secured language in the final congressional transportation agreement to help improve roads and bridges in the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area (NSA). The long-term, bipartisan transportation agreement between the Senate and the House reauthorizes and reforms federal highway, transit, and highway safety programs. It is expected to be passed by both chambers in the coming days. “Residents and visitors alike depend on efficient and safe transportation in the Columbia Gorge. The federal government must recognize that unique areas like the Gorge should be eligible for transportation projects to replace crumbling roads and bridges. Last month, the House unanimously passed our bipartisan proposal to do just that, and I worked hard to include it in the final House and Senate transportation agreement. When this proposal becomes law soon, it will be a win for Gorge residents, visitors, and our local economy,” Walden said. Last month, Walden worked closely with Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) and Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-Camas) to include language in the House transportation bill that ensures that projects within NSA’s, including the Columbia River Gorge NSA, are eligible for federal transportation grants to help them serve the needs of their local economies, residents, and visitors. Walden then led a letter, signed by seven other Northwest Senators and Representatives, urging negotiators in the House and the Senate to include the language in the final agreement. For a copy of that letter, please click here. During debate on the House floor last month, Walden urged his colleagues to recognize the importance of transportation projects in federal scenic areas. “While scenic areas like the Columbia Gorge provide tourist opportunities to thousands of visiting Americans from all across the country, this unique federal involvement provides distinct challenges in promoting growth of the local economy while conserving the natural beauty of the lands within the Gorge. Transportation infrastructure is an essential component to efficiently serve the interests of both local residents and visitors to the Scenic Area, and there is a strong need for regional transportation planning and improvement to major transportation elements,” Walden said. “Clarifying the eligibility of Scenic Areas throughout the nation for transportation grant funding would help ensure these areas are eligible for meaningful funding opportunities to enhance infrastructure within these unique federally managed areas.” There are currently 12 NSA's in eight states across the nation, including the Columbia Gorge NSA—the largest in the country. The Columbia River Gorge NSA consists of 292,500 acres along 85 miles of the Columbia River. Ninety percent of the total NSA is subject to strict land use and development restrictions, which has posed a distinct challenge to promoting the local economy, while providing opportunities for tourists to visit from around the country, and conserving the natural beauty of the Columbia Gorge. The Gorge has major transportation elements like the Hood River Bridge and the Bridge of the Gods. While approximately 5.2 million vehicles and $110 million in goods travel across these bridges each year, they are in need of major improvements.
11.16.2015	Greg Walden applauds Presidential Medal of Freedom awarded to Hood River native Minoru Yasui WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today applauded the news that President Obama has named Hood River native Minoru Yasui as a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor. Walden urged President Obama earlier this year to award the medal to Yasui, a long-time civil and human rights leader. “For decades, Minoru Yasui fought tirelessly to defend and expand basic rights for all Americans. Though he faced discrimination and hatred during World War II, his belief in America never wavered. His long fight to expand justice and opportunity should make all Oregonians proud. That’s why I was proud to support his nomination for a Presidential Medal of Freedom, and applaud the President for recognizing his life and work. I only wish that he could have lived to see this day,” Walden said. Born in Hood River in 1916, Minoru Yasui was the first Japanese-American graduate of the University of Oregon School of Law. In March 1942, Yasui was the first to intentionally defy a military curfew imposed upon Japanese-Americans. He was sent to prison (including nine months in solitary confinement in Multnomah County Jail) and courageously fought his case all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court, which upheld his conviction. Yasui spent the rest of his life appealing his wartime conviction, until his death in 1986 at the age of 70. In a letter to President Obama earlier this year, Walden strongly supported Minoru Yasui’s nomination. A copy of that letter is attached. According to the White House, the Medal of Freedom is “presented to individuals who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors.” The awards will be presented at the White House on November 24.
11.06.2015	Greg Walden: President’s decision to reject Keystone pipeline is baffling HOOD RIVER – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement following President Obama’s decision to reject the Keystone Pipeline: “After over seven years of exhaustive review, the President’s decision today is baffling. With the stroke of his pen, President Obama could have approved a project with bipartisan Congressional support that would have created thousands of good-paying jobs, increased North American energy security, and reduced oil shipments by rail. The State Department’s own final review concluded that the project would not increase carbon emissions and that construction would support approximately 42,000 jobs. These are real, good paying jobs for Americans who need them. “Moreover, this is a slap in the face to our ally Canada, and a win for tyrants like Vladimir Putin who use energy as a weapon against America’s friends around the world. We must continue to develop North American energy to counter the influence of Russia, China, and Iran. While today’s decision is disappointing, I will continue to work on energy solutions that help create jobs, lower prices for consumers, and strengthen America’s energy security.” Walden has strongly supported construction of this pipeline as part of an “all of the above” energy strategy to promote energy independence and grow the economy. Earlier this year, Walden supported the Keystone XL Pipeline Act (S. 1), which would have immediately authorized the construction and operation of the pipeline. Though it passed the House and Senate with bipartisan support, it was vetoed by President Obama. The application for the pipeline was first submitted to the U.S. State Department on September 19, 2008. In an environmental review, released on January 31, 2014, the State Department confirmed that construction of the pipeline would support approximately 42,100 jobs.
11.03.2015	U.S. House passes Walden-Herrera Beutler-Blumenauer proposal to help improve roads and bridges in Columbia Gorge National Scenic Area Click here or on the image below to watch Walden's speech before the House supporting this proposal WASHINGTON, DC– The U.S. House today passed a bipartisan proposal offered by Oregon Reps. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) and Washington Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-Camas) to help improve roads and bridges in the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area. The proposal, which was attached to a long-term, bipartisan transportation bill in the House, ensures that projects within national scenic areas (NSA's), including the Columbia River Gorge NSA, are eligible for federal transportation grants to help them serve the needs of their local economies, residents, and visitors. "While scenic areas like the Columbia Gorge provide tourist opportunities to thousands of visiting Americans from all across the country, this unique federal involvement provides distinct challenges in promoting growth of the local economy while conserving the natural beauty of the lands within the Gorge. Transportation infrastructure is an essential component to efficiently serve the interests of both local residents and visitors to the Scenic Area, and there is a strong need for regional transportation planning and improvement to major transportation elements,” Walden said during debate on the House floor. “This includes bridges like the Hood River Bridge and the Bridge of the Gods. While approximately 5.2 million vehicles and $110 million in goods travel across these bridges each year, they are in need of major improvements. Clarifying the eligibility of Scenic Areas throughout the nation for transportation grant funding would help ensure these areas are eligible for meaningful funding opportunities to enhance infrastructure within these unique federally managed areas.” Herrera Beutler and Blumenauer voiced their strong support for the proposal as well. “I’m pleased to join Congressman Walden in improving the transportation bill to allow the bridges within the Columbia River Gorge to compete for federal grants. These bridges are crucial to the residents and economies of Skamania and Klickitat Counties,” said Herrera Beutler. “In 2013, when the Bridge of the Gods was in need of repairs, one of the largest employers in Skamania County had to relocate part of their operations just to transport their goods across the river, and the safety of residents was impacted because large emergency vehicles could not cross the bridge. Though we found a short-term solution in that instance, it revealed the need to strengthen our local roads and bridges for years to come.” “The Columbia River Gorge is one of the great places in America. Its beauty shouldn’t obscure its critical role in the economic vitality of the Pacific Northwest – a key freight corridor for goods moving by rail, barge, and truck,”said Blumenauer. “Our bipartisan amendment recognizes that done right, freight projects in National Scenic Areas should be eligible for much needed federal funding.” There are currently 12 NSA's in eight states across the nation, including the Columbia Gorge NSA—the largest in the country. The Columbia River Gorge NSA consists of 292,500 acres along 85 miles of the Columbia River. Ninety percent of the total NSA is subject to strict land use and development restrictions, which has posed a distinct challenge to promoting the local economy, while providing opportunities for tourists to visit from around the country, and conserving the natural beauty of the Columbia Gorge. The amendment was included in Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act (H.R. 3763), a bipartisan, long-term surface transportation bill to reauthorize and reform federal highway, transit, and highway safety programs.
10.26.2015	Greg Walden announces support for major mental health reform bill to help patients and families, reduce violence Click here or on the image below to watch Walden's video message WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that he supports a major mental health reform bill moving through the U.S. House of Representatives. The Helping Families in Mental Crisis Act (H.R. 2646) aims to reform the nation’s mental healthcare system to deliver better treatment to patients and families before they commit acts of violence against themselves or others. “Too many families all over America struggle with mental illness. And too many of these suffers go on to hurt themselves or others—most tragically in Roseburg earlier this month. However, despite the $130 billion the federal government spends annually on mental health treatment, an astounding 40 percent of Americans with a serious mental illness are not receiving treatment. This broken system has to change,” Walden said. “The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act would reform the nation’s federal mental health programs, helping to direct resources and care to the patients and families who need them most. I am proud to support this bipartisan bill. Together, we can work to make sure that the millions of Americans suffering from mental illness, and their families, get the care they need before the worst occurs.” According to the National Institute of Mental Health, patients with mental illness receiving treatment are 15 times less likely to commit violent acts than those who go untreated. The federal government spends $130 billion per year on mental health, yet the rates of violence, suicide, homelessness, and incarceration among the mentally ill have increased over the past two decades. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act reforms the federal government’s mental health bureaucracy to break down barriers to care. It allows families to better work with health care professionals to care for loved ones, and helps fix the shortage of psychiatric hospital beds in this country. The bill also advances tele-psychiatry to help mentally ill patients in rural areas. For a full summary of the bill, please click here. The author of the legislation, Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA), is a licensed psychologist. He praised Walden’s support. “Congressman Walden has been a leader working with me to reform our broken mental health system to deliver treatment before tragedy,” said Murphy. “We are committed to take meaningful action for the families forever changed by that tragic day in Roseburg. I thank him for signing on to my crisis mental health legislation and look forward to working together as we advance the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act through Congress to the President’s desk.” Walden has been a long-time, strong supporter of mental health programs, especially for young people. He has worked closely with Oregon Partnership/Lines for Life on preventing youth suicide and substance abuse. And he worked across the aisle to pass the nation’s first youth suicide prevention bill into law, the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act (named in memory of the son of former Oregon Senator Gordon Smith). This legislation includes a multi-year reauthorization of the Garrett Lee Smith law.
10.23.2015	Rep. Greg Walden expresses strong opposition to national monument designation in Malheur County, urges Secretary to attend public meeting next week October 23, 2015 The Honorable Sally Jewell Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street NW Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Jewell: Recent efforts by outside interest groups (see enclosed news article) to push for a massive National Monument designation in Malheur County, Oregon, have evoked strong opposition from local communities throughout the county. Malheur County, along with the local state elected officials, are holding a public forum in Adrian, Oregon, on October 29 to discuss the proposal and potential negative impacts on the community. I invite you (or a senior representative of your choosing) to attend this important forum to provide information on the Administration’s consideration of this proposal and hear directly from the communities that would be directly impacted by the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) actions. Oregonians have a strong and long tradition of successful, creative management of public and private lands to the benefit of the natural resources, while minimizing the negative impacts to local economies. You saw an example of this when you toured local efforts to proactively address sage grouse habitat in Lake County last year. The results of these locally driven efforts contrast starkly with the challenges posed by the creation of Cascade-Siskiyou National Monument, which eventually required congressional action to mitigate numerous negative impacts on local landowners. With examples like this for a precedent, talk that the DOI is strongly considering locking up 2.5 million acres, a massive portion of Malheur County, is understandably concerning to local communities. These hard-working local residents deserve to know where the federal government stands on the proposal that would affect their daily lives far beyond anyone else’s. Agriculture provides the economic base for Malheur County. According to Oregon State University, agriculture generates over $370 million annually in the county, of which $134 million comes from cattle. The Bureau of Land Management and other federal agencies manage 4.5 million acres, or 73% of the land in the county, making public lands grazing an integral part of most local family ranch operations. Greatly restricting use of that land through a monument designation could have disastrous economic impacts to the county and the surrounding region. I am sharing here with you the concerns I’ve heard from large numbers of people across eastern Oregon about the impacts on their livelihoods by restricting use and access to portions of Malheur County larger than the states of Rhode Island and Connecticut combined through a National Monument designation. I strongly oppose the proposals I am aware of for a National Monument designation, and I think it’s very important that you both outline formally to Malheur County and residents of eastern Oregon where the DOI stands on this proposal, as well as heed the strong local opposition to this effort and not make a national monument designation in Malheur County. Once again, I strongly encourage you, or a senior designee for you, to attend this forum and hear directly from those most affected by the decisions made on the public land that surrounds them. I appreciate your prompt attention to this matter, and look forward to your swift response. Best regards, Greg Walden Member of Congress Walden Letter to Jewell 10 23 15.pdf
10.09.2015	Greg Walden applauds court decision stopping EPA’s water power grab WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement after a federal appeals court put a halt to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) new Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, which would massively expand the federal government’s authority over waterways within the U.S. “The court’s decision is a victory for farmers, ranchers, and property owners in rural Oregon and throughout the nation. This power grab would have expanded federal authority over virtually any water in the nation, including canals, irrigation ditches, vernal pools, and stock ponds. I have long said that this blatant federal overreach would drastically increase uncertainty and threaten jobs and livelihoods in struggling rural communities,” Walden said. “Now that the court has spoken, I call on the Administration to permanently withdraw this flawed proposal. It’s time to ditch this rule.” On May 12, the House—with Walden’s strong support—passed the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act (H.R. 1732), which requires the EPA to withdraw the rule.
10.01.2015	Greg Walden statement on the tragedy in Roseburg, Ore. WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the tragedy at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.: “Today’s news out of Roseburg is heartbreaking. My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims of this terrible tragedy, their families, and the entire community. Oregon and the entire nation mourn this senseless loss.”
09.29.2015	At congressional hearing, Greg Walden questions Oregon state official on the failure of Cover Oregon Click here or the image on the left for video of Walden’s opening statement and here or the video on the right for video of Walden’s questions WASHINGTON, DC – At a congressional hearing today on state health insurance exchanges, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) questioned Patrick Allen, the Director of the Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services, about the failure of Cover Oregon and where the state goes from here with the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) now managing the IT infrastructure of the state exchange. “Oregon received about $305 million in Federal grant dollars to build Cover Oregon. Only California and New York—states with about nine and four times the population, respectively—received more… But when the lights came on and the curtain went up on Cover Oregon, it failed to sign up a single person online in one sitting. Not a single one,” Walden said at the beginning of the hearing. “While the GAO did some good work on state exchanges generally, many questions about Oregon remain unanswered. How did this happen? Who was in charge? What could be done to make sure this NEVER happens again? We are still waiting for answers.” Walden then got in to some of those issues, explaining to Allen, “In spite of your repeated assurances that the Oregon exchange is financially self-sustaining, questions remain over how the state will pay the federal government for using healthcare.gov when it is to be charged for its use in 2017. There are also concerns with the significant insurance rate increases. In your testimony, you state that the rate increases are a result of the market rebalancing itself. Whether or not this is a true rebalance or indicative of future additional rate hikes remains to be seen.” Walden also spoke to reports—which he subsequently placed in the official hearing record—that former Governor Kitzhaber’s campaign team took over the management of Cover Oregon. “The collapse of Cover Oregon was an epic disaster for Oregonians and taxpayers across the United States. Frankly, the aftermath hasn’t inspired additional confidence in our state government or CMS. I’m deeply disturbed about the role of the former governor—who has had to resign—and the role his campaign consultants in calling the shots,” Walden added. Walden asked Allen about how the state is proceeding forward with CMS, including additional costs the state will have to make in order to use the federal health exchange and if the federal government will try to recoup all or part of the $305 million that the state received to build Cover Oregon. Allen was unable to immediately answer many of the questions, but pledged to follow up with a response to Walden and the Committee. For full video of Walden’s questioning, please click here. The hearing was conducted by the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Walden is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. For more information—or for full video of the hearing—please click here.
09.24.2015	Greg Walden reacts to Pope Francis’ historic address to the U.S. CongressClick here or on the image below to watch Walden's remarksWASHINGTON, D.C. — Calling the Pope’s remarks “challenging and uplifting,” U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) offered a video reaction to the historic event. Walden spoke from the Speaker’s Balcony at the Capitol, where earlier in the day Pope Francis greeted the crowd—including ticket holders from Oregon—after his address.“It was a real honor to be on the escort committee for the Pope's visit to the U.S. House to speak to a joint session of Congress. I'm here on the balcony where he came out after the speech and gave a blessing to the audience,” Walden said. “I thought his remarks were challenging and uplifting. Clearly he's a man of the people who speaks his mind. I think he calls on all of us to be better citizens and better human beings, and really look after those who are less fortunate. It was just an historic day in Washington, and I think for all of America.”
09.22.2015	Greg Walden statement on Administration’s decision not to list sage grouse as endangered species WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the Department of the Interior’s decision not to list the sage grouse as an endangered species:“Farmers and ranchers in Eastern Oregon have been working hard to avoid a listing of the sage grouse, a move that would severely impact jobs in rural communities throughout the west. I’m glad that the Administration recognized these efforts and decided not to move forward with a listing. This will give communities in Oregon time to implement locally driven conservation efforts without the federal government’s heavy hand getting in the way. “While this is a positive step, obstacles remain. At town halls in Eastern Oregon last week, I heard strong concerns with the Bureau of Land Management’s sage grouse plans. The BLM must be flexible and continue working with the local communities to ensure these plans work for the people who live there.”Walden has worked hard to avoid an endangered species listing of the sage grouse. Last year, he helped pass into law a one year prohibition on a listing as part of a government funding bill. This year, Walden worked with the House Armed Services Committee to include a ten year listing prohibition in the House’s annual defense authorization bill.As Walden has said, “The effect of the sage grouse’s listing could make the spotted owl look like child’s play,” which is why he has repeatedly urged the Administration to build solutions from the ground up and collect crucial input from local communities.
09.15.2015	VIDEO RELEASE: After fire town hall meetings, Greg Walden calls on the Senate to pass forestry reform legislationClick here or on the image below to watch Walden's remarksJOSEPH, Ore. — After fire town hall meetings in Eastern Oregon, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today called on the U.S. Senate to pass meaningful forest reform legislation to help reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire. “While we need to change how we pay for these fires – to be more reasonable and rational – that’s nothing compared to the real issue. The real issue is we don’t do enough to manage these forests before the fires to thin them out, and after the fires to salvage the burned, dead timber while it still has value so we can pay for reforestation and rehabilitation of the watersheds, the habitat, and the forests,” Walden said in a video message from Joseph in Wallowa County. “People are pretty hot in Eastern Oregon about what happened this summer, and they want changes in federal forest policy, which legislation we passed in the House would give them. It’s long overdue for the Senate to take action.”This week, Walden held town hall meetings in Lakeview, Canyon City, Baker City, and Enterprise. These were Walden’s 24th through 27th town halls so far this year (at least one in all 20 counties in Oregon’s Second District). He also toured first damage from the Cornet/Windy Ridge and Canyon Creek Complex fires. In Baker and Grant counties alone, these fires burned a combined total of over 213,000 acres and destroyed 47 homes.The Resilient Federal Forests Act (H.R. 2647), which passed the House on a bipartisan basis in July, would help bring active management back to our forests to reduce the threat of wildfire. For more information, please click here. The bill also helps solve the long-standing “fire borrowing” problem by allowing the Forest Service to request FEMA disaster funds for fire suppression without having to continually rob their internal fire prevention accounts. For a summary of the fire borrowing provisions, please click here. During the last session of Congress, the U.S. House twice passed bipartisan legislation coauthored by Walden to help reform federal forest policy. Unfortunately, the Senate failed to take meaningful action on forestry legislation.
09.04.2015	Greg Walden mourns the passing of former state representative Eldon JohnsonHOOD RIVER – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the passing of Eldon Johnson, a longtime state legislator from southern Oregon: “I am saddened to learn of the passing of Eldon Johnson. He was fiercely independent and worked hard. He made a real difference for his community and state during his time in Salem. My thoughts and prayers are with his family.”Walden and Johnson served together in the state legislature, where Johnson was a member of the Oregon House of Representatives from 1977 through 1999.
07.16.2015	U.S. House passes Greg Walden’s plan to help protect Klamath Project water usersClick here or on the image below to watch the House’s debate on the amendmentWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has passed—on a bipartisan vote—a plan offered by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-Calif.) to help protect water users on the Klamath Project in Oregon and California.The proposal would confer applicant status on these users, ensuring that they are included in Endangered Species Act consultations that could affect operations of the water project they rely upon. While the Bureau has—in its own words—treated the users “in a manner similar to applicants” since the 1990s, it has not granted them the protections and input the full applicant status would provide. “There is a long history with water issues in the Klamath Basin and there is much work to be done. Frankly, a basin-wide, long-term solution is what is most needed. While we are working towards a long-term solution to the overall Klamath water issues, these issues remain,” Walden said during debate on the amendment.“In the interim, it is critical that we pass this amendment to formalize the role of the Klamath Project irrigators by giving them applicant status for ESA consultations. The Klamath Project contractors have existing contracts with the Bureau of Reclamation and they are directly affected by Reclamation’s consultations with US Fish and Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries Service. Passing this amendment would only formalize a practice that has already been occurring and ensure that the Klamath Project contractors can continue this process in the future,” Walden said.The proposal was passed on a bipartisan vote as an amendment to the Western Water and American Food Security Act, which was passed by the House today to offer relief to the drought-stricken rural West. The bill now goes on to the U.S. Senate. ###
07.14.2015	Greg Walden statement on Administration’s deal with Iran WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement after the Obama Administration announced it had reached a nuclear deal with Iran:“The regime in Iran exports terror around the globe, threatens the security of the United States and our ally Israel, and continues to relentlessly pursue the world’s worst weapons. It seems that the Obama Administration has decided to reward that bad behavior with permanent benefits in exchange for a temporary delay in their nuclear program. This is unacceptable for our safety and security. “The deal would give Iran billions in sanctions relief—money that could be used to finance more terror and weapons development that threatens our safety. And it would remove restrictions on Iran’s missile and weapons programs, allowing them to continue work on intercontinental ballistic missiles that could hit the United States. “While Congress must carefully review the details of this agreement, I will do all I can to stop a bad deal that threatens the safety of our troops, our allies, and the American people.” ###
07.10.2015	Greg Walden supports historic plan to boost medical research, find cures for deadly diseasesThe 21st Century Cures Act overwhelmingly passes the U.S. House, will help Americans live longer, healthier lives Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s speech in support of the billWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives today overwhelmingly passed the “21st Century Cures Act” (H.R. 6), a sweeping, bipartisan initiative cosponsored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to bring hope to millions of Americans suffering from deadly diseases.“This is really big: 21st Century Cures. All of us have known someone afflicted by the deadly diseases. Most of us have seen people in our own families. My mother passed away from ovarian cancer. My sister in law had brain cancer. I lost a son to a congenital heart defect. My mother in law had rheumatoid arthritis from a very early age. My step mother died of a stroke. We’re all affected,”Walden said during debate on the bill. “Investing in cures, investing in treatment, investing in innovation—right here in America—is the best step forward. This legislation would modernize the nation’s biomedical innovation infrastructure and streamline the process for how drugs and medical devices are approved in order get new treatments to patients faster.”Of the 10,000 known diseases in the world (7,000 of which are considered rare), there are treatments for only about 500 of them. Yet, the cost and time associated with conducting clinical trials are at all-time highs (it takes upwards of 15 years to bring a new drug to the market, and the cost of developing new drugs has doubled since the early 1980s). This bill would boost medical research and streamline the approval process for new treatments to help accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of cures. And it is fully paid for with cuts in other spending.Walden also told of soliciting input from researchers like Dr. Brian Druker, of Oregon Health & Science University’s Knight Cancer Center, a true pioneer in the fight against cancer. And he talked about patients and their families in Oregon—including Linda Sindt, Nancy Roach, and Colton and Tiffany Allen—who would gain hope from this bill. He concluded,“We owe it to people like Linda, Nancy, Colton, Tiffany and all Americans—and people around the globe—to pass this legislation, to tackle these diseases that have no treatment or cure, to develop new and innovative treatments, provide better health technology, and ultimately bring more hope and better lives for all.”Patients and their families in Oregon praised the bill. “I am so excited about the progress made on the critical 21st Century CURES Act. This will, if passed into law, ultimately put us on a path toward improved survival for pancreatic cancer and other deadly diseases. Duane, my vibrant, seemingly healthy husband of 40 years, was one of the "lucky" ones. He was diagnosed at Stage 1 and one of the few able to have surgery. Even so, that only bought us one more year together. I am still grieving his loss three years ago. The dreadful fact is that 80 percent of those with pancreatic cancer will die within one year of the diagnosis. A grim 7 percent will survive for five years. I know we can do better than that as a nation! I am so personally proud of and grateful for longtime friend, Congressman Walden's, key leadership in battling this terrible disease!” said Linda Sindt of Medford.Colton Allen, a Talent resident living with ALS, said, “One of the worst parts about living with ALS, is the feeling of complete hopelessness. Your body just starts failing and there’s nothing you can do. There is no treatment, and there is no cure. You lose the ability to walk, use your hands, talk and swallow, and you eventually lose the ability to breath. Because The 21st Century Care Act gives people living with ALS hope, by providing more incentives for industry to develop treatments and cures that would otherwise be considered too expensive and too risky to develop.” His wife, Tiffany, added,“Hope is not easy to come by when you live with ALS. The 21st Century Cures Act is an opportunity to create a bit more hope for all of us living with diseases that are considered ‘rare.’ As a registered nurse, I treat patients with medicine every day that will cure their diseases, or at least slow the progression. At home the only thing I can offer my husband is palliative care, trying to make him as comfortable as possible. We can't stop his disease, we can only plan for the worst. The 21st Century Cures Act will give the NIH a kick start and a fast track for clinical research, which will give us and all those living with ALS a little more hope for a cure.” Nancy Roach, a colon cancer advocate in Hood River, said, “H.R. 6 is a bipartisan bill (supported by both Republicans and Democrats) that will accelerate the discovery, development and delivery of lifesaving and life-improving therapies and transform the quest for faster cures by: Modernizing clinical trials, Incorporating the patient perspective into the drug development and regulatory review process, Investing in 21st century science and next generation investigators by providing nearly $9 billion in funding for the NIH over the next 5 years. I fully support this legislation, and hope that Congress moves forward to help patients.”“Research, discovery, and innovation necessary to prevent, treat, and cure the most difficult diseases depend on steady and robust funding from NIH. OHSU is deeply grateful that the 21st Century Cures legislation recognizes the critical importance of maintaining the NIH as a national priority. We commend the leadership of Energy and Commerce Committee, including Congressman Walden, in forging this meaningful legislation and facilitating OHSU’s participation in this initiative. We thank the members of the Oregon Congressional delegation who voted in support of the bill, and we look forward to working with the Senate to pass their version later this year,”said Dr. Joe Robertson, President of Oregon Health and Science University (OHSU).After a strong vote in the House, this bill now goes to the Senate. For a short summary of the bill, please click here. For a full summary, please click here.###
07.09.2015	Greg Walden supports bipartisan wildfire prevention, forestry reform bill passed by U.S. HouseWalden: “I urge the Senate to quickly consider and pass this bill. Our forested communities have already waited too long. Now is the time to act.” Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s speech in support of the bill WASHINGTON, D.C. — As another busy fire season is already well underway in Oregon, U.S. Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) strongly supported a bipartisan bill passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today to reduce the threat of catastrophic wildfire in national forests. The Resilient Federal Forests Act (H.R. 2647), which passed by a vote of 262-167, would bring much needed reforms to federal forest policy and help bring active management back to our forests. Speaking on the House floor in support of the bill, Walden explained the need for meaningful action on fixing broken federal forest policy. “The House’s consideration of the bill is timely. As we speak brave firefighters are still trying to contain the Corner Creek fire, which has already burned nearly 29,000 acres of forest land near Dayville, Oregon. Unfortunately, this fire season is only getting started,” Walden said. “One look at the fires around the West makes clear the status quo isn’t working for our forests, and it certainly doesn’t work for our rural communities. The Resilient Federal Forests Act will help strengthen the health of our communities and our forests. I urge the Senate to quickly consider and pass this bill. Our forested communities have already waited too long. Now is the time to act.”Walden further explained some of the benefits the bill would bring to Oregon’s rural forested communities and the people who live there. “Among the many strong provisions in this bill to streamline planning, reduce frivolous lawsuits, and speed up the pace of forest management, several in particular are helpful for Oregon’s federal forests. For national forests in eastern Oregon, this legislation repeals the prohibition on harvesting trees over 21 inches in diameter – a measure temporarily implemented in 1997 that still hasn’t been removed nearly 20 years later. This flawed one-size-fits-all rule illustrates just how broken federal forest management has become. It greatly limits the flexibility forest managers have to address site specific needs of the forest on the ground and has only become a source of frequent appeals and litigation,” Walden said.Walden also explained that the bill brings much needed reforms to O&C lands in southern and western Oregon. “This bill also includes legislation I wrote working with my colleagues from Oregon, Representatives Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader pertaining to Oregon’s unique O&C Lands, cutting costs, and increasing timber harvest and revenue to local counties. The BLM is also directed to revise their flawed management plan proposals to consider the clear statutory mandate to manage these lands for sustainable timber production and revenue to the counties,” Walden said. For information on the O&C provisions, please click here.The bill also helps solve the long-standing “fire borrowing” problem by allowing the Forest Service to request FEMA disaster funds for fire suppression without having to continually rob their internal fire prevention accounts. For a summary of the fire borrowing provisions, please click here. During the last session of Congress, the U.S. House twice passed bipartisan legislation coauthored by Walden to help reform federal forest policy. Unfortunately, the Senate failed to take meaningful action on forestry legislation.Passage of this bill continues Walden's mission to make forest policy work for Oregonians. He has been a leader in writing other bipartisan forestry plans, including the Healthy Forest Restoration Act, the Forest Emergency Research and Recovery Act, and the FLAME Act.###
07.09.2015	U.S. House passes Greg Walden’s proposal to prevent Owyhee Desert national monument designation WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has passed a proposal from U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to stop the Obama Administration from making any national monument declarations in Malheur County, like the Owyhee Desert.“The President shouldn’t be able to lock up thousands of acres of federal land to all productive uses with just the stroke of his pen and no say from the people who are most affected. Some have identified the Owyhee Desert as a target for a national monument designation, and I have heard strong local opposition to such an action. Unilaterally locking up over 2.1 million acres of this land—an area larger than the state of Delaware—would halt grazing on these lands, putting many family ranching operations at risk and damaging the local economy,” Walden said. “My proposal would stop the Obama Administration from unilaterally locking up the Owyhee. Public lands decisions should be made in the sunshine with full input from affected citizens like farmers and ranchers.”Walden’s proposal was included in a funding bill for the Department of the Interior, and prevents the Administration from using any funds to move forward with a monument designation in Malheur County. Click here to read the amendment. The amendment would also promote national monument designations in other counties in Oregon, California, Nevada, New Mexico, and Utah where there has been strong local opposition to such a move.Community leaders have opposed the national monument designation and urged legislation to stop it. In a letter to Walden and Oregon’s Senators last year, the Malheur County Court wrote that they “do not endorse, recognize, or in any way accept the proposal by the Oregon Natural Desert Association (ONDA) to create a 2.1 million acre wilderness area in Malheur County […] This wilderness area proposal is NOT in our best interest.”“The designation of Owyhee Desert for placement of a National Monument under the Antiquities Act would place a huge hindrance on local ranchers,” said Jerome Rosa, Executive Director of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association. He added that a designation “would create a deficit on the availability of grazing land and irrigation capabilities currently available to local ranchers in an increasingly demanding market.” ###
07.08.2015	U.S. House approves Greg Walden's proposal to delay flawed forest management plan on Oregon's O&C lands***Click here or on the image below to watch Walden's remarks in support of his plan***WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved a proposal by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to put a stop to the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) new proposed management plan for Oregon’s O&C federal forest lands. “Recently, the BLM released a proposed update to their two decade old management plan in western Oregon. Despite the clear mandate in law, the BLM’s proposal would harvest timber on just 22 percent of the land base, locking the remainder up in various ‘reserves.’ Oregon’s forested counties, some of which have over 70 percent of their land controlled by the federal government, rely on receipts from federal timber projects to fund law enforcement, schools and other essential services. Unfortunately, under the BLM’s proposal, these counties would only receive an estimated 27 percent of the historical average in receipts. While the BLM’s proposed plans seems to fall far short of meeting these communities’ needs, it seems the agency is determined to push forward with these plans,” Walden said during debate on the measure.“This amendment would simply delay the BLM’s implementation of these plans, giving time for counties and interested parties to thoroughly review the more than 1,500 pages of analysis. It also gives the agency time to consider additional alternatives that better incorporate the clear mandates of the O&C Act. With Oregon’s wildfire season well off to a terrible start, we need time to review these plans to get active management on these forest lands. By passing this amendment, we’ll give the taxpayers—the people who live there—a better opportunity to weigh in.” Walden’s proposal would delay implementation of the BLM’s proposed “resource management plan” for the O&C forest lands. The BLM continues to push forward with this plan in the face of numerous concerns expressed by local counties about the planning direction throughout the process.Recently, the Oregon Congressional Delegation requested a 120 day extension of the comment period so that the counties and other interested parties have time to thoroughly review the more than 1,500 pages of analysis and provide useful input and comment.Community leaders in southern Oregon praised the amendment. “By simply placing more land into reserve, these plans put our communities and forests at even higher risk of catastrophic fire and that is unacceptable. The BLM continues forward with these plans despite our repeated concerns that these plan fails to meet the needs of Josephine County residents. Delaying implementation of these plans will allow for time to find a better path for our forests and communities,” said Josephine County Commissioner Simon Hare.“With smoke choking our valley each summer, hurting people’s health and hampering our recreation and tourism economies, it is unfortunate the BLM has released a plan that misses mark when it comes to the management our forests. Our communities deserve better and this delay will give time to start over with a different approach on these plans,” said Jackson County Commissioner Doug Breidenthal.Walden’s plan came as an amendment to a bill pending in the House to fund the Department of the Interior (including the BLM) for the coming fiscal year. The House is expected to pass the underlying bill later this week. ###
06.10.2015	U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement about a coming vote on a bill to boost Oregon exports: “Oregon’s farmers, ranchers, and small businesses make some of the best products in the world. And our products are in demand around the globe, creating good paying jobs here at home. In fact, over 487,000 jobs in Oregon depend on U.S. trade with other counties. We win when we get a fair chance in a competitive marketplace. But if America is not at the negotiating table, other countries are writing the rules.“The U.S. House will soon vote on a bill that would allow us to establish fair and strong trade rules. The bill lays out our trade priorities of fairness and competition—to whomever is in the White House. It requires any final agreement be made public for at least 60 days. And it requires an up or down vote in the Congress before any trade agreement is final. It’s a win for jobs and exports in Oregon, and a win for transparency and accountability. I intend to support this bill to ensure that we can tear down barriers and open up new markets for Oregon’s farmers, ranchers, and small businesses.”
05.28.2015	Greg Walden: EPA’s expansion of federal water rules threaten farm and ranch jobs in rural Oregon WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) decision to finalize its Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, which would expand the federal government’s authority over waterways within the U.S.“All across Oregon, farmers, ranchers, and other property owners have been wondering what the EPA would try to unnecessarily regulate next. The Administration’s new proposal would expand federal authority over virtually any water in the United States, including canals, irrigation ditches, and stock ponds. This blatant bureaucratic overreach could drastically increase uncertainty and threaten jobs and livelihoods in rural Oregon,” Walden said.“The EPA has ignored Congress’ repeated rejection of similar legislative efforts to expand jurisdiction of the Clean Water Act. Of course, we shouldn’t be that surprised. The agency has tried this before, and they have twice been rebuked by the Supreme Court. Earlier this month, I was proud to support a bipartisan bill passed by the House to stop implementation of this rule and send the agency back to the drawing board. I hope that the Senate will swiftly pass this bill. The economies of rural Oregon and other communities around the country face enough obstacles already. We don’t need agencies in Washington D.C. erecting more hurdles and creating more uncertainty.”On May 12, the House—with Walden’s strong support—passed the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act (H.R. 1732), which requires the EPA to withdraw the rule.###
05.20.2015	Greg Walden’s communications and technology panel approves seven FCC transparency bills Walden leads passage of seven FCC transparency bills at today’s meeting of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee WASHINGTON, DC - The Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, chaired by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), today approved seven bills aimed at improving transparency and process at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Today’s markup follows two hearings by the subcommittee examining these issues with members of the commission and expert witnesses. “I am pleased that both Republicans and Democrats alike recognize the value of increased transparency at the commission and see a need for congressional action to improve the FCC’s decision-making process,” said Walden. “We all realize the incredible reach that technology has in our lives. We live in world where we carry smartphones in our pockets, watch connected televisions at home, and conduct business by video conference in the office. The smallest entrepreneurs carry portable credit card scanners, and the largest corporations build server farms. They store our emails, map our vacations, and secure our transactions. The FCC’s work doesn’t only impact the industries that it regulates, but as daily consumers of communications services, our own lives as well. This is why it is so important to make sure that the FCC functions in an effective, transparent manner.”“These bills all go to the same purpose – to tighten up an agency, where only insiders know how to work the levers; to shine light into the dark corners of the FCC. Sunlight is nonpartisan and will show up bad behavior on either side of the aisle. These bills are a good way to instill lasting reform at an agency that impacts us all so deeply, regardless of who sits in the chair,” Walden continued.The bills must now be voted on by the full Energy and Commerce Committee before coming to the full House for a vote. More information on the bills is below: A draft bill, authored by Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA), that would require the FCC to coordinate with the Small Business Administration and issue recommendations to improve small business participation in FCC proceedings. The draft bill was approved by voice vote. A draft bill, authored by Rep. David Loebsack (D-IA), that would require the chairman to post the commission’s internal procedures on the FCC website and update the website when the chairman makes any changes. The draft bill was approved by voice vote.A draft bill, authored by Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY), that would require the FCC to report quarterly to Congress and to post on the FCC website data on the total number of decisions pending categorized by bureau, the type of request, and how long the requests have been pending. The report also includes a list of pending Congressional investigations and an audited cost to the agency. The draft bill was approved by voice vote.A bill offered by Communications and Technology Subcommittee Vice Chairman Bob Latta (R-OH) would require the FCC to publish a list of items that are placed on delegated authority – that is, decided at the bureau level in lieu of a commission vote. The draft bill was approved by a vote of 16-12.A bill offered by Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC) would require the FCC to publish new rules on the same day that they are adopted. The draft bill was approved by a vote of 17-13. A bill offered by Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) would require the FCC to publish the draft of a rulemaking, order, report or any other action when it is circulated to the commissioners for a vote. The bill does not prevent the FCC from making changes to the item after it has been circulated, but it allows the public to see what the chairman is proposing to the rest of the commission. The draft bill was approved by voice vote.A discussion draft of the FCC Process Reform Act, authored by subcommittee Chairman Walden, Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), and Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), that aims to increase transparency and predictability at the commission. The draft bill was approved by voice vote. ###
05.15.2015	Greg Walden praises House passage of sage grouse bill that would help Oregon’s rural communities***AUDIO ATTACHED***WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved a bill that would prohibit the Administration from declaring the sage grouse as an endangered species for 10 years. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is a strong supporter of the bill, and worked hard to get it passed in the House today.“This bill is excellent news for farmers and ranchers in eastern Oregon. A premature listing of the sage grouse could severely impact jobs in rural communities, so a delay would give states like Oregon the breathing room to implement local conservation plans without the heavy hand of the federal government getting in the way,” Walden said. “I am proud that this common-sense provision passed the House with strong support today, and I hope that the Senate will quickly take action on it. Livelihoods in eastern Oregon and throughout the rural West depend on it.”The sage grouse provision was included in an annual defense authorization bill because an endangered species listing could impact the military’s ability to train on key lands throughout the United States, potentially harming military readiness and national security. Walden worked closely with the House Armed Services Committee to include the provision in the defense bill.Eastern Oregon ranchers praised the bill and Walden’s role in it. “I am very glad to see the House act today to delay the listing of the sage grouse. A delay would lift a tremendous threat to eastern Oregon that undermines ongoing conservation efforts that myself and other local ranchers and property owners are trying to implement locally. I appreciate Rep. Walden’s continued interest in this issue and work to get this legislation through the House and over to the Senate for action,” said John O’Keeffe, President-Elect of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association.“The House’s vote today passing this legislation is great news for rural communities in eastern Oregon who need the relief of a ten year delay in listing of the sage grouse. Our communities would be severely impacted by a listing, and a delay would allow us time to finish crafting a local solution that won’t destroy the livelihoods of family ranches across eastern Oregon. I thank Rep. Walden for supporting this through the House, and look forward to this legislation moving through the Senate,” said Bob Skinner, Secretary/Treasurer for National Public Lands Council and past President of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association. The bill was passed by the House by a vote of 269-151. It must now go to the Senate for consideration.
05.05.2015	Greg Walden says sage grouse bill moving through Congress would be tremendous victory for rural Oregon, military readiness Ten year listing delay included in annual House defense bill; Cattlemen and ag groups strongly support effort to allow time to enact meaningful conservation plansWASHINGTON, D.C. -- The U.S. House Armed Services Committee has approved a provision in the annual defense authorization bill that would prohibit the Obama Administration from declaring the sage grouse an endangered species for 10 years. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is a strong supporter of the provision, and urged the Committee to include it in its final draft.“A federal listing of the sage grouse could shut down countless ranches and rural communities throughout eastern Oregon. The impacts on our economy could make the spotted owl look like child’s play. And it could also severely harm our military readiness and national security,” Walden said. “I was proud to work with the House Armed Services Committee to include this common-sense provision in the annual defense bill. A listing delay of 10 years would give states like Oregon time to implement locally-driven management plans without heavy-handed federal mandates.”The sage grouse provision was included in the defense bill because an endangered species listing could impact the military’s ability to train on key lands throughout the United States, potentially harming military readiness and national security. “Efforts to protect the greater sage grouse under the federal Endangered Species Act could hurt training operations at numerous U.S. military facilities in the West, according to a new report by the Army… It found that protecting the birds would restrict the availability of training lands; limit the size of training lands and ranges; restrict the use of firing points; and impose restrictions on future development and construction,” the Associated Press reported last week.Ranchers in eastern Oregon praised the bill and Walden’s efforts on it. “A 10 year delay of a listing decision would be fantastic news for ranchers and rural communities in eastern Oregon. Listing the sage grouse under the Endangered Species Act would cause tremendous harm to our industry and communities across the West and impede the local conservation efforts that are underway. I thank Rep. Walden for his work to get this provision into legislation and look forward to it moving through the process,” said eastern Oregon rancher Bob Skinner, Secretary/Treasurer for National Public Lands Council and past President of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association.“Ranchers and other stakeholders are working tirelessly on the local level to implement conservation strategies that benefit both the sage grouse and local ranchers and landowners. A 10 year delay of a listing decision would provide much needed time and a tremendous opportunity for these efforts to continue. I appreciate Rep. Walden’s continued efforts to give these local solutions an opportunity to succeed,” said John O’Keeffe, President-Elect of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association.An effort by Massachusetts Representative Niki Tsongas (D-Mass.) to strip the sage grouse amendment failed in the committee by a vote of 26-36. The final version of the defense bill was approved by the Armed Services Committee by a bipartisan vote of 60-2. The full House is expected to vote on the bill later this month.###
05.01.2015	Oregon congressional delegation requests speedy release of county payments, details on sequester plansWASHINGTON, D.C. – Oregon Reps. Greg Walden, Peter DeFazio, Earl Blumenauer, Kurt Schrader, and Suzanne Bonamici today urged the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to swiftly release Secure Rural Schools payments to struggling Oregon counties. The program provides much needed funding for schools, roads, and law enforcement in rural forested communities in Oregon and around the country.“Despite efforts in Congress and in Oregon to reform federal forest management and provide greater stability for our forested communities, county governments in Oregon continue to struggle to balance their budgets. Some are even teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. The Secure Rural Schools program provides them with much needed funding for schools, roads, and law enforcement. And it is imperative that they receive this funding as soon as possible. Within the new extension, Congress directed your agencies to deliver funding within 45 days of enactment. We strongly urge you to make these payments by June 1, 2015 or sooner and request to be notified when these payments have been distributed,” the members wrote in a letter to Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell and BLM Director Neil Kornze. A signed copy of the letter is attached.The delegation also asked the agencies if the payments would be subject to the “sequester,” automatic, across-the-board budget cuts administered by the Office of Management and Budget. This would affect the amount of funding received by counties. “We have also heard questions and concerns from our constituents as to how budget sequestration will impact Fiscal Year 2014 Secure Rural Schools payments. Since it preceded the reauthorization, the Office of Management and Budget’s report from March 10, 2014 does not list Secure Rural Schools as a program subject to sequestration. Please detail for us how your agencies plan to apply the mandated sequester to the recent Secure Rural Schools extension. This is very important to struggling Oregon counties who need to budget for how much money they will receive,” the members wrote.A two year extension of Secure Rural Schools payments was included in recent legislation that reforms how doctors are paid under Medicare. It passed out of the House and Senate with strong bipartisan support, and was signed into law by the President on April 16, 2015.
05.01.2015	Oregon congressional delegation requests speedy release of county payments, details on sequester plansWASHINGTON, D.C. – Oregon Reps. Greg Walden, Peter DeFazio, Earl Blumenauer, Kurt Schrader, and Suzanne Bonamici today urged the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to swiftly release Secure Rural Schools payments to struggling Oregon counties. The program provides much needed funding for schools, roads, and law enforcement in rural forested communities in Oregon and around the country.“Despite efforts in Congress and in Oregon to reform federal forest management and provide greater stability for our forested communities, county governments in Oregon continue to struggle to balance their budgets. Some are even teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. The Secure Rural Schools program provides them with much needed funding for schools, roads, and law enforcement. And it is imperative that they receive this funding as soon as possible. Within the new extension, Congress directed your agencies to deliver funding within 45 days of enactment. We strongly urge you to make these payments by June 1, 2015 or sooner and request to be notified when these payments have been distributed,” the members wrote in a letter to Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell and BLM Director Neil Kornze. A signed copy of the letter is attached.The delegation also asked the agencies if the payments would be subject to the “sequester,” automatic, across-the-board budget cuts administered by the Office of Management and Budget. This would affect the amount of funding received by counties. “We have also heard questions and concerns from our constituents as to how budget sequestration will impact Fiscal Year 2014 Secure Rural Schools payments. Since it preceded the reauthorization, the Office of Management and Budget’s report from March 10, 2014 does not list Secure Rural Schools as a program subject to sequestration. Please detail for us how your agencies plan to apply the mandated sequester to the recent Secure Rural Schools extension. This is very important to struggling Oregon counties who need to budget for how much money they will receive,” the members wrote.A two year extension of Secure Rural Schools payments was included in recent legislation that reforms how doctors are paid under Medicare. It passed out of the House and Senate with strong bipartisan support, and was signed into law by the President on April 16, 2015. ###
04.30.2015	Greg Walden supports bill to increase funding for veterans programs, continue reforms at the VA WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The U.S. House today passed a bipartisan funding bill to increase resources for America’s veterans and continue reforms at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) strongly supported the bill.“We as a nation owe our freedom to the men and women who have served in uniform. This legislation boosts funding for important veterans services, helping to ensure they receive the care and benefits they have earned through years of service. They deserve nothing less,” Walden said. “Our bill also continues efforts to bring the VA into the 21st century. It contains important funding for reforms, including speeding up claims processing and modernizing electronic health records.”The bill increases discretionary spending for veterans programs by 5.6% over last year’s level, including funding for mental health, traumatic brain injury, and homeless veterans. It would help the claims backlog by providing an additional $163 million in funding for VA claims processing. The bill also includes $233 million in funding for modernizing the VA’s electronic health record system. Click here for more info on the bill.Walden has two veterans on staff who assist Oregonians with problems at the VA, and he has already assisted over 5,000 veterans and their families. For help, please call Walden’s office at 800-533-3303 or visit his website at www.walden.house.gov.Walden has been meeting with veterans in the Second District—including in Bend, Sisters, and The Dalles over the past few weeks—about ways to ensure that veterans get the care and benefits they have earned through the VA. He has also listened to concerns about the implementation of the new Veterans Choice program, which helps veterans obtain care from private non-VA providers. He will continue these conversations in Medford on Saturday during a meeting with the Medford Heroes Breakfast, a group of southern Oregon veterans.For example, the law says that a veteran living more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility may go outside the system for care. Originally, the agency had calculated that 40 mile distance ‘as the crow flies’ instead of the distance it took to drive there. After Congressional pressure from Walden and his colleagues, the VA announced recently that it would rely on actual driving distance from a VA medical facility as the qualifier for eligibility for the Veterans Choice program.Walden has been a strong supporter of veterans legislation in the House, including the recently-passed Clay Hunt SAV Act to help combat veterans suicides. This bipartisan legislation was signed into law by the President earlier this year. Walden also strongly supported the “Hire More Heroes” Act, passed by the House in January, that would help veterans find jobs by ensuring that employers aren’t penalized for hiring them due to a mandate in the new health care law.
04.13.2015	After Greg Walden calls for more public input on forest plan revisions, Forest Service announces it will hold additional listening sessions in rural communities WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. Forest Service (USFS) has announced that the agency will hold at least 12 additional listening sessions on planned revisions to the Northwest Forest Plan, including in Hood River, Lakeview, Klamath Falls, and Bend or La Pine. The move comes after U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) led 10 other members of Congress from the Pacific Northwest last month in urging the agency to allow more opportunities for public input in rural communities most affected by these revisions. “This is a step in the right direction, and I urge the Forest Service to continue to gather public input from the communities that will be impacted most by these revisions. But it’s not enough to just collect input. The agency must carefully listen to what they hear from residents of rural forested communities as they revise the Northwest Forest Plan. If they do, they will learn a lot,” Walden said.In February, USFS announced that they had only planned listening sessions in three locations: Seattle, Wash.; Portland, Ore.; and Redding, Calif. In March, Walden and 10 other members urged the agency to hold additional sessions.“The Northwest Forest Plan has profoundly impacted the communities within our districts and any revisions to the plan will have a similar effect. Holding only three listening sessions disadvantages our constituents in these rural communities. Many of our constituents would have to travel several hours and hundreds of miles to participate. The cost and time commitments involved would likely present an unacceptable hardship for many residents who would otherwise participate in these sessions,” the members wrote. “While incorporating the latest science and revising the Northwest Forest Plan is long overdue, the Forest Service should take all steps possible to ensure that the public has ample opportunities to participate.”Led by Walden, the letter was also signed by every member of the Oregon delegation (Reps. Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, Earl Blumenauer, and Suzanne Bonamici), five members from Washington State (Reps. Jaime Herrera Beutler, Derek Kilmer, Dan Newhouse, Dave Reichert, and Suzan DelBene), and Rep. Doug LaMalfa from California.###
04.07.2015	Greg Walden statement on the passing of Brady Adams WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement on the passing of Brady Adams, former Oregon Senate President and community leader in Grants Pass: “Seldom in our state's history has someone like Brady Adams come along. He coupled deep business experience with an even deeper compassion for those in need. He joyously improved people's lives while actively suppressing acknowledgement for his generosity and vision. He had trouble containing his ‘inner child’ and let it play out with bear villages and statues that enthralled children and employed artists. He served his state and community with utmost integrity and distinction, leaving both in much better shape. My prayers are with Pat and his family as we celebrate his life and mourn his passing.”Adams passed away on Monday in Grants Pass. He was the long-time president of Evergreen Bank, and was President of the Oregon Senate during the 1997 and 1999 sessions.###
04.07.2015	KATU: Greg Walden replaces vet’s stolen flag with one flown at the U.S. Capitol Click here or on the image below to watch the story from KATUPORTLAND— After learning that Oregon veteran John Miller had had his American flag stolen from his home, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) was angry. And he wanted to help make it right. “The idea that someone would disrespect this veteran and our flag this way is shameful. I was so offended when I learned about this that I called up Mr. Miller and offered to fly a flag over the U.S. Capitol in his honor and send it to him to replace the one that was stolen. We need to send a strong message: you don't mess with our veterans and you don't mess with our flag,” Walden told KATU in Portland. Click here for video of Walden calling John Miller.This week, John Miller, who served in the Army during Vietnam, received his new flag at his Portland home. “I was dumbfounded when I heard from him. I almost couldn’t believe it at first. I can’t thank him enough. I’m proud that he’s done this. I wish everybody would fly a flag,” Miller told KATU.If you would like to order a flag that has been flown over the U.S. Capitol, Walden’s office can help. Flags can be ordered in various sizes and fabrics, and you can include a personalized dedication message and request a specific flying date. Please visit his website at walden.house.gov and click on “Ways Greg Can Help” to learn more.Walden works hard to ensure that Oregon veterans get the benefits and care they have earned through years of service. If you or a loved one needs help with the Veterans Administration or any other federal agency, please visit Walden’s website at walden.house.gov or call his office toll free from the (541) area code at (800) 533-3303.###
04.01.2015	20 for 20: Walden holds town halls in every Second District county in first quarter of 2015 *** Click here or on the image below for Walden’s video message ***MADRAS, Ore. — After a meeting yesterday in Jefferson County, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden announced that he has held 21 town hall meetings during the first three months of 2015, at least one in all 20 counties of the Second District (plus a second in Baker County). Walden held 25 town hall meetings in 2014, and has held 94 in the Second District since the beginning of 2012.“Thank you to the hundreds of Oregonians who turned out to my town hall meetings—from Grants Pass to Enterprise, Hood River to Ontario. In a district as large as ours, these meetings require a lot of ‘windshield time’ between stops but they help me keep my to-do list fresh as I travel back to the Nation’s Capital each week. They are another great way I keep in close touch with Oregonians, along with regular telephone town halls, phone calls, Facebook and Twitter messages, mail, and email,” Walden said.Walden, who lives in Hood River with his wife, described the wide variety of questions and concerns he hears as these forums. “While there are many national and global issues that come up—from turmoil in the Middle East to balancing the federal budget—I also get input on solving local problems here at home. Making sure our veterans have access to quality health care, improving management of federal forests, ensuring access to public lands, and providing water and power for job creation all remain top priorities for me,” he said.“I plan more town halls and community meetings in the weeks and months ahead. Oregonians can also keep in touch with me by sending an email through my website, friending me on Facebook, or following me on Twitter. Whether you want to let me know your views on pending legislation, ask a question about my work, or need help with a federal agency like the VA or Social Security Administration, I’ll do all I can to get results for you,” Walden said.Second District residents can get in touch with Walden via his website at www.walden.house.gov, find him on Facebook at www.facebook.com/repgregwalden or follow him on Twitter at @repgregwalden. Walden also maintains full time offices in Medford, Bend, Hood River, and La Grande. His offices can be reached toll free from the 541 area code at 800-533-3303. ###
03.26.2015	U.S. House passes extension of Secure Rural Schools with strong bipartisan vote; Walden pledges continued support for action on forestry reform legislation Click here to watch Walden’s remarks on the House floor before the vote WASHINGTON, DC – With a strong bipartisan vote, the U.S. House today passed a two year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program secured by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River). The extension, which was included in a bipartisan bill that reforms how doctors are paid under Medicare, provides needed funding for schools, roads, and law enforcement in rural forested communities. The measure passed by a vote of 392-37.“Included in this bill is two years’ worth of funding for the Secure Rural Schools program. Now this is like a can of flat fix: an emergency repair on the side of the road to solve a short term problem. What we really need is a permanent fix for our forested counties. But this is an emergency and what we’re doing today is providing a lifeline to our school children in classrooms in rural counties that are forested under federal land, and making sure law enforcement have the resources they need. In my own state of Oregon, this will even protect some counties from going bankrupt because of lack of management and activity on our federal lands,” Walden said on the House floor today before the vote.This two year extension now goes to the Senate. After the vote, Walden urged immediate Senate action. “Now, the House has passed it with strong support on both sides of the aisle, and the President announced yesterday that he would sign it. Rural Oregon counties are counting on swift action in the Senate. The Senate must pass this lifeline right away.”Walden also said that further action is needed in the House and Senate on a permanent solution that reforms federal forest policy. “I remain fully committed to working on forestry legislation that puts people back to work in the woods, reduces the threat of wildfire, and produces the revenue to allow for self-sustaining counties and the people in them. I just hope this time, with a new majority in the Senate, we’ll be able to move forward.”During the last session of Congress, the House twice passed a bipartisan plan that Walden helped write to reform federal forest policy. Unfortunately, Senate Democratic leaders never took any meaningful action to reform federal forest policy.In September 2013, the U.S. House passed a historic forestry reform bill, the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526), which included a section authored by Walden, DeFazio, and Schrader to better manage Oregon’s unique O&C lands. The bill reforms federal forest policy to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and generate revenue for local communities to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement. In September 2014, due to inaction in the Senate, the House passed this bill for a second time. While an alternative plan was eventually offered in the Senate, the full Senate did not vote on either the House or Senate versions of the bill before the end of the last session of Congress.###
03.24.2015	Greg Walden secures two year extension of Secure Rural Schools funding for schools and counties***Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video message***WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that he has secured a two year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program for local schools, roads, and law enforcement in Oregon’s rural forested communities. The extension has been included in a bipartisan agreement to reform how doctors are paid under Medicare, which the House is set to vote on this week. “Last December, Speaker Boehner and I committed to extending this lifeline for rural Oregon communities by March 31. Today, we fulfill that commitment. My Oregon colleague Peter DeFazio deserves credit too for working with his leadership to support including this provision. This two year extension gives us time to continue work on a long-term plan to reform federal forest policy to grow jobs in the woods, improve forest health, and provide certainty for essential local services like schools and roads,” Walden said. The extension will provide funding to 33 cash-strapped Oregon counties. It is broadly supported by local teachers, sheriffs, first responders, and county commissioners. If the county timber payments were not extended, the consequences would be dire for public safety and education. School districts like Grant County School District 3 would be forced to choose between laying off 10 percent of their teachers, eliminating 10 days of instruction, or deferring maintenance for an entire year on their 90-year-old school facilities.According to the Josephine County Sheriff’s Office, they would be forced to eliminate their remaining patrol deputies and 911 dispatchers by July without this funding. The Department faces worse patrol shortages than nearly two years ago when a 911 dispatcher asked a woman if she could just ask a man assaulting her to go away because there were no deputies to send on weekends.House consideration of this bipartisan agreement is expected this week. If passed by the House this week, the bill would then go to the Senate for a vote.Walden pledged to continue bipartisan work to reform federal forest policy. “During the last session of Congress, the House twice passed a bipartisan plan to reform federal forest policy. Unfortunately, Senate Democratic leaders never took any meaningful action to reform federal forest policy. I pledge to continue working hard to put forth a long-term solution to actively manage our forests to grow jobs and revenue,” Walden said. In September 2013, the U.S. House passed a historic forestry reform bill, the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526), which included a section authored by Walden, DeFazio, and Schrader to better manage Oregon’s unique O&C lands. The bill reforms federal forest policy to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and generate revenue for local communities to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement. In September 2014, due to inaction in the Senate, the House passed this bill for a second time. While an alternative plan was eventually offered in the Senate, the full Senate did not vote on either the House or Senate versions of the bill before the end of the last session of Congress.###
03.12.2015	Greg Walden to Transportation Secretary: Time to take action on rail car safetyWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is urging Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx to finalize proposed new safety guidelines for rail tank cars. The Department of Transportation has already missed a legally-mandated deadline of January, and is now saying that the rules may come out in May. “With recent accidents like the one in West Virginia, it is more important than ever that Oregonians know that rail cars passing through our communities are safe. The deadline for new rail safety guidelines has come and gone, but the Administration is still dragging their feet. Lives and property in Oregon and throughout the nation are on the line. I urge the Transportation Department to finalize these important new guidelines as soon as possible,” Walden said.In the letter, Walden told Secretary Foxx of the importance of rail car safety to communities throughout Oregon, especially in the Columbia Gorge. “With this delay, state and local governments nationwide are forced to continue to live with the uncertainty that comes from having the current, outdated DOT-111 tank cars moving through their communities,” Walden wrote in the letter. The full text is below:“Across Oregon, the volume of oil tank cars moving through the state is projected to continue to increase dramatically. In the Columbia Gorge National Scenic Area and local communities, including my hometown of Hood River, Oregon, railroad tracks run through several downtown areas and train derailments and crude oil spills could be catastrophic. First responders responsible for protecting lives and public safety during times of emergency will bear the cost of cleaning up spills and explosions because of DOT’s delay,” he continued.“Railroad shippers, railcar manufacturers, and local communities agree: transportation of these flammable materials needs to be improved and further delays are unacceptable. I urge you to promptly finalize the Enhanced Tank Car Standards and Operational Controls for High-Hazard Flammable Trains rule,” Walden concluded.Dear Secretary Foxx:I write today to express concern with the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT’s) repeated delays in publishing and finalizing the proposed rule regarding Enhanced Tank Car Standards and Operational Controls for High-Hazard Flammable Trains. It has now been over 18 months since the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) first issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM), and I was very disappointed that earlier this year, PHMSA announced they would be delaying the release of this critical rule until May, missing the January 15 deadline established by Congress in the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015.With this delay, state and local governments nationwide are forced to continue to live with the uncertainty that comes from having the current, outdated DOT-111 tank cars moving through their communities. According to the Association of American Railroads, the volume of crude oil shipped by rail has increased from 9,500 carloads in 2008 to 400,000 carloads in 2013. And according to the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), in 2013, more than 290,000 tank cars transported ethanol. Across Oregon, the volume of oil tank cars moving through the state is projected to continue to increase dramatically. In the Columbia Gorge National Scenic Area and local communities, including my hometown of Hood River, Oregon, railroad tracks run through several downtown areas and train derailments and crude oil spills could be catastrophic. First responders responsible for protecting lives and public safety during times of emergency will bear the cost of cleaning up spills and explosions because of DOT’s delay. The lack of certainty on the proposed rule does not just affect our local communities. It also prevents private industry from investing in more advanced safety measures. Without the DOT’s finalized rule, shippers will continue to use existing tank cars, delaying upgrades and purchases until the new regulations are in place. These delays not only keep older tank cars on the rails, but they also prevent companies from investing in our economy.Railroad shippers, railcar manufacturers, and local communities agree: transportation of these flammable materials needs to be improved and further delays are unacceptable. I urge you to promptly finalize the Enhanced Tank Car Standards and Operational Controls for High-Hazard Flammable Trains rule. I appreciate your prompt attention to this matter.###
03.12.2015	Greg Walden responds to FCC release of Depression-era Internet regulations WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, responded today to the Federal Communications Commission’s release of its Depression-era rules to regulate the Internet.“The world finally gets to read and understand just what the White House, acting by proxy via a partisan FCC vote, has done to impose the federal government’s heavy hand to regulate the Internet as a utility. We look forward to working our way through the 300+ pages of this Washington manifesto. Our six-page draft legislation could prevent abuses and promote robust Internet investment – all without the overreach included in the FCC’s order,”Walden said, along with Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation Chairman John Thune (R-S.D.).Walden is the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which has oversight jurisdiction of the FCC. A long-time proponent of a free and open internet, Walden has proposed draft legislation to protect consumers and the Internet without resorting to the FCC’s utility-style regulation.The proposal provides clear rules of the road and guarantees that Internet users will continue to be the decision makers for the content they want, while ensuring that innovation and investment continue to fuel the robust future of the Internet. Most importantly, this legislation avoids lengthy court battles that will surely come from the FCC’s controversial regulation proposal. For more information on Walden’s proposal, please click here and here.###
03.10.2015	Greg Walden statement on the passing of Dave Frohnmayer WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement on the passing of former Oregon Attorney General Dave Frohnmayer: “Dave Frohnmayer dedicated his life to improving the lives of others through his work in higher education, health research and public office. He was bright, independent, caring and unstoppable. “I have fond memories of our many times together, from when I was a sophomore at the U of O and he was teaching law and serving in the Legislature, to hosting him at our home when he was running for governor on what turned out to be the day our son was born. My prayers go out to Lynn and his family as we all celebrate his wonderful life and mourn his passing.”###
03.10.2015	Pacific Northwest members of Congress call on Forest Service to listen to public on forest plan revisions11 members of both parties urge agency to hold additional listening sessions around the Pacific NorthwestWASHINGTON, D.C. — Eleven members of the U.S. House from the Pacific Northwest wrote today to the U.S. Forest Service urging them to hold more listening sessions on upcoming revisions to the Northwest Forest Plan. The members expressed concern that sessions are only planned for three locations: Seattle, Wash.; Portland, Ore.; and Redding, Calif.“For over 30 years, the Northwest Forest Plan has profoundly impacted the communities within our districts and any revisions to the plan will have a similar effect. Holding only three listening sessions disadvantages our constituents in these rural communities. Many of our constituents would have to travel several hours and hundreds of miles to participate. The cost and time commitments involved would likely present an unacceptable hardship for many residents who would otherwise participate in these sessions,” the members wrote. The full text of the letter is below.Led by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), the letter was also signed by every member of the Oregon delegation (Reps. Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, Earl Blumenauer, and Suzanne Bonamici), five members from Washington State (Reps. Jaime Herrera Beutler, Derek Kilmer, Dan Newhouse, Dave Reichert, and Suzan DelBene), and Rep. Doug LaMalfa from California.“While incorporating the latest science and revising the Northwest Forest Plan is long overdue, the Forest Service should take all steps possible to ensure that the public has ample opportunities to participate,” the members continued.In February, the Forest Service announced that the listening sessions would begin “a public conversation on the process for revising forest land management plans in the Northwest Forest Plan amendment area… The land management plans within the Northwest Forest Plan area guide how resources will be managed for 15 to 20 years. These plans are due for revision.” Jim Pena, Regional Forester Randy Moore, Regional ForesterU.S. Forest Service, Region Six U.S. Forest Service, Region Five1220 SW Third Avenue 1323 Club DrivePortland, OR 97204 Vallejo, CA 94592 Dear Regional Forester Pena and Moore:Recently, the Forest Service announced that it would be holding three public listening sessions to begin collecting public input on upcoming revisions to the Northwest Forest Plan, one each in Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; and Redding, California. While we strongly support efforts to gather public input, we are concerned by the limited number and urban focus of these listening sessions. We request the Forest Service hold additional listening sessions in rural forested communities throughout the Northwest, where the residents feel the impacts of plan changes most directly.For over 30 years, the Northwest Forest Plan has profoundly impacted the communities within our districts and any revisions to the plan will have a similar effect. Holding only three listening sessions disadvantages our constituents in these rural communities. Many of our constituents would have to travel several hours and hundreds of miles to participate. The cost and time commitments involved would likely present an unacceptable hardship for many residents who would otherwise participate in these sessions.While incorporating the latest science and revising the Northwest Forest Plan is long overdue, the Forest Service should take all steps possible to ensure that the public has ample opportunities to participate. Once again, we urge you to hold additional listening sessions in a wider variety of locations to ensure that our constituents, both urban and rural, can have their voices heard and their input considered.###
03.03.2015	Greg Walden reacts to address by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Click here or on the image below for audio of Walden’s statementWalden took this photo of the Prime Minister at a reception following his address to Congress todayWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement after attending Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to the U.S. Congress:“Prime Minister Netanyahu delivered a very powerful and clear message today: a nuclear Iran poses a real and urgent threat to America, Israel, and the world. I was humbled and honored to help escort Prime Minister Netanyahu into the chamber and attend his speech. I share the Prime Minister’s strong concerns about the growing threat and the current path of negotiations with the Iranian regime. As threats continue to gather around the world, America must stand with Israel, our closest friend and ally in the region. And we cannot accept a bad deal that allows Iran to continue on a path to a nuclear weapon.”Walden, a strong supporter of Israel, served on the escort committee that welcomed Prime Minister into the House Chamber for his address. ###
03.03.2015	Greg Walden “pleased and relieved” that Stacey Addison is on her way home to OregonWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement after learning that Oregonian Stacey Addison has been allowed to leave East Timor and is on her way home to Oregon:“I am very pleased and relieved that Stacey Addison has been allowed to leave East Timor and is on her way back home to Oregon. This is excellent news for all of us who worked to help Stacey win her freedom, especially her mother Bernadette Kero of Klamath Falls, and her large circle of family, friends, and supporters.”NOTE: Walden spoke with President Barack Obama in January and last week with Secretary of State John Kerry about Addison’s situation. Bernadette Kero, Addision’s mother, lives in Klamath Falls. Walden met with her in December in Klamath Falls.
02.26.2015	Greg Walden responds to FCC’s unprecedented regulation of the internet "Consumers, investment in state-of-the-art networks, and job creation all stand to lose from today’s heavy-handed decision."WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today responded to the FCC’s vote in favor of utility-style regulation of the Internet: “Resorting to Great Depression-era rules will trigger a stampede to the courts, unleashing years of lawsuits and uncertainty at a time when U.S. leadership and the Internet economy are more important than ever. I believe the Internet has worked well under current rules, but I was – and I remain – willing to come to the table with legislation to answer the calls for legally sustainable consumer protections for the free and open Internet that has fostered a generation of innovation, economic growth, and global empowerment.“Republicans, Democrats, consumer groups, and investors all agree that we need sustainable protections to preserve the Internet as we know it. A 3-2 party-line vote is not the policy consensus this issue deserves. Consumers, investment in state-of-the-art networks, and job creation all stand to lose from today’s heavy-handed decision. And transparency has all but evaporated during this broken process. Once these rules finally emerge from the shadows, it will become clear that the FCC’s action today does not end the debate.”Walden is the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which has oversight jurisdiction of the FCC. A long-time proponent of a free and open internet, Walden has proposed draft legislation to protect consumers and the Internet without resorting to the FCC’s utility-style regulation.The proposal provides clear rules of the road and guarantees that Internet users will continue to be the decision makers for the content they want, while ensuring that innovation and investment continue to fuel the robust future of the Internet. Most importantly, this legislation avoids lengthy court battles that will surely come from the FCC’s controversial regulation proposal. For more information on Walden’s proposal, please click here and here.###
02.24.2015	Greg Walden announces 2015 Congressional Art Competition for high school students Winner’s artwork to hang in U.S. Capitol; winner to receive airfare for two to Washington, D.C. to view exhibitDakota Thornton of Mountain View High School in Bend won last year’s Congressional Art Competition for his artwork “No Longer a Mill” (above). This piece is currently on display in the U.S. Capitol.WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today announced that the 2015 Congressional Art Competition is now open to high school students throughout Oregon’s Second District. This exciting annual event is a chance for artistically talented high school students to showcase their talents and have their artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 and, since then, over 650,000 high school students have entered their art work for consideration.“I encourage all high school students in Oregon’s Second District to share their artwork in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. This is a great opportunity for young Oregonians interested in art to showcase their talents for a national audience,” said Walden.A panel of local art experts will judge each student’s work and choose the winner and the runners-up. Besides having their artwork displayed in the 2015 national student art exhibit in the Capitol, the winner also will receive complimentary round-trip airfare for two to visit Washington, D.C., see the exhibit and attend a reception in honor of their talent. The runners-up will be recognized locally and have their artwork hung in one of Walden’s offices in Bend, Medford, La Grande, or Hood River.To enter the contest, students must submit no more than two pieces of artwork and the Student Information & Release Form by April 21, 2015. Please email photos of the artwork (JPEG format), along with the student release form to Lizzie Litzow at Elizabeth.litzow@mail.house.gov. All forms and further information can be found on Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/art-competition###
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the resignation of Oregon Governor John Kitzhaber:“John Kitzhaber has a long record of dedicated public service but sadly the circumstances of his resignation leave another stain on a chapter of Oregon history. If what we have all read is true, this may well go down as one of Oregon government's darkest moments. Many Oregonians are left wondering, how much more is to come? Will those who bankrolled what looks like influence peddling be brought to justice, too? Just how infested is our state government?”
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the resignation of Oregon Governor John Kitzhaber:“John Kitzhaber has a long record of dedicated public service but sadly the circumstances of his resignation leave another stain on a chapter of Oregon history. If what we have all read is true, this may well go down as one of Oregon government's darkest moments. Many Oregonians are left wondering, how much more is to come? Will those who bankrolled what looks like influence peddling be brought to justice, too? Just how infested is our state government?”
02.12.2015	Greg Walden calls for end to West Coast ports slowdown that is harming Oregon agriculture, economy *** Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s remarks ***WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today called for a swift resolution to the labor slowdown affecting ports up and down the West Coast. At a press conference today, Walden outlined the disastrous consequences the crisis has caused for farmers and manufacturers in Oregon, like tree fruit growers in the Columbia Gorge and potato and onion growers in Eastern Oregon.“Enough is enough. These sides need to come together. I believe as someone who represents part of the Columbia River Basin that the lack of an agreement has caused severe economic hardship, not only around the ports, but also for our growers and our manufacturers. And this needs to change. I think those who are involved in this discussion about a contract have to understand that they have a special public obligation. In many respects, they are a public carrier, if you will. There are very few if any alternatives to shipping,” Walden said.“The pear growers in my home town of Hood River have had shipments delayed more than a month. Potato growers from across Oregon have told me that their sales are off about 15 percent. I met with onion growers out on the Idaho border. They’re now shipping, if they can, at less than their production costs. And then the railways are getting backed up as well so they can’t even get a railcar. Our markets are disrupted. Our people are suffering. The people involved in these negotiations have a special public interest obligation. They need to come together in something less than these nine months. Many miracles have occurred in nine months. Babies are born in nine months! You ought to get a contract in nine months. And if you can’t, then we’re going to do something about it. They need to get their work done.”Walden was joined by 15 other members of Congress from both sides of the aisle, including fellow Oregon Representative Kurt Schrader; Washington Representatives Dave Reichert, Jaime Herrera Beutler, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, and Dan Newhouse; and California Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Majority Leader.Walden also announced that he has cosponsored a Congressional resolution expressing the sense of the U.S. House that the port operators and longshoreman union should swiftly conclude their contract negotiations and that, if they do not, the President should use all tools at his authority to intervene in the matter and end the dispute. Click here to read that resolution.Walden has worked closely with other members in the Pacific Northwest to find ways to resolve this situation. He has successfully called for the appointment of a federal mediator in the dispute, and has written to parties involved, urging them to resolve the dispute.In a letter sent today to member of Congress, 359 Oregon companies and groups wrote that, “The impacts of the slowdown of terminal activity at the Port of Portland and other West Coast container ports are severe. It is having a devastating impact on our livelihoods and the rural communities we support. Here in Oregon, we are dependent on the foreign markets for so much of what we grow and manufacture. We take full advantage of trade agreements negotiated over the past two decades which have provided opportunities to new markets; but that has now come to a halt. Our agriculture and forest products exports and imports have been extremely beneficial to our marine terminals and to the thousands of workers engaged in logistics and transport throughout the Pacific Northwest. We are now losing that cargo and those jobs.”###
02.11.2015	Walden calls on President Obama to sign bipartisan Keystone pipeline bill *** Click here for audio from Walden***WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan bill to increase American energy security and grow jobs by authorizing construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. The bill passed the Senate with strong support two weeks ago, and it is now on its way to the President—who has threatened a veto. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) applauded passage of the bill and called on President Obama to drop his veto threat and sign this bipartisan jobs bill.“Now, more than ever, we must increase our energy security and grow jobs in America. After years of delay, it’s time for the President to finally allow the Keystone XL jobs and infrastructure project to go forward. It has been over six years since the application for the pipeline was submitted to the State Department, which has already conducted five reviews, encompassing over 22,000 pages. The final review concluded that the project would not increase carbon emissions and that construction would support approximately 42,000 jobs. These are real jobs in real communities that will help move America’s economy forward,” Walden said. “I’m pleased that bipartisan majorities in the House and Senate have now acted to send this common-sense energy bill to the President’s desk. He should drop his veto threat so we can strengthen America’s energy security and create good-paying jobs.”The Keystone XL Pipeline Act (S. 1) would immediately authorize the construction and operation of the Keystone XL pipeline. The application for the pipeline was first submitted to the U.S. State Department on September 19, 2008. In its latest and final environmental review, released on January 31, 2014, the State Department confirmed that construction of the pipeline would support approximately 42,100 jobs.Walden has strongly supported construction of this pipeline as part of an “all of the above” energy strategy to promote energy independence and grow the economy.###
02.11.2015	Walden calls on President Obama to sign bipartisan Keystone pipeline bill *** Click here for audio from Walden***WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan bill to increase American energy security and grow jobs by authorizing construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. The bill passed the Senate with strong support two weeks ago, and it is now on its way to the President—who has threatened a veto. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) applauded passage of the bill and called on President Obama to drop his veto threat and sign this bipartisan jobs bill.“Now, more than ever, we must increase our energy security and grow jobs in America. After years of delay, it’s time for the President to finally allow the Keystone XL jobs and infrastructure project to go forward. It has been over six years since the application for the pipeline was submitted to the State Department, which has already conducted five reviews, encompassing over 22,000 pages. The final review concluded that the project would not increase carbon emissions and that construction would support approximately 42,000 jobs. These are real jobs in real communities that will help move America’s economy forward,” Walden said. “I’m pleased that bipartisan majorities in the House and Senate have now acted to send this common-sense energy bill to the President’s desk. He should drop his veto threat so we can strengthen America’s energy security and create good-paying jobs.”The Keystone XL Pipeline Act (S. 1) would immediately authorize the construction and operation of the Keystone XL pipeline. The application for the pipeline was first submitted to the U.S. State Department on September 19, 2008. In its latest and final environmental review, released on January 31, 2014, the State Department confirmed that construction of the pipeline would support approximately 42,100 jobs.Walden has strongly supported construction of this pipeline as part of an “all of the above” energy strategy to promote energy independence and grow the economy.###
02.10.2015	Greg Walden reintroduces plan to preserve and improve ambulance services in rural Oregon Walden talks with Doug Stewart, CEO of Mercy Flights in Medford, in front of an air ambulance during a visit last fall. Stewart has strongly supported Walden’s plan to bring certainty to rural ambulance services. WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that he has reintroduced legislation to preserve emergency care in rural Oregon by ensuring that rural ambulance service providers are fairly paid for their services. The Medicare Ambulance Access, Fraud Prevention, and Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 745) would end the uncertainty that rural ambulance services face over reimbursement from Medicare by making permanent appropriate rates for their services. Walden was joined in this effort by other lawmakers in the House and Senate from both parties.“Rural ambulance services save lives and provide needed care in Oregon every day, and they must have the resources they need to provide the highest quality care. But from Grants Pass and Medford to Redmond to The Dalles, I have heard from providers how uncertainty over Medicare rates causes confusion and hampers care. This bipartisan legislation would end the uncertainty rural ambulance services face over Medicare reimbursement rates and allow them to answer calls for help no matter the day, hour, or patient’s location,” Walden said. Under current law, Medicare’s rates to reimburse ambulance services are significantly below the cost of delivering services, especially in rural areas. To address this shortfall, Congress regularly passes temporary legislative fixes to give the ambulance services higher rates. Every time this temporary relief is about to expire, it threatens the availability of ambulance services nationwide. This legislation would make these rate adjustments permanent to give ambulance providers certainty. To read a summary of the legislation, please click here.Leaders in the emergency services community in Oregon praised the legislation. “Mercy Flights is grateful that Rep. Walden has introduced a bill to provide much needed Medicare relief for ambulance services. It directly impacts our ability to provide lifesaving care on 911 calls every day to the citizens of Jackson County. Patients in our community depend on our quick response, highly trained EMTS and paramedics, and the latest medications and technology in their time of need. These Medicare add-ons are essential for us to maintain high quality patient care,” said Doug Stewart, CEO of Mercy Flights Inc. based in Medford. Stewart was at Walden’s town hall in Medford on Friday, where the issue was discussed.“We agree that Congress should ensure continued access to ambulances through permanent relief and reform. By passage of this bill, we will have the ability to develop responsible budgets on known, consistent reimbursement rates. The Walden bill will provide needed stability for us to deliver quality patient care to people in their moment of need. The bill provides added Medicare payments that are essential for us to provide lifesaving care, medications, and transport, especially in remote areas. We support Congressman Walden’s bill and look forward to its passage,” said Robert F. Palmer, Fire Chief of Mid-Columbia Fire and Rescue in The Dalles.“AMR is proud to serve the citizens of Josephine County 24 hours a day and seven days a week. It is expensive to offer the high quality of care to all who call regardless of ability to pay. This bill will offer long term stability so we can continue to do what we do best, save lives,” said Dave Mathews, Paramedic and Manager, American Medical Response in Grants Pass.Three other Democratic and Republican lawmakers in the House joined Walden in his efforts, including Reps. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), and Richard Neal (D-Mass.). The same measure has been introduced in the Senate by Sens. Charles Schumer (D-NY), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.).Walden originally introduced this bill last year, but it did not become law before the conclusion of the last session of Congress. However, a bipartisan push to permanently reform reimbursement rates for Medicare providers across the spectrum gives this effort extra momentum.As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden has long worked to increase access to quality health care in rural Oregon. He has been honored with numerous awards from health care advocates, including the American Ambulance Association’s 2015 Legislative Recognition Award. ###
02.10.2015	Greg Walden reintroduces plan to preserve and improve ambulance services in rural Oregon Walden talks with Doug Stewart, CEO of Mercy Flights in Medford, in front of an air ambulance during a visit last fall. Stewart has strongly supported Walden’s plan to bring certainty to rural ambulance services. WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that he has reintroduced legislation to preserve emergency care in rural Oregon by ensuring that rural ambulance service providers are fairly paid for their services. The Medicare Ambulance Access, Fraud Prevention, and Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 745) would end the uncertainty that rural ambulance services face over reimbursement from Medicare by making permanent appropriate rates for their services. Walden was joined in this effort by other lawmakers in the House and Senate from both parties.“Rural ambulance services save lives and provide needed care in Oregon every day, and they must have the resources they need to provide the highest quality care. But from Grants Pass and Medford to Redmond to The Dalles, I have heard from providers how uncertainty over Medicare rates causes confusion and hampers care. This bipartisan legislation would end the uncertainty rural ambulance services face over Medicare reimbursement rates and allow them to answer calls for help no matter the day, hour, or patient’s location,” Walden said. Under current law, Medicare’s rates to reimburse ambulance services are significantly below the cost of delivering services, especially in rural areas. To address this shortfall, Congress regularly passes temporary legislative fixes to give the ambulance services higher rates. Every time this temporary relief is about to expire, it threatens the availability of ambulance services nationwide. This legislation would make these rate adjustments permanent to give ambulance providers certainty. To read a summary of the legislation, please click here.Leaders in the emergency services community in Oregon praised the legislation. “Mercy Flights is grateful that Rep. Walden has introduced a bill to provide much needed Medicare relief for ambulance services. It directly impacts our ability to provide lifesaving care on 911 calls every day to the citizens of Jackson County. Patients in our community depend on our quick response, highly trained EMTS and paramedics, and the latest medications and technology in their time of need. These Medicare add-ons are essential for us to maintain high quality patient care,” said Doug Stewart, CEO of Mercy Flights Inc. based in Medford. Stewart was at Walden’s town hall in Medford on Friday, where the issue was discussed.“We agree that Congress should ensure continued access to ambulances through permanent relief and reform. By passage of this bill, we will have the ability to develop responsible budgets on known, consistent reimbursement rates. The Walden bill will provide needed stability for us to deliver quality patient care to people in their moment of need. The bill provides added Medicare payments that are essential for us to provide lifesaving care, medications, and transport, especially in remote areas. We support Congressman Walden’s bill and look forward to its passage,” said Robert F. Palmer, Fire Chief of Mid-Columbia Fire and Rescue in The Dalles.“AMR is proud to serve the citizens of Josephine County 24 hours a day and seven days a week. It is expensive to offer the high quality of care to all who call regardless of ability to pay. This bill will offer long term stability so we can continue to do what we do best, save lives,” said Dave Mathews, Paramedic and Manager, American Medical Response in Grants Pass.Three other Democratic and Republican lawmakers in the House joined Walden in his efforts, including Reps. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), and Richard Neal (D-Mass.). The same measure has been introduced in the Senate by Sens. Charles Schumer (D-NY), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.).Walden originally introduced this bill last year, but it did not become law before the conclusion of the last session of Congress. However, a bipartisan push to permanently reform reimbursement rates for Medicare providers across the spectrum gives this effort extra momentum.As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden has long worked to increase access to quality health care in rural Oregon. He has been honored with numerous awards from health care advocates, including the American Ambulance Association’s 2015 Legislative Recognition Award. ###
02.09.2015	In Case You Missed It: “Veterans thank Walden for support” in the Grants Pass Daily CourierVeterans thank Walden for supportBy Jeff Duewel of the Daily CourierFebruary 7, 2015Local veteran Joseph Rice said he thanked U.S. Rep. Greg Walden for "leading the charge against the Veterans Administration, trying to get the system to work" at Friday's Stand Up veterans benefit event at the Josephine County Fairgrounds. "It needs to continue. A lot more needs to be done," Rice said. "He's leading the charge."The congressman was instrumental in the opening of the new medical clinic on Williams Highway last year, and he helped pass legislation — the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act — to allow veterans to see non-VA doctors if their distance or wait time was too long.Walden (R-Hood River) said the program is just getting off the ground, and estimated that 700 veterans in Southern Oregon have the Veterans Choice Card. Bills have been introduced in the current Congress to improve and clarify that 2014 law.Walden rubbed elbows and listened to vets, before speaking at a town hall meeting at the Anne Basker Auditorium in downtown Grants Pass and dropping by the Republican Lincoln Day Dinner at the Taprock Event Center.He was impressed with what the community did for homeless vets."When more than 400 veterans turn out for an event like this, it says to me our job isn't done," Walden said. "It also says this community really supports its vets."Not only are we trying to do more for veterans, we're trying to fix the root problems in the agency that delivers access to care," he added.Walden has also voted for the Hire More Heroes Act, exempting veterans who already receive health care through the VA or Department of Defense from being counted as part of the employee limit under the Affordable Health Care Act.Another pending bill that hits close to home is the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention Act, which would expand mental health services to veterans. Hunt, a Marine who served in Iraq, killed himself in 2008 in Texas.The bill has passed the House and Senate, and is expected to be signed by President Obama, Walden said.Rice said a Josephine County veteran of the war in Iraq, age 32, committed suicide here last week, after getting a phone call from his team leader in the war, who also killed himself."We lose 22 vets a day to suicide," Rice said."It's a huge problem," Walden added.Francis Rowan of Cave Junction, commander of Post 70 of the American Legion, also spoke with Walden."I told him this was a great success today, and that we need more of these in Josephine County," Rowan said. "We have about 17,000 veterans in Josephine County. So we need to have more of these." ###
02.05.2015	Greg Walden statement on the passing of former Congressman Wes CooleyWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement on the passing of former Oregon Congressman Wes Cooley:“My thoughts and prayers are with the family of Wes Cooley during this difficult time of loss. Despite his various legal issues over the last 20 years, I know he cared deeply about the rural West and the country.”Cooley, who represented Oregon’s Second District from 1995-1997, passed away yesterday in Bend. ###
01.30.2015	Walden, Wheeler praise successful spectrum auction in The Hill “Spectrum Auction is Bipartisanship in Action”By Greg Walden, Chairman of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Tom Wheeler, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)https://thehill.com/opinion/op-ed/231196-spectrum-auction-is-bipartisanship-in-actionWhat if someone told you that Republicans and Democrats in Washington, D.C., worked together to create thousands of new American jobs, reduce the deficit, and contribute billions to our country’s economic growth? As improbable as that may sound, it happened.On Thursday, the Federal Communications Commission completed an auction of spectrum – the radio frequencies that transmit the data that fuels our communications and economy – that will be used to expand and improve mobile broadband. Gross bids totaled almost $44.9 billion, making this auction – known as the AWS-3 auction – the highest-grossing spectrum auction in U.S. history.By any measure, this auction was a resounding success. Winning bids came in about three times higher than analysts had expected, but more important, the revenue generated by the auction will be put to productive and responsible use.The money will be used to fund FirstNet, the government agency tasked with creating the nation’s first interoperable broadband network for first responders, to finance technological upgrades to our 911 emergency systems, and to contribute over $20 billion to deficit reduction.In addition, the auction brought 65 Megahertz of spectrum to market to fuel our nation’s mobile broadband networks. The wireless industry estimates that for every 10 Megahertz of spectrum licensed for wireless broadband, 7,000 American jobs are created and U.S. gross domestic product increases by $1.7 billion. Bringing additional spectrum to market also contributes to technological innovation, greater competition, and more consumer choices.Not long ago, many people said an auction like this couldn’t be done. But both parties in Congress got together in 2012 to pass legislation, which authorized the AWS-3 auction.The spectrum sold in the auction was originally being used by the U.S. military and other federal agencies before the Act passed. But after the legislation passed, bipartisan congressional and agency staffs worked to develop a plan for how to auction, relocate, and share this valuable federal spectrum without ever jeopardizing critical national security functions at the Pentagon or across the government.The auction would not have been possible without the collective efforts of a broad range of partners across the government: especially leadership of the congressional commerce committees, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, and the Departments of Defense, Justice, and Homeland Security.But the success story isn’t over yet. Another spectrum boon for consumers and our economy is on the horizon. The law also directs the FCC to hold a first-of-its-kind Incentive Auction: a new, two-sided auction that harnesses market forces to repurpose spectrum voluntarily relinquished by TV broadcasters for wireless broadband. This “beachfront” spectrum is especially valuable. Since the AWS-3 auction successfully paid for the priorities mandated by Congress, every cent of net revenue from the Incentive Auction – after payments to broadcasters who elect to relinquish spectrum – will go toward deficit reduction.Something like the Incentive Auction has never been tried before – but neither had anything like the AWS-3 auction. As we’ve seen, that auction’s success is a good sign that bipartisan, collaborative efforts can and do produce positive results for the American people.We hope to see the same level of dedication, cooperation, and ingenuity as the Commission and its partners work to ensure the Incentive Auction is a success. Bipartisan collaboration across the government is still very possible, and this work will help cement our country’s global leadership in mobile innovation. Wheeler is the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. Walden has represented Oregon’s 2nd Congressional District since 1999. He sits on the Energy and Commerce Committee and is chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology.To read the column online, click here. # # #
01.21.2015	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden reacts to the State of the Union Click here to watch Walden’s video messageWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued a video statement after the President’s State of the Union Address. Click here to watch his message. ###
01.12.2015	Walden, Zinke challenge members of Ohio Delegation in friendly wager on College Football National Championship GameWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), joined by Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-Mont.), challenged three members of the Ohio Congressional Delegation—Reps. John Boehner, Steve Stivers, and Pat Tiberi—to a friendly wager on tonight’s College Football National Championship between the Oregon Ducks and the Ohio State Buckeyes. The terms of the bet are as follows: the unfortunate victim of defeat must wear a tie with the victor’s team colors or logo on Tuesday, January 13th, as well as send a congratulatory photo, wearing the tie, to the winning team.“Led by Heisman winner Marcus Mariota’s ‘quack attack,’ the Oregon Ducks have already made us proud with a successful, historic season. I have little doubt that their talent and hard work will ‘win the day’ and bring home the championship tonight. As a proud U of O alumnus, I’m excited to cheer them on tonight and see my Ohio colleagues wear yellow and green on Tuesday. Go Ducks!!,” Walden said.Said Boehner, “I can’t decide what I’m looking forward to most – Zinke and Walden’s Scarlet-and-Gray ties, or the way Oregon’s offense is going to be ‘tied in knots’ after Joey Bosa and the Buckeyes’ defensive line are finished with them.” “Ohio State is a very talented team with great coaching staff and a championship legacy, but I have no doubts that the Speaker and Pat will be wearing green on Tuesday,” said Zinke. “Oregon is talented, explosive and hungry to win their first National Championship.” “Oregon has a good team, but the Buckeyes have beaten the Ducks on their way to two national titles already, and have never lost to the Ducks – we’re not starting now,” said Tiberi. “As a life-long Buckeye fan and a proud TBDBITL alumnus, I believe Ohio State’s stellar defense and ability to exceed expectations will lead them to victory.”“As a two- time Ohio State graduate, I believe in the Buckeyes. This team has heart, talent and teamwork,” said Stivers. “I'm very excited to see the Oregon Alums in Scarlet and Gray next week. I'm confident that none of our Buckeyes will have to wear ugly neon yellow and green ties.”Walden and his wife, Mylene, are both proud graduates of the University of Oregon.###
01.09.2015	“We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union…”Those timeless words begin the U.S. Constitution, the framework on which we have built the United States. The principles enshrined in this document—especially the protection of individual liberty and maintaining a limited government responsive to the people—ring just as true today as they did in 1787.Today, the House continued the tradition of reading the Constitution aloud on the House floor at the beginning of each new session of Congress. I was proud to help start this tradition in 2011, when the new House Republican majority came into power.This reading, conducted by members of Congress from both parties, sends a strong signal that the People’s House is dedicated to the Constitution and the enduring principles enshrined in it. The limited powers granted to the federal government by the Constitution are given by the people, for the people.It is not enough to read the Constitution, though. The Congress (and the President) must listen to it. We are a nation of laws, not of men. And the Congress and the President must adhere to the Constitution and the finite list of powers granted to the federal government.That’s why I strongly support the requirement (renewed this week by the new Congress) that every bill introduced by the House contain a statement citing the text of the Constitution which authorizes it.I pledge to continue to work hard to follow the principles enshrined in the Constitution and to ensure that (in the words of President Lincoln) “that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”It’s an honor to represent you in the U.S. Congress. - Greg
01.08.2015	U.S. House passes bipartisan bills to help veterans find jobs, lift burdens on hourly workers and small businesses Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. — As the new Congress convened this week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed bills championed by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to help veterans find jobs and lift burdens on American workers and small businesses. Walden was a cosponsor of both bills, which passed the House with bipartisan support. In a video messageafter passage of the bills, Walden said, “With the new Congress in session this week, we’ve already passed bills to grow jobs, provide opportunities for our veterans, and protect small businesses from some of the worst abuses of Obamacare.”The first bill, the Hire More Heroes Act (H.R. 22), exempts veterans who already are receiving their healthcare provided through either the Veterans Administration or the Department of Defense from being counted as a part of the employee limit under the new health care law. “By exempting these veterans, we reduce costs and confusion for small businesses, and thereby help create new opportunities for members of our military as they return to civilian life. This is a win for jobs and our veterans,” Walden said. H.R. 22 passed the U.S. House unanimously on Tuesday.The House also passed the Save American Workers Act (H.R. 30), which would protect millions of hourly workers from the healthcare law’s change to the definition of “full-time” employee. “By defining full-time work as 30 hours per week instead of 40, the healthcare law puts over 2 million American workers at risk of having their hours and wages cut. The majority of the workers most likely to be hurt by this change are women, as well young workers and people without a college degree,” Walden said. H.R. 30 would restore the definition of “full time” to 40 hours per week.Oregon small business leaders praised passage of this bill. “The 30-hour full-time definition is already resulting in less opportunities, fewer hours and lower incomes for employees,” said Jan Meekcoms, Oregon state director for the National Federation of Independent Business. “To re-calibrate the definition of full time employment to 40 hours within Obamacare is a big deal to our members. Passage of HR 30 is a step in the right direction to start rebuilding confidence within Oregon’s small business community and would have a positive impact on job growth.”Walden urged swift Senate action on the plans. “My wife and I owned small businesses in Oregon for nearly 20 years. I know what it takes to sign both the front and the back of a paycheck. And I know that Congress needs to have a bipartisan focus on policies that grow our economy and create jobs in America. I hope that the Senate will soon send these common sense bills to the President’s desk so we can help get more Americans back to work,” Walden said.Both of these bills had passed the House with strong support in the last session of Congress, but were not brought up for a vote in the U.S. Senate. The new Republican majority in the Senate has pledged to take action on these bipartisan bills.###
12.19.2014	Walden nominates Oregon students for acceptance to U.S. service academies Click here to watch KDRV Medford’s coverage of Walden’s announcementMEDFORD — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has announced the nomination of eight Oregon students for acceptance to one of the prestigious United States service academies based on their academic performance, extracurricular involvement, and character. Walden made the announcement in Medford yesterday with three of the nominees. Members of Walden’s Service Academy Nomination Board—active and retired military officers who interview potential candidates to the service academies and make recommendations to Walden—were also present.“Being nominated to one of our nation’s service academies represents years of hard work and discipline,” Walden said. “Competing with the best and brightest of America’s youth for an appointment to an academy is a great honor and a tremendous opportunity. I am confident that these talented students would represent their families and nation well in that effort, and I commend them for their desire to serve our country in uniform. It takes a special commitment to pursue the rigors of an academy education, and these young Americans are continuing a long line of patriotic Oregonians in their endeavor.”The service academies include the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO; the Military Academy at West Point, NY; the Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD; and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY. Final selection for admission to the service academies will be performed by officials at each respective academy this spring. The nominees are as follows:Deschutes County McKenzie Bell, daughter of Kyle & Kelsey Bell of Bend, attending College of Idaho (2013 graduate of Bend High School)—nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Jackson CountyJohn (Ryne) Robitz, son of John (Tim) & Mary Robitz of Ashland, attending Ashland High School—nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy and Merchant Marine Academy.Josephine CountyConnor McGlothlin, son of Antonio & Shannon McGlothlin of Grants Pass, attending Grants Pass High School—nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval AcademyKlamath CountyNathanial (Nate) Beckstrand, son of John & Dawn Beckstrand of Klamath Falls, attending Hosanna Christian Academy—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy.Jonathan (Jonny) Heitzman, son of Stefan & Jaime Heitzman of Crescent, attending Gilchrist High School— nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy.Hood River CountyStanley (Stan) Ocheskey, son of Brent & Emily Ocheskey of Hood River, attending Hood River Valley High School—nominated to the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, and U.S. Air Force Academy.Morrow CountyJoseph (Joe) Schmidt, son of Richard & Pamela Schmidt of Heppner, attending Heppner High School—nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy.Harney County Jeff Davies, son of Stacy & Elaine Davies of Hines, attending Burns High School—nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy.###
12.19.2014	Walden, Merkley Central Oregon Jobs and Water plan signed into law President’s signature on Crooked River legislation paves the way for greater water security and economic growth for Central OregonWASHINGTON– Legislation written by Senator Jeff Merkley and Representative Greg Walden to improve water management and grow jobs in Central Oregon has become law now that the President has signed the Crooked River Collaborative Water Security and Jobs Act. The legislation was unanimously approved by the Senate and House late last week, delivering Central Oregon a major victory towards improved water certainty and a stronger foundation to grow the economy and create jobs.“After many years of hard work, our Central Oregon jobs and water plan is now the law of the land. This bill is a win for jobs in Central Oregon. It provides much needed water to Prineville for city residents and economic development, ensures certainty for farmers, improves fish habitat for tribes and other fishermen, paves the way for energy generation at Bowman Dam, and protects recreation. I’d like to again thank everyone who came together on this important bill, and pledge that I’ll work hard to ensure that it is implemented promptly,” Walden said. “Having this bill signed into law is a great holiday gift to the Central Oregon community,” said Merkley. “A new water management plan will provide so many benefits to the region: increased municipal water to support growth in Prineville, new potential for hydropower energy, a certain supply of water for farmers and ranchers, and a healthy river ecosystem to restore fish and promote tourism and recreation. With this vision now being put into action, Central Oregon will be a model for how to manage our water resources in a way that is truly better for the whole community.”Senator Merkley and Representative Walden have been working intensely to agree on legislation and to clear a path for passage in both houses of Congress. The legislation will implement the collaborative water management vision developed by local stakeholders in Central Oregon, including the city of Prineville, Crook County, the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs, American Rivers, Deschutes Basin Board of Control (representing the seven major irrigation districts in Central Oregon), NW Steelheaders, Ochoco and North Unit Irrigation Districts, Portland General Electric, Trout Unlimited, WaterWatch, and Central Oregon Flyfishers.The legislation will provide numerous benefits to water users and the Central Oregon region by:Meeting the municipal water needs for the city of Prineville long into the future so the city can continue to attract new businesses like data centers that require reliable water supplies;Providing greater certainty for the agricultural community that depends on the Crooked River for irrigation;Allowing water to be released from Bowman Dam to help maintain healthy steelhead, salmon and trout fisheries, which are cherished by local fishermen;Moving the federal wild and scenic river boundary from the top of the dam, fixing an administrative error that has blocked efforts to retrofit Bowman Dam to generate clean hydroelectric power; andCreating a process to help better plan for dry years, in terms of the impact on fish habitat and fishing, as well as boating and other recreational activities.Last week, The Bulletinin Bend urged the President to sign the bill, declaring, “Walden, Merkley get Bowman Dam right.”###
12.12.2014	Walden supports plan to keep spending in check, rein in unnecessary federal red tape to grow jobs Key wins for southern, central, eastern Oregon included in spending agreement Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video messageWASHINGTON— The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bipartisan bill that funds the government for the remainder of the fiscal year and implements key policy changes that benefit southern, central and eastern Oregon by reining in burdensome federal red tape. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) supported this plan, and released a video message explaining his support. A transcript is below:“While this measure is not perfect, certainly, it does reduce funding for federal agencies to a level on the discretionary side that is below what it was when President Obama took office. And it does keep the government open. Importantly for our famers and our ranchers, this plan halts an increase in grazing fees and it stops proposals to list the sage grouse under the ESA. That’s a move that could decimate rural economies in eastern Oregon. We increase our oversight of agencies, like the IRS, and we cut funding from them. And we cut wasteful spending from agencies like EPA that try to push forward with really bad regulations that hurt our farmers, and ranchers, and job creators.“This legislation provides full funding for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes program. Now that’s very important for our counties, to make sure they have the dollars necessary for essential local services, while also providing full funding for wildfire suppression operations – also very important. It also ensures that Oregon potato growers are no longer needlessly excluded from federal nutrition programs.“Under this plan, we provide additional funding to address growing threats around the world, such as Ebola and ISIS. And importantly, we take care of the men and women who serve our nation, wear our nation’s uniform, by full funding a pay raise and providing funding to ensure that our veterans get the needed care that they’ve earned and deserve. This plan continues our efforts to reduce waste, cut out federal red tape where possible, and create jobs in Oregon and around the country.”The bill is now headed to the Senate, which is expected to pass it in coming days. Key highlights of the plan are below:Highlights of the PlanPrevents an endangered species listing of the sage grouse: The bill prohibits the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service from issuing further rules to list the sage grouse under the endangered species act. This delay allows local collaborative efforts in Oregon and across the West time to restore sage grouse habitat to ensure a premature listing doesn’t decimate rural economies. As Walden has said, “The effect of the sage grouse’s listing could make the spotted owl look like child’s play,” which is why he has repeatedly urged the Administration to build solutions from the ground up and collect crucial input from local communities.Directs the BLM to follow the law on the Steens: Walden has worked hard to demand that the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) pay for fencing on Steens Mountain required under the Steens Act, a law authored by Walden in 2000. The bill sends a clear message that the fencing is the responsibility of the BLM, not ranchers in the area, reading, “The Committee is concerned that BLM has attempted to place the responsibility for fencing upon private landowners within the cattle free area identified by the [Steens] Act, despite the Act’s clear mandate that fencing is BLM’s responsibility. The BLM is directed to comply with the Act.” In April, Walden met with ranchers and the BLM in Burns to urge the agency to follow the law. Halts proposed increase of grazing fees:The bill blocks an Administration proposal to charge millions in new grazing fees on BLM and Forest Service lands in Oregon and across the West. It also provides resources to help reduce the current backlog in processing grazing permits.Fully funds PILT program for Oregon counties: Combined with funding included in the National Defense Authorization Act (passed by the House last week), the bill fully funds the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program to counties to help offset losses in tax revenue due to non-taxable federal land. This provides Oregon counties with much needed revenue for essential local services and ensures the federal government pays its fair share on land it owns.Makes white potatoes eligible for purchase through the WIC program: Under current rules, participants in the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) federal nutrition program are barred from purchasing fresh white potatoes with WIC funds. This bill lifts that ban, allowing WIC participants to choose Oregon potatoes as a healthy, low-cost way to feed their families. Walden had led a bipartisan coalition of over 90 members to urge the Secretary of Agriculture to lift this ban.Provides full funding for wildfire suppression: Provides increased funding for wild land fire management activities, a $223 million increase over last year’s funding level. This includes needed funding for next generation air tankers to improve firefighting capability.Reduces funding for the EPA: The plan increases oversight of the EPA and reduces funding for the agency, which has seen funding reduces by 21 percent since 2010. It also reduces staffing levels at the EPA, bringing staffing to the lowest level in 25 years.Increases oversight of the IRS: The bill slashes funding for the IRS to below 2008 levels. It also prohibits the agency from using funds to improperly disclose confidential taxpayer information or to target groups for scrutiny based on their political beliefs.Fully funds a 1% pay raise for troops and provides needed funding to the VA: The bill funds a pay raise for men and women in uniform and fully funds a cost of living adjustment for military retirees. It also provides needed funding for veterans health care and to help reduce the claims backlog at the VA.Stops funding for the UN Arms Trade Treaty: The bill blocks any U.S. funding from going to the United Nations to implement the UN Arms Trade Treaty, which Walden has strongly opposed due to its potential threat to Second Amendment rights.###
12.11.2014	Merkley, Walden Deliver Crooked River Agreement as Legislation Passes SenateBipartisan agreement is poised for passage in House; will deliver greater water security and economic growth for Central OregonWASHINGTON – Today, Oregon’s Senator Jeff Merkley and Representative Greg Walden announced they have reached an agreement on legislation to implement a collaborative vision for water management along the Crooked River, and that the bill passed the Senate unanimously this afternoon.These developments set the stage for the bill to become law soon and deliver improved water certainty and a stronger foundation for economic growth and job creation in Central Oregon. “This is a great victory for Central Oregon,” Merkley said. “This collaborative plan, which reflects enormous contributions from throughout the community, resolves a 40-year fight over water. It’s a win-win plan that will bring jobs and certainty to the region, ensuring water for economic development, farming, recreation, and healthy streams. My thanks go out to everyone in Central Oregon who helped make this plan a reality, as well as to Congressman Walden and Senator Wyden, and I look forward to seeing Central Oregon thrive with a win-win water management plan.”“This bill is a win for jobs in Central Oregon,” said Walden. “It provides much needed water to Prineville for city residents and economic development, ensures certainty for farmers, improves fish habitat for tribes and other fishermen, paves the way for energy generation at Bowman Dam, and protects recreation. I want to thank all stakeholders who worked in a collaborative way to get to this agreement which benefits the region as a whole. And I’d like to thank Senator Merkley for stepping up and working hard in this effort. Barring any unforeseen delays, the House will soon pass this bill and send it to the President’s desk to be signed into law.”Senator Merkley and Representative Walden have been working intensely to agree on legislation and to clear a path for passage in both houses of Congress. The legislation will implement the collaborative water management vision developed by local stakeholders in Central Oregon, including the City of Prineville, Crook County, the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs, American Rivers, Deschutes Basin Board of Control (representing the seven major irrigation districts in Central Oregon), NW Steelheaders, Ochoco and North Unit Irrigation Districts, Portland General Electric, Trout Unlimited, WaterWatch, and Central Oregon Flyfishers.The legislation will provide numerous benefits to water users and the Central Oregon region by:Meeting the municipal water needs for the city of Prineville long into the future so the city can continue to attract new businesses like data centers that require reliable water supplies;Providing greater certainty for the agricultural community that depends on the Crooked River for irrigation;Allowing water to be released from Bowman Dam to help maintain a healthy steelhead, salmon and trout fisheries, which are cherished by local fishermen;Moving the federal wild and scenic river boundary from the top of the dam, fixing an administrative error that has blocked efforts to retrofit Bowman Dam to generate clean hydroelectric power; andCreating a process to help better plan for dry years, in terms of the impact on fish habitat and fishing, as well as boating and other recreational activities.###
12.09.2014	Greg Walden announces full funding for Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, plan to reform federal forest policy, extend county timber paymentsSpeaker Boehner pledges support for forestry reform, timber payments extensionWASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that House and Senate leaders have agreed to a plan that fully funds the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Program (PILT), providing much needed funding for essential local services to Oregon counties. Walden also announced that Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-Ohio) and House Republican Leaders have pledged to make a federal forest policy reform bill a priority in the next Congress and that the House will consider an extension of the Secure Rural Schools program in the first quarter of 2015. Walden issued the following statement:“I have worked hard with Reps. Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader on a bipartisan bill to reform federal forest policy. The House has twice passed the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (HR 1526), a bipartisan plan to grow jobs in the woods, improve forest health, and provide funding for important local services like schools and roads. It’s unfortunate that Senate Democratic leaders failed to act on this bill or any meaningful reforms to forest policy that would have opened up discussions for a compromise. “Speaker Boehner has pledged that the House will work with the new Republican majority in the Senate next year to send the president a long-term solution to provide certainty for rural forested communities and the people who live there. The Speaker has also pledged that the House will act to provide an extension of the Secure Rural Schools program in the first quarter of next year.“If the Senate would have acted on federal forest policy reform, it would have gone a long way towards providing a long-term solution to actively managing our forests to grow jobs and revenue. But I remain strongly supportive of getting the job done with a viable pay-for once and for all without political gimmickry. I will work with the relevant committees on this solution, and I’m confident we’ll achieve a better and lasting solution under Republican leadership in the House and Senate.” Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah), incoming Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, also pledged to work closely with Walden. “Greg Walden has been a strong champion for reforming federal forest policy to grow jobs, improve forest health, and provide much-needed revenue for essential local services. As the incoming Chair of the House Natural Resources Committee, I look forward to working closely with Greg and House and Senate leadership next year to pass needed forestry reform, grow rural economies, and help provide certainty for needed local services like schools, roads, and law enforcement.”Funding for the PILT program is contained in this year’s government funding agreement. Combined with funding in the National Defense Authorization Act passed by the House last week, PILT will be fully funded this year at $442 million, a slight increase from last year. Although Oregon’s exact share is yet to be determined, last year Oregon counties received $17.6 million for essential local services.In September 2013, the U.S. House passed a historic forestry reform bill, the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526), which included a section authored by Walden, DeFazio, and Schrader. The bill reforms federal forest policy to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and generate revenue for local communities to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement. In September 2014, due to inaction in the Senate, the House passed this bill for a second time. While an alternative plan has been offered in the Senate, the full Senate has not had a chance to vote on either the House or Senate versions of the bill. ###
12.04.2014	Greg Walden applauds House passage of bill to ease financial strain for people with disabilities, their familiesWASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives has passed a bill that seeks to ease the financial strains faced by individuals with disabilities by creating tax-free savings accounts to cover expenses such as housing, education, and transportation. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) is a co-sponsor of this bill, the Achieving Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act (H.R. 647), which passed the House with strong bipartisan support today“Throughout Oregon’s Second District, I have met many individuals with disabilities, their families, and the volunteers who support them. Their sprit and dedication have inspired me to work hard to raise awareness and improve the lives of people with disabilities and their families. That’s why I am proud that the House has passed the ABLE Act with strong support. Individuals with disabilities and their families deserve access to tools that help ease the financial strain they face and allow them to save for the future, and this bill does just that,” Walden said.Advocates in Oregon praised passage of the bill. “As the father of a child with disabilities, my family and I have repeatedly encountered federal roadblocks as we plan for our daughter’s future. The ABLE Act would help level the playing field and give individuals with disabilities more opportunities to save money, work, and even live independently. My family would like to thank Greg Walden for helping pass this important bill in the House,” said James Naumes of Medford.Between college savings accounts, health savings accounts, and individual retirement accounts, all other Americans have multiple tax-exempt accounts at their disposal as they plan for their future. People with disabilities, on the other hand, can only save $2,000 in assets tax free- a rule that dates back to 1974. This policy limits opportunities for millions of Americans. The ABLE Act would level the playing field for individuals with disabilities and their families so that they, too, can save for the future.With an ABLE account, individuals can save for a variety of essential expenses, including medical and dental care, education, community-based support services, employment training, assistive technology, housing, and transportation. These types of savings, and the long-term security they bring, would help empower people to live independently, work, and go to college. The ABLE Act now heads to the Senate, where 74 Senators are cosponsors of this bill. For more information, please click here.
12.03.2014	Greg Walden secures inclusion of Hermiston jobs and ag research bill in public lands agreement House and Senate expected to pass bill into law in coming daysWASHINGTON, D.C. –As House and Senate leaders introduced a public lands agreement that will be swiftly moved through Congress in the coming days, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has secured inclusion of a bill to boost economic opportunities in Hermiston and allow important agriculture research to continue.The Hermiston Reversionary Lands Act (H.R. 3366) would place the 290 acres of land currently home to Oregon State University’s Hermiston Agriculture Research and Experiment Center (HAREC) fully under local control. The bill allows important research to continue and provides flexibility for future economic development in the area. For the full text of the bill click here.“This common-sense plan is a win for jobs and farming in eastern Oregon’s fastest growing community and the Columbia Basin’s strong agriculture economy as a whole. By repealing an antiquated federal rule, this bill provides an opportunity to grow Hermiston’s economy while allowing the flexibility needed for valuable, local agriculture research to continue. That’s why I worked hard to include it in this agreement, and am pleased to see it is on its way to becoming law,” Walden said.Walden’s bill passed the House unanimously as a stand-alone bill in May, but the Senate has not held a vote on it. Inclusion in this larger legislative agreement paves the way for it to be passed into law this month. Click here to watch Walden speak about the plan on the House floor in May.In 1954, the 290 acres near Hermiston was conveyed by the federal government to the State of Oregon for the creation of an agricultural experiment station. However, the federal government still holds mineral and reversionary interest in the property. Should any portion of the current research station property no longer be used for agricultural research purposes, the property would return to federal ownership.This antiquated clause creates management challenges for the station and denies the flexibility needed for OSU to generate revenue from portions unsuited for agriculture research. For example, it denies the university the ability to sell the property and relocate the station out beyond city limits to an area better located for agriculture research as needed in the future. The clause also denies the local community the flexibility it needs to build the economy and provide jobs to meet the demands of the growing region.When the bill passed the House in May, local leaders hailed passage. “Oregon State University strongly endorses passage of H.R.3366 which will remove the federal reversionary clause on the Hermiston Agricultural Research and Extension Center. This will provide the flexibility needed to ensure that the station can continue to do research in support of the agricultural community, the needs of the city of Hermiston, the region and beyond, now and for generations to come,” said Oregon State University President Edward J. Ray at the time.“As an agricultural community, we depend on the OSU Hermiston experiment station to have the latest crop research and techniques to remain competitive, support our economy and grow jobs. We appreciate Congressman Walden working with growers here locally to make sure an obscure federal law does not endanger the future of the experiment station and our agricultural economy,” said local farmer Bryan Wolfe, Chairman of Hermiston Agricultural Research and Experiment Station Advisory Committee. “The reversionary interest that the federal government maintains over the Hermiston experiment station deprives our community and OSU of the flexibility it needs to maximize the value of the property and the research done there. As our city continues to rapidly expand around the station, the reversionary interest stands in the way of future development. We thank Congressman Walden for removing this barrier to economic growth,” said Hermiston Mayor David Drotzmann.
11.25.2014	In Case You Missed It: Editorial in The Observer praises passage of Walden’s satellite television bill With overwhelming bipartisan support, the House and Senate both acted last week to pass bipartisan legislation—the STELA Reauthorization Act, co-authored by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River)—to ensure that over 1.5 million satellite television subscribers will continue to receive broadcast programming.While the legislation waits on the president’s signature, The Observer in La Grande on Monday praised Walden’s work on the bipartisan and bicameral legislation. “Walden deserves a great deal of praise for his role in this matter, and, once again, his actions illustrate why he has become such a force for his constituents in the halls of Congress,” the paper noted. They continued that the legislation, if signed into law, will “do some very good things for the residents in remote areas of Oregon.” Read the full editorial below.As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, Walden worked to write a reauthorization of the satellite law that would receive the support of both parties and all sectors of the communications industry.. The provisions included in this bill must be renewed by December 31, 2014, to ensure that consumers don’t lose access to satellite programming.November 24, 2014OUR VIEW: TV bill’s passage a good thingAs a flash-point issue or an example of monumental, epoch-changing legislation, the recent passage of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act Reauthorization might not appear noteworthy.Yet it is one of those pieces of legislation the Congress tackles on a regular basis that you and I rarely hear about.At its essence, the bill — dubbed STELAR — ensures nearly 1.5 million subscribers to satellite television will continue to have access to broadcast network programming after Jan. 1, 2015.The bill — spearheaded by Oregon U.S. Rep. Greg Walden — gained passage by the U.S. House of Representatives last summer, but the new legislation is a compromise package between the House and the Senate. The new bill, while a compromise, will still accomplish the main objective of ensuring people who live in remote areas, like portions of Union and most of WallowaCounty, can continue to get access to key local programming.“If we do not act to extend these provisions by the end of this Congress, 1.5 million subscribers to satellite television, including many in Oregon, will not have access to broadcast network programming come New Year’s Day,” Walden said during debate on the bill.Walden deserves a great deal of praise for his role in this matter, and, once again, his actions illustrate why he has become such a force for his constituents in the halls of Congress.“This bill represents the best of how Congress works when it works together,” Walden said. “Today’s version of STELAR is a compromise bill that incorporates the provisions passed unanimously by the House earlier this year, with the provisions that passed by voice vote out of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation. By coming together to produce legislation with strong bipartisan, bicameral support we have demonstrated our clear commitment to the continued availability of broadcast programming to millions of subscribers and to some targeted and, in some cases, much needed reforms to our communications laws.”The provisions of the compromise bill must be renewed by Dec. 31 and we hope that occurs. We also believe that this kind of lawmaking is too often ignored and forgotten by the body politic. Yes, STELAR isn’t a flash-point issue. It isn’t going to grab a lot of headlines. But it will, if the provisions are renewed, do some very good things for the residents in remote areas of Oregon.We think that is a pretty good accomplishment. Please click here to read the article online.
11.19.2014	U.S. House unanimously passes Greg Walden’s bill to preserve rural satellite television service Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s floor speech on the billWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives today has, for the second time, unanimously passed the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act Reauthorization (STELA), a bill authored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to ensure that satellite subscribers in remote areas do not lose access to local programming. Although a previous version of this bill was passed in the House in July, this version (H.R. 5728) represents a compromise with the Senate. “If we do not act to extend these provisions by the end of this Congress, 1.5 million subscribers to satellite television, including many in Oregon, will not have access to broadcast network programming come New Year’s Day,” Walden said during debate on the bill.“This bill represents the best of how Congress works when it works together. Today’s version of STELAR is a compromise bill that incorporates the provisions passed unanimously by the House earlier this year, with the provisions that passed by voice vote out of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation. By coming together to produce legislation with strong bipartisan, bicameral support we have demonstrated our clear commitment to the continued availability of broadcast programming to millions of subscribers and to some targeted and, in some cases, much needed reforms to our communications laws,” Walden continued.As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, Walden worked to write a reauthorization of the satellite law that would receive the support of both parties and all sectors of the communications industry. Walden introduced the bill along with full Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Ranking Member Henry Waxman (D-Calif.) and Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.).The provisions included in this bill must be renewed by December 31, 2014, to ensure that consumers don’t lose access to satellite programming. To read the legislation, please click here.
11.11.2014	VIDEO RELEASE: Greg Walden commemorates Veterans Day 2014 Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video statementWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released a video message commemorating Veterans Day 2014. A transcript of his remarks is below:“From our veterans of World War II to young men and women serving in Afghanistan and elsewhere around the world, we pause today to honor our veterans who have fought and died defending our freedom. “Even today, while we sleep soundly here at home, American service members continue to fight and die for our country in far off places. For those who come home, we must ensure that we have the resources needed to care for them and their families and eventually to help them move into civilian life. “For many veterans, service does not end when they take off the uniform. Many of them continue to serve in our communities, in public life, in small businesses, our schools, and other ways.“Certainly, we owe veterans gratitude. But we owe them so much more than that. We owe them the very best care possible when they return, and we must ensure that they receive the benefits they’ve earned through years of service. “Too often nationally, the Veterans Administration has sadly failed to live up to the standards our men and women in uniform deserve. Veterans have not always had access to the care they need in a timely manner. That’s unacceptable, and there must be greater accountability. We’ve passed reform legislation to begin cleaning up the mess at the VA, and the agency has taken the first steps in implementing these reforms. This is a step in the right direction, but there’s more work to be done. “If you or a loved one run into problems with the VA or any other federal agency, please call my office toll free at 800-533-3303 or go online to walden.house.gov. I have three veterans on staff and together we will do everything we can to get results for you. “So join me this Veterans Day in thanking veterans for their service to our nation in the cause of freedom. Thank you, veterans. God bless you. And God Bless America.”
11.10.2014	After forestry summit, Greg Walden urges Forest Service to heed input from local communities WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has written to U.S. Forest Service Region 6 Forester Jim Peña urging him to extend the public review period of the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest’s (WWNF) Existing Condition Road Maps and heed input from local communities on the Blue MountainsForest Plan Revision. In October, Walden convened a forestry summit in La Grande with Peña to discuss the management practices needed to create rural jobs, maintain access, and restore forest health. This letter is a follow up to the concerns raised by participants at that meeting. Click here for the full letter.At the summit, questions were raised about the substantial impact the forest plan revision and other Forest Service decisions have on motorized access. “In eastern Oregon, accessing our forests is a way of life, whether for huckleberry picking, mining, firewood cutting, hunting, or just going for a ride through the woods. Local communities are most affected by these regulations and their needs and input must be at the forefront of the decision making process. Regional Forester Peña heard loud and clear from local residents who are tired of their input being overlooked,” Walden said. In his letter to the Regional Forester, Walden reiterated the request he made at the meeting for a 90 day extension of the public review period of the WWNF Existing Condition Road Maps in order to allow the public sufficient time to fully access and assess the documents.At the meeting, participants also expressed frustration over the decline in jobs in the region tied to the forests. In 1990, 680 million board feet was harvested in eastern Oregon’s forests. Last year, just 71 million board feet was harvested. And in that time, about 4,700 mill jobs in northeastern Oregon have disappeared.“The decline in timber harvests on federal land has significantly harmed these communities as well, while our forests have become overgrown, disease infested and subject to catastrophic fires. Certainty in timber supply is integral to local job creation and maintaining the mill infrastructure needed to effectively treat our forests. Yet as we heard from county commissioners and others in attendance last month, the Blue Mountains Forest Plan Revision falls far short of what’s needed. We should be planning for success, not failure. I hope that you will not just push forward with the plan as written, but rather work with the local communities to find a path forward on the forest plan that can help bring healthy forests and healthy communities back to northeast Oregon,” Walden wrote in the letter.Industry estimates have found that they need about 335 million board feet from the Blue Mountain National Forests for a sustained operating level. Yet the proposed Blue MountainsForest Plan produces just 100 million board feet. As Walden said at the meeting, “that’s not a sustainable plan—it’s just planning for failure.” In 2008 and 2011, Walden held similar meetings in Elgin and John Day. “All of us would be better off if federal agencies like the Forest Service took more time to heed local input,” Walden said.
10.23.2014	Greg Walden presses President Obama for answers on Ebola response efforts WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and twenty seven other Republican members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee today sent a letter to President Obama, Ebola Response Coordinator Ron Klain, Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell, and Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson seeking further answers on the administration’s response and preparedness efforts to treat those with Ebola, prevent any further spread in the United States, and stop the spread of the virus at its source in West Africa.The members write, “with a series of questions and recommendations to ensure that the U.S. response to the risks posed by the Ebola outbreak in West Africa is as effective as possible in protecting the public health and safety of the American people. Congress stands ready to serve as a strong and solid partner in solving this crisis.”Walden and the other Committee members requested more information about the administration’s plan to prevent the spread of Ebola in the United States, rationale behind its opposition to travel restrictions, efforts to improve the development of diagnostic testing and screening, and the capacity of the U.S. public health system to identify and treat patients with Ebola. Read the complete letter online here.“So far, the American people have more questions than answers about the threat of Ebola. I have been very concerned about the insufficient planning and preparedness from the administration in response to the spread of Ebola, especially after hearing from multiple health professionals in Oregon. The administration must outline a clear strategy to protect the public from this threat and stop Ebola in its tracks. The stakes are too high to get this wrong,” Walden said. Energy and Commerce Committee leaders first sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell seeking details on the administration’s preparedness and response efforts on September 12, 2014. The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee held a hearing last week, which left members with additional questions about the status of a clear and effective strategy to address the threat of Ebola in both the United States and Africa.The full text of the letter is below. Read the complete letter online here.Dear Mr. President: On October 16, 2014, the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee convened a hearing regarding the U.S. public health response to the Ebola outbreak. We appreciate the participation of key public health officials from your administration in this hearing, as well as the briefings and information sharing that has occurred over the last several months as we monitor the outbreak and the global health community’s response. Based on the information gathered in our hearing and ongoing developments related to this outbreak, we write with a series of questions and recommendations to ensure that the U.S. response to the risks posed by the Ebola outbreak in West Africa are as effective as possible in protecting the public health and safety of the American people. Congress stands ready to serve as a strong and solid partner in solving this crisis.At our October 16 hearing, the witnesses representing the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) reiterated the administration’s position and rationale for not imposing travel restrictions at this time. In addition, witnesses from the CDC, the NIH, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) outlined various efforts to support clinical trials and expedite deployment for all promising Ebola vaccines, investigational drugs, and diagnostic tests.The World Health Organization projects the number of Ebola cases to reach 10,000 a week by December. If this projection is correct, the risk of Ebola-case importation to the U.S. would increase dramatically and pose a greater potential challenge to the U.S. public health system. A recent online update of an air traffic study by a group from Northeastern University, which simulated daily passenger travel from West Africa to other parts of the world to quantify the risk of the Ebola virus spreading internationally, estimates that apart from other countries in Africa, the U.S. has the greatest risk of importing additional cases of Ebola. We appreciate the recent actions by the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to restrict inbound air travelers from the three Ebola-stricken countries in West Africa to the five U.S. airports with enhanced screening, but we are concerned that the aforementioned projections reinforce the need to take further actions to limit the risk of Ebola-case importation to the U.S.One such action to limit the risk is to improve the availability of point-of-care diagnostics. It is our understanding that federal agencies at the Departments of Defense (DoD), Health and Human Services (HHS), and Homeland Security (DHS), have funded the development of diagnostic tests, including rapid point-of-care tests, that either already target Ebola or could be used to target Ebola. For example, the FDA on August 5, 2014, issued Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for an in vitro diagnostic device for detection of the Ebola Zaire virus (detected in the West Africa outbreak in 2014), as requested by DoD. On October 10, 2014, FDA granted EUAs to three more Ebola screening systems. We are interested in learning about the status of all rapid diagnostic tests for Ebola that could be developed and deployed, especially in West Africa to help the global response to the outbreak, and as a possible tool to screen and certify travelers as testing negative for Ebola before being allowed to travel to the U.S. Such a test would also help address a great concern that we share with the American public: the use of commercial flights in and out of the affected area to help contain the outbreak. Without such a test, we continue to believe the administration should evaluate options to limit these flights while ensuring the area is still able to receive the personnel and supplies necessary. To advance the common goal of treating those who are sickened by Ebola and stopping the spread of this deadly virus as quickly as possible, we offer the following recommended actions and requests for information regarding key issues related to the Ebola response. First, we share the interest of the American people in using the most effective tools – including travel restrictions – to prevent additional Ebola infections here in the U.S., and we encourage you to examine all such options as quickly as possible. So that we may better understand the facts and analysis underlying your current position, please advise whether the White House has any analysis or modeling relating to the claim that restricting travel of foreign-national tourists from the Ebola-affected countries would increase the risk of importation of Ebola cases into the U.S. If so, please provide this information and/or explain how the White House is coordinating the collection of such information.Second, we believe improved diagnostic testing to identify infected patients is essential to stopping the spread of Ebola at its source and preventing additional cases from being imported into the U.S. and other countries around the world, and we encourage a coordinated effort by the administration to expedite the development of such diagnostics. Please share all available information regarding how the White House is coordinating efforts within the Executive Branch related to diagnostic testing (including rapid tests) for Ebola, what process is or will be used to assess the information that is gathered, and what process will be used to help expedite deployment of rapid diagnostic testing for Ebola.Third, we believe it is essential to assess the capacity of the U.S. public health and health care systems to handle the expected number of Ebola patients to be treated in the U.S., and should that capacity prove insufficient, take any necessary steps immediately to increase our ability to respond to cases here at home. We request any information, analysis, or modeling of how many actual Ebola cases can be expected to be imported into the U.S. over the next six months and/or how the White House is coordinating the collection of such information. We also request any information about the capacity of the U.S. public health system (including the state and local public health agencies) and health care facilities to handle Ebola cases in the U.S., including cases involving U.S. medical and military personnel brought over from West Africa. With respect to U.S. medical and military personnel, we are also interested in the capacity of U.S. agencies and/or contractors for their transport. This request includes information on how the White House is coordinating the collection of such information.Please let us know of any concerns with possible gaps or necessary clarifications in statutory authority on which we can assist. We look forward to working with you and your administration to protect the public health and safety of the American people from the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.
10.16.2014	Greg Walden calls for travel ban as Ebola outbreak grows Click here or on the image below to watch Walden discuss the Ebola crisis with KOBI Medford last night HOOD RIVER — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the growing Ebola outbreak:“Our thoughts and prayers go out to those impacted by Ebola—especially the two health care workers in Dallas. Make no mistake, this is a dangerous situation, and it will grow exponentially if we don’t stop it in its tracks. We must do everything possible to make sure Americans are safe and to stop this outbreak here and abroad. In light of that, I call on the Obama Administration to temporarily ban travel to the United States from the countries afflicted by this outbreak. The challenge before us is too great for this not to be on the table.“Additionally, Congress must examine some of the failures in our public health system to ensure this never happens again. Today, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a hearing with the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and National Institutes of Health (NIH) to begin this investigation. And Congress must continue bipartisan efforts—especially the 21st Century Cures initiative—to find cures for Ebola and the 6,500 other diseases that lack effective cures.” Walden is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which helps oversee health care policy in Congress. He was in Medford yesterday meeting with health care providers, some of whom expressed alarm over the spread of the disease.
09.29.2014	In Redmond, Greg Walden announces legislation to preserve access to ambulance services in rural Oregon REDMOND, Ore. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) announced today that he has introduced legislation to preserve emergency care in rural Oregon by ensuring that rural ambulance service providers are fairly paid for their services. The Medicare Ambulance Access, Fraud Prevention, and Reform Act of 2014 (H.R. 5460) would end the uncertainty that rural ambulance services face over reimbursement from Medicare by making permanent appropriate rates for their services.“Rural ambulance services save lives and provide needed care in Oregon every day. It is imperative that they have the proper resources necessary to provide the highest quality care. This bipartisan legislation would end the uncertainty rural ambulance services face over Medicare reimbursement rates and allow them to answer calls for help no matter the day, hour, or patient’s location,” Walden said. Walden announced the legislation at a meeting with Redmond Fire Chief Tim Moor and Doug Kelly of the Redmond EMS Division. Moor, Kelly, and their colleagues have been actively involved with this issue. Under current law, Medicare’s rates to reimburse ambulance services are significantly below the cost of delivering services, especially in rural areas. To address this shortfall, Congress regularly passes temporary legislative fixes to give the ambulance services higher rates. Every time this temporary relief is about to expire, it threatens the availability of ambulance services nationwide. This legislation would make these rate adjustments permanent to give ambulance providers certainty.To read a summary of the legislation, please click here. Click here to read the text of the bill.Walden introduced the legislation along with five other members of Congress, including fellow Oregon Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.), Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Rep. Tim Griffin (R-Ark.), and Rep. Richard Neal (D-Mass.).Leaders in the emergency services community praised the legislation. “Mercy Flights provides an essential service to a large Medicare population in Jackson County, Oregon. It is critical that the Medicare Ambulance Fee Schedule be sustainable. Mercy Flights needs the Medicare Ambulance Fee Schedule to be reformed so we don't struggle to provided medical treatment and transport to these honored citizens,” said Doug Stewart, CEO of Mercy Flights Inc. based in Medford “We agree that Congress should ensure continued access to ambulances through permanent relief and reform. By passage of this bill, we can stabilize our operations and develop responsible budgets on known, consistent reimbursement rates. We support Congressman Walden’s bill and look forward to its passage,” said Robert F. Palmer, Fire Chief of Mid-Columbia Fire and Rescue in The Dalles. “In developing H.R. 5460, Congressmen Greg Walden (R-OR), Peter Welch (D-VT), Devin Nunes (R-CA) and Richard Neal (D-MA) developed a sensible and bipartisan approach to addressing below cost Medicare reimbursement of ambulance service providers and implementing important reforms,” said Jimmy Johnson, President of the American Ambulance Association. “H.R. 5460 will not only address several of the current issues facing our profession but also put us on a path for Congress to make data-driven decisions on the future role ambulance service providers will play in our changing health care system.” As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Walden has long worked to increase access to quality health care in rural Oregon. He has been honored with numerous awards from health care advocates, including the American Ambulance Association’s 2010 Legislative Recognition Award.
09.25.2014	Greg Walden to Forest Service: Respect the First Amendment, reconsider permitting rules for journalists HOOD RIVER, Ore. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today wrote to the U.S. Forest Service expressing concern over a proposal that would require journalists to apply for an expensive permit before shooting any photographs or video in a wilderness area. The full text of the letter is below:Dear Chief Tidwell:I write to express my concerns with recent reports that the U.S. Forest Service’s “Proposed Directive for Commercial Filming in Wilderness” would require journalists to apply for a permit before being allowed to shoot any video or photographs in wilderness areas. I continue to hear from constituents across Oregon’s Second District who feel the Forest Service continues to go overboard in limiting access to our public lands, including national forests and wilderness areas, and these new reports are just the latest example of access to our public lands being further restricted. Furthermore, I am very concerned about the implications this has for Americans’ First Amendment freedoms of speech and the press.It is also very troubling that journalists could be held to different standards at the discretion of the issuing officer depending on the content of their stories and its relevance to wilderness activity. I have long worked on public land issues and am very concerned to hear the Forest Service may be granting or limiting access based on political calculations. A majority of Oregon’s land is controlled by the federal government and nearly 50 wilderness areas are located within the state. This presence often makes management decisions and other activities that occur on public land, including those wilderness areas, newsworthy items for the press – regardless of whether the story “[disseminates] information about the use or enjoyment of wilderness” as outlined in this proposal. Anything less than full transparency in public land management activities is unacceptable. Please provide the statute and specific legislative text that authorizes the Forest Service to base wilderness filming permit guidelines around the applicability of the content produced to the purpose of wilderness, and what the Forest Service has done to ensure that any of its proposed rules do not violate freedom of the press rights under the First Amendment.Thank you for your prompt response.Sincerely,Greg WaldenU.S. RepresentativeOregon’s Second District Click here for the signed copy of the letter.
09.22.2014	Greg Walden honored as “Guardian of Small Business” by National Federation of Independent Businesses Walden (left) is presented the “Guardian of Small Business” award by Dan Danner (right), President and CEO of the National Federation of Independent Businesses (high resolution photo available upon request). WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has been named a “Guardian of Small Business” by the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB). Walden received this award for his outstanding voting record in the U.S. House on behalf of Oregon small businesses.“It’s an honor to receive this special recognition from the nation’s leading voice for small businesses. As a small business owner with my wife since 1986, I understand what it takes to risk everything to grow a business and create jobs. My small business experience has proven very valuable as I work to bring common sense to government at all levels and cut through unnecessary red tape that stifles job creation,” Walden said NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Walden for standing up for small business. “The record shows that Rep. Walden is a true champion of small business, supporting the votes that matter in the 113th Congress,” said Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.”NFIB is made up of small businesses nationwide, including nearly 7,500 in Oregon. According to the Oregon Secretary of State, small businesses employ more than half of Oregon’s workforce and make up 98% of the state’s total businesses. The “Guardian of Small Business” award is given to representatives who vote favorably on key small business issues at least 70 percent of the time. Walden is the only member from Oregon to receive the award.
09.18.2014	U.S. House passes Bowman Dam bill for third time in three years; Walden calls for immediate Senate action House also passes historic forestry bill for second time Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s floor remarks on the billWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has once again passed the Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act, a bill authored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to deliver much needed water to Prineville for job creation and pave the way for clean energy generation at Bowman Dam in Crook County.“This will be the third time in less than three years we’ve acted. Why are we doing it again? Because at some point we hope to wake up the Senate so they will actually take up this issue and pass it,” Walden said during debate on the House floor on the bill.“This bill means jobs for Crook County, which has very high unemployment and poverty rates... we are trying to create jobs in America, do the right thing for the environment, and take care of problems at home. That’s what this is about. We hope that the Senate will finally take a look at these bills in a meaningful and thoughtful way and be able to come to the table with terms and work these things out,” Walden continued. The bill was passed by the House as part of a larger package of energy bills, the American Energy Solutions for Lower Costs & More American Jobs Act. This package also includes proposals that would expand domestic energy production, lower energy prices, create good-paying jobs, and strengthen America’s national security.This marks the third year in a row that the House has passed the Bowman Dam bill. It previously passed the House unanimously in June 2012 and October 2013. So far, the Senate has not brought it up for a vote.The House also again passed the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act. The bill fixes broken federal forest policy to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and generate revenue for local communities to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement. Click here for more information on this bill.This bill was originally passed in the House nearly one year ago, but the Senate has refused to act on it. Today, the House passed it again as part of a package of jobs bills to encourage Senate action. Click here to watch Walden’s floor speech on that bill.Background on the Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security ActWater for job creation in Crook CountyThe bill allows Prineville to utilize up to 5,100 acre feet of water from Prineville Reservoir, or about 6 percent of the total unallocated water behind the dam (80,000 acre feet). The water certainty would allow Prineville to entice new technology opportunities like Facebook and Apple, and service all of the homes within city limits.Clean energy and new jobs at Bowman DamThe bill would also clear the way for small-scale hydropower production at the base of Bowman Dam, creating about 50 jobs over the course of two construction seasons.Legislation is necessary to make this happen because of the way the law is written currently. In 1988, Congress designated 17.8 miles of the Crooked River as part of the “wild and scenic” rivers system, which is charged with preserving rivers with “outstanding natural, cultural, and recreational values in a free-flowing condition for the enjoyment of present and future generations.”But when the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) drew up the maps for the new wild and scenic area on the Crooked River after the 1988 designation, they placed one end of the boundary right down the middle of Bowman Dam.“There is nothing wild and scenic about a dam,” Walden has said.Hydropower is not permitted in wild and scenic areas, so an act of Congress is required to fix the mistake and place the boundary line below the dam, where it should have been all along. Doing so will allow the hydropower project — and the jobs it would create — to go forward.In a letter sent to Walden in 2008, BLM State Director Ed Shepard said, “The BLM does not believe that it was the intent of Congress to place the wild and scenic river boundary on the center of the dam or to even include the dam, but rather just below the dam and spillway structures.”McKay Creek restoration and other conservation efforts Because Prineville accesses its water from ground sources, the 5,100 acre feet of water would be released downstream, providing additional spilled water into the Crooked River that could benefit the blue-ribbon trout fishery below Bowman Dam. The bill also boosts conservation efforts in McKay Creek to enhance fish habitat.
09.18.2014	U.S. House passes historic forestry bill for second time; Walden calls for immediate Senate action House also passes Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act for third time in three years Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s speech on the House floor WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has again passed a historic forestry bill championed by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act. The bill fixes broken federal forest policy to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and generate revenue for local communities to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement.This bill was originally passed in the House nearly one year ago, but the Senate has refused to act on it. Today, the House passed it again as part of a package of jobs bills to encourage Senate action.“This forestry legislation passed this House 363 days ago. The legislation in this package that we are going to send over to the Senate one more time would allow us to put people back to work in the woods, reduce fires, and produce revenue for schools teachers, sheriffs and sheriff’s deputies, search and rescue, for all these basic fundamental services that matter in rural communities across the West,” Walden said during debate on this measure before the House.“You want to do something about poverty? Create a job! You want to get America back on track? Pass these bills! And then get the Senate to pass them. We’ll create jobs, generate revenue, and have positive cash flow in this country for once. It doesn’t have to be this way. We can put people back to work,” Walden continued. “We are at the end of our legislative sessions. It is time to pass this one more time so we can get it into law. To wake up the Senate. To get them to do the right thing. Let’s move forward! We don’t need more partisan rhetoric here. We need to help America get on its feet. We need to take better care of our forests and our watersheds. We need to put people back to work in America, and that’s what these bills do,” Walden concluded.The bill contains the O&C Trust, Conservation and Jobs Act, a plan offered by Walden and fellow Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader to deal with Oregon’s unique O&C lands. Their proposal would put people back to work in the woods and generate revenues to failing Oregon counties.For more information on the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526), click here. For information on the O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act, click here. The House also passed the Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act, a bill authored by Walden to deliver much needed water to Prineville for job creation and pave the way for clean energy generation at Bowman Dam in Crook County. This is the third time in three years that the House has passed this bill. It passed the House unanimously in June 2012 and October 2013, but the Senate has not taken a vote on it so far.
09.09.2014	Greg Walden supports bill to prevent expansion of federal water regulations, protect farm and ranch jobs in rural Oregon Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s remarksWASHINGTON, D.C. — In an effort to protect private property rights and farm and ranching jobs in rural Oregon, U.S. Representative Greg Walden (R-Hood River) voiced his strong support for a bill to block a proposal by the Obama Administration to unilaterally increase their regulatory authority over the nation’s waters. The “Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act” (H.R. 5078) passed the House on a bipartisan vote today. Walden is a cosponsor of this bill, along with fellow Oregon Rep. Kurt Schrader. He made the following remarks on the House floor during debate on the measure: “All across Oregon, farmers, ranchers, and other property owners are walking around their land wondering what the EPA will regulate under the proposed rule to expand its Clean Water Act jurisdiction. “Ranchers in eastern Oregon wonder about their stock ponds. Wheat growers in the Columbia Basin worry about an intermittent stream adjacent to a field. Fruit growers in Hood River and onion growers in Ontario are concerned about their irrigation ditches. “This proposed rule is based on faulty science and it underestimates the tremendous harm it poses to our rural economies. It is no wonder that people are concerned. At a town hall meeting I had in Grants Pass on Saturday morning, for three of the 30 people there, this was their number one issue. Their involved in real estate, and they are very upset and concerned about what this could do. “This regulatory overreach by the EPA blatantly ignores Congress’ repeated rejection of similar legislative efforts to expand jurisdiction of the Clean Water Act. Of course, we shouldn’t be that surprised, the EPA has tried this before, and they have been rebuked by the Supreme Court. Twice, in fact, in 2001 and 2006.“EPA says this new rule was meant to clarify the scope of the Clean Water Act, but I’ve heard across my district how the vague language in this proposal actually creates more uncertainty, not less. More red tape, not less. For our farmers, ranchers, Oregonians, and others that utilize our water resources, it is a huge threat. “I have long opposed expansion of this authority, whether through legislation or administrative rulemaking. Detrimental action of this size and scope shouldn’t be pushed by anyone, much less by unelected bureaucrats. “The economies of rural Oregon and other communities around the country face enough obstacles already. Broken federal forest policies have strangled communities, often leaving only agriculture to grow jobs and combat unemployment rates into the double digits. “We don’t need agencies in Washington D.C. erecting more hurdles and creating more uncertainty as our farmers and ranchers work to feed the world and create jobs in rural communities. It’s time to ditch this rule. “I applaud Mr. Southerland from Florida for writing this bill and appreciate Chairman Shuster for helping to bring it to the floor. I urge its passage to stop yet another regulatory overreach by a federal agency out of control, threatening jobs, threatening private property rights, threatening rural communities, and threatening our way of life.” The Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act would uphold the current federal-state partnership of water regulation and preserve the existing limited regulation of the “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. The bill blocks the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers from finalizing a proposed rule to expand the scope of their authority over water, which would have harmful effects on ranchers, farmers, and other water users.Farmers and ranchers around Oregon praised passage of the bill. “EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers attempt to control private lands using the Clean Water Act must be stopped,” said Jackson County Farm Bureau President Ron Bjork. “It is important that farms be able to focus on raising fresh, healthy, and necessary food and feed for this world without unnecessary regulations. Thanks to Congressman Walden, Congress has taken an important step to help ensure farmers can continue to farm their land without federal permission and allows landowners to meaningfully improve water quality through existing state programs.”“We appreciate Congressman Walden’s work to stop the EPA’s rule which is an overreach by the federal government that threatens to eliminate conservation practices currently implemented by farmers and ranchers across Oregon,” said Curtis Martin, a North Power rancher speaking on behalf of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association.The bill passed the House by a vote of 262-152, with 35 Democrats joining 227 Republicans in support. This legislation now heads to the Senate to be considered.###
09.05.2014	In Case You Missed It: The Bulletin: “September House agenda includes two Oregon bills”HOOD RIVER — The U.S. House of Representatives will vote this month on two pieces of legislation championed by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) that would reform federal forest policy and bring more water and power to Crook County for job creation. According to an article in this morning’s Bulletin, “Both of the Oregon-related bills passed the House in 2013, but have not been taken up by the Democrat-controlled Senate.” (read the full article below). “These bipartisan bills will help grow Oregon’s rural economy, improve forest health, prevent wildfire, and bring more water and power to Central Oregon for job creation. They have both passed the U.S. House previously with strong support, and the House will pass them again to underscore how important these bills are to Oregon. The U.S. Senate should pass them right away to bring much needed jobs to Oregon’s rural communities,” Walden said.The Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526) renews the federal government’s commitment to actively manage federal forests to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and generate revenue for local communities to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement. The bill also contains the O&C Trust, Conservation and Jobs Act, a plan offered by Walden and Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader to deal with Oregon’s unique O&C lands. It passed the House with a bipartisan majority on September 20, 2013, but has not been taken up by the Senate.The Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act (H.R. 2640), introduced by Walden, fixes a boundary line error at Bowman Dam in Crook County, paving the way for construction of a small scale hydropower facility at the base of the dam. It would also provide job-creating water for the city of Prineville to attract additional projects like Facebook and Apple. This bill has passed the House twice unanimously—on July 6, 2012, and October 29, 2013—but the full Senate has not voted on it so far.House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy announced yesterday that these two bills would be included as portions of two jobs packages that the House will vote on this month. These common-sense plans will help create jobs nationwide, strengthen the economy, and lower the cost of gas and groceries. September House agenda includes two Oregon billsLegislation on timber payments, Bowman Dam to be packaged into larger billsBy Andrew Clevenger Published Sep 5, 2014 at 12:02AMhttps://www.bendbulletin.com/localstate/2383984-153/september-house-agenda-includes-two-oregon-billsWASHINGTON — Two pending bills with the potential for significant consequences for Central Oregon have been placed on the House of Representatives’ legislative agenda for September as part of larger legislative packages.In a memo released Thursday, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., announced his plans for the House once members return from the August recess. With a dwindling number of legislative days left before members head out on the campaign trail, McCarthy wants to bundle together pending bills to economize precious floor time.Two of the bills on the September agenda pertain especially to Oregon. The Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act, which would revise federal forest management policy to require increased logging to pay for timber payments to rural counties, includes a section devoted entirely to reworking the oversight of the Oregon and California Railroad Revested Lands — known as the O&C Lands — in Western Oregon.The forestry reform bill would be included in a larger package of bills geared toward creating jobs.A bill that would authorize the release of some of the unallocated water behind Bowman Dam is also on the September agenda as part of a larger energy bill. In addition to allowing 5,100 acre-feet of unallocated water behind the dam to flow into the Crooked River, which would enable Prineville to seek permission from the state to pump more groundwater for its own use, the Bowman Dam bill would open the 240-foot-high dam to hydropower development by moving the Wild and Scenic River boundary line about a quarter mile down the river, away from its current location in the center of the dam.McCarthy’s memo did not specify when the larger packages of bills might come up for votes.“Our government today lacks common sense and competency. And the American people know it,” McCarthy wrote in his memo. “Our conservative agenda is about restoring competency and common sense in government and giving Americans the freedom to live their lives, run their businesses, and raise their families.”Both of the Oregon-related bills passed the House in 2013, but have not been taken up by the Democrat-controlled Senate. A similar version of the Bowman Dam bill has been introduced in the Senate but has stalled short of a floor vote.Rep. Greg Walden, R-Hood River, introduced the Bowman Dam bill in the House and co-wrote the O&C Lands section of the forestry reform bill with Reps. Peter DeFazio, D-Springfield, and Kurt Schrader, D-Canby.“Passing these bipartisan bills to bring more water and power to Prineville and fix broken federal forest policy will create jobs in Central Oregon,” Andrew Malcolm, Walden’s spokesman, said Thursday. “Crook County continues to suffer from double-digit unemployment, which is why the House, for a third time, will pass the Bowman Dam bill that Greg wrote to bring jobs, water, and power to Prineville.”Malcolm noted that Oregon was beset by wildfires again this summer.“Nearly a year ago, the House passed a bipartisan plan that Greg helped write to fix broken federal forest policy, put people back to work in the woods and improve forest health. So far, the Senate has not voted on either of these common-sense bills, so the House will pass them again to make it as easy as possible for the Senate to act,” he said.Pending legislation that is not passed into law before a new Congress is sworn in in January does not carry over to the new session and must be reintroduced and go through the process over again.Read the article online here.
09.03.2014	Greg Walden remembers Governor Vic Atiyeh at public memorial service SALEM— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today honored the late Governor Vic Atiyeh as a man who “always served, always gave and always cared.” Atiyeh served as Oregon’s 32nd Governor from 1979-1987, and passed away on July 20 at the age of 91. Walden, who once worked for Atiyeh, is set to speak at a public memorial service this morning at the State Capitol in Salem. For more information on the service, please click here. A full transcript of his remarks as prepared for delivery is below:Memorial to Governor Victor G. AtiyehBy U.S. Representative Greg Walden (Oregon’s 2nd District)(Remarks as Prepared for Delivery)Thank you, Denny. To Dolores and the Atiyeh family, my fellow elected officials, formerly elected officials, citizens of our great state:There are two words one says about a man who always served, always gave and always cared: THANK YOU. Thank you Governor Victor G. Atiyeh for showing generations of others how leadership really works; what leadership really is; and how productive it can be when you care less about who gets the credit and more about getting the job done right for the people, it’s amazing what you can accomplish.I was in high school and my Dad was in the Legislature (sat right over there) when I first met Vic and Dolores Atiyeh. My parents hosted a small gathering at our house in Hood River when he was running for governor the first time—1974. As I sort of recall, 1974 wasn’t exactly a banner year for Republicans. Richard Nixon resigned the presidency three months before the election. President Ford granted him a “full, free and absolute pardon” two months before the election. And for the only time in his career, Vic lost an election. Let me put Vic’s electoral record in better perspective: Vic won 19 of 20 elections (primary and general) over the course of 28 years of public service in Oregon. He was often considered the underdog, especially in his statewide races, underestimated by his opponents and the pundits. I’d worked for the House Republican Leader Roger Martin during the 1977 session and joined his gubernatorial campaign thereafter. Roger and I both learned what it was like to underestimate this low-key, rug merchant from Portland…this quintessential “Boy Scout” who wanted to be governor.Tom McCall learned that lesson as well. Brent Walth, in his wonderful book, Fire at Eden’s Gate, discusses that race in detail, including the pivotal debate in Eugene on the 28th of April when Roger went after McCall while Vic remained engaged, but politely watched the other two slug it out resulting in a lot of mutual political damage. Atiyeh said later his strategy was to “hold their coats during the battle.”Nine days before the election, polls showed McCall with a 14-point lead among all Oregonians, and a six point lead among Republicans. But Vic emerged as the competent, if not overly exciting, likeable and capable candidate. The upset victory was an overwhelming win. When everything was said and done, it was Atiyeh who would get 46 percent, McCall 33 percent and Martin 17 percent.When the political dust settled, Vic asked me to come over to his team, which I did to help Denny with communications work. There I saw in Vic Atiyeh a hard-working, honest, respectable, courteous, man who always took the high road. He did not shrink from criticism, even condemnation of his opponent’s positions and proposals. But he never wanted to say anything bad about his opponent personally. He would rather talk about what he would do differently. He was as old school that way as he was about the short-sleeved white shirts he loved to wear. He rebelled against the political “uniform” of the day. He disliked suits and long-sleeved shirts. We did get him to occasionally wear a red tie. Just when we thought we had him convinced, staff reported him campaigning in short sleeve shirts again.Campaign manager Carol Whitney, Denny Miles and I used to fantasize about a fictitious burglary at the Senator’s house where strangely all that was reported missing were two dozen short sleeved shirts and an ugly camel sport coat.The short-sleeve white shirts gave way to long sleeve white shirts with sleeves rolled up…at least until he became Governor…and then back came the short sleeves. I think it was the only stylistic change he ever made…and that for only a matter of months. Oregonians were looking for something else in the 1978 election…they’d been reminded of the flashy, colorful years of McCall, and they weren’t happy with things under Governor Straub. I remember our consultant saying one day: “Oregonians want oatmeal. And that’s what we’re going to serve them.”No, there’s nothing wrong with oatmeal…strong in fiber, high in protein, actually healthy for you…but it’s not generally how one portrays a candidate. And yet, Vic was oatmeal. Darn good oatmeal. Competent. Effective. And very good for the state. A healthy choice for what Oregonians needed during a very difficult time. Oregonians needed someone who could work across party lines and get things done. And Vic Atiyeh was just that person.In his 28 years of service, Vic was always in the minority, in the House, the Senate and during both terms as Governor. How did he do so well in working across party lines? He knew it could work and he had learned how to do it. He had personal respect for others and never thought of them as "the enemy." I would guess that as a rug salesman, he looked at every one as a potential customer. And he would go to work trying to close the sale.He was criticized by some for routinely traveling to the far corners of the state for events like county fairs and service club meetings. He didn't see it as campaigning, he saw it as "a responsibility of being governor. People deserve to see and talk with their governor."Somehow, he broke free of his Salem office. Because of this interaction, he knew what Oregonians wanted and needed. He knew how they really felt about the issues and he knew of their concerns. Especially important for those of us from small rural towns, he connected and we knew we had a voice, a friend. He came. He cared.In his toughest election (1982 general) some Oregonians might have thought twice about voting for him (because of the terrible economy), but many of them had met him, had talked with him personally and understood he was working hard on their behalf. They voted for him in a big way.Vic was genuine, honest. He lived the Scout Oath. Many Boy Scouts (including Vic Atiyeh) were given a “good deed” coin when they joined. The instructions on one side said, “secretly transfer me to your right pocket each day after your good turn has been done.” I’m told he had a coin and he often did exactly that. I learned a lot from Vic Atiyeh. When I ran for Congress, he made sure I reached out to the leaders of the Oregon Tribes, for whom he had such fondness. He gave me counsel and advice and support. When issues of the Middle East would arise, he made sure to remind me of his own heritage: this first U.S. Governor of Arab descent, and the importance of hearing from all sides. You gained a sense of balance from Vic. A sense of fairness permeated everything he did, even if it wasn’t always popular, you knew he was right. It was a strength he had. When Gov. Atiyeh took office for his second term, capping decades of public service, he had this to say in his Second Inaugural Address:“When our efforts are history; when others have taken our place; our achievements can be measured only by the legacy we leave.“I pray that those who follow us will examine our work and share in full measure the motivation for all we do: deep humility, honorable service, and fierce pride. Humility for the bounty that is ours; service to the citizens we represent; and pride in the great state we serve. Our feeling is shared, in good times and bad, by every citizen...I know that our citizens – and each one of us – can stand anywhere in the world and count it a matter of special pride to say: ‘I am an Oregonian.’” As anEagle Scout, I can attest that Vic has left his campsite—our great state—far better than he found it. He has made us all the more proud to say: “We are Oregonians.”Thank you, Vic Atiyeh…for serving, for sharing, for soldiering Oregon ahead. You served us well. ###
08.25.2014	Greg Walden urges changes to Blue Mountains Forest Plan to better meet the needs of Eastern Oregon communities Walden writes to Forest Service about strong concerns he heard at town hall meetings in Eastern Oregon this monthHOOD RIVER — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today wrote to the U.S. Forest Service to urge changes to the controversial Blue Mountains Forest Plan revision. At town hall meetings in Eastern Oregon this month, Walden heard strong concerns from local communities that their needs and wishes were ignored in this plan.In a letter to Regional Forester Jim Peña, Walden wrote, “The federally managed forests that span throughout Eastern Oregon provide significant economic and cultural benefits to local communities. In addition to the economic value these forests hold, accessing and utilizing these lands is a way of life for area residents. However, these forests are in poor condition and dire need of proper management that will restore forest health, reduce catastrophic wildfire, and sustain the economies in these rural communities. Unfortunately, it seems that this plan falls short of meeting these needs of the forest and the communities.” Click here to read the full letter.“Over the past year, communities surrounded by the Malheur, Umatilla and Wallowa-Whitman National Forests have expressed deep concerns with the direction of this plan. At all of my recent town halls and other public meetings in these communities,I heard from a variety of constituents and local elected officials who have found that this plan not only fails to meet the needs of their communities, but also fails to achieve the desired conditions for the forest as well,”Walden continued. In concluding the letter, Walden urged the agency to work with local communities to make changes to the plan, and invited the Regional Forester to Eastern Oregon to discuss the plan. “I hope that you will reassess the proposal and engage with these local communities to develop a plan that accurately reflects existing forest conditions and outlines objectives that will reach the needed environmental and economic outcomes. I look forward to having you join me on the ground in Eastern Oregon to discuss this plan and other issues on our National Forests that so greatly impact Oregon’s rural communities,”Walden wrote.Earlier this month, Walden heard strong opposition to the plan at town halls and other public meetings in Harney, Grant, Union, Umatilla, and Wallowa counties. For example, concerns have been voiced that the plan doesn’t provide adequate timber production for the region and fails to restore forest health by allowing active management on more land. Last month, the Eastern Oregon Counties Association unanimously rejected the proposed plan.
07.30.2014	Greg Walden supports legislation to improve care for veterans, help clean up the mess at the VA Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video statementWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today supported legislation passed by the House to improve health care for veterans and help bring accountability to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The bill is part of a compromise agreement between House and Senate negotiators reached this week. It overwhelmingly passed the House today, and the Senate is expected to vote to send it to the President later this week. “This legislation is a good first step towards cleaning up the mess at the VA. Our men and women who have worn our nation’s uniform deserve to have access to the care they need in a timely manner,” Walden said. “This legislation fixes some of the glaring problems Americans have seen recently by allowing the agency to hire more doctors and making it easier to dismiss senior managers who have failed to live up to their responsibilities. The plan also allows more veterans to go outside the VA system to access care in the communities where they live. It’s a good first step for veterans and their families, but there’s a lot more reform that needs to be done at the VA to get accountability in that broken agency.”The Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 includes some of the following highlights:· Requires the VA to offer an authorization—through a “Veterans Choice Card”—to allow veterans to receive non-VA care if they are unable to secure an appointment at a VA medical facility within 30 days or if they live more than 40 miles from the nearest VA medical facility.· Provides funding for the VA to hire more health care providers and improve their physical facilities.· Authorizes the VA to fire or demote senior agency managers for poor performance or misconduct.· Reduces funding for bonuses available to VA employees.· Requires public colleges to provide in-state tuition to veterans and eligible dependents.· Expands a scholarship program to provide benefits to spouses of certain service members who have died in the line of duty since 2001.For full details of the plan, courtesy of the Veterans Affairs Committee, please click here.In May, Walden supported the VA Management Accountability Act when it passed the House. Many elements of that bill made it into the final version passed today. The House has also passed— with Walden’s strong support—legislation to fund important veterans programs and reduce the claims backlog at the VA. Walden has met with veterans in southern, central, and eastern Oregon recently, and the backlog was a major topic of discussion.
07.29.2014	U.S. House passes common sense reforms to the Endangered Species Act Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video statementWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Endangered Species Transparency and Reasonableness Act, which makes common sense reforms to the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) was a cosponsor of this important bill and supported it when it passed the House. “Too often, listing decisions under the ESA are driven by litigation and made behind closed doors with little public input. Oregonians deserve more transparency and the ability to better participate in the decision making process that so greatly affects their livelihood. This common-sense bill would reform the ESA to bring much-needed transparency to how management decisions are made and implemented,” Walden said.The Endangered Species Act has already had an impact throughout Oregon’s rural communities. Northern spotted owl critical habitat designations have led to federal timber harvests dropping by more than 90 percent in the last 30 years. Facing an arbitrary court-ordered deadline of September 2015, rural communities across eastern Oregon are rushing to prevent the listing of the Greater sage-grouse under the ESA in hopes of avoiding the detrimental economic impacts that have followed listings elsewhere in the West.Walden has long advocated for more local input in the endangered species listing process. Last month, Walden and 42 other Members of Congress urged the Obama Administration to give more time for the public to comment on three proposed Endangered Species Act (ESA) regulations that would make sweeping changes to how critical habitat designations are determined under the law. Although the Members requested a six month extension, the Administration only agreed to extend the comment deadline for 90 days.The Endangered Species Transparency and Reasonableness Act is a package of four bills approved previously by the Natural Resources Committee. Specifically, the legislation would: · Require that data used by agencies for listing decisions be made available to the public online.· Require that federal agencies disclose data used to affected states before an ESA listing decision. It would also require that federal agencies incorporate scientific data and input from states, tribes, and counties.· Require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to make available online the amount of taxpayer dollars used to respond to ESA lawsuits, the number of employees dedicated to it, and attorneys’ fees awarded during litigation and settlement. · Places caps on attorneys’ fees under the ESA just like caps in place at other federal agencies. Under the ESA, attorneys are being awarded rates as much as $600 per hour. The federal government limits fees to $125 per hour in federal suits involving Social Security, veterans, and disability claims.For full details of the plan, please click here.
07.24.2014	Greg Walden holds hearing on protecting rural television service Click here to watch Walden’s opening statement at the hearingWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House Communications and Technology Subcommittee, chaired by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River), held a hearing today on a proposal to protect low power television (LPTV) stations and television translators that serve rural communities. The “LPTV and Translator Act of 2014” would direct the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to consider the benefits of LPTV and translators, and to help ensure that the rights of LPTV and translators are protected in an upcoming auction of broadcast spectrum.“Low-power stations and translators play an important role in delivering local programming to rural areas like eastern Oregon. At our hearing today, members of Congress from both parties expressed concern about protecting these important stations. I have long urged the FCC to keep their value to local communities in mind when conducting the upcoming spectrum auction. This common-sense bill would put that sentiment into law, as well as allow LPTV and translator licensees additional opportunities to petition the FCC to stay on the air after the auction process is complete,” Walden said.Low-power television licensees operate broadcast stations that operate at a lower transmit power and serve smaller service areas than full–power stations. LPTV stations often offer programming designed for a specific group of viewers, such as religious groups, academic communities, and ethnic minorities. Examples in Oregon include KDOV in Medford and KBNZ in Bend.Translators generally operate at full power and are used to extend the reach of an existing broadcast signal. While translators are used across the country, they are most popular in the Mountain West, where terrain presents unique challenges for over-the-air reception. For example, the Blue Mountain Translator District brings over the air television to residents of Union and Baker Counties. Louis Libin, the executive director of the Advanced Television Broadcast Alliance, testified before the subcommittee today to underscore the importance of these secondary stations. “More than 2,000 LPTV stations and more than 3,000 translators provide television service to tens of millions of Americans. In many places, these stations are the only broadcast television service available, and in many other cases, they provide communities their only access to the affiliates of major broadcast networks. Many translators were built and are operated by local communities to ensure that those communities have access to broadcast television,” Libin said.
07.23.2014	In Case You Missed It: Editorial in The Bulletin supports Walden’s bill to ensure seniors’ access to home health care servicesWASHINGTON, D.C. — Support continues to grow for a bill introduced by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) last week to protect Oregon seniors from planned cuts to home health care. The “SAVE Medicare Home Health Act” will stop the Obama Administration’s proposed 14 percent payment cut to home health care providers. Instead, it will put into place smart reforms that reward home health agencies that provide high value care to their patients.Today, The Bulletin in Bend supported the bill in an editorial, writing that the bill is “a sensible way to save money as it improves care. So far, no Democrats have cosponsored the SAVE Medicare measure. That’s unfortunate. A bill that rewards good service and punishes service that is sub-par is a logical way to solve a problem that could force Medicare to spend more than it now does.” Scroll down to read the full editorial.Support continues to grow in the Congress as well. Today, four more members of the U.S. House—including Reps. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Tim Walberg (R-Mich.), Walter Jones (R-N.C.), and Todd Rokita (R-Ind.)—signed on as cosponsors of the legislation, bringing the total number of cosponsors to sixteen. Last year, nearly two hundred members of the House and Senate from both parties—including Oregon Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley and Oregon Rep. Earl Blumenauer—joined Walden in writing to the Obama Administration in opposition to their planned cuts.In October 2013, Walden raised the issue to then-Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, noting how important home health care is to patients in rural Oregon.Editorial: Support Walden’s bill on home health careJuly 23, 2014As Americans grow older, financial pressure on the federal Medicare system also grows. The older we get, the more likely we are to be hospitalized, and recovery at home is less expensive than recovery in a hospital or other care facility.That’s why the Obama Administration’s decision to cut payments to home health providers under the Affordable Care Act makes so little sense. It’s also why U.S. Rep. Greg Walden, R-Hood River, has introduced legislation that would eliminate most of those cuts and shift the way payments to home health provider companies are made.As things now stand, home health agencies can expect a 3.5 percent reduction in payments each year through 2017, a 14 percent reduction in all. Even the board that sets Medicare rates acknowledges the impact of those cuts — 40 percent of such agencies would be losing money by 2017, it says.Here, the impact would be even worse. Some 70 percent of home care agencies would be losing money by 2017, Walden says, with the greatest impact felt in rural Oregon, where access to health care can be limited and poverty levels high.Walden’s SAVE (Securing Access Via Excellence) Medicare Home Health Act takes a different approach.It would allow the 2014 home health care cuts to remain in place, but in the following years, it directs the Department of Health and Human Services to create measures of hospital readmission rates, one of which would allow the department to identify potentially preventable readmissions. They’re the ones that can be avoided, often, by adequate and less expensive care in a patient’s home.Once that is done, the bill would have HHS establish a “Value-Based Purchasing Program” that would reward home care providers for high-performing agencies, those whose readmission rates were lowest, and cut payments to agencies with exceptionally high hospital readmission rates.It is a sensible way to save money as it improves care.So far, no Democrats have cosponsored the SAVE Medicare measure. That’s unfortunate. A bill that rewards good service and punishes service that is sub-par is a logical way to solve a problem that could force Medicare to spend more than it now does. To read the editorial online, please click here
07.22.2014	U.S. House unanimously passes Greg Walden’s satellite television bill Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s floor speech on the billWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously passed H.R. 4572, the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (STELA) Reauthorization, a bill authored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to ensure that satellite subscribers in remote areas do not lose access to local programming.“This bipartisan bill will ensure that 1.5 million satellite subscribers in hard-to-reach areas—including many in Oregon—continue to receive vital news and information. The STELA Reauthorization Act extends the copyright and retransmission consent provisions for distant signals retransmitted by commercial satellite providers for five years,” Walden said during debate on the measure.“These can be contentious matters, but I am proud to say that the STELA Reauthorization Act is yet another example of bipartisanship and enjoys support from all sectors of the communications industry. This type of collaboration has long been the hallmark of our committee, and I’m pleased to see this legislative result. I urge the Senate to act swiftly and pass this bill into law before the year’s end,” Walden continued.As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, Walden worked to write a reauthorization of the satellite law that would receive the support of both parties and all sectors of the communications industry. The bill was cosponsored by full Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Ranking Member Henry Waxman (D-Cali.) and Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna Eshoo (D-Cali.).The provisions included in this bill must be renewed by December 31, 2014, to ensure that consumers don’t lose access to satellite programming.For a fact sheet on H.R. 4572, click here. To read the legislation, please click here.
07.21.2014	BEND — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement on the passing of former Oregon Governor Vic Atiyeh:“Vic Atiyeh left his campsite better than he found it, and he will go down in history as one of Oregon’s greatest statesmen. His steady hand guided our state through turbulent times. Through his leadership, we weathered that storm and laid the groundwork for Oregon to flourish in a whole new world economy. His life of service will impact generations of Oregonians to come.“Vic Atiyeh was not only a giant, though. He was also a mentor for me and a very close friend. Mylene and I are deeply saddened by this news, and we send our prayers to Dolores and his family.”
07.16.2014	In Case You Missed It: Fox News “Special Report” on Greg Walden’s bill to stop cuts to home health care Click here or on the image below to watch the storyWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden’s introduction of a bill yesterday to repeal the Obama Administration’s cuts to home health care was featured on “Special Report with Bret Baier” on Fox News last night. The “Securing Access Via Excellence for (SAVE) Medicare Home Health Act” would stop the Administration’s proposed 14 percent payment cut to home health care providers. Instead, it will put into place smart reforms that reward home health agencies that provide high value care to their patients while reducing payments to agencies that don’t meet certain performance and quality standards. Walden told Fox correspondent Jim Angle about the value of home health care for patients, including his own parents. “I will tell you it kept them out of the nursing home longer. It kept them out of re-admittance to the emergency room. It made a huge difference in their quality of care because they could be home,” Walden said. Angle noted that the Administration’s proposed cuts to home health care could force 70% of home health agencies in Oregon into the red. “That is not tolerable. That’s not acceptable. And it’s not smart,” Walden said. The story also noted that 51 Senators—including Oregon’s Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley—wrote to the Medicare Administrator last year urging her to stop these drastic cuts to home health. Walden and 141 other members of the House—including Oregon Rep. Earl Blumenauer—wrote a similar letter expressing their concern about the cuts last September. The Administrator never responded to the Members of Congress. In October 2013, Walden raised the issue to then-Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, noting how important home health care is to patients in rural Oregon.
07.15.2014	Greg Walden introduces bill to stop Obama Administration cuts to home health care, ensure Oregon seniors get the care they needClick here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video messageWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) introduced a bill today to protect access to home health care services for seniors in Oregon and nationwide. The “Securing Access Via Excellence for (SAVE) Medicare Home Health Act” will stop the Obama Administration’s proposed 14 percent payment cut to home health care providers. Instead, it will put into place smart reforms that reward home health agencies that provide high value care to their patients while reducing payments to agencies that don’t meet certain performance and quality standards. “Home health care allows patients more control over their health care, and provides a sense of comfort, familiarity, and normalcy for the patient and their families. I know this first hand, because it’s what my parents chose. And it’s not just a win for the patient. Home-based care benefits Medicare as a whole. Having people recover at home is less expensive than in a hospital or nursing home,” Walden said.“But the Obama Administration’s cuts have put thousands of Oregon seniors in danger of losing their home health care. That’s why I’ve introduced legislation to stop these harsh cuts and replace them with smart reforms that reward home health agencies that provide high value care to their patients. We’ll get more for our money and better care for patients without these across the board cuts. This common-sense bill will stop the Administration’s cuts to home health care, and allow Oregon seniors to continue to receive the care they need and that depend on,” Walden continued.Last November, the Administration used their authority under the Affordable Care Act to cut home health care payments by 14 percent over four years—the maximum amount allowed under the law. The board that sets Medicare rates predicts that the cuts will cause more than 40 percent of home health providers nationwide to operate in the red. And that number jumps to 70 percent of home care providers in Oregon.According to the Partnership for Quality Home Healthcare, more than 15,000 Oregonians already benefitting from home health services could lose access to their providers and nearly 3,000 home health care workers in Oregon could lose their jobs.The SAVE Medicare Home Health Act repeals the Obamacare cuts in 2015-2017. Instead, savings are achieved by establishing a value-based purchasing (VBP) program to better incentivize home healthcare agencies to deliver high-quality care to patients and reduce hospital readmission rates. This plan is designed to be budget neutral, and positions Medicare to save money in the long run.The Oregon Association of Home Care (OAHC) praised the bill. “Oregon has long been a leading provider of high quality cost effective care through innovative health care, including home care to Oregonians in need. Congressman Walden's support and sponsorship of the SAVE Medicare Home Health Act is further demonstration of his understanding of the importance of home health care in our State. We continue to work with and encourage Congressman Walden to ensure that the sickest and most frail of our population are not adversely impacted by payment decisions and that with this legislation, Congress ensures that agencies make the right choice to provide quality care to all patients in need that qualify,” said Shaune Mattsson, OAHC’s president.“OAHC graciously thanks Congressman Walden for continuing to support the delivery of high quality home health care in Oregon and nationally, through the introduction of SAVE Act, to showcase the value of focusing home health care reimbursement on quality measures of care versus the arbitrary cuts the industry has endured to-date,” Mattsson continued. Seniors’ advocates praised the bill as well. “We commend Congressmen Greg Walden and colleagues for their leadership in introducing this bill that will improve patient care while reducing Medicare spending through proven payment reforms,” said Dan Weber, Founder and President of AMAC - the Association of Mature American Citizens. “Millions of mature Americans have been promised access to Medicare services – a promise the Obamacare home health cuts threaten to break. The SAVE Medicare Home Health Act puts a stop to these careless Medicare cuts, which is what we believe is best for senior citizens and mature Americans.”Walden introduced the bill with Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.). Also cosponsoring the bill at introduction are Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.), David McKinley (R-W.Va.), Tom Latham (R-Iowa), Sean Duffy (R-Wis.), Glenn Thompson (R-Penn.), Sam Graves (R-Mo.), Charles Boustany (R-La.), and Erik Paulsen (R-Minn.).Click here for a summary of the bill and here for the full text of the legislation.
07.09.2014	Greg Walden supports bipartisan job training bill passed by House Oregon employers and job training advocates praise bill; President expected to sign it into law in the coming daysClick here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video statementWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan plan—the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act—to help put Oregonians back to work by reforming our nation’s outdated workforce development system. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) strongly supported passage of this plan.“Employers, workers, and job training advocates in Oregon—most recently at Rogue Valley Microdevices in Medford—have told me that the current workforce development system is a confusing maze of programs. It’s outdated, inefficient, and not accountable to the taxpayers,” Walden said.“This bipartisan legislation will reform and improve workforce training programs so Oregonians can obtain the skills they need to go back to work. It eliminates fifteen duplicative programs, reducing administrative costs and unnecessary bureaucracy. Local boards are empowered to tailor services to their region’s employment and workforce needs. And the bill promotes skills training for 21st century jobs, fostering a modern workforce that Oregon businesses rely on to compete. It’s a win for taxpayers, job seekers, and employers,” Walden continued.In May, Walden met with the Rogue Workforce Partnership and toured Rogue Valley Microdevices in Medford. They discussed the need to strengthen and improve workforce training programs, along the lines of what this plan accomplishes, and their leaders praised passage of the plan. “This is an important moment. As business leaders, we've advocated a long time for an even stronger partnership between the public and private sectors so we can grow the skills of workers, grow our businesses and grow good jobs. This legislation will help us to line up our collective efforts, so we can make an even bigger difference economically for our region,” said Jessica Gomez, CEO and Founder of Rogue Valley Microdevices and Chair of the Rogue Workforce Partnership. “As the business-led Local Workforce Investment Board for our region, we strongly support the passage of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act. This legislation gives us a much stronger foundation to help businesses fill their critical talent and human capital needs. It also provides more opportunities for job seekers to get the skills they need for good career pathway jobs. And, it gives us better tools for streamlining our WorkSource Oregon One-Stop and other workforce programs, and to work with our K-20 education partners to better link all these important skill-building investments so they can best meet the needs of the business employer, as well as the job/career seeker. We greatly appreciate the efforts and support of Representative Walden in getting this important legislation passed,” said Jim Fong, Executive Director of the Rogue Workforce Partnership based in Medford. A Central Oregon leader in workforce development also praised passage of the bill. “The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act will help streamline workforce development funding and programs, providing a better coordination of services as well as reaching more out of work Oregonians. It also provides the critical flexibility for state and regional boards to better meet the needs of the local community. As both an employer and a member of a workforce development board, I appreciate Rep. Walden supporting this important this legislation to put more Oregonians to work,” said Trygve Bolken, member of the Oregon Workforce Investment Board and Human Resources Manager for Bend Research.The Senate overwhelmingly passed the bill in late June. It now heads to President Obama, who is expected to sign it into law in the coming days. For full details of the plan, please click here.
06.26.2014	U.S. House passes legislation to increase American energy, lower gas prices for Oregon families *** AUDIO ATTACHED ***WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has passed bipartisan legislation to increase American energy production, lowering gas prices and creating jobs. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) was a strong advocate for these three bills, which passed the House with bipartisan support. Walden issued the following statement after voting on the final bill:“As summer driving season gets underway and chaos builds in the Middle East, families in Oregon continue to pay more and more at the gas station every time they fill up the tank. Everywhere I go in our state, families, farmers, ranchers, and small business owners tell me just how much of a burden skyrocketing energy prices are on their budgets. There’s a better way. We can increase energy production to reduce energy costs so that Oregonians can keep more of their hard-earned paychecks and make America more prosperous and secure. “That’s why I strongly supported bipartisan legislation passed by the House this week to increase the supply of American energy. This will lower costs for Oregon families, create good-paying jobs, and keep our nation more secure. America is on track to become the world’s leading energy superpower, but we must update our laws and cut through federal red tape to make this dream a reality.”According to AAA, gas prices in Oregon climbed again last week to a statewide average of $3.93 per gallon, well above the national average of $3.66 (making Oregon one of the top 10 most expensive states to buy gas). That average could soon climb above $4.00 per gallon, something we haven’t seen since 2012. The bills passed by the House this week include:The Lowering Gasoline Prices to Fuel and America That Works Act (H.R. 4899) would open new areas to energy exploration and development on our vast onshore and offshore federal lands. The bill reverses the Obama Administration’s policies that have driven federal oil production down six percent and federal natural gas down 28 percent since the president took office. Currently, the U.S. is experiencing an energy boom on state and private lands – where natural gas production is up 33 percent and oil is up 61 percent since 2009. This is a testament to broken federal lands policy, part of which this bill seeks to fix. The Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act (H.R. 6) would expedite approval by the Department of Energy of U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports. Currently, 26 export applications are pending at the Department of Energy, some for over two years. The need for increased U.S. LNG exports has received considerable support and attention as the crisis between Russia and Ukraine continues. With Russia continuing to exploit the energy dependence of our European partners, this bill presents us with the unique opportunity to strengthen our allies, weaken our enemies, and create economic opportunities here at home. The North American Energy Infrastructure Act (H.R. 3301) would establish a clear and efficient approval process for pipelines and transmission lines that cross the borders of the United States with Canada or Mexico. This would prevent another situation like the application for the Keystone XL pipeline which has languished for nearly six years.
06.17.2014	Greg Walden urges Obama Administration to allow more time for public input on new endangered species regulations WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and 42 other Members of Congress have urged two federal agencies to give more time for the public to comment on three proposed Endangered Species Act (ESA) regulations that would make sweeping changes to how critical habitat designations are determined under the law.“The Endangered Species Act has already severely impacted rural communities throughout the West. And now the Obama Administration is proposing to further expand their authority under the ESA with little time for public input,” Walden said. “Sixty days is simply not enough time for the public to read, understand, and comment on these proposals that would make sweeping changes to how the ESA is implemented on the ground. The Administration must give rural citizens as much time as possible to explain how these new rules could affect Oregon farms, ranches, and communities.”Federal agencies often offer 90 or 120 day comment periods for complex rules that can have significant economic impact. For these proposed rules, which were released on May 12, 2014 after more than a year of internal Administration review, the public has been given 60 days to offer input. The letter was sent to U.S. Fish and Wildlife (FWS) Director Dan Ashe and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Administrator Kathryn Sullivan to request a six month extension of the public comment period on the three regulations. For a copy of the signed letter, please click here.The Members went into detail about their concerns with the proposals and why the public should be given more time to give their input. “As written, these rules could dramatically increase the amount of private and public lands designated for habitat, which in turn could result in blocking or slowing down an array of agricultural, grazing, energy transmission and production, transportation, and other activities on the more than 680 current habitat designations and hundreds more slated to be finalized in the next few years,” Walden and the other representatives wrote in the letter.In Oregon, northern spotted owl critical habitat designations have already led to federal timber harvests dropping by more than 90 percent in the last 30 years. Facing an arbitrary court-ordered deadline of September 2015, rural communities across eastern Oregon are rushing to prevent the listing of the Greater sage-grouse under the ESA in hopes of avoiding the detrimental economic impacts that have come along with species listings elsewhere in the West.“There is a history of concerns that we and others have had with the FWS’ and NOAA’s interpretations of critical habit designations, economic analyses methodology, and regulations stemming from hundreds of listings from closed-door settlements with litigious groups. In light of these concerns, we are surprised and disappointed that the FWS and NOAA would seek to finalize, within just 60 days, multiple rule changes of this significance without more advance notification of Congress, and with insufficient time for affected stakeholders to provide meaningful input,” the representatives continued.
06.10.2014	U.S. House committee hears strong support for Walden’s forest access legislation Click here or on the image below to watch the committee hearingWASHINGTON, D.C. — Members of Congress today heard strong support for local control over forest access decisions during a hearing on the Forest Access in Rural Communities Act (H.R. 4272), a bill authored by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River). An influential House committee with jurisdiction over public lands policy heard statements from Walden and Union County Commissioner Steve McClure as support for the legislation continues to grow in Oregon and in Congress.“Since the Forest Service first announced they were going to start this process, I have worked with county commissioners and the local residents who enjoy driving, riding, camping, cutting firewood and picking berries on their National Forest to craft this legislation to ensure local communities have a say in forest access decisions,” Walden told the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation.“This legislation puts a stop to the flawed travel management planning rule that applied a one-size fits all approach for road management on every community. For future proposals that result in a road closure or access restriction, it requires the Forest Service to consult during the planning process, and seek concurrence from the counties within which the road closure occurs, and the neighboring counties, before the project can be implemented. Doing so levels the playing field and ensures that the local residents and communities, those most affected by these management decisions, have a strong say and aren’t ignored in the process,” Walden continued. Click here for Walden’s full statement as prepared for delivery.Union County Commissioner Steve McClure testified in support of the bill based on the experience of eastern Oregon counties with the Wallowa-Whitman travel management plan. “Our experience with the Wallowa-Whitman travel management plan clearly shows the need for H.R. 4272 which provides a chance to restore local control over these planning processes and ensure that local communities, and their needs and uses are not ignored. It is important that the counties not only participate but that there is an agreement between the Forest Service and the communities,” McClure said. Click here to read his full testimony.Support for the FAIR Act continues to grow, with five Oregon counties submitting letters of support to the committee: Baker, Grant, Umatilla, Union, and Wallowa.The bill has also been endorsed by Forest Access for All, the Eastern Oregon All Terrain Association, the Association of Oregon Counties, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, the Public Lands Council, the American Motorcyclist Association, the American Council of Snowmobile Associations, and the Oregon State Snowmobile Association. Walden entered each of these letters into the official congressional record.Walden’s bill has also picked up support from his colleagues in the House since it was introduced in March. It currently has seven cosponsors: Reps. Mark Amodei (R-NV), Rob Bishop (R-UT), Tom McClintock (R-CA), Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (R-WA), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Mike Simpson (R-ID), and Don Young (R-AK).
06.04.2014	House committee to hold hearing on Walden’s forest access bill next weekUnion County Commissioner Steve McClure to testify before Congress in support WASHINGTON, D.C. — The House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation will hold a hearing on U.S. Rep. Greg Walden’s forest access bill on Tuesday, June 10. Union County Commissioner Steve McClure will be on hand to testify in support of the Forest Access in Rural Communities Act (H.R. 4272). “This hearing is the first step in passing my common-sense bill to stop the misguided travel management rule on national forests in the West and promote local control over future proposals that could restrict forest access. I’m pleased that my friend Steve McClure will be there to give his support to the bill and perspective as a county commissioner,” Walden said. “Federal agencies need to heed the input and wishes of local citizens before closing roads and restricting access. My bill will bring management decisions about public lands back to rural communities and force the forest service to listen to Oregonians.” “During the first round of travel management planning on the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest, I saw the Forest Service largely ignore the data and comments compiled by local forest users when the plan was released. I appreciate Representative Walden working with the counties and local residents throughout the travel management planning process and in crafting HR 4272 to ensure local communities have a say in management decisions on our National Forests,”McClure said. Walden’s bill has picked up support from his colleagues in the House since it was introduced in March. It currently has six cosponsors: Reps. Mark Amodei (R-NV), Rob Bishop (R-UT), Tom McClintock (R-CA), Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (R-WA), Steve Pearce (R-NM), and Mike Simpson (R-ID).Walden has also heard support for the proposal at community forums in La Grande and John Day. Larry Cribbs, a representative from the Eastern Oregon All-Terrain Vehicle Association, told The Observer,“This legislation is put together with our thoughts, our comments, our opportunity up front, and they listened to everything we said.” Union County Commissioner Mark Davidson said, “I fully support it. I think this is the kind of relationship that we always should have had.” Grant County Sheriff Glenn Palmer told The Blue Mountain Eagle,“What comes off of this (forest) is our livelihood, our business, our future.”Editorial boards in Oregon have also supported the measure. The Baker City Herald wrote, “Greg Walden has gotten right to theheart of the debate over managing national forests, and he only needed to write a four-page bill to do it,” in an editorial entitled “Walden’s bill has promise.”The Bulletin in Bend declared “Walden’s forest bill is just what’s needed.”
05.28.2014	U.S. House passes bill to boost economic opportunities in Hermiston, allow important research to continue Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s speech during debate on the billWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has passed a plan written by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) to place the 290 acres of land currently home to Oregon State University’s Hermiston Agriculture Research and Experiment Center (HAREC) fully under local control. The Hermiston Reversionary Lands Act (H.R. 3366) will allow important research to continue and provide flexibility for future economic development in the area. For the full text of the bill, click here.“This common-sense plan is a win for farming and jobs. By repealing an antiquated federal rule, this bill provides an opportunity to grow Hermiston’s economy while allowing the flexibility needed for valuable, local agriculture research to continue. I’m pleased that it passed the House with such broad support. The Senate should take it up and pass it right away,” Walden said.In 1954, the 290 acres near Hermiston was conveyed by the federal government to the State of Oregon for the creation of an agricultural experiment station. The federal government still holds mineral and reversionary interest in the property. Should any portion of the current research station property no longer be used for agricultural research purposes, the property would return to federal ownership.This antiquated clause provides management challenges for the station and denies the flexibility needed for Oregon State to generate revenue from portions unsuited for agriculture research. For example, it denies the university ability to sell the property and relocate the station out beyond city limits to an area better located for agriculture research as needed in the future. The clause also denies the local community the flexibility it needs to build the economy and provide jobs to meet the demands of the growing region.Local leaders hailed passage of the plan. “Oregon State University strongly endorses passage of H.R.3366 which will remove the federal reversionary clause on the Hermiston Agricultural Research and Extension Center. This will provide the flexibility needed to ensure that the station can continue to do research in support of the agricultural community, the needs of the city of Hermiston, the region and beyond, now and for generations to come,” said Oregon State University President Edward J. Ray. “As an agricultural community, we depend on the OSU Hermiston experiment station to have the latest crop research and techniques to remain competitive, support our economy and grow jobs. We appreciate Congressman Walden working with growers here locally to make sure an obscure federal law does not endanger the future of the experiment station and our agricultural economy,” said local farmer Bryan Wolfe, Chairman of Hermiston Agricultural Research and Experiment Station Advisory Committee.“The reversionary interest that the federal government maintains over the Hermiston experiment station deprives our community and OSU of the flexibility it needs to maximize the value of the property and the research done there. As our city continues to rapidly expand around the station, the reversionary interest stands in the way of future development. We thank Congressman Walden for removing this barrier to economic growth,” said Hermiston Mayor David Drotzmann.
05.21.2014	U.S. House passes bill to bring accountability to the VA Click here or on the image above to watch Walden’s video statementWASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has passed the VA Management Accountability Act, a plan co-sponsored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), to hold senior level Veterans Administration (VA) managers accountable for the agency’s progress. Walden issued the following statement after the vote:“Americans are correctly outraged by the growing scandal at the VA. As a nation, we owe our veterans the best care possible. From World War II to Korea, Vietnam to Iraq and Afghanistan, they’ve all fought to defend our freedom, and we must ensure they receive the benefits and care they’ve earned. “We in the House are continuing to act—passing legislation to clean up this mess once and for all. We’ve already passed legislation to fund important veterans programs and reduce the unacceptable claims backlog. “Now the House passed—with my strong support—the VA Management Accountability Act. Current law puts layers and layers of red tape in the way before a senior manager at the VA can be dismissed for not doing their job. This common-sense bill would make it easier to fire or demote senior level managers at the VA who are failing to live up to their responsibilities to our veterans and their families. “This plan would bring much-needed accountability to the Veterans Administration, and the Senate should pass it right away too. Our nation has made a promise to veterans. And we must keep it.”The House has already passed—with Walden’s strong support—legislation to fund important veterans programs and reduce the claims backlog at the VA. Walden has met with veterans in southern, central, and eastern Oregon in recent weeks, and the backlog was a major topic of discussion. The latest numbers from the Portland office show that about 62% of veterans’ claims are older than 125 days.On Monday, Walden will honor those who have given their lives in the nation’s service at Memorial Day observances in Central Point and Eagle Point in Jackson County. Full details will be announced tomorrow.
05.20.2014	U.S. House again passes legislation to streamline development at the Port of Hood RiverRep. Greg Walden meets with the Port of Hood River to discuss legislation to streamline development at the port WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has again passed legislation to remove unnecessary red tape at the Port of Hood River to streamline economic development and habitat restoration projects along the river. The provision is contained in a compromise version of water infrastructure legislation known as the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA). It is expected to be passed by the Senate in the coming days, and be signed into law by the President. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) secured the provision in the final agreement.Due to outdated regulations, the Port must get approval from the Army Corps of Engineers on activity on land near the Hood River, even though the Port owns the land. This process of winning approval from the Corps is often slow and expensive. The legislation passed today would remove that requirement, which predates the construction of the Bonneville Dam in the 1930’s.“This common-sense change will remove outdated federal red tape that has held up new economic development and habitat restoration projects at the Port of Hood River,” Walden said. “It will help streamline new projects at the Port and can create jobs and development along the river. I am pleased that it passed the House with strong support today, and hope that the Senate will quickly follow suit so it can become law.” Community leaders have praised the legislation. “Greg’s work to help remove the archaic flowage easement was absolutely critical. It’s a small victory but it will help a great deal with our efforts to improve water access, riparian enhancement and walking path construction along the Western edge of the Nichol’s Basin. I want to personally thank him for his assistance,” said Port Commissioner Jon Davies.In June 2013, Walden wrote to Rep. Bill Shuster (R-Penn.), the Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, to request the inclusion of the provision in the initial version of the water projects legislation, which passed the House last October. Since then, House and Senate negotiators have been working to reconcile their versions of the legislation.
05.16.2014	Greg Walden’s travel management bill to move forward in the U.S. House MEDFORD — The House Natural Resources Committee has informed U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) that it plans to hold a hearing on his travel management bill at the next available opportunity. His bill, the Forest Access in Rural Communities Act (H.R. 4272), would stop the misguided travel management rule on national forests in the West and promote local control over future proposals that could restrict forest access.“I’ve always worked to bring management decisions about public lands back to where they belong—our rural communities. Federal agencies need to heed the input and wishes of local residents before making decisions about forest access or road closures. My common-sense bill would put a stop to the misguided travel management rule and force the Forest Service to listen to Oregonians before restricting access to public forests,” Walden said.“I’m grateful for the support that’s grown for this legislation across rural Oregon and in Congress. A hearing in the House Natural Resources Committee is the first step in passing this important measure,” Walden continued. Since introducing the bill in March, Walden has heard support for the proposal at community forums in La Grande and John Day. Larry Cribbs, a representative from the Eastern Oregon All-Terrain Vehicle Association, told The Observer,“This legislation is put together with our thoughts, our comments, our opportunity up front, and they listened to everything we said.” Union County Commissioner Mark Davidson said, “I fully support it. I think this is the kind of relationship that we always should have had.” And Grant County Sheriff Glenn Palmer told The Blue Mountain Eagle,“What comes off of this (forest) is our livelihood, our business, our future.”Editorial boards in Oregon have also supported the measure. The Baker City Herald wrote, “Greg Walden has gotten right to theheart of the debate over managing national forests, and he only needed to write a four-page bill to do it,” in an editorial entitled “Walden’s bill has promise.”The Bulletin in Bend declared “Walden’s forest bill is just what’s needed.”
05.07.2014	Greg Walden introduces Central Electric Cooperative leader at hearing on rural power and federal lands Walden introduces David Markham, CEO of Central Electric Cooperative in Redmond, at a House Natural Resources Committee hearing on rural electricity and federal lands (high resolution version available upon request)WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today introduced the CEO of a Central Oregon electric cooperative at a hearing in the House Natural Resources Committee entitled “Keeping the Lights On and Reducing Catastrophic Forest Fire Risk: Proper Management of Electricity Rights of Way on Federal Lands.”The purpose of the hearing was to examine challenges faced by rural electric utilities that have transmission and distribution lines on federal land. These utilities, which are often the only provider in rural coverage areas that can span tens of thousands of square miles, are negatively impacted by a lack of federal forest management that leads to catastrophic wildfires that can destroy transmission lines and disrupt service to rural homes and businesses. It also focused on delays by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and U.S. Forest Service on renewing permits for power lines across federal lands that deliver electricity to rural Oregon. “Just like it shouldn’t take several years to put together a timber sale, it also shouldn’t take several years for the BLM or Forest Service to renew an existing right of way for a transmission line. And when federal agencies fail to act, adjacent private land owners, utilities, and subsequently their customers are the ones that suffer,” Walden said while introducing Dave Markham, of Redmond.Markham discussed examples of burdensome Bureau of Land Management (BLM) delays on electricity rights of way and cited the agency’s sage grouse proposal that could bankrupt utilities in eastern Oregon.“While co-ops fully understand the need to protect the sage grouse, measures presented in the [BLM’s sage grouse proposal] would have severe consequences for several Oregon cooperatives,” Markham said. “It is beyond the time that our federal land managers work collaboratively with electric co-ops to develop common sense reform to their current practices.”To read Markham’s full testimony, click here. For more information on the hearing, click here.
05.02.2014	Greg Walden: Americans deserve the truth about Benghazi MEDFORD — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) released the following statement today after Speaker Boehner’s announcement that the House will vote to create a new select committee to investigate the Benghazi terrorist attack:“Just this week, the White House was forced by a court to release new documents that show the Obama Administration blatantly misled the American people in the days after the terrorist attack in Benghazi. For nearly two years, the Republican-led House has worked tirelessly to get the truth about that night—when four brave Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens and Oregonian Tyrone Woods lost their lives—and its aftermath. Time and time again, the Administration has stonewalled the House and the American people, and it’s time for them to come clean. I support the Speaker’s call for a select committee on Benghazi. This is an extraordinary step, but it’s needed to force accountability from the Obama Administration and get the truth.”
05.01.2014	Greg Walden: U.S. House continues effort to lead by example, reduce our own budget WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House has passed legislation to hold the line on its own budget, putting the House on track to save taxpayers $600 million since 2011. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) has been a leader in this effort, and issued the following statement after supporting the bill: “When House Republicans took the majority three years ago, we promised to reduce federal spending. And we led by example. One of the new majority’s very first actions was to pass my bill to reduce the House’s own budget. This demonstrated our commitment to ending the culture of spending in Washington, D.C.—an effort that continues today.“This bill holds the line on funding the House. It puts us on track to reduce our own budget by 14% in the past three years, saving taxpayers nearly $600 million. It denies members of Congress a pay raise for the fifth year in a row. And it increases support for the Government Accountability Office (GAO) so they have the resources needed to investigate wasteful government programs like Cover Oregon. These efforts to reduce government spending will help grow our economy, create jobs, and leave our country better off for the next generation.”In 2010, as the new majority took control of the U.S. House of Representatives, Walden organized a team of lawmakers to look at every aspect of how the House operates, and make recommendations for reform. A key recommendation of this transition team was to reduce the operating budgets of House committees, leadership offices, and individual member offices. The very first measure passed by the new Congress in January 2011—authored by Walden—cut the operating budget of the House by five percent, saving taxpayers an estimated $35 million in the first year alone.Today, the House passed legislation to fund the legislative branch for the coming fiscal year. This bill holds the line on funding the House, and puts the House on track to cut its own budget by 14% since 2011, saving taxpayers $600 million.
04.30.2014	Walden supports House bill to fund important veterans programs, reduce VA backlog WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House has passed bipartisan legislation to fund important veterans and military construction programs and reduce the claims backlog at the Veterans Administration (VA). U.S. Rep Greg Walden (R-Hood River) supported this measure, and issued the following statement after passage: “We as a nation owe our freedom to the men and women who have served in uniform. This legislation will help ensure they receive the care and benefits they have earned through years of service. They deserve nothing less,” Walden said. “Hundreds of thousands of veterans nationwide are waiting for a claims decision from the VA. That’s unacceptable. It’s time for greater accountability. This bill will help reduce the disgraceful claims backlog by continuing efforts to upgrade the VA’s computer systems and provide the personnel needed to solve this problem.” Last week, Walden met with veterans in Bend, Ontario, and Grants Pass, and the backlog was a major topic of discussion. The latest numbers from the Portland office show that about 62% of veterans’ claims are older than 125 days. Walden has also cosponsored a bill working its way through Congress—the VA Management Accountability Act—to hold senior level VA managers accountable for the agency’s progress. Current law puts layers and layers of red tape in the way before a senior manager at the VA can be held accountable for their actions. This bill would cut away a lot of that red tape to give the Secretary the authority to clean up the agency.Walden supports House bill to fund important veterans programs, reduce VA backlogWalden supports House bill to fund important veterans programs, reduce VA backlog WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House has passed bipartisan legislation to fund important veterans and military construction programs and reduce the claims backlog at the Veterans Administration (VA). U.S. Rep Greg Walden (R-Hood River) supported this measure, and issued the following statement after passage: “We as a nation owe our freedom to the men and women who have served in uniform. This legislation will help ensure they receive the care and benefits they have earned through years of service. They deserve nothing less,” Walden said. “Hundreds of thousands of veterans nationwide are waiting for a claims decision from the VA. That’s unacceptable. It’s time for greater accountability. This bill will help reduce the disgraceful claims backlog by continuing efforts to upgrade the VA’s computer systems and provide the personnel needed to solve this problem.” Last week, Walden met with veterans in Bend, Ontario, and Grants Pass, and the backlog was a major topic of discussion. The latest numbers from the Portland office show that about 62% of veterans’ claims are older than 125 days. Walden has also cosponsored a bill working its way through Congress—the VA Management Accountability Act—to hold senior level VA managers accountable for the agency’s progress. Current law puts layers and layers of red tape in the way before a senior manager at the VA can be held accountable for their actions. This bill would cut away a lot of that red tape to give the Secretary the authority to clean up the agency.
04.25.2014	Greg Walden: Taxpayers deserve an explanation for Cover Oregon’s failure BURNS, Ore. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement after the Cover Oregon board formally voted to join the federal health insurance exchange: “Once again, Obamacare causes chaos and confusion for Oregonians. Today, the same board that oversaw the colossal waste at Cover Oregon voted to throw in the towel, and taxpayers are left stuck with the bill. The board should explain further to the taxpayers of Oregon and the nation how exactly this massive failure happened.” Walden is in Burns today for a meeting with local ranchers and the Bureau of Land Management before heading to John Day for a meeting on forest access and Baker City for a town hall tomorrow morning. Greg Walden: Taxpayers deserve an explanation for Cover Oregon’s failure BURNS, Ore. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement after the Cover Oregon board formally voted to join the federal health insurance exchange: “Once again, Obamacare causes chaos and confusion for Oregonians. Today, the same board that oversaw the colossal waste at Cover Oregon voted to throw in the towel, and taxpayers are left stuck with the bill. The board should explain further to the taxpayers of Oregon and the nation how exactly this massive failure happened.” Walden is in Burns today for a meeting with local ranchers and the Bureau of Land Management before heading to John Day for a meeting on forest access and Baker City for a town hall tomorrow morning.
04.24.2014	MEDFORD— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the announcement that Cover Oregon will likely move to the federal health insurance exchange: “Cover Oregon is the digital equivalent of the 1962 Columbus Day storm. It is the worst financial failure in information technology in state history—and it was completely avoidable. Today’s admission of failure underscores the need to stop the waste and get the truth. How did this happen? Who was in charge? That’s why I’ve sought and secured a federal investigation into Cover Oregon. Taxpayers deserve answers and demand accountability.” Walden is in Medford and Grants Pass today for meetings with the southern Oregon small businesses and the opening of the new veterans clinic in Grants Pass. MEDFORD— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the announcement that Cover Oregon will likely move to the federal health insurance exchange: “Cover Oregon is the digital equivalent of the 1962 Columbus Day storm. It is the worst financial failure in information technology in state history—and it was completely avoidable. Today’s admission of failure underscores the need to stop the waste and get the truth. How did this happen? Who was in charge? That’s why I’ve sought and secured a federal investigation into Cover Oregon. Taxpayers deserve answers and demand accountability.” Walden is in Medford and Grants Pass today for meetings with the southern Oregon small businesses and the opening of the new veterans clinic in Grants Pass. MEDFORD— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today issued the following statement on the announcement that Cover Oregon will likely move to the federal health insurance exchange: “Cover Oregon is the digital equivalent of the 1962 Columbus Day storm. It is the worst financial failure in information technology in state history—and it was completely avoidable. Today’s admission of failure underscores the need to stop the waste and get the truth. How did this happen? Who was in charge? That’s why I’ve sought and secured a federal investigation into Cover Oregon. Taxpayers deserve answers and demand accountability.” Walden is in Medford and Grants Pass today for meetings with the southern Oregon small businesses and the opening of the new veterans clinic in Grants Pass.
04.15.2014	Greg Walden announces Congressional Art Competition for high school students Winner’s artwork to hang in U.S. Capitol; winner receives airfare for two to Washington, D.C. to view exhibit Emma Hughes of John Day won last year’s Congressional Art Competition for her artwork “Starry Eyed” (above). This piece is currently on display in the U.S. Capitol. MEDFORD, Ore. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that the 2014 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” is now open to high school students throughout Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes central, southern and eastern Oregon. The contest is a nationwide endeavor for students to showcase their artistic abilities while competing for the chance to have their work displayed in the United States Capitol.“I encourage all high school students in Oregon’s Second District to share their artwork as part of this year’s ‘Artistic Discovery’ competition. This is a tremendous opportunity for young people interested in art, and it gives students the chance to have their work showcased for a national audience,” said Walden.To enter the Congressional Art Competition, students must submit no more than two photographs of their work to Walden’s office by Monday, May 5, 2014. After artwork is received, a panel of experts will choose one winner and runners-up. The winner will have their artwork displayed in the national student art exhibit in the U.S. Capitol. The winner will also receive complimentary round-trip airfare for two to Washington, D.C. to view the full exhibit and attend a reception honoring the student’s talent. Runners-up will have their artwork displayed in one of Walden’s offices in Oregon in Bend, Medford, La Grande, or Hood River.To enter the contest, students must submit no more than two pieces of artwork and the Student Information & Release Form by May 5, 2014. Please email photos of the artwork (JPEG format), along with the student’s name, phone number, address, and school to Lizzie Litzow at Elizabeth.litzow@mail.house.gov.All forms and further information can be found on Walden’s website at https://walden.house.gov/art-competition/
04.10.2014	Greg Walden votes for balanced budget plan in the U.S. House Senate will once again not take up budget this year; refusal highlights need for balanced budget amendment WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today voted for a balanced budget plan, the Path to Prosperity, in the U.S. House. He issued the following statement upon passage:“Today, I voted for a budget that will reduce spending by more than $5 trillion and lead to a balanced budget without raising taxes on working Oregonians. Of all the threats that face our nation, few loom larger than the ever-growing federal debt and the impact it has on jobs and our economy. That’s why I’ve backed efforts to cut federal spending and get the federal budget in balance so we can begin paying down the nation’s debt. “The House has passed a budget each year since the Republicans won the majority in 2010, while the Senate has only done so once in the past four years. I am disappointed that, yet again this year, the Chair of the Senate Budget Committee, Sen. Patty Murray, has already announced the Senate will not even vote on a budget. This is yet another reason we need a constitutional amendment to require a balanced federal budget each year—no matter which party is in control of Washington, D.C.”Specifically, the House budget plan:· Grows the economy and creates jobs.· Secures retirement for seniors by strengthening Medicare and other vital programs.· Repeals the health care law to clear the way for patient-centered reform.· Provides Oregon families and small businesses with a fairer, simpler tax code.· Allocates an additional $410 million to veterans programs for those who have served the nation in uniform.· Clears the way for further extensions of Secure Rural Schools payments to rural communities for essential services like schools, roads, and law enforcement. This would be necessary as Congress continues work to fix broken federal forest policy to provide active management of our forests, create jobs, and provide certainty for rural communities.To read more on the budget plan, please click here.
04.03.2014	Greg Walden supports bill to restore wages, protect jobs from health care law WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today supported the Save American Workers Act to repeal the Affordable Care Act’s 30-hour definition of “full time” employment and restore the traditional 40-hour work week. It passed the U.S. House by a vote of 248-179. Walden is a co-sponsor of this important bill.“Today, the House acted to protect workers in Oregon and nationwide from another problem with the health care law: the 30-hour work week. Buried in this 906 page law is a mandate on employers to provide insurance to those who are full-time workers. I’ve owned a small business in Oregon with my wife since 1986. To me—and probably you—full time means 40-hour work weeks. To those who wrote this law, it means a 30-hour work week,” Walden said.“As a result, small and large employers are cutting back the hours of workers to just less than 30 a week to avoid this costly mandate. A drop of 10 work hours a week is a big, 25% hit in pay. A father in Grants Pass wrote to me explaining that his daughter—a single mother—had her hours cut back and could no longer afford to live on her own and moved back home. I’ve heard similar stories from Oregonians all throughout the district—including Medford, Bend, and Prineville. That’s why the House passed a bill today that says a full time worker is one who works 40 hours a week, not 30. This important change will help workers like that mom in Grants Pass.” According to the Hoover Institution, 2.6 million Americans earning less than $30,000 per year are at risk of having their wages and hours cut as a result of this definition. Investor’s Business Daily has kept a running tally of more than 400 employers nationwide who have already cut hours because of Obamacare.For more information on the Save American Workers Act, please click here.
04.03.2014	Greg Walden urges FDA to reconsider rule that could harm Oregon brewers, ranchers WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has written to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) expressing concern about a proposed rule that could harm the craft brewing and livestock industries in Oregon. The rule proposes to tightly regulate brewers’ “spent grains,” a byproduct of the beer-making process. It has long been common in the industry for brewers to sell or give the spent grains to ranchers for use as animal feed.“The FDA’s recent rule proposes to regulate spent brewers grains as animal food, and brewers as feed manufacturers. The result of this could be a disaster for jobs and tourism in southern, central, and eastern Oregon. I urge you to reassess this one-size-fits-all proposed rule and work directly with members of the craft brewing and livestock industries so that food safety can be ensured, without putting these industries out of business,” Walden wrote to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg.The text of Walden’s letter is below. For a signed copy of the letter, please click here.Oregon brewers have been concerned about the proposed regulation. “The relationship between farmer and brewer has existed for millennia. I am not aware of a single incident in that time of food borne illness for either animal or human. This ruling could do severe harm to both brewers and farmers as well as fill our landfills with what would otherwise be productive animal feed. Thankfully there are leaders in Congress like Greg Walden who are lending sanity to this situation,” said Gary Fish, founder and CEO of Deschutes Brewery in Bend.Walden helped found the U.S. House Small Brewers Caucus in 2007. According to the Oregon Brewers Guild, Oregon beer industries employ 6,400 full and part-time employees—an increase of 900 jobs from 2011. There are over a dozen breweries in Central Oregon, and four within the city limits of Hood River alone. The livestock industry in Oregon has been around for generations, and Oregon’s ranchers bring over $650 million into Oregon’s economy, according to the Oregon Department of Agriculture.
04.02.2014	Greg Walden leads hearing on global internet freedom, administration’s proposal to transfer domain name oversight Click here or on the image below to watch video of Walden’s opening statement WASHINGTON, D.C. — The House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, chaired by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), today held a hearing on ensuring the security, stability, and freedom of the global internet. Walden and other members of the panel sought answers regarding the Obama administration’s proposal instructing the International Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) to explore ways to remove the United States from its oversight role of the Domain Name System.Walden and other members expressed concern about any change that could leave the Internet vulnerable to power grabs from international governments and sought commitments that the administration would not permit any outcome that fails to protect the ideals of Internet freedom and openness.“I cannot overstate the importance of freedom of the Internet from government control. Nor can I overstate the threat from foreign governments who seek to control, tax, censor, and otherwise impose their own agendas on the Internet,” Walden said in his opening statement.“We cannot allow institutions such as the United Nations or the International Telecommunication Union to insert themselves into the functioning of the Domain Name System. Make no mistake: threats to the openness and freedom of the Internet are real. Leaders such as Vladimir Putin have explicitly announced their desire to gain control of the Internet,” Walden continued. For more information, or to watch the full hearing, click here.Last year, the U.S. House unanimously passed H.R. 1580, legislation written by Walden that affirms the policy of the United States regarding Internet governance and preserves Internet freedom. H.R. 1580 is currently pending in the Senate.
03.26.2014	Walden continues efforts to protect private property rights, supports bill to increase transparency on public lands decisionsBill would allow farmers, ranchers, and other affected citizens to give input on national monument declarations WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today voted for the Ensuring Public Involvement in the Creation (EPIC) of National Monuments Act (H.R. 1459) that would require public participation before a presidentially-declared national monument is made official. Walden is an original co-sponsor of the bill, which passed the House today. “Land-use decisions should be made in the sunshine with full input from affected citizens like farmers and ranchers. The President shouldn’t be able to lock up thousands of acres of federal land to all productive uses with just the stroke of his pen and no say from the American people. That’s why I’ve worked for a long time to reform the Antiquities Act to stop its worst abuses. This common-sense bill would ensure that future national monuments are created with public participation, not behind closed doors at the White House,” Walden said.Under the 1906 Antiquities Act, the President can designate a national monument unilaterally, without public input. This was originally intended to be used in emergency situations to protect important historic sites and sites of scientific value from an imminent threat. Since the law passed over a century ago, though, excessive use of the Antiquities Act has grown under presidents of both parties. Oregon’s Second District has faced threats to create national monuments unilaterally from the Clinton and Obama Administrations, efforts Walden has opposed.The EPIC Act would classify national monument declarations by the President as a “major federal action,” which would trigger a process that requires transparency and input from local communities. It would allow temporary, small “emergency” designations if there is an imminent threat to a historic site. It would also prevent the inclusion of private property in monument decisions without prior approval from property owners.
03.17.2014	Greg Walden introduces bill to stop travel management rule, promote forest access for all*** Audio attached ***Speaking at AC Power Sports in La Grande, Walden announces he has introduced legislation to stop the travel management rule and promote forest access for all (high resolution photo available upon request)LA GRANDE, Ore. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced he has introduced the Forest Access in Rural Communities Act (H.R. 4272) to stop the problematic travel management rule on national forests in the West and promote local control over future proposals to restrict forest access.“For too long, the input and wishes of local citizens have been pushed to the backseat when it comes to decisions about access to our public lands. This common-sense bill will put local communities back in the driver’s seat in the Forest Service’s travel management planning process,” Walden said. “Whether it’s for hunting, camping, firewood cutting, berry picking, or just enjoying a ride through the woods in a truck or ATV, accessing our forests is a way of life in rural Oregon. Far too often, though, management decisions are handed down from Washington, D.C. by agencies who have likely only seen the forests on a map. It’s time for that to stop. This bill will bring management back where it belongs—local communities with firsthand knowledge about the state and uses of these forests,” Walden said. Walden made the announcement at AC Power Sports in La Grande with local officials and members of the motorized recreation community, including Union County Commissioner Mark Davidson and motorized recreation leader Allan Chase. This legislation is the result of over a year of work with stakeholders like Davidson and Chase. When the USFS released a travel management plan on the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest two years ago, it largely ignored input from local citizens. Walden, local officials and citizens pushed back hard on the plan, eventually forcing the agency to withdraw it. The Forest Access in Rural Communities Act prohibits the implementation or enforcement of the U.S. Forest Service’s (USFS) Travel Management Rule for national forests derived from public domain lands in the West. It also places restrictions on the USFS before implementing a proposed road closure, decommissioning or change in road densities in forests. In order to do so, the USFS must consult during the planning process with affected counties (a county within which the road closure occurs or an adjacent county). It must also get concurrence from the affected counties before the proposed plan goes into effect. To read the full text of the bill, please click here. Last weekend, the Bend Bulletin called for more local input over travel management plans. “This time around, the Forest Service must truly do as it has pledged: Conduct an open process. Incorporate what the public says into the plan,” the paper wrote in an editorial.
03.12.2014	House unanimously approves Walden’s FCC reform bill Click here to watch Walden’s floor remarks in support of his legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives has unanimously approved a bill authored by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) to reform the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The FCC Process Reform Act (H.R. 3675) aims to increase transparency, predictability, and accountability at the Commission. Walden is chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which has oversight responsibilities for the FCC. “The communications sector is one of the most innovative, competitive, and robust sectors of our economy. But, for innovation and investment to continue in communications, we must not weigh industry down with needless red tape and delay,” Walden said. “Communications and technology companies, as well as consumers who enjoy their products and benefits deserve a transparent and responsive government agency. While agency process has improved under recent chairmen, this legislation will ensure that reforms remain in place from one administration to the next.”For more information on the bill, please click here. As an example of bad process at the FCC, Walden cited a recent “study” proposed by the Commission to monitor content in newsrooms. The FCC recently agreed to drop the study after Walden and others blew the whistle on this threat to the First Amendment.“Late last year, the FCC issued a notice for a study that would call into question the editorial decisions of journalists in their own newsrooms, which I think threatens their First Amendment rights. Somehow, an item as controversial as this study made it through the FCC without so much as a Commission vote. Americans deserve greater accountability and transparency from their government,” Walden said.This measure is the third bill authored by Walden to pass the House unanimously within the past year. Last May, the House unanimously okayed Walden’s bill to promote internet freedom. In October, the body unanimously approved the Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act, authored by Walden. The Senate has not yet held a vote on any of these three bipartisan bills.
03.12.2014	Walden welcomes FCC’s reversal on First Amendment attack Decision to cease revival of Fairness Doctrine comes over 11 weeks after Walden first raised issue with FCC WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden, the Chairman of the House Communications and Technology Subcommittee, today welcomed the Federal Communications Commission’s decision to scrap the commission’s Critical Information Needs (CIN) study. Every Republican member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee wrote to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler in December urging the suspension of the study, which would have included interviewing journalists and other news professionals about their decision-making processes.Walden issued a joint statement with Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.), the Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee:"We welcome the news that the FCC is dropping its ill-conceived encroachment into the newsroom,” said Upton and Walden. “This is a victory for the First Amendment and freedom of the press. But this unprecedented and dangerous intrusion on America's newsrooms should never have been pursued in the first place. Although important questions remain, Chairman Wheeler's action is a positive step.”BackgroundIn December, Chairman Upton, Subcommittee Chairman Walden, and every Republican member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee wrote to Chairman Wheeler urging him to suspend the study. After the FCC responded to the December letter, Upton and Walden expressed concern that the study still left room for First Amendment violations. Members cited similar concerns with respect to the original Fairness Doctrine and committee leaders urged then FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski to remove the statute from the Code of Federal Regulations in 2011. The doctrine was eliminated in August 2011.
03.08.2014	Greg Walden statement on Rough & Ready millMEDFORD — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden issued the following statement on news that the Rough & Ready mill in Josephine County would reopen:"Today's announcement from Rough & Ready is good news for working families in southern Oregon. To make this last, we need to change the law and fix broken federal forest policy so that we can bring back stable, family-wage jobs, reduce the risk of wildfire, and provide certainty for local services like roads, schools, and law enforcement."Greg Walden statement on Rough & Ready millMEDFORD — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden issued the following statement on news that the Rough & Ready mill in Josephine County would reopen:"Today's announcement from Rough & Ready is good news for working families in southern Oregon. To make this last, we need to change the law and fix broken federal forest policy so that we can bring back stable, family-wage jobs, reduce the risk of wildfire, and provide certainty for local services like roads, schools, and law enforcement." MEDFORD — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden issued the following statement on news that the Rough & Ready mill in Josephine County would reopen: "Today's announcement from Rough & Ready is good news for working families in southern Oregon. To make this last, we need to change the law and fix broken federal forest policy so that we can bring back stable, family-wage jobs, reduce the risk of wildfire, and provide certainty for local services like roads, schools, and law enforcement."
03.05.2014	Greg Walden announces Government Accountability Office review of Cover Oregon*** Click here for Walden’s video message on the GAO investigation ***WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has agreed to his request to review Cover Oregon, the state’s troubled health exchange.“Oregonians are rightfully concerned about the failure of Cover Oregon. Hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent on this broken website, and taxpayers have little to show for it. The GAO will take an independent look into what went wrong. They have a reputation for independence and thoroughness. Their investigation will help taxpayers get answers about what happened at Cover Oregon and the over $300 million that has been allocated to the state. Oregonians deserve better,” Walden said. In their letter to Walden today, the GAO agreed to undertake this work “as part of a broader study planned to examine states’ health exchange websites.” Click here to read the letter.On February 12, Walden and other top leaders on the House Energy and Commerce Committee wrote to the GAO to request a federal investigation. “The catastrophic breakdown of Cover Oregon is unacceptable and taxpayers deserve accountability,” the members wrote.Walden chairs the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. He was joined on the letter by Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-Penn.), and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-Penn.).Since 2010, the state of Oregon has been allocated more than $304 million in federal grant dollars to build, test, and operate the Cover Oregon health marketplace. Despite this investment of federal taxpayer dollars, Oregonians remain unable to purchase health insurance coverage through the Cover Oregon marketplace website on their own. Each of the grants the state received had clear summaries describing how the funds were to be used and what Oregon would accomplish with these federal dollars.Federal agencies, such as the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, have a responsibility for overseeing that the tax dollars they send out are used properly. Given the current state of Cover Oregon, it doesn’t appear that this federal oversight was adequately performed, which is why the leaders requested the investigation.
02.28.2014	Greg Walden honored as “Champion of Change” by National Down Syndrome Society U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (center) is honored as a “Champion of Change” by the National Down Syndrome Society (NDSS). Presenting Walden the award is Mr. David Egan (right), the 2014 NDSS Self-Advocate of the Year, and Mr. Vince Randazzo (left), a board member of the NDSS. (High resolution version available upon request) WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has been named a 2014 “Champion of Change” honoree by the National Down Syndrome Society (NDSS) in recognition of his efforts to improve the lives of people with disabilities. “I am honored to be recognized by the National Down Syndrome Society, but it is the individuals with disabilities, their families, and the volunteers that support them who deserve the true recognition. Their efforts inspire me to continue to work hard to raise awareness and improve the lives of people with disabilities and their families,” Walden said. Walden is a co-sponsor of the Achieving Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act (H.R. 647). The bill seeks to ease the financial strains faced by individuals with disabilities by creating tax-free savings accounts to cover expenses such as housing, education, and transportation. It would provide individuals with disabilities the same kind of flexible spending accounts other Americans have access to, like health savings accounts and college savings accounts.The NDSS annually presents “Champion of Change” honors to Members of Congress who have worked to advance policies that support people with Down syndrome. For more information on the NDSS, please click here.
02.26.2014	House Natural Resources Committee holds hearing on Greg Walden’s bill to boost economic opportunities in Hermiston Walden testifies before the House Natural Resources Committee about his bill to boost economic development in Hermiston (high resolution version available)WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today testified in support of his bill to place the 240 acres of land currently home to Oregon State University’s Hermiston Agriculture Research and Experiment Center (HAREC) fully under local control.At a hearing before the U.S. House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation, Walden said that the Agriculture Research Extension and Advancement Act (H.R. 3366) “will provide the flexibility needed for research to continue, providing economic growth for the surrounding community and City of Hermiston, eastern Oregon’s fastest growing community.”“For the growing community, H.R. 3366 provides an opportunity for economic and job growth into the future. For the Columbia Basin’s strong agriculture economy, it is a way for valuable, local agriculture research to continue. And for Oregon State University it provides the flexibility they need to continue providing that research to the area, as they have for the last 60 years,” Walden continued.Attached, please find Walden’s full testimony as prepared for delivery and the complete text of the bill.In 1954, the 240 acres near Hermiston was conveyed by the federal government to the State of Oregon for the creation of an agricultural experiment station. The federal government still holds mineral and reversionary interest in the property. Should any portion of the current HAREC property be no longer used for agricultural research purposes, the property would return to federal ownership.This clause provides management challenges for the station and denies the flexibility needed for the university to generate revenue from portions unsuited for agriculture research. For example, it denies OSU the ability to sell the property and relocate the station out beyond city limit to an area better located for agriculture research as needed in the future. The clause also denies the local community the flexibility it needs to build the economy and provide jobs to meet the demands of the growing region.Local leaders praised the plan when it was introduced.“We appreciate Congressman Walden working with growers here locally to make sure an arcane federal law does not endanger the future of the OSU Hermiston experiment station. The station is a valuable asset, and the continued viability this legislation provides will ensure area farmers have the latest research on their crops so they can remain competitive into the future,” said Bryan Wolfe, a local farmer and Chairman of Hermiston Agricultural Research and Experiment Station Advisory Committee.“This legislation allows OSU the flexibility to make decisions about how to manage the Hermiston site to best maximize the financial and scientific value of the property. The revisionary interest denies OSU any incentive to sell its property, which prevents higher-value development from taking place on the land, and at the same time locks the station into a location which is becoming less ideal for their needs as the city continues to rapidly grow around it," Hermiston Mayor David Drotzmann said.
02.25.2014	Greg Walden working on bill to protect the First Amendment, eradicate chilling FCC study Walden announces hearing, legislation in works to ensure FCC stays out of newsrooms and respects the freedom of the press WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, announced that the Energy and Commerce Committee will pursue legislative solutions to take the Federal Communications Commission’s Critical Information Needs (CIN) study off the books. The study, which was first announced last summer, originally included the questioning of journalists and other news professionals regarding their decision-making processes and news philosophy. While FCC Chairman Wheeler has indicated that the study will be changed, he has yet to adequately answer the questions contained in the committee’s December 10, 2013 letter. Walden’s Communications and Technology Subcommittee plans to hold a hearing and introduce legislation to stop the study. “The very existence of this CIN study is an affront to the First Amendment and should have never been proposed in the first place. As someone with a journalism degree, I was alarmed from the moment I saw it, which is why we wrote to Chairman Wheeler in December to urge him to stop the study. To date, Chairman Wheeler has insisted upon only making small tweaks, and what he has proposed to do isn’t enough. The study should be eradicated completely,” said Walden. “The potential for violation of the First Amendment is exceptionally egregious, but it is also concerning that the commission believes it can prescribe what ‘critical information needs’ are in communities across the country.” Walden continued, “It took nearly 25 years to get the Fairness Doctrine off the books once it had been 'eliminated' in 1987, and we will do whatever it takes to ensure this study or any other effort by the government to control the output of America’s newsrooms never sees the light of day.” In December, Walden, along with full committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and every Republican member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, wrote to Chairman Wheeler urging him to suspend the study. Upon the FCC’s response to the December letter, Walden expressed concern that the study still left room for First Amendment violations. Walden and other members cited similar concerns with respect to the original Fairness Doctrine and committee leaders urged then FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski to remove the statute from the Code of Federal Regulations in 2011. The doctrine was eliminated in August 2011. Additional information about the upcoming hearing will be posted here as it is available.
02.24.2014	Greg Walden supports plan to reform wildfire budgetFebruary 24, 2014WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced he has co-sponsored a bill to address perennial wildfire budget issues. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act (H.R. 3992) aims to end the current practice of “fire borrowing,” using funds from fire prevention accounts in order to pay for wildfire suppression when costs exceed an agency’s wildfire budget.“Federal forest policy is broken, and so is the way we budget for major wildfires. Year after year, federal agencies are forced to take money from forest management and fire prevention programs to pay to fight wildfires. That doesn’t make sense for our forests or for the taxpayers. This broken cycle needs to end, which is why I’ve co-sponsored this common-sense bill,” Walden said.“I’m pleased that fixing our broken fire funding system has bipartisan support in the House, the Senate, and from the White House. Fixing this flawed funding method is a good first step, but we also need to fix federal forest management to prevent catastrophic wildfire, improve forest health and create jobs. Last September, the House passed a bipartisan bill to do just that, and I urge the Senate to rapidly pass this plan,” Walden continued. Federal wildfire suppression expenditures surpassed budgeted amounts eight times over the past ten years. When this happens, agencies are forced to take funds from accounts used to pay for active forest management activities, such as hazardous fuels reduction projects. And because of a lack of active forest management, wildfire suppression costs are rising. Two decades ago, the Forest Service devoted 13 percent of its budget to wildland fire management. In 2013, this took up 41 percent of the budget.H.R. 3992 would fund routine firefighting through the normal budget process. Catastrophic wildfires, though, would be funded through national disaster programs used to pay for other disasters like hurricanes and floods. These catastrophic fires represent about 1 percent of annual fires but make up over 30 percent of the costs.The proposal has support on both sides of the aisle in the House and Senate, and the President announced today that he would incorporate the plan into his 2015 budget proposal.
02.19.2014	ICYMI: Fox News “Special Report” on call for GAO investigation into Cover Oregon Click here or on the image below to watch the story PORTLAND— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden’s call for a federal Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation into the failure of Cover Oregon was featured on “Special Report with Bret Baier” on Fox News last night. “If this were a car you’d been sold, you’d get it taken back under the Lemon Law. The car dealership would be held accountable,” Walden said in reference to the troubled health exchange website, which has been granted over $300 million by the federal government. Last week, Walden, who chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, and three other top leaders on the Committee, requested that the GAO investigate Cover Oregon. “Although the roll out of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) has been problematic nationwide, no state has had more complications than Oregon. The state of Oregon’s exchange website, Cover Oregon, has been such a technological failure that the site was unable to enroll anyone months after the start of the open enrollment period,” the leaders wrote in the letter. “The catastrophic breakdown of Cover Oregon is unacceptable and taxpayers deserve accountability.”
02.13.2014	Greg Walden, other U.S. House leaders, call for GAO investigation into Cover Oregon MEDFORD, Ore. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that he and other top leaders on the House Energy and Commerce Committee have written to the General Accountability Office (GAO) to request a federal investigation into Cover Oregon, the state’s troubled health exchange.“In the nearly four months since HealthCare.gov and the state-run insurance exchanges launched, consumers have encountered numerous problems at both the federal and state level. Although the roll out of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) has been problematic nationwide, no state has had more complications than Oregon. The state of Oregon’s exchange website, Cover Oregon, has been such a technological failure that the site was unable to enroll anyone months after the start of the open enrollment period,” the leaders wrote in the letter “The catastrophic breakdown of Cover Oregon is unacceptable and taxpayers deserve accountability.”Click here for a copy of the letter.Walden announced the request at a news conference in Medford today with state Rep. Dennis Richardson, who has started a petition calling for a GAO investigation into Cover Oregon. Rep. Richardson has been warning of the flaws in Cover Oregon going back to 2011.In September 2010, the Office for Oregon Health Policy and Research received a $1 million State Planning Grant from the federal government to study the feasibility of creating a public corporation health insurance exchange model. Since then, the state has been granted more than $304 million in federal dollars to build, test, and operate the Cover Oregon health marketplace.Despite this investment of federal taxpayer dollars, Oregonians remain unable to purchase health insurance coverage through the Cover Oregon marketplace website. Each of the grants the state received had clear summaries describing how the funds were to be used and what Oregon would accomplish with these federal dollars.Federal agencies, such as the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, have a responsibility for overseeing that the tax dollars they send out are used properly. Given the current status of Cover Oregon, it doesn’t appear that this federal oversight was adequately performed, which is why the leaders requested the investigation.The letter was signed by Walden, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-Penn.), and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-Penn.).
02.11.2014	Walden statement on debt limit voteWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) issued the following statement after voting against a one year extension of the debt limit:“I'm disappointed that the President and the Senate refused to negotiate with the House on further cuts and reforms to reduce the deficit. Previous debt limit negotiations have resulted in historic agreements that reduced spending. I stood ready to work in a bipartisan way on another such agreement, but the Democrats have been unwilling to discuss even modest proposals to reduce the deficit.”
02.05.2014	VIDEO RELEASE: Walden questions FDA official Mike Taylor about new food safety rules, impact on Oregon farmers Click here or on the image below to watch the exchange between Walden and TaylorWASHINGTON, D.C. — The House Energy and Commerce Committee today held a hearing on the implementation of the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) with FDA Deputy Commissioner Mike Taylor. U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), a senior member of the committee, questioned Taylor about how he would get input from Oregon growers as his agency redrafts the food safety rules. Click here to watch their exchange.“Mr. Taylor, I’ve appreciated the meetings I’ve had with you and your team, and your openness to taking a look at how some of the ag practices occur on the ground and may be in disconnect with the original rules. I appreciate you coming out to the Northwest and taking time to meet with our growers out there, especially with onion growers on the east side of my district,” Walden said.“What interactions might you be having with farmers and ranchers out in the West, in districts like mine, as you write these new rules? Obviously, that continued communication is important to the extent to which it is allowed under the rule making process,” Walden continued.Taylor assured Walden that he would continue to listen to growers as they work to redraft the rules. He added that research coming out of Oregon State University was helpful to their efforts as they work on rules that keep food safe without putting farmers out of business. Walden and other members of Congress, including Reps. Doc Hastings (R-Wash.) and Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), twice met with Taylor to discuss growers’ concerns with the draft rules. After the first meeting, Taylor and other FDA officials traveled to the Pacific Northwest to hear from farmers first-hand.In November, Walden met with researchers and onion growers at Oregon State’s Malheur County Experiment Station to learn about their research into the scientific basis of the food safety rules the FDA is developing. For example, according to the research conducted at the station, dry bulb onions grown in eastern Oregon pose little risk of E. coli contamination. Walden presented that research to the FDA the following week.In December, the FDA announced that they would revise draft rules on water quality that would affect Oregon fruit and vegetable growers. At the time, Walden hailed that decision as a “victory for common sense.”
01.29.2014	Greg Walden statement on House passage of a five year farm bill Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video messageWASHINGTON, DC— The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a five year farm bill that provides support for Oregon’s farmers, ranchers, and rural communities while reforming programs to save taxpayer dollars. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) supported the plan, and released a video message explaining his support. A transcript is below:“With House passage of a five year farm bill, we finally have some certainty out on the farm. I spent my early years on a cherry orchard in The Dalles, so I know how important it is to provide our farmers and ranchers with that certainty. “This reform-minded legislation ensures an adequate safety net for producers, while also reducing spending by $16 billion dollars. We reduce fraud in the food stamp program and we increase assistance for food banks. “This legislation contains strong support for vital agriculture research that fights disease and pests in everything from onions to pears to potatoes. “And it permanently reauthorizes and provides retroactive disaster funding for livestock producers, like those who lost grazing land and livestock to fires across eastern and southern Oregon. “And it provides some regulatory relief, both for our foresters and our farmers. I look forward to the Senate passing the farm bill and the President signing it into law.”The legislation is part of a compromise between the House and the Senate. It is expected to be passed by the Senate in the coming days and be signed into law by the President.Highlights of the Plan· Fully funds PILT (Payments in Lieu of Taxes) payments to Oregon counties through 2014.· Saves $16 billion in mandatory spending, including reforms to the food stamp program and ending direct payments to growers.· Provides full funding for disaster assistance for livestock producers, including retroactive funding for ranchers impacted by wildfires across eastern Oregon in 2012· Reauthorizes and provides strong support for competitive specialty crop research that has a proven track record of a high return on investment.· Reduces fraud and waste in nutrition programs and helps ensure that those who receive food stamps are actually eligible for them, while providing additional $205 million for food banks.· Consolidates 23 duplicative conservation programs into 13, cutting red tape and saving taxpayer dollars.· Requires FDA to analyze the economic impact of proposed food safety rules that would dramatically impact Oregon’s fruit and vegetable growers.· Provides regulatory relief to foresters facing overreaching EPA regulations on forest roads.· Requires the Department of Labor to consult with USDA and report to Congress on the abusive use of “hot good orders”, like those used against Oregon blueberry growers during the summer of 2012 and recently overturned in court. For more information on the plan, courtesy of the House Agriculture Committee, please click here.###
01.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that Jennifer Phillippi, co-owner of Rough and Ready Lumber in Josephine County, will be his guest at President Obama’s State of the Union Address on Tuesday night. Rough and Ready was the last remaining sawmill in Josephine County when it closed its doors last April due to a lack of available federal timber.“The state of Oregon’s rural communities is dire. I’ve invited Jennifer Phillippi to be my guest at the State of the Union Address because she personifies why Congress needs to act immediately to put people back to work in our forested communities,” Walden said.“On Tuesday night, the President will urge Congress to begin a year of action. The House has acted on a bipartisan plan to put people back to work in the woods, create healthy forests and communities, and provide funding for essential local services like schools and law enforcement. The Senate should act and pass this bipartisan plan right away,” Walden continued. Last April, the Rough & Ready mill in the small community of Cave Junction closed after nearly 100 years in business. Jennifer Phillippi, her husband, Link, and her brother were the third generation of the Krauss family to operate the mill. The owners had been ready to invest $2 million in upgrades, but they said they couldn’t count on a timber supply off the federal ground that surrounds them. 87 jobs were lost when the mill closed.On September 20, 2013, the U.S. House approved historic forestry legislation, the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526). The bill renews the federal government’s commitment to actively manage federal forests to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and generate revenue local communities need to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement.
01.24.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced he has urged the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to extend their comment period for their draft proposal for sage-grouse management.“Many Oregonians have told me about the drastic impact this draft plan could have on rural communities throughout the West. They’ve also told me that complying with the deadline for comments is challenging due to the lack of availability of the document and complexity of the matter,” Walden wrote in a letter to BLM Deputy Director Neil Kornze.“Extending the public comment period by 30 days would provide those wishing to provide comment the time they need to review the document and provide thorough comments. Local communities are most affected by the land management decisions, and residents deserve the opportunity to have their input incorporated into the final decisions,” Walden continued. A copy of the signed letter is attached.Community leaders supported Walden’s call for more input. “While it is absolutely necessary to complete the sage-grouse DEIS/RMPA in a timely manner to prevent a listing it is also an absolute that the public must have an adequate opportunity (and means) to review and comment on this massive document. Government today can and should be transparent. I applaud the Congressman’s request to ensure good input to this process,” said Harney County Judge Steve Grasty.The BLM has been holding public meetings on their Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for sage-grouse in eastern Oregon communities, including Prineville, Burns, Ontario, Baker City, Lakeview, Jordan Valley, and Durkee. Many Oregonians have told Walden that they have arrived at these public meetings to find that there were only a few printed copies of the draft proposal available for the hundreds of local residents who attended.The draft proposal consists of three volumes, and adds up to 1,120 pages. The document discusses six different alternative management plans examining how those plans would impact habitat, vegetation, other wildlife, wildfire management, grazing, recreation and mining. Downloading it online can take hours.Last week, Walden supported a bill passed by Congress that would boost conservation efforts in an effort to prevent listing of the sage-grouse as an endangered species.
01.15.2014	Greg Walden supports plan to keep spending in check, grow the economy Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video message WASHINGTON, DC— The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bipartisan bill that funds the government for the remainder of the year. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) supported this plan, and released a video message explaining his support. A transcript is below: “Today, the House passed a plan to continue our successful efforts to reduce spending, grow our economy, and prioritize to make sure taxpayer dollars are being spent wisely. “This plan reduces spending below 2009 levels—below even what it was when President Obama took office. “This year will mark the first time since the Korean War that spending has been cut four years in a row—a total of $165 billion since 2010. “The President asked Congress for an increase in funding for the EPA and Obamacare. We denied him that, and even cut an Obamacare slush fund by $1 billion and the EPA by $143 million. And it reduces unnecessary federal regulations and increases oversight of agencies like the IRS. “We take care of our troops and veterans as well. The plan funds a 1% pay increase for the military, and restores the full, annual cost-of-living increase for medically retired military personnel. And it includes a comprehensive plan to end the claims backlog at the Veterans Administration by next year once and for all. “The bill is another step in continued efforts to reduce spending, grow the economy, and eventually balance the budget”Highlights of the Plan Freezes funding for the Affordable Care Act and takes $1 billion out of an Obamacare slush fund.Supports wildfire operations and reimburses agencies for all fire borrowing last year.Directs additional funds to conservation efforts to prevent listing of the sage grouse as an endangered species.Prevents the exclusion of fresh, white potatoes from the Women, Infant, and Children (WIC) nutrition program.Blocks proposals to increasing BLM/Forest Service grazing fees and directs additional funds for reducing grazing permit backlogs.Fully funds a 1% pay raise for our troops and increases focus on military health like traumatic brain injuries and prosthetics.Restores the full annual cost-of-living increase for 63,000 medically retired military personnel.Includes a comprehensive initiative to end the claims backlog at the VA by 2015.Supports crop research programs important to Oregon agriculture, ranging from wheat to specialty crops like cherries and onions. Blocks OSHA’s efforts to regulate family farms as grain handlersDelays certain rate increases for federal flood insurance.Prevents the closing of rural post offices. For a full summary of the plan, courtesy of the House Appropriations Committee, please click here.
01.14.2014	Greg Walden nominates Oregon students for acceptance to U.S. service academies WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced the nomination of 17 Oregon students for acceptance to one of the prestigious United States service academies based on their academic performance, extracurricular involvement, and character.“Being nominated to one of our nation’s service academies represents years of hard work and discipline,” Walden said. “Competing with the best and brightest of America’s youth for an appointment to an academy is a great honor and a tremendous opportunity. I am confident that these talented students would represent their families and nation well in that effort, and I commend them for their desire to serve our country in uniform. It takes a special commitment to pursue the rigors of an academy education, and these young Americans are continuing a long line of patriotic Oregonians in their endeavor.”The nominees are as follows:Deschutes County· Braden Bell of Bend, son of Kyle & Kelsey Bell, attending Bend High School – Nominated to the US Military Academy· Jameson (Jay) Borland of Bend, son of Thomas & Ellen Borland, a graduate of Bend Senior High School in 2013 currently attending Northwestern Preparatory School – Nominated to the US Air Force Academy· Logan Falco of Redmond, son of Craig Falco & Kim Abrahamson, attending Redmond High School - Nominated to the US Air Force Academy· Timothy (Tim) Gorman of Bend, son of Steve & Susan Gretz, attending Mountain View High School - Nominated to the US Naval Academy and the US Military Academy· Emily Shunk of Bend, daughter of Gary & Pamela Shunk, attending Summit High School - Nominated to the US Air Force Academy, the US Naval Academy and the US Military AcademyCrook County· Zachary Taylor of Powell Butte, son of Keith & Elizabeth Taylor, attending Ridgeview High School - Nominated to the US Naval AcademyJackson County· Jacob Cochran of Medford, son of Tobin & Rebecca Cochran, attending Fishburne Military School – Nominated to the US Naval Academy and the US Military Academy· Andrea Dow of Medford, daughter of Donald & Virginia Dow, Attending St. Mary’s School - Nominated to the US Military Academy and the US Air Force Academy· Seth Gretz of Rogue River, son of Bradley & Celeste Gretz, attending Rogue River High School - Nominated to the US Air Force Academy· Conor Keating of Medford, son of Kevin & Nikki Keating, attending St. Mary’s School - Nominated to the US Naval Academy, US Military Academy and the US Air Force Academy· Jachin (Jake) Roach of Gold Hill, son of Robert & Karen Roach, attending Monterey Bay Academy - Nominated to the US Naval Academy and the US Air Force Academy· Danial White of Ashland, son of Greg & Llona White, attending Ashland High School - Nominated to the US Merchant Marine AcademyKlamath County· Andrew Larson of Klamath Falls, son of Tim & Margie Larson, attending Klamath Union High School - Nominated to the US Air Force Academy. NOTE: Andrew has already been offered admission from the Air Force Academy and has accepted· Minh (Bee) Nguyen of Klamath Falls, son of Phong & Quyen Nguyen, attending Klamath Union HS - Nominated to the US Naval Academy. NOTE: Bee has already been offered admission from the Naval Academy and has accepted· William (Matt) Switzer of Klamath Falls, son of Scott & Alicia Switzer, attending UCLA - Nominated to the US Naval AcademyUnion County· Daniel Colton of Union, son of Thomas & Julie Colton, attending Union High School – Nominated to the US Air Force AcademyUmatilla County· Jarred Cope of Pendleton, son of Darrick & Lisa Cope, attending Griswold High School – Nominated to the US Military Academy and the US Naval AcademyUnless otherwise noted, final selection for admission to the service academies will be performed by officials at each respective academy this spring.
01.13.2014	Greg Walden applauds decision to protect volunteer firefighters from health law mandate January 13, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today applauded the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) decision not to force volunteer fire departments and other emergency response units to comply with the employer mandate in the Affordable Care Act. Below is a transcript of his video message: “I’m glad the IRS made a good decision for once when it comes to Obamacare. If they had not made this decision, volunteer firefighter departments all across the rural West and our district specifically would’ve been affected. They would’ve had to count volunteers as if they would paid, full-time employees. ‘We know what kind of cost that would’ve been put on top of these fire departments; they couldn’t have borne it. And so, whether you like or dislike Obamacare, we ought to be able to agree that volunteers are volunteers, and that’s what the IRS ruling means. It’s very important for our district, very important for our country, and certainly for our firefighters who want to volunteer their services.” On December 26, 2013, Walden announced he had added his name as a co-sponsor of the Protecting Volunteer Firefighters and Emergency Responders Act (H.R. 3685) to exempt volunteer firefighters and emergency medical technicians from the employer mandate. Prior to the recent decision by the IRS, the agency had considered volunteer firefighters and emergency medical technicians working 30 hours per week as full time employees, forcing units to provide health insurance or pay a fine if they are large enough. This could have had a big impact in Oregon, and Walden heard strong concern from fire chiefs around the state. Nearly 90% of Oregon’s 297 fire departments are classified as all volunteer or mostly volunteer agencies, according to the U.S. Fire Administration. Next week, Walden will meet with firefighters in White City who had been concerned about how they would be classified by the agency. Further details will be announced once they are finalized.
01.10.2014	Greg Walden supports Health Exchange Security and Transparency ActWalden: “The federal government should have to tell you if somebody has stolen your personal information from the health care exchange.”; Plan passes House with bipartisan supportClick here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video message WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released a video message on House passage of the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act (H.R. 3811), a bill of which he is an original co-sponsor. A transcript of his remarks is below:“Whether you support the Affordable Care Act or you oppose Obamacare, the federal government should have to tell you if somebody has stolen your personal information from the health care exchange. That’s what happens in the private sector: when the data is compromised, the companies have to tell you if your data is compromised.“The same should apply to Washington. It should apply to the health care exchange. The government should have to tell us if our personal information is stolen. That’s what this legislation does.“And it’s important because in our oversight hearings on the Energy and Commerce Committee, we determined that the end to end security checks had not been done on the Obamacare website exchange. They haven’t even finished writing all the code. As a result, outside groups have said one of the greatest vulnerabilities for personal data breaches for this year is actually out of the Obamacare exchanges.“So it’s important to pass this legislation—of which I’m an original co-sponsor—to make sure you are notified by the federal government immediately if your data are stolen.”The bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services to notify individuals if their personal information has been stolen or unlawfully accessed through an Obamacare exchange within two business days after discovery by the Secretary. For more information, click here.Walden and his colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee have uncovered facts that raise serious concerns about the security of the law’s exchanges. During an October hearing, contractors who built the federal health exchange admitted to Walden that a full end to end test of the site hadn’t been completed before launch.The Chief Information Security Officer for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Teresa Fryer, wrote in a draft memo that the federal exchange “does not reasonably meet ... security requirements” and that “there is also no confidence that Personal Identifiable Information (PII) will be protected.”Questions have also been raised about the security of personal information on the state’s exchange, Cover Oregon.
01.10.2014	Greg Walden supports Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act Walden: “The federal government should have to tell you if somebody has stolen your personal information from the health care exchange.”; Plan passes House with bipartisan support Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video message WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released a video message on House passage of the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act (H.R. 3811), a bill of which he is an original co-sponsor. A transcript of his remarks is below:“Whether you support the Affordable Care Act or you oppose Obamacare, the federal government should have to tell you if somebody has stolen your personal information from the health care exchange. That’s what happens in the private sector: when the data is compromised, the companies have to tell you if your data is compromised. “The same should apply to Washington. It should apply to the health care exchange. The government should have to tell us if our personal information is stolen. That’s what this legislation does. “And it’s important because in our oversight hearings on the Energy and Commerce Committee, we determined that the end to end security checks had not been done on the Obamacare website exchange. They haven’t even finished writing all the code. As a result, outside groups have said one of the greatest vulnerabilities for personal data breaches for this year is actually out of the Obamacare exchanges. “So it’s important to pass this legislation—of which I’m an original co-sponsor—to make sure you are notified by the federal government immediately if your data are stolen.”The bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services to notify individuals if their personal information has been stolen or unlawfully accessed through an Obamacare exchange within two business days after discovery by the Secretary. For more information, click here.Walden and his colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee have uncovered facts that raise serious concerns about the security of the law’s exchanges. During an October hearing, contractors who built the federal health exchange admitted to Walden that a full end to end test of the site hadn’t been completed before launch.The Chief Information Security Officer for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Teresa Fryer, wrote in a draft memo that the federal exchange “does not reasonably meet ... security requirements” and that “there is also no confidence that Personal Identifiable Information (PII) will be protected.”Questions have also been raised about the security of personal information on the state’s exchange, Cover Oregon.
12.26.2013	Greg Walden supports plan to protect volunteer firefighters and emergency responders from health law mandate December 26, 2013 HOOD RIVER— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced today that he has signed on as a co-sponsor of a bill to exempt volunteer firefighters and emergency medical technicians from the employer mandate in the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The Protecting Volunteer Firefighters and Emergency Responders Act (H.R. 3685) was introduced in the U.S. House on December 10 with bipartisan support.“Volunteer fire firefighters and emergency responders serve their communities every day to protect lives and property and keep their neighbors safe. Their units shouldn’t be forced to choose between buying life-saving equipment and complying with IRS mandates under the new health care law. I’m co-sponsoring bipartisan legislation to protect these volunteer units from Obamacare’s mandate so they can focus on their mission: keeping Oregonians safe,” Walden said.Hood River Fire Chief Devon Wellsapplauded Walden for his support. “I believe it is critically important that emergency service agencies not be required to offer health insurance to their volunteer personnel. Most of those agencies do not have the financial resources to provide that type of benefit to their volunteers. Also, most volunteers have no expectation of receiving health insurance from their fire agency,” Wells said. “The financial impact this could have on volunteer agencies would be devastating, potentially reducing the number of volunteers and the level of service provided to the citizens they are sworn to protect. The bill that has been introduced to exempt volunteer emergency service workers from the ACA provides an opportunity for volunteer fire agencies to continue providing exceptional service without worrying about the loss of volunteers or financial difficulties.”The IRS—which is charged with enforcing many of the mandates contained in the new health care law—considers volunteer firefighters and emergency medical technicians working 30 hours per week as full time employees, forcing them to provide health insurance or pay a fine if they are large enough.These IRS regulations could have a big impact on fire departments in Oregon. According to the U.S. Fire Administration, nearly 90% of Oregon’s 297 fire department are classified as all volunteer or mostly volunteer agencies.
12.20.2013	Greg Walden: FDA’s decision to revise food safety rules is “a victory for common sense”December 19, 2013KLAMATH FALLS— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) reacted today to the FDA’s announcement that they would revise draft rules on water quality that would affect Oregon fruit and vegetable growers.“This decision by the FDA is a victory for common sense. I repeatedly encouraged the agency to listen to concerns from growers that the draft rules were unworkable and could drive many small farms out of business. I’m glad the agency has listened and agreed to revise these unworkable rules. We can make sure food is safe without putting Oregon farmers out of business. As this process moves forward, I’ll continue to encourage the FDA to work with growers to get this right,” Walden said.Many farmers have pointed out that the original rules lacked common sense and a crop-specific approach, resulting in many of the proposed provisions being unworkable for growers. In particular, Walden heard concerns from onion growers in Malheur County and pear and cherry growers in the Columbia Gorge. Many growers were worried that grouping over 200 crops together in one category fails to account for differing risk profiles and production practices, which has led to the proposed requirements that may be unworkable or unnecessary for particular crops. Walden and other members of Congress, including Reps. Doc Hastings (R-Wash.) and Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), twice met with FDA Deputy Commissioner Mike Taylor to discuss growers’ concerns with the draft rules. After the first meeting, FDA officials travelled to the Pacific Northwest to hear from farmers first-hand.In November, Walden met with researchers and onion growers at OSU’s Malheur County Experiment Station to learn about their research into the scientific basis of the food safety rules the FDA is developing. For example, according to the research conducted at the station, dry bulb onions grown in eastern Oregon pose no risk of E. coli contamination. Walden presented that research to the FDA the following week.
12.19.2013	Greg Walden supports proposal to replace changes to military retiree pensionsDecember 19, 2013KLAMATH FALLS— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced today that he has added his name as an original co-sponsor of a bill to protect military retirees from changes to their pension benefits that were included in the Ryan-Murray budget agreement passed by Congress within the past week. The bill would replace the pension cuts with a reform to ensure that billions of dollars in tax credits aren’t improperly paid to illegal immigrants each year. “I supported the budget agreement because it reduces the deficit and keeps the government open without raising taxes. But the agreement contained pension changes for certain military retirees that I would not have supported as a stand-alone plan. Although the pension changes don’t take effect for two years, the time to fix this is now. Our common-sense bill replaces those pension changes with a plan to stop illegal immigrants from improperly receiving federal tax credits. This proposal protects military retirees, reduces the deficit, and further targets waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government,” Walden said. The bill would replace the changes to cost of living adjustments for military retirees with a reform that would stop illegal immigrants from receiving the refundable portion of the child tax credit by requiring tax filers to include their Social Security Number on tax return forms. The Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated that this reform saves $7 billion over 10 years. A 2011 report from the Department of Treasury indicates that $4.2 billion in these tax credits were paid out fraudulently in 2010 alone. For the full text of the plan, please click here. Walden is in Klamath Falls today for a roundtable with small businesses, a meeting with the president of Klamath Community College, and a meeting with Jeld-Wen.
12.11.2013	U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced his support for the bipartisan budget agreement offered by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.):“This agreement is not broad in scope, but it’s an important step in the right direction towards reducing wasteful spending and getting the federal government’s fiscal house in order. It reduces waste, fraud, and abuse, tackles corporate welfare, and reforms programs that have been spending tax dollars on auto-pilot without regular scrutiny. In total, the agreement reduces the deficit by $23 billion without a single penny in tax increases.“The plan stops government checks from going to ineligible criminals and the deceased. It stops paying bills that dead-beat parents and insurance companies should be on the hook for. A government research program for private energy companies is eliminated. These are just some of the many real spending reductions in this agreement. “This plan ensures the government will not shut down in January, allowing Congress to remain focused on efforts to grow our economy and reduce the size, scope, and cost of the federal government. While this agreement is an important step, Congress has much more work to do to balance the nation’s budget, just like Oregon families do every month.”The House is expected to vote on this bipartisan agreement this week, followed by the Senate. For more information on the agreement from the House Budget Committee, please click here.
12.11.2013	Walden supports spending reduction plan Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video messageU.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced his support for the bipartisan budget agreement offered by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.):“This agreement is not broad in scope, but it’s an important step in the right direction towards reducing wasteful spending and getting the federal government’s fiscal house in order. It reduces waste, fraud, and abuse, tackles corporate welfare, and reforms programs that have been spending tax dollars on auto-pilot without regular scrutiny. In total, the agreement reduces the deficit by $23 billion without a single penny in tax increases.“The plan stops government checks from going to ineligible criminals and the deceased. It stops paying bills that dead-beat parents and insurance companies should be on the hook for. A government research program for private energy companies is eliminated. These are just some of the many real spending reductions in this agreement. “This plan ensures the government will not shut down in January, allowing Congress to remain focused on efforts to grow our economy and reduce the size, scope, and cost of the federal government. While this agreement is an important step, Congress has much more work to do to balance the nation’s budget, just like Oregon families do every month.”The House is expected to vote on this bipartisan agreement this week, followed by the Senate. For more information on the agreement from the House Budget Committee, please click here.
12.10.2013	Walden urges FCC to suspend work on “Fairness Doctrine 2.0” “We were shocked to see that the FCC is putting itself back in the business of attempting to control the political speech of journalists,” Walden and other members write U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and other members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee today wrote to Federal Communications Chairman Tom Wheeler urging him to suspend the agency’s efforts to conduct a field study that could lead to a revival of the “Fairness Doctrine,” an intrusion by the FCC into the freedoms of speech and the press. To read the letter, please click here.“Given the widespread calls for the commission to respect the First Amendment and stay out of the editorial decisions of reporters and broadcasters, we were shocked to see that the FCC is putting itself back in the business of attempting to control the political speech of journalists. It is wrong, it is unconstitutional, and we urge you to put a stop to this most recent attempt to engage the FCC as the ‘news police,’” wrote Walden and the other members.The FCC is conducting a field study of “critical information needs” in local media markets, and will seek information on how local news media outlets “select and prioritize news coverage.”“The commission has no business probing the news media’s editorial judgment and expertise, nor does it have any business in prescribing a set diet of ‘critical information.’ These goals are plainly inappropriate and are at bottom an incursion by the government into the constitutionally protected operations of the professional news media,” Walden and the other members wrote.“The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution is the beacon of freedom that makes the United States unique among the world’s nations. We urge you to take immediate steps to suspend this effort and find ways that are consistent with the Communications Act and the Constitution to serve the commission’s statutory responsibilities,” the letter concludes.Walden wrote the letter in his capacity as Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. He was joined by 15 other members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, including Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.).In 2011, Walden and Upton urged then FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski to remove the statute from the Code of Federal Regulations in 2011. The doctrine was eliminated in August 2011.
11.15.2013	Greg Walden: If you like your plan, you should be able to keep itU.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) addressed the House today about concerns he has heard from Oregonians about the new health care law. Last week, Walden was at home for an eight day swing through 12 counties in Oregon’s Second District, covering 2,476 miles with 36 meetings. Walden heard numerous stories about cancelled insurance plans, diminished access to health care, and jobs lost or hours cut due to Obamacare. Today, with Walden’s support, the House passed the Keep Your Health Plan Act (HR 3350) on a bipartisan basis. This common-sense legislation would allow plans available on the individual market today to be offered next year, providing millions of Americans the opportunity to keep their policies in 2014 and not face a penalty under the health care law.Below is a transcript of Walden’s remarks to the House:“I rise today as the voice of at least 150,000 Oregonians who have already received their cancellation notices. They’ve been told that their policy that they liked, that they wanted to keep, they can’t have it any longer. “I was out in my district for eight straight days last week. 36 meetings. 12 counties. 2,476 miles on the road, from early in the morning to late at night. “I’m going to tell you, there are people like Chuck and Jan from Medford who went into retirement, had health insurance, until they got a notice their plan is being cancelled. From Mitchell to Bend, from Enterprise to Medford, all over. “Not only are their plans being cancelled, the replacements are coming back with deductibles that are $12,000 to $15,000 when they were paying a couple of thousand. And the premiums are going up, in some cases double or more. Some of them may get a subsidy. A lot of them won’t. And now they don’t have the plan they were promises they could keep.“Another thing that’s insidious that’s going on below the surface—I’m hearing it in meeting after meeting—hours are being cut back, people are losing their jobs, they are getting less take-home pay because of Obamacare. This is a problem all across America. The promise that you can keep your plan was never going to be kept. And they knew it. They continued to say it, and it wasn’t true. “People are losing their plans, they’re losing their coverage, and they're losing access to the specialists that may save their lives. That’s right. They won’t be able to keep their doctors. Well, they may, but if the doctor is out of network, there’s no cap on what they will pay in terms of deductible. So, financially, you take away their access to health care, the prices has gone up, the access has gone down, and in many cases, they’ve lost their jobs or their hours have been cut back”. Last month, the Associated Press reported that 150,000 health insurance plans in Oregon would be cancelled due to the health care law.
11.13.2013	Greg Walden, Doc Hastings lead meeting with FDA to push for common sense in water quality rules Oregon Rep. Greg Walden (second from left, at table) and Washington Rep. Doc Hastings (right) meet with FDA Deputy Commissioner (second from right, at table) Mike Taylor to share fruit and vegetable growers’ concerns about new water quality rules. U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Doc Hastings (R-Wash.) today led a meeting with top officials at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)—including Deputy Commissioner Mike Taylor—to voice continued concerns about draft water quality rules that could put many farmers out of business in the Northwest and nationwide. The FDA agreed to work to address concerns of growers, and to provide an additional opportunity for farmers to give input prior to the rules being finalized.“Common-sense rules will make sure our food is safe without driving Oregon farmers out of business. I am pleased that the FDA has agreed to allow another opportunity for grower input before finalizing the rules and will work to address their concerns about why they are unworkable as currently drafted,” Walden said. “They have also agreed to take a look at new scientific research I received at OSU’s experiment station in Malheur County last week. This evidence-based research is very helpful in showing that the rules as currently drafted just don’t make any sense.”“The current proposed one-size-fits-all food safety regulations are simply unworkable in areas like Central Washington that rely on open ditch irrigation. It only makes sense that the FDA take into account the different ways produce – including apples, pears, and cherries – is grown and harvested,” Hastings said. “I look forward to working with the FDA to address the significant flaws that our growers have raised during the public comment period, and I am pleased that Deputy Commissioner Taylor pledged to provide growers another opportunity to provide input before any final rule is implemented.”Members of Congress originally met with the FDA in July to voice concerns they had heard from fruit and vegetable growers, including onion growers in eastern Oregon and apple growers in eastern Washington. Since then, the FDA officials travelled to the Pacific Northwest to hear from farmers first-hand.The public comment period for the current draft of the rules ends on Friday. Any revision of the draft rules will likely become available after the first of the year.The FDA delegation was led by Mr. Mike Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Foods and Veterinary Medicine. Other members of Congress present included Michigan Representatives Dan Benishek and Bill Huizenga.Last Thursday, Walden met with researchers and onion growers at OSU’s Malheur County Experiment Station to learn about their research into the scientific basis of the food safety rules the FDA is developing. For example, according to the research conducted at the station, dry bulb onions grown in eastern Oregon pose no risk of E. coli contamination. Walden presented that research to the FDA during the meeting today.Many farmers have pointed out that the proposed rule lacks common sense and a crop-specific approach, resulting in many of the proposed provisions being unworkable for growers. Walden, Hastings, and other Members of Congress have heard from growers who are worried that grouping over 200 crops together in one category fails to account for differing risk profiles and production practices, which has led to the proposed requirements that may be unworkable or unnecessary for particular crops.
11.13.2013	Greg Walden, Doc Hastings lead meeting with FDA to push for common sense in water quality rules Oregon Rep. Greg Walden (second from left, at table) and Washington Rep. Doc Hastings (right) meet with FDA Deputy Commissioner (second from right, at table) Mike Taylor to share fruit and vegetable growers’ concerns about new water quality rules. U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Doc Hastings (R-Wash.) today led a meeting with top officials at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)—including Deputy Commissioner Mike Taylor—to voice continued concerns about draft water quality rules that could put many farmers out of business in the Northwest and nationwide. The FDA agreed to work to address concerns of growers, and to provide an additional opportunity for farmers to give input prior to the rules being finalized.“Common-sense rules will make sure our food is safe without driving Oregon farmers out of business. I am pleased that the FDA has agreed to allow another opportunity for grower input before finalizing the rules and will work to address their concerns about why they are unworkable as currently drafted,” Walden said. “They have also agreed to take a look at new scientific research I received at OSU’s experiment station in Malheur County last week. This evidence-based research is very helpful in showing that the rules as currently drafted just don’t make any sense.”“The current proposed one-size-fits-all food safety regulations are simply unworkable in areas like Central Washington that rely on open ditch irrigation. It only makes sense that the FDA take into account the different ways produce – including apples, pears, and cherries – is grown and harvested,” Hastings said. “I look forward to working with the FDA to address the significant flaws that our growers have raised during the public comment period, and I am pleased that Deputy Commissioner Taylor pledged to provide growers another opportunity to provide input before any final rule is implemented.”Members of Congress originally met with the FDA in July to voice concerns they had heard from fruit and vegetable growers, including onion growers in eastern Oregon and apple growers in eastern Washington. Since then, the FDA officials travelled to the Pacific Northwest to hear from farmers first-hand.The public comment period for the current draft of the rules ends on Friday. Any revision of the draft rules will likely become available after the first of the year.The FDA delegation was led by Mr. Mike Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Foods and Veterinary Medicine. Other members of Congress present included Michigan Representatives Dan Benishek and Bill Huizenga.Last Thursday, Walden met with researchers and onion growers at OSU’s Malheur County Experiment Station to learn about their research into the scientific basis of the food safety rules the FDA is developing. For example, according to the research conducted at the station, dry bulb onions grown in eastern Oregon pose no risk of E. coli contamination. Walden presented that research to the FDA during the meeting today.Many farmers have pointed out that the proposed rule lacks common sense and a crop-specific approach, resulting in many of the proposed provisions being unworkable for growers. Walden, Hastings, and other Members of Congress have heard from growers who are worried that grouping over 200 crops together in one category fails to account for differing risk profiles and production practices, which has led to the proposed requirements that may be unworkable or unnecessary for particular crops.
11.08.2013	Greg Walden introduces bill to improve rural hospital care by reducing government red tapeIn Pendleton, Walden visits St. Anthony Hospital about need for legislation to allow small hospitals to provide better care for patients…PENDLETON – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) visited St. Anthony Hospital in Pendleton today to announce introduction of bipartisan legislation to provide better health care at small, rural hospitals. The Critical Access Hospital Flexibility Act (H.R. 3444) would change federal regulations for rural hospitals to give them greater flexibility in meeting the needs of patients.“No patient should ever be turned away from a hospital because of bureaucratic red tape from Washington, D.C. I served on a community hospital board for five years, and know they have enough challenges in caring for patients without burdensome regulations getting in their way. I have introduced this bipartisan plan to provide flexibility for small, rural hospitals so that patients can get the care they need in the community where they live,” Walden said.“Critical Access Hospitals” (CAHs) provide essential health care services to rural communities, including 12 in Oregon’s Second District. Federal regulations limit the number of patients per day in CAHs to 25. It’s rare, but when a CAH reaches this cap, it must turn away patients, transfer them to another location, remove patients from beds, or do other things that divert attention from patient care.This common-sense legislation—introduced with Rep. Ron Kind (D-Wis.)—would allow CAHs to choose to either meet the current 25 patient per day limit or a limit of 20 patients per day averaged throughout the year. This modest degree of flexibility would permit CAHs to better address situations like unforeseen accidents, public health emergencies, seasonal fluctuations, flu season, or anything else that might arise and hinder a hospital’s ability to provide patient care.Click here for the full text of the bill.In February, Walden visited Providence Hood River Memorial, to meet with CEO Ed Freysinger and receive input on the legislation. This week, Freysinger endorsed the legislation. “Critical access hospitals such as ours serve communities with large numbers of Medicare, Medicaid and uninsured patients. We also face such seasonal situations as severe winter weather and increased population from the spring to early fall. We know that the flexibility proposed in Rep. Walden’s bill would allow smaller, remote hospitals to continue providing vital acute care services in rural areas across the country,” Freysinger said.Besides the hospitals in Prineville and Hood River, the legislation could benefit 10 other CAHs in Oregon’s Second District.
10.31.2013	Greg Walden questions HHS Sec. Kathleen Sebelius about testing problems, rate hikes associated with health law Walden: “This is why some of us thought we should delay it so it could be done right to avoid this very collapse that is now upon us” Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s questioning Today, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) questioned Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius about failures in the implementation and launch of the new health care law at a hearing of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Click here to watch Walden ask Secretary Sebelius about testing failures with the website and premium increases faced by Oregonians. Following up on his line of questioning to healthcare.gov contractors last week, Walden asked Sebelius about assurances that HHS was “extremely confident” that the healthcare.gov marketplace would open on schedule on October 1, despite a lack of end to end testing. Sec. Sebelius admitted such testing was not adequately performed before launch.Walden also asked Sec. Sebelius about how HHS had written rules about existing insurance plans in such a way that forced countless Americans off their plans. He told her of constituents from around Oregon’s Second District who have received letters from insurance companies saying that their plan has been cancelled due to the Affordable Care Act.For more information on today’s hearing from the Energy and Commerce Committee, click here.
10.29.2013	U.S. House unanimously passes Greg Walden’s Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act October 29, 2013 The U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed Rep. Greg Walden’s (R-Ore.) Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act (H.R. 2640), which delivers needed water to Prineville for job creation, paves the way for clean energy at Bowman Dam, and gives life to important water conservation projects in the region.“Passing this no-cost job creation plan is just common sense, which is why the House acted quickly to get this done for Central Oregon. The plan will create jobs in Crook County, cut through government red tape, help with clean energy generation, and improve water quality for fish and wildlife without costing taxpayers a penny. The clock is ticking, though. I urge the Senate to quickly consider and pass this legislation to finally get this done for Central Oregon,” Walden said.The bill would fix a boundary line error at Bowman Dam, paving the way for construction of a small scale hydropower facility at the base of the dam. It would also provide job-creating water for the city of Prineville to attract additional projects like Facebook and Apple.Walden introduced this common-sense legislation in July 2013. The bill is identical to last year’s version which passed the U.S. House unanimously in June 2012. It was not brought before the U.S. Senate for a vote last year.Background on the Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security ActWater for job creation in Crook CountyThe bill allows Prineville to utilize up to 5,100 acre feet of water from Prineville Reservoir, or about 6 percent of the total unallocated water behind the dam (80,000 acre feet). The water certainty would allow Prineville to entice new technology opportunities like Facebook and Apple, and service all of the homes within city limits.Crook County’s unemployment rate of 12.6 percent is the highest in the state.Clean energy and new jobs at Bowman DamThe bill would also clear the way for small-scale hydropower production at the base of Bowman Dam, creating about 50 jobs over the course of two construction seasons.Legislation is necessary to make this happen because of the way the law is written currently. In 1988, Congress designated 17.8 miles of the Crooked River as part of the “wild and scenic” rivers system, which is charged with preserving rivers with “outstanding natural, cultural, and recreational values in a free-flowing condition for the enjoyment of present and future generations.”But when the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) drew up the maps for the new wild and scenic area on the Crooked River after the 1988 designation, they placed one end of the boundary right down the middle of Bowman Dam.“There is nothing wild and scenic about a dam,” Walden said.Hydropower is not permitted in wild and scenic areas, so an act of Congress is required to fix the mistake and place the boundary line below the dam, where it should have been all along. Doing so will allow the hydropower project — and the jobs it would create — to go forward.In a letter sent to Walden in 2008, BLM State Director Ed Shepard said, “The BLM does not believe that it was the intent of Congress to place the wild and scenic river boundary on the center of the dam or to even include the dam, but rather just below the dam and spillway structures.”McKay Creek restoration and other conservation effortsBecause Prineville accesses its water from ground sources, the 5,100 acre feet of water would be released downstream, providing additional spilled water into the Crooked River that could benefit the blue-ribbon trout fishery below Bowman Dam. The bill also boosts conservation efforts in McKay Creek to enhance fish habitat.
10.09.2013	Greg Walden, other House leaders to meet with President Obama tomorrow Walden hopes White House meeting leads to a positive outcome that tackles fiscal issues October 9, 2013WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today issued the following statement before attending a meeting at the White House tomorrow with President Obama:“Americans expect us to sit down, work together, and find a way forward. I’m hopeful that tomorrow’s discussion will lead to a solution to America’s short-term and long-term spending and deficit problem.”
09.25.2013	U.S. House unanimously votes to extend county payments for one year Greg Walden: “This help is a lifeline, not a life boat… Now is the time for the Senate to take positive action” September 25, 2013Click here to watch Walden’s remarksWASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today applauded unanimous House passage of a one year extension of county timber payments and urged the Senate to join the House in passing a long-term solution for forested communities.“This measure provides short-term relief to rural communities teetering on the edge of bankruptcy. But, let’s be clear: this help is a lifeline, not a life boat. The status quo of asking Uncle Sam for a check year after year is not sustainable. However, managing our federal forests to create jobs and revenue? That’s sustainable,” said Walden during debate on the measure on the House floor.“Last week, the House passed a long-term solution for our rural forested communities, the Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act. Now it’s time for the United States Senate to take positive action. We need to create jobs in the woods. We need to reduce the threat of catastrophic wildfire. We need to improve the health of our watersheds and our forests. We need to help our forested communities get back to self-sufficiency and self-reliance, and get people back to work in the woods. The clock is ticking. It’s time to get this done. Rural communities cannot wait any longer,” Walden continued.The one-year extension was included in the Responsible Helium Administration and Stewardship Act (H.R. 527), which prevents an imminent shortage of helium and reforms the federal helium program to get the best return for taxpayers. It now must go back to the Senate before heading to the President’s desk to be signed into law.Last Friday, the House passed the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526), on a bipartisan basis. The bill renews the federal government’s commitment to actively manage federal forests to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and generate revenue for local communities to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement.###
09.20.2013	U.S. House passes historic, bipartisan forestry bill; Senate action needed now Greg Walden: “This is our opportunity to make federal forest policy work for Oregonians and all Americans” September 20, 2013Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s closing remarks in support of the bill WASHINGTON– The U.S. House today approved a historic forestry bill, the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526), on a bipartisan basis. The bill renews the federal government’s commitment to actively manage federal forests to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and generate revenue for local communities to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement.During debate over passage of the plan, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) told his colleagues of the dire situation faced in Oregon’s forested communities because of broken federal forest policy. “While these federal forests surrounding our rural communities are burning, rural families are sentenced to live in poverty as the mills close, the jobs disappear, all because we can’t access our abundant and renewable natural resources on federal land. It’s clear the status quo is not working for families in our rural communities. This broken system has to change,” Walden said.The bill contains the O&C Trust, Conservation and Jobs Act, a plan offered by Walden and Reps. Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader to deal with Oregon’s unique O&C lands. Their proposal would put people back to work in the woods and generate revenues to failing Oregon counties.“We have worked though our differences and forged a balanced, common-sense plan that would create or save thousands of forest jobs in Oregon. We would ensure the health of these lands for future generations, and provide long-term funding certainty for Oregon’s rural schools, roads, and law enforcement agencies that lie within these counties. And it would stem the tide of endless litigation,” Walden told his colleagues.Walden urged the House to pass this legislation to change federal forest policy. “The Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act will create prosperous communities and healthy forests. It will provide certainty for teachers and law enforcement officers. It will provide tools to our professional forest stewards to better manage our federal forests. It’s our opportunity to make federal forest policy work for Oregonians and all Americans,” Walden said.Passage of this bill continues Walden's mission to make forest policy work for Oregonians. He has been a leader in the passage of the bipartisan Healthy Forest Restoration Act, the Forest Emergency Research and Recovery Act, and the FLAME Act. For more information on the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526), click here. For information on the O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act, click here.
09.18.2013	Greg Walden applauds House Rules Committee for sending major forestry bill to full U.S. House for passageHistoric bill includes Walden’s long-term O&C lands solution; debate in House could begin as soon as tomorrow September 18, 2013Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today applauded the House Rules Committee for sending the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526) to the full U.S. House for debate and passage.“This is a big step forward towards making federal forest policy work for rural communities, in Oregon and across our nation. A green light from the Rules Committee is the final step before consideration by the full House, a process that could begin as soon as tomorrow. I look forward to passing this plan out of the House as soon as possible. Rural communities can’t wait any longer. Now is the time to get this done for Oregon,” Walden said.The bill renews the federal government’s commitment to actively manage federal forests to create jobs in the woods, improve forest health, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires, and provide revenue for local communities to provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement.The bill contains the O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs plan written by Walden and two of his colleagues from Oregon, Reps. Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader. Their proposal would create or save thousands of jobs in Oregon, provide revenues to failing Oregon counties, help sustain the local manufacturing base, and end the status quo of gridlock litigation.For more information on the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526), click here. For information on the O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act, click here.
09.09.2013	Greg Walden opposes military action in Syria Click here to watch Rep. Walden’s video messageSeptember 9, 2013 U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) issued the following statement announcing his opposition to using military force in Syria:“Today, I attended a classified briefing to listen very carefully to top Administration officials make their case in person. They did not persuade me that the United States has a clear or achievable objective in Syria that can only be obtained through military force. And they have not made the case that dragging America into a civil war in the Middle East is in our national security interests. Absent a direct threat to the United States or our allies and a clear goal and definition of victory, I must oppose using military force in Syria.“It is a very serious matter anytime the President asks Congress for the authority to use military force overseas. The situation in Syria is complex and dangerous, and what’s happened to innocent civilians there is a tragedy. From day one, though, the Administration has mishandled this situation. The President has not shown strong leadership in the region or on the world stage.“The United States should work with the international community to continue to pressure the Assad regime through sanctions and other diplomatic means. And we should make it clear that a direct threat to the United States or our allies in the region will not be tolerated. But, at this time, I believe that using military force in Syria will make the situation in the Middle East worse, not better, and will not make our nation safer.”
09.01.2013	Greg Walden statement on President’s announcement on SyriaSeptember 1, 2013U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement in response to the President’s remarks on Syria:"The President needs to make his case to Congress and to the American people regarding his plan, and what we can anticipate happening after whatever proposed military action is taken. The Assad regime and its allies will surely have a response. It's not clear what we may be getting America into."###
08.27.2013	Greg Walden’s office selected to participate in Wounded Warrior fellowship program Fellow will serve as Veterans and Military Outreach/Casework Manager in Walden’s office in Bend or Medford; applications being accepted now August 27, 2013 BEND— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced today that his office has been selected to host a Wounded Warrior fellow, who will serve as a Veterans and Military Outreach and Casework Manager in his office in Bend or Medford. The fellow, who must have served on active duty since September 11, 2001 and have a 30% or greater disability rating, will assist Walden and his other veterans staff members in working with veterans, active duty military, and their families in southern, central, and eastern Oregon. Applications are now being accepted by the U.S. House of Representatives’ Wounded Warrior program (more information below). “Those who wear—or have worn—our nation’s uniform put their lives on the line to defend our nation. We owe our freedom to them. I work hard to ensure they receive the benefits they have earned through years of service, and I’m proud to have two veterans on my staff in Oregon to assist in this mission. I am looking for a veteran to join my team and work with me and my staff to assist veterans, active duty military, and their families with their needs from the federal government,” Walden said. The position is part of the Wounded Warrior program, which was established to create fellowships that provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans in the U.S. House of Representatives. Applicants must be a veteran who has served on active duty since September 11, 2011, have a 30% or greater disability rating from the VA/PEB and less than 20 years of service. Walden currently has a retired Naval commander and a Marine on staff in Oregon, and the Wounded Warrior fellow will supplement their long-time service and expertise. Walden is a strong supporter of the Wounded Warrior program in the U.S. House, and has been proud to have hosted a Wounded Warrior fellow in his office in the past. He has been selected again by the Wounded Warrior program to host a fellow for two years. The fellow, as Outreach and Casework Manager, will work primarily with veterans, active duty military and their families to assist with their needs from the federal government. The individual will travel to areas of Walden’s large district to interact with Oregonians and assist in the coordination of verbal, written and electronic communication to veterans and active duty military and their families on behalf of the Representative. The person will help constituents interact with administrative and government agencies by acting as facilitators, ombudsmen and, in some cases, advocates. The position lends itself to helping the Representative’s team in assisting a broad range of Oregonians, who stream into the public office, as well as planning and executing local congressional events. For a full list of job duties and responsibilities, as well as requirements for the position, please click here. Interested applicants should submit a resume, a DD214 and a letter from the VA indicating a 30% or greater rating to housewoundedwarriors@mail.house.gov.
08.22.2013	Greg Walden: “This broken system has to change”Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video messageAugust 22, 2013MEDFORD— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement on support from county commissioners and public safety officials for bipartisan forestry legislation he co-authored that is moving through Congress:“I appreciate the support for our bipartisan forestry plan from these elected officials today. Our common-sense plan would put people back to work in the woods and provide certainty for local communities. Momentum is building to change our broken system—from local communities to the halls of Congress. This issue is too important to Oregonians to be held up any longer. We have to move quickly to get this done for our state. We’re seeing too many fires, consume too much forestland, filling our skies with smoke all summer long. Meanwhile, we spend millions and millions fighting fire. This broken system has to change.“Our bipartisan plan was approved by the House Natural Resources Committee a few weeks ago, and I have a commitment from the House leadership that it will be considered by the full House in September. Now is the time to get this done for Oregon.”Today, elected officials from financially hard hit counties in Southern Oregon—including Jackson and Josephine Counties—held a press conference in support of the bipartisan O&C Trust, Conservation and Jobs plan offered by Walden and two of his colleagues from Oregon, Reps. Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader. Their proposal would create jobs, provide revenues to failing Oregon counties, help sustain the local manufacturing base, save the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars, and protect water, fish, and old growth.The plan was approved by the House Natural Resources Committee as part of a larger forestry bill, the Restoring Healthy Forests For Healthy Communities Act (H.R. 1526). The bill renews the federal government’s commitment to manage federal forests for the benefit of rural communities, improves forest health, and helps prevent catastrophic wildfires like the ones burning around Oregon.
07.31.2013	Bipartisan O&C lands solution takes important step forward in the U.S. House House Natural Resources Committee approves Walden-DeFazio-Schrader plan to change federal forest policy in Oregon, setting up bill for passage by full HouseJuly 31, 2013Click here or on the image below to watch Walden’s video statement WASHINGTON, D.C.— The long-term, O&C lands proposal that U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) developed with his Oregon colleagues Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader took an important step forward today as it was approved by the House Natural Resources Committee. The next step in the process is consideration and approval in the full U.S. House.“Today, we move one step closer to making federal forest policy work for Oregon’s rural communities. It’s clear that the status quo isn’t working. There’s a better way. We need to manage our forests so we can put people back to work in the woods, create healthy forests and communities, and provide essential local services like schools and law enforcement. The bipartisan plan I developed with my Oregon colleagues does just that, and I am pleased it has taken an important step forward today,” Walden said.“I am hopeful that the full House will take up this common-sense plan as soon as possible so that we can begin negotiations with the Senate. Now is the time to finally get this done for Oregon,” Walden said. Last February, Walden, DeFazio, and Schrader offered a realistic, bipartisan legislative proposal to help solve the O&C problems. Their proposal would create jobs, provide revenues to failing Oregon counties, help sustain the local manufacturing base, save the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars, and protect water, fish, and old growth.Specifically, the O&C Trust, Conservation, and Jobs Act:- Turns over management responsibility for roughly half of the O&C lands to be guided by Oregon forest law and a committee of Oregonians representing a variety of backgrounds.- The other half of the O&C lands, including old growth forests, would be preserved, with select thinning or other work needed to keep forests health.- Puts people back to work in the woods by creating or protecting 3,000+ forest sector jobs, according to the Oregon Forests Resources Institute.- Generates millions per year in county revenue to provide essential services like schools and law enforcement.- Allows for small portions of wilderness and wild and scenic rivers, but if the Trust is ever invalidated, so are the wilderness designations.The proposal secured broad support across the state, including from the Oregon State House, Oregon State Senate, fifteen Oregon county boards of commissioners, the Oregon State Sheriffs Association, and labor and industry groups.The bill was included as Title III of the “Restoring Health Forests for Communities Act” (H.R. 1526), sponsored by Chairman Doc Hastings (R-Wash.). Both the bipartisan O&C plan and Chairman Hastings’ bill aim to put people back to work in the woods across the country, and Walden is strongly supportive of both efforts. For the full text of the bill considered today, click here.
07.24.2013	Greg Walden’s Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act unanimously approved by House committeeUnanimous passage by House Natural Resources Committee sets bill up for passage in the full U.S. House June 24, 2013WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden’s (R-Ore.) Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act took an important step forward today.The House Natural Resources Committee unanimously approved the bill (H.R. 2640), sending it to the full House for consideration. The bill would fix a boundary line error at Bowman Dam, paving the way for construction of a small scale hydropower facility at the base of the dam. It would also provide job-creating water for the city of Prineville to attract additional projects like Facebook and Apple, and give life to important water conservation projects in the region.“The committee approving this common-sense bill is an important step forward towards finally getting this done for Central Oregon. I look forward to the full House quickly considering the bill and approving it,” Walden said. “This is exactly the kind of common-sense, no-cost legislation that Congress should be taking up to create good jobs at no cost to the taxpayer. Now’s the time to come together and get this done for Central Oregon.”The bill that passed the House Natural Resources Committee today is identical to the bill passed by the committee and the full House in the last session of Congress.H.R. 2640: Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security ActCarbon free energy and hydropower jobs . A clerical error led to the boundary line of the Crooked River Wild and Scenic Area being drawn down the middle of Bowman Dam, a U.S. Bureau of Reclamation dam and reservoir. Correcting the error requires congressional action.Moving the boundary line only ¼ mile downstream will allow a small-scale, private hydropower facility at the base of Bowman Dam to be constructed.Construction of such a facility would employ about 50 skilled workers over the course of two construction seasons and would also provide approximately $140,000 in annual property tax revenues to Crook County.The hydropower facility may also resolve a “total dissolved gas” problem at Bowman Dam. This problem, which occurs at dams around the world, can impair fish and wildlife habitat. The new facility could potentially alleviate this problem, improving habitat in the Crooked River.Job-supporting water for Prineville. The legislation would allow the city of Prineville to utilize 5,100 acre feet of groundwater to meet existing and future demands, and allow it to attract new, sustainable businesses similar to the Facebook data center, which has created new jobs and sparked investment.Prineville relies solely on groundwater. The legislation would allow the City to secure up to 5,100 acre-feet of “mitigation credits” from the new releases of stored water at the dam into the Crooked River. These supplies would also be protected from diversion by others, benefitting fish and wildlife habitat in the river. These new releases represent a small fraction of the 80,000 acre feet of un-contracted water stored annually in the Reservoir.The new releases will increase existing minimum releases by a total of 7 cubic feet per second (cfs) over the entire year. In dry years, particularly in the winter, this higher release requirement could benefit fish and wildlife, including the blue-ribbon trout fishery below Bowman Dam.The water allocation for Prineville will also help the city create jobs and improve business opportunities. The city is currently in talks with multiple technology companies that are interested in locating to Prineville, but have indicated that the availability of water is a key consideration in their final decision.McKay Creek restoration and other conservation efforts. Rep. Walden’s legislation would help spur the McKay Creek restoration project — which has stalled in recent years — by allowing Ochoco Irrigation District to deliver water to upper small family farms on McKay Creek.The restoration project would restore up to 11.2 cfs of water rights instream to McKay Creek. The project also improves flow during the early summer, a critical period for steelhead emergence and migration. This project is supported by numerous watershed councils and organizations including the Deschutes River Conservancy.The legislation also allows the Ochoco Irrigation District to participate in the Conserved Water program under Oregon State law, whereby a minimum of 25 percent of the total amount of water conserved must be placed instream, forever, as part of the program. Right now, the Ochoco Irrigation District, because of limitations in its contract with the Bureau of Reclamation, is unable to participate in this program.
07.17.2013	Greg Walden: Why does President Obama want to deny Oregon families the same protection businesses are getting? U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today issued the following statement regarding his support of plans to delay two major Obamacare mandates and protect Oregon individuals, families, and businesses:“How does President Obama have the authority to ignore a central requirement of his own signature law? He declared that businesses don’t have to comply with Obamacare’s employer mandate next year, but individuals and families must comply with the insurance mandate or pay a tax? That’s not right or fair. “Today, I voted to protect all Americans from Obamacare’s requirements to purchase insurance by voting to delay both the individual and employer mandates. Surprisingly, the White House has said that the president would veto these bills, even though one of them gives him the legal authority to do what he’s already announced he plans to do unilaterally. Only in Washington, D.C. does that make sense. “Under the Affordable Care Act, countless Americans are getting kicked off their plans, and too many workers are losing their jobs or getting hours cut. It’s time to repeal it and start over. This one year delay will allow us to work on real reforms that actually make healthcare more affordable for Oregon families without stifling job growth and innovation.” On July 2, 2013, the Obama Administration announced that they were unilaterally delaying the mandate that large employers provide health insurance for their employees under Obamacare for one year. Today, the House passed, with bipartisan support, the Fairness for American Families Act (H.R. 2668), which would provide similar relief to those impacted by the individual health insurance mandate under the health law. It also passed, again with bipartisan support, the Authority for Mandate Delay Act (H.R. 2667), which authorizes the Obama Administration’s delay of the employer mandate for one year.On July 16, in a Statement of Administration Policy, the White House announced that the president would veto these commonsense measures. It states “this legislation would undermine key elements of the health law,” even though the Obama Administration has already announced that they will unilaterally delay one of the key provisions anyway.
07.10.2013	Greg Walden, Mike Simpson lead meeting with FDA to voice concerns about new water quality rules affecting fruit and vegetable growersOregon Rep. Greg Walden (second from right) and Idaho Rep. Mike Simpson (right) meet with FDA officials to share fruit and vegetable growers’ concerns about new water quality rules. At left is Mike Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Foods and Veterinary Medicine (More photos available upon request) WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Mike Simpson (R-Idaho) today led a meeting with other members of Congress and top officials at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to directly convey concerns they have heard from Oregon and Idaho onion farmers and fruit growers about new water quality rules that could cripple family farms nationwide.Walden and Simpson invited the FDA officials to travel to Oregon and Idaho, and the officials are planning a trip to Oregon, Idaho, and Washington next month to hear from Northwest growers first-hand.“When I heard concerns from eastern Oregon farmers, particularly onion growers, about new water quality rules the FDA is drafting, I asked for a meeting with the agency to air these concerns directly. I’m pleased that the agency has agreed to work with farmers as the rules are drafted, and that they are willing to travel to eastern Oregon and Idaho to hear from onion producers and other growers there directly,” Walden said. “A practical, common-sense rule will help achieve the goal of greater food safety without placing unnecessary regulatory burdens on American farm families that could drive them out of business.”“I’m greatly concerned about the impact the FDA’s proposed rule will have on agriculture in Idaho,” said Simpson. “With an administration that seems to issue an abundance of rules and regulations for all industry, it is especially important that we seek input from Idaho producers to ensure that we reach an effective and sensible solution.”The FDA delegation was led by Mike Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Foods and Veterinary Medicine. Other members of Congress present included Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Rep. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-Mich.), and Rep. Dan Benishek (R-Mich.).On June 21, Walden traveled to Nyssa, Ore. and met with onion growers who are concerned that the new regulations, as currently drafted, could force them out of business. Additionally, Walden has heard similar concerns from apple and cherry growers in the Columbia Gorge.Many farmers have pointed out that the proposed rule lacks common sense and a crop-specific approach, resulting in many of the proposed provisions being unworkable in the field, literally speaking. Walden and Simpson have heard from growers who are worried that grouping over 200 crops together in one category fails to account for differing risk profiles and production practices, which has led to the proposed requirements that may be unworkable for particular crops.
07.10.2013	Greg Walden re-introduces Central Oregon jobs and water security plan ‘Now is the time to get this done for Central Oregon,’ Walden saysClick here or on the image below to watch Rep. Walden’s video messageWASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today re-introduced the Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act, which delivers needed water to Prineville for job creation, clears the way for clean energy at Bowman Dam, and creates new water conservation opportunities in Central Oregon.“This is a no-cost, job-creating, clean energy plan, and passing it is just common-sense. The bill will create jobs in Central Oregon, cut through government red tape, provide for clean energy generation, and improve water quality and flows for fish and wildlife, all without costing the taxpayer a dime. This bill passed unanimously through the House last Congress, and I look forward to moving it swiftly through the House again. Now is the time to get this done for Central Oregon.” Walden said.The previous version of the bill, which is identical to this year’s version, passed the U.S. House unanimously in June 2012. It was not brought before the U.S. Senate for a vote.Water for job creation in Crook County The bill allows Prineville to utilize up to 5,100 acre feet of water from Prineville Reservoir, or about 6 percent of the total unallocated water behind the dam (80,000 acre feet). The water certainty would allow Prineville to entice new technology opportunities like Facebook and Apple, and service all of the homes within city limits.Crook County’s unemployment rate of 12.5 percent is the highest in the state."Prineville needs the tools necessary to create jobs and attract new businesses. This small amount of water will help do just that,” Walden said.Clean energy and new jobs at Bowman Dam The bill would also clear the way for small-scale hydropower production at the base of Bowman Dam, creating about 50 jobs over the course of two construction seasons.Legislation is necessary to make this happen because of the way the law is written currently. In 1988, Congress designated 17.8 miles of the Crooked River as part of the “wild and scenic” rivers system, which is charged with preserving rivers with “outstanding natural, cultural, and recreational values in a free-flowing condition for the enjoyment of present and future generations.”But when the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) drew up the maps for the new wild and scenic area on the Crooked River after the 1988 designation, they placed one end of the boundary right down the middle of Bowman Dam.“There is nothing wild and scenic about a dam,” Walden said.Hydropower is not permitted in wild and scenic areas, so an act of Congress is required to fix the mistake and place the boundary line below the dam, where it should have been all along. Doing so will allow the hydropower project — and the jobs it would create — to go forward.In a letter sent to Walden in 2008, BLM State Director Ed Shepard said, “The BLM does not believe that it was the intent of Congress to place the wild and scenic river boundary on the center of the dam or to even include the dam, but rather just below the dam and spillway structures.”McKay Creek restoration and other conservation efforts Because Prineville accesses its water from ground sources, the 5,100 acre feet of water would be released downstream, providing additional spilled water into the Crooked River that could benefit the blue-ribbon trout fishery below Bowman Dam. The bill also boosts conservation efforts in McKay Creek to enhance fish habitat.Community support for the plan Prineville Mayor Betty Roppe, Chairman of the Central Oregon Cities Organization: “Water supply certainty will not only benefit all of our citizens but is vital to the economic development that is sorely needed in our community. We still have one of the highest unemployment rates in the State of Oregon. This legislation will benefit our agriculture community while also benefiting the Crooked River environment, recreation, fish and wildlife. I am proud of Rep. Walden’s leadership. The Central Oregon Cities Organization strongly believes that Congressman Walden’s legislation is a responsible, balanced step to improve Central Oregon’s social, economic and environmental values.” Crook County Judge Mike McCabe: “This bill is vital for our community, both from the residential and from the industrial perspective. With the loss of timber jobs, we need to find sustainable ways to provide water for businesses, cities, farmers and ranchers. Fishermen and flat water boaters also benefit from this legislation. Rep. Walden’s bill is a terrific step to sustaining and creating jobs in Oregon.”Brian Barney, Ochoco Irrigation District: “U.S. Representative Greg Walden’s proposed legislation is of great benefit to our local farmers and ranchers. The legislation creates certainty of our water availability much like we have relied upon for the last 50 years. Agriculture is a large supporter of our local economy and agriculture relies heavily on water. Irrigation water serves a multitude of needs and with the District’s management of this resource, in conjunction with spring runoff, benefits recreational interests by providing water for all to enjoy. The Legislation also contains provisions that provide Ochoco Irrigation District the opportunity to participate in water conservation programs and allow a portion of the conserved water to be permanently designated for instream purposes to benefit downstream fisheries. We would like to thank Congressman Walden and his staff for all of the hard work they have put in to make this legislation a success for all involved.”
06.26.2013	Greg Walden, Allyson Schwartz introduce bipartisan legislation to ease access to home health services For a video message from Rep. Walden, click here or on the image below WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Allyson Schwartz (D-Penn.), along with 19 other co-sponsors, introduced bipartisan legislation today to ensure that seniors and disabled citizens have timely access to home health services under Medicare.The Home Health Care Planning Improvement Act of 2013 will allow physician assistants (PA), nurse practitioners (NP), clinical nurse specialists, and certified nurse midwives to order home health services for Medicare beneficiaries.“This common-sense bill will reduce unnecessary and duplicative burdens on health care providers and patients in need of home health services,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “Particularly in rural areas like central, southern, and eastern Oregon where physicians are scarce, these clinicians play an increasingly important role in the delivery of primary health care services. Not only are they serving on the front lines of primary care, but also in many areas they are the only option readily available.”“We have a responsibility to provide America’s seniors with high quality, cost effective health care. A key part of that is ensuring they have timely access to health care services in the privacy, comfort and security of their own homes,” Rep. Allyson Y. Schwartz said. “These highly-skilled health care professionals play a central role in the delivery of primary care, particularly in medically underserved areas, and are crucial to coordinating team-based care.”Currently, Medicare recognizes PAs, NPs, clinical nurse specialists, and certified nurse midwives as authorized providers who are able to perform many services for Medicare beneficiaries, including ordering nursing home care and prescribing medicine. However, they are not able to order less costly and less intrusive home health care services. Even in states such as Oregon that have explicitly expanded their laws to allow other medical providers to order home care, Medicare will still not certify payment for these services until a physician signs the order.Those seniors and disabled citizens who see these medical professionals as their primary care providers often need an extra office visit with an unknown physician in order to get the care they need. In such situations, this impediment merely amounts to extra administrative and paperwork burden, and creates an unnecessary step that fails to recognize current training and scope-of-practice guidelines. As a result, patients in need of home health care services are either placed in more expensive health care settings, or experience a delay in receiving the care they need. This legislation will relieve that burden for our most vulnerable citizens.If enacted, this legislation could produce significant savings for Medicare, with one study estimating that the plan would save over $100 million over ten years.In the rural eastern Oregon town of Enterprise, Theresa Russell serves as the only permanent primary care provider in her clinic, Olive Branch Family Health. As an NP, current law allows her to treat patients in home health settings, but she must wait for a physician’s signature to do so. In rural towns like Enterprise, that wait time can stretch for a week, or sometimes even a month. This commonsense, bipartisan change in the law would allow NPs like Theresa to make the decision and speed rural health delivery to seniors.“Under current law, NPs not being able to order home health for Medicare patients results in delay for the patient and interruptions in continuity of care,” Theresa Russell said. “This also leads to increased cost of care when a patient of mine needs to be seen by an additional provider.“Studies have shown that the expanded use of these professionals can result in dramatic decreases in expensive hospitalizations and nursing home stays,” said Val Halamandaris, President of National Association for Homecare and Hospice. “We appreciate the outstanding leadership [Reps. Walden and Schwartz] have shown in helping make home and community based services more readily available to our nation’s elderly population and those with disabilities.”This bill is supported by prominent national health care groups, such as the National Association for Home Care and Hospice, the American Nurses Association, the American Academy of Physician Assistants, the American College of Nurse Midwives, and the American College of Nurse Practitioners.Besides Reps. Walden and Schwartz, the bill was introduced with 19 other co-sponsors, including Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, and Suzanne Bonamici.For the full text of the bill, please click here.
06.19.2013	Greg Walden supports bipartisan plan to protect forest roads and jobs Amendment to House Farm Bill protects rural forested communities from further burdensome regulation; plan unanimously passed by the U.S. HouseJune 19, 2013Click here or on the image below to watch Rep. Walden’s remarks Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today delivered remarks in the U.S. House of Representatives in support of a bipartisan amendment to the House Farm Bill that would prevent costly new federal regulations and permit requirements for forest roads. It was later passed unanimously by the House. Below is a transcript of Walden’s remarks:“I thank my colleagues from Washington and Oregon for their work on this legislation. This is very important to the men and women who work in the woods in the Northwest. “For nearly four decades, the Environmental Protection Agency has said that driving down a forest road is not the same as pumping raw sewage into a river. They’re much different activities! This amendment would prevent the federal government from subjecting forested communities and business to further costly permits for everyday activities, like driving down a road.“Rural forested communities in the Northwest have been hurting for a very long time. Those who live there, we know all about the high unemployment rates. We know all about the high poverty rates. We know about the percentage of kids on free and reduced lunch because of burdensome federal regulations that have shut down activity on our federal forests. Now lawsuits have threatened to do this on our private forests as well. “The last thing they need is more costly and lawsuit-prone regulations that will further impact rural communities and the people who live there that simply want the opportunity to work in the woods, raise their families, and grow their communities. “Passing this bipartisan amendment will provide some certainty moving forward for rural forested communities, forest managers, and the people who work in the woods. I urge my colleagues to stand for jobs, stand for rural America and vote for this bipartisan amendment.”This bipartisan plan would maintain the status quo of how forest roads are currently regulated by the EPA, which is in line with the state of Oregon’s standards. It preserves the EPA’s position that forest roads should not be regulated as pollution sources under the Clean Water Act and would prevent further determinations in the future by the federal government that costly permits be required for everyday activities, such as reforestation, thinning, and pest and fire control, that occur across the country on public, private, state and tribal forest roads.
06.18.2013	Greg Walden announces John Day student as winner of Congressional Art Competition Emma Hughes chosen as Oregon’s Second District winner in “An Artistic Discovery” competition; work to be displayed in U.S. CapitolJune 10, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Representative Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced today that Emma Hughes of John Day has been selected as the overall winner for Oregon’s Second Congressional District in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Emma’s artwork, entitled Starry Eyed, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year.Two other students from John Day, Hannah Pereira and Lindsey Weymouth, were the runners-up in the competition. Their artwork will hang in Representative Walden’s eastern Oregon office in La Grande. Ms. Judith “JJ” Collier, a visual arts teacher at Grant Union High School, was instrumental in organizing the entries from John Day. The third runner-up is Sadie Heron, of Redmond. Her artwork will hang in Rep. Walden’s central Oregon office in Bend.“I want to congratulate Emma on this accomplishment. The artwork she submitted is a testament to her talent, and I look forward to seeing it featured in the U.S. Capitol. Her work will be displayed among the best artistic talent from students throughout the nation. I’d also like to commend runners-up Hannah, Lindsey, and Sadie for their outstanding work and talent,” Walden said.“This competition is a tremendous opportunity for young people interested in art, and I want to thank all those who participated, including a dedicated and fantastic team of judges from throughout the Second District. We had many wonderful pieces submitted for this year’s competition, and all of the students, their teachers, and families should be proud.”The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide program for students to showcase their artistic abilities and to highlight the importance of art education. In order to enter the competition, students are asked to submit two-dimensional artwork that is original in concept, design and execution. A panel of art professionals judges the submitted pieces to determine the overall winner and runners-up, whose art will hang in Representative Walden’s offices in Oregon for one year.
05.23.2013	Greg Walden to BLM, Forest Service: Get ready for fire season now Walden meets with top federal officials, urges them to learn the lessons of last year’s fire season May 23, 2013Rep. Walden hands a letter to BLM official Jerry Perez urging the agency to get ready for fire reason now and learn the lessons of last year’s historic firesU.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced today that he has written to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and U.S. Forest Service (USFS) outlining his concerns about the upcoming wildfire season in Oregon and stressing the need for the agencies to learn from last year’s historic wildfires. He personally handed the letter to USFS Regional Forester Kent Connaughton today and to BLM Oregon/Washington Director Jerry Perez last week. Rep. Walden will travel to eastern Oregon later today and will receive further input from citizens about wildfire prevention. Click here for a copy of the letter. “With over 1.2 million acres of range and forest land burned last year, Oregon experienced some of the worst wildfires in its history. Affected rural communities struggle to recover as they face drought and the likelihood of yet another active fire season. I am asking you to build on the lessons learned last year,” Rep. Walden wrote in the letter.He then listed suggestions for a better response from federal agencies he has heard from Oregon communities. These suggestions include:With only 1.4 percent of 9.2 million acres in the National Forest Service system (just 129,000 acres) being managed each year in central, eastern, and southern Oregon, take more aggressive management actions to avoid losing forests to catastrophic wildfire.When drought conditions exist, extinguish wildfires as quickly as possible to minimize loss of timber and range.Establish local community liaisons now that could be brought in as a resource to enhance communication between the agency, the communities, and private land owners. Define and establish additional grazing opportunities now for livestock impacted by wildfire.Take greater advantage of private wildland firefighting businesses which are providing important best-value resources both for initial and extended suppression operations. Rep. Walden concluded the letter by stressing the need to take action on these recommendations now, before the height of wildfire season.“With what is likely to be a very active fire season approaching, I trust your federal agencies will consider my thoughts and seek input now and throughout fire session from local communities on improving the effectiveness of fire suppression efforts,” Rep. Walden wrote.
05.15.2013	Greg Walden’s bill to advance internet freedom approved by U.S. HouseUnanimous vote sends strong signal to the world that the U.S. opposes efforts by authoritarian regimes to subvert the Internet Click here or on the image below to watch Rep. Walden’s remarks on the House floor WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously approved bipartisan legislation (H.R. 1580) written by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) that affirms it is the policy of the United States to promote a global Internet free from government control.“The Internet is possibly the most important technological advancement since the printing press. Governments’ hands off approach has enabled the Internet’s rapid growth and made it a powerful engine of social and economic freedom. This bipartisan bill is designed to combat recent efforts by some in the international community to regulate the Internet, which could jeopardize not only its vibrancy, but also the benefits it brings to the world,” Rep. Walden said on the House floor during consideration of the bill (click here to read Rep. Walden’s full statement).Last Congress, a similar measure unanimously passed the House and Senate. In light of continued international efforts to regulate the Internet, members voted today to make it official U.S policy, rather than merely a sense of the Congress.Rep. Walden is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, and this legislation has been a priority for the subcommittee this year. Earlier in the year, the subcommittee held a joint hearing with the House Committee on Foreign Affairs on the subject.“Just as international opponents of internet freedom are redoubling their efforts, so must we. That is why the hearing we held focused on draft legislation elevating the language of last year’s resolution from a sense of Congress aimed at particular treaty negotiations to a generalized statement of U.S. law,” Rep. Walden said.Last month, this legislation was approved unanimously by the House Energy and Commerce Committee after Rep. Walden made changes to accommodate concerns from Democratic members of the committee. After passing the House, it now goes to the Senate to be considered.On April 10, Rep. Walden penned an op-ed in The Bulletin arguing that Congress must “walk the walk” on internet freedom. Click here to read that op-ed.
04.17.2013	Walden bill to advance internet freedom moves forward in CongressBipartisan bill unanimously approved by the House Energy and Commerce CommitteeApril 17, 2013Click here or on the image below to watch Rep. Walden’s opening statement WASHINGTON – The House Energy and Commerce Committee today unanimously approved bipartisan legislation written by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) to affirm the policy of the United States regarding Internet governance. The legislation (H.R. 1580), which was approved by voice vote, will promote a global Internet free from government control. Last Congress, a similar measure unanimously passed the House and Senate. In light of continued international efforts to regulate the Internet, members voted today to make it official U.S policy rather than merely a sense of the Congress.“Let me be clear why we are here today: the continuing threat to the Internet is very real,” Rep. Walden said.“Under the multi-stakeholder governance model, non-regulatory institutions manage and operate the Internet by developing best practices with public and private sector input. Governments’ hands-off approach has enabled the Internet to grow at an astonishing pace and become perhaps the most powerful engine of social and economic freedom and job creation the world has ever known,” Rep. Walden continued.Rep. Walden concluded, “By elevating this language from a resolution to U.S. policy, this bill will show our country’s resolve to oppose efforts by authoritarian regimes to subvert the Internet for their own purposes, and I hope to encourage other nations to join our cause.”The bill was approved unanimously after Rep. Walden made changes to accommodate concerns from Democratic members of the Committee. At the markup, Rep. Henry Waxman (D-Ca.), the Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Ca.), the Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, thanked Rep. Walden for his work to address their concerns.Last week, the bill was approved by the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which Rep. Walden chairs. The next stop is a vote by the entire U.S. House of Representatives.On April 10, Rep. Walden penned an op-ed in The Bulletin arguing that Congress must “walk the walk” on internet freedom. Click here to read that op-ed.
04.16.2013	Greg Walden: “We will emerge as a nation stronger than ever before”Click here or on the image below to watch Rep. Walden’s remarks on yesterday’s attack in Boston U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today delivered remarks on the House floor about the acts of terrorism in Boston yesterday. Below is a transcript of his remarks: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of the people of Oregon’s Second District to offer my deepest sympathies to the families of the victims of the senseless act of terrorism in Boston. “Scripture tells us “Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.” Our prayers go to those who lost loved ones and to the injured as they recover so that they may be comforted. “Our thanks go to the first responders and good Samaritans who selflessly assisted the victims yesterday. That’s what Americans do—they help their fellow men and women in a time of need. That’s a common bond that unites us. “Boston is the birthplace of the American Revolution, the cradle of liberty for our nation. That spirit of freedom and brotherhood lives on in us as Americans, and brings us closer together in our grief. “As Americans, we will care for the victims and their families. We will ensure that justice is done to those behind this cowardly attack. And we will emerge as a nation stronger than ever before.”
04.11.2013	Greg Walden: This is our chance to make federal forest policy work for Oregon Walden testifies at House Natural Resources Committee hearing on long-term solution for O&C counties Click here to watch Rep. Walden’s testimony WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today testified before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulations about a long-term, O&C lands proposal he developed with Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader. For a full statement from Reps. Walden, DeFazio, and Schrader, pldease see below.For Rep. Walden’s full testimony he submitted to the record, please click here. Excerpt from Rep. Walden’s testimony“This is an important and timely hearing, and I’m encouraged by the Committee’s keen interest in identifying long-term solutions for our federal forest counties and the hardworking people who live there.”“It’s clear the status quo isn’t working. We need to get our rural communities working again.”“Momentum is building for change—from county commission chambers to the committee rooms of the state legislature to the halls of Congress. We can do this. We can put people back to work in the woods. We can create prosperous communities and healthy forests. We can provide certainty for teachers and law enforcement officers. We can better manage our forests.”“This is our opportunity to make federal forest policy work for Oregon and our county and I look forward to being a part of this effort.”Full Statement from Reps. Walden, DeFazio, and Schrader DEFAZIO-WALDEN-SCHRADER O&C PLAN TAKES MAJOR STEP FORWARDProposal would create thousands of jobs, provide stable funding to O&C countiesWASHINGTON, DC— Today, the House Natural Resources Committee held a hearing to discuss a bipartisan legislative proposal from Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Greg Walden (R-Hood River), and Kurt Schrader (D-Canby). The plan would create thousands of private sector jobs in Oregon, provide stable funding for failing Oregon counties, and protect old growth and important places while saving the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars.The Committee heard testimony from all three sponsors of the plan; Douglas County Commissioner Doug Robertson, chairman of the Association of O&C Counties; and Tom Tuchman, forestry adviser to Governor John Kitzhaber. Legislative hearings are generally required before bills are voted on by the committee and the full U.S. House of Representatives.“This hearing signals that this is a serious plan that is being taken seriously by the U.S. House of Representatives,” DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader said in a joint statement. “Any plan that would create thousands of private sector jobs, provide revenues to help failing rural Oregon counties, protect sensitive public lands, and that save the federal government $1 billion is worth considering. Today we had a serious, robust conversation about a realistic solution to the O&C crisis. This proposal isn’t perfect, but we must move forward with specific legislative ideas before these failing Oregon counties become insolvent. We look forward to working with the Governor and the counties to incorporate changes discussed today, and we are pleased that the House took this needed first step.”Right now, several counties in Oregon are approaching insolvency and will not be able to provide basic state-mandated services to its residents – such as law enforcement. Many of these counties have real unemployment at or above 20 percent. Poverty is widespread and crippling. Consider, for example, that in Josephine and Jackson counties alone more than 65,000 people – or one out of every five people in the two counties including children – are on food stamps. Last February, DeFazio, Walden and Schrader offered a realistic, bipartisan legislative proposal to help solve the O&C problems. Their proposal would create jobs, provide revenues to failing Oregon counties, help sustain the local manufacturing base, save the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars, and protect water, fish, and old growth. Their bipartisan solution would designate a certain set of lands –previously managed timber stands – for sustainable timber production to be managed by a public board and under federal laws as they apply to private and state forests. The rest of the O&C Lands – old growth and sensitive lands– would be transferred to the Forest Service and set aside for conservation. All lands would remain public, in federal ownership. That proposal was discussed in today’s hearing.The proposal secured broad support across the state, including: the Oregon House, Oregon Senate, fifteen county boards of commissioners, the Oregon State Sheriffs Association, and labor and industry groups.Today’s hearing was secured after DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader sent a letter to Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee Representative Doc Hastings (R-WA) requesting substantive and open discussion about long-term solutions for the statutorily unique O&C lands.The hearing is available on DeFazio’s YouTube page: https://www.youtube.com/user/PeterDeFazioA clip of DeFazio, Walden, and Schrader’s opening statements can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ZDpCx5TFm4A clip of the panel’s testimony and questions can be found here: https://youtu.be/8r8cMaSDFMc
04.11.2013	Testimony of Rep. Greg Walden (OR-02)House Subcommittee on Public Landsand Environmental RegulationsNatural Resources Committee10:00 AM – April 11, 20131324 Longworth House Office BuildingChairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva,This is an important and timely hearing and I’m encouraged by the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks Forests and Public Lands’ interest in identifying a long-term solution for our federal forest counties and the hardworking people who live there.I recognize my colleagues from Oregon, Representatives Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader, for working with me and many other Oregonians who agree that the status quo serves no one well.Later today you will hear from Oregon’s Douglas County Commissioner Doug Robertson who also chairs the Oregon & California Counties Association (O&C Counties) and Tom Tuchmann, Oregon Governor John Kitzhaber’s Forestry and Conservation Advisor. I am very pleased that the Committee called on these two individuals given their combined wealth of knowledge on the issues before us today. It’s time for real change.Let me be clear about what our forested communities face—since 1990 the timber harvest from federal timber lands in Oregon has dropped by more than 90 percent—in fact 60 percent of Oregon's forestland is owned by the federal government but contributes only 12 percent to Oregon's total timber harvest. The mortality rates are above 19 percent on federal lands and we have endured hundreds of thousands of acres lost to wildfire, bug infestations, and disease. That’s not a healthy picture.The economic picture in Oregon’s rural forested communities is just as bad. According to the Oregon Employment Department, of the 14 forested counties I represent, 10 currently face double digit unemployment. If this wasn’t shocking enough, consider that eight of these same counties over the last five years have had an average poverty level of 14 percent or greater. How could we let this happen to our rural forested communities? Remember from 1980 to today, Oregon went from 405 open mills to just 106 open mills – a 74 percent decrease in capacity available to do work in the woods. We went from 45,778 mill jobs to 15,706 in that time – a 66 percent drop. There appears to be a direct connection between the loss of mills and jobs and the substantial increase in poverty - consider this, Harney County in 1989 had three operating mills and a poverty rate of 10.6 percent. The county no longer has a single mill and a poverty rate of 18.6 percent. According to the Oregon Department of Education, nearly 60 percent of school children in the county qualify for free and reduced lunch. Harney County have seen the affects of one large catastrophic wildfire after another and a total loss of their mill infrastructure while hundreds of thousands of acres of forest surrounding them are in desperate need of treatment…and hundreds of people in the community are in desperate need of a good, family wage job. This is a ludicrous situation and I am unwilling to say that we can’t fix this!The Oregon Employment Department understood this connection to the loss of mill infrastructure and impact on the community, when in 2007 after mills closed in John Day, Wallowa, and Hines, a report was issued which said the job losses across the three communities was the equivalent to the Portland metro area of suddenly having over 26,000 additional people out of work. What this means is that a job in one of Oregon’s rural forested community has the potential local economic impact as 139 jobs in one or Oregon’s metropolitan areas.What would the outcry be if suddenly Portland-Beaverton-based Intel and Nike just shut down…what would the impact be on schools, business, churches..the community? Well just ask people who live in John Day, Wallowa, and Hines…they will tell you it’s devastating. I think we can all agree that the status quo doesn’t work, and won’t work going forward.Our communities don’t even want the status quo. They don’t want the handout that’s made them dependent on the federal government. They want jobs. They want healthy forests. They’re tired of the catastrophic fire and the bug infestation. They’re sick of the budgeting uncertainty that comes with not knowing if Uncle Sam will pay his fair share.The O&C Counties sent the Oregon delegation a letter on March 11 that I would like to enter into the record. In it they make statements like “The O&C Counties are not interested in legislation that only pretends to solve the problem”…are “seeking meaningful relief from the unacceptable status quo”…and that they (the O&C Counties) “remain steadfastlysupportive of the O&C Lands Trust, Conservation and Jobs Act” as currently proposed by myself and Representatives DeFazio and Schrader. Counties and forested communities are calling on the congress to provide them the ability to pursue the American ideal of self-reliance once more. I would like to now enter into the record a report prepared in December for Oregon Governor John Kitzhaber and members of the Oregon legislature titled the “National Forest Health Restoration - An Economic Assessment of Forest Restoration on Oregon’s Eastside National Forests” which contains some remarkable and telling facts about the current ecological and economic conditions of forest lands and communities. It is important to note the diverse and knowledgeable group that made up the steering committee - Association of Oregon Counties; Ochoco Lumber Company; Office of Governor John Kitzhaber; Oregon Business Council; Oregon Department of Energy; Oregon Department of Forestry; Oregon Forest Resources Institute; Oregon Solutions; Oregon State University; Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board; Sustainable Northwest; The Nature Conservancy; and the Forest Service.As stated from the report “The purpose of this study is to provide an accurate economic impact assessment of forest health restoration on Oregon’s eastside National Forests.” The basic takeaways of the report are that reduced forest management activity in eastern, southern, and central Oregon has decreased timber supply and hurt many families. The report clearly states that between 2006 and 2011, annual food stamp use and welfare payments in these areas tripled to nearly $300 million, and in 2010, Oregon distributed $470 million in unemployment insurance claims to 29,000 people in the study area. The report underscored that fact that in these rural forested communities, nearly 1 in 5 people live in poverty, the highest rate in Oregon. Not only are the forests unhealthy, so are these rural forested communities. It doesn’t have to be this way.Oregon’s county governments are crying out for change. I would like to enter into the record a letter sent by the Association of Oregon Counties this week which states:“We are faced with two dire problems in the vast stretches of Oregon dominated by national and O&C forests:1. The forests are sickly, crowded, dead, dying, and burning up; and2. Surrounding and dependent communities are in deep economic dysfunction.Both problems can be addressed through active management of our federal forests.” To underscore this call for change, consider that across southern, central, and eastern Oregon that there are approximately 19.8 million acres of forestland – 11.3 million of which is administered by the Forest Service. Approximately 9.2 million acres of this ground is available for management or, in other words, not excluded by congressional action from forest management activities. A key fact in the Governor’s report is that 78 percent of this 9.2 million acres, or 7.1 million acres, are at significant risk of crown fire, a most devastating type of wildfire. Remarkably, the Forest Service is only able to conduct forest management activities – commercial timber harvest, stewardship contracts, watershed restoration, hand piling, etc – on 1.4 percent of the entire 9.2 million acres – just 129,000 acres each year. Are you kidding me! We all know that each year the federal government spends a tremendous amount of money on fighting wildfires. The Governor’s report stated:“From 2007 to 2011, large fires annually burned an average of 56,000 acres of national forestland in eastern Oregon, which cost $43.6 million, on average. Based on these five-year averages, the USFS spends an estimated $780 per acre on expenses related to fire suppression each year. These costs include the cost to suppress and contain the fire as well as any rehabilitation of fire suppression activities.”According to the Oregon Department of Forestry, over a 20 year period from 1980 to 2000 wildfires in eastern Oregon burned approximately 553,000 acres with an average fire size of 26,000 acres. Over the last 10 years wildfires in the same area has burned a total of 1 million acres averaging 93,000 acres.Now here’s the real kicker - from 2007 to 2011, fires east of the Cascades larger than 100 acres burned an estimated 279,000 of federal forest lands costing $218 million in suppression costs. The Governors report sums up this situation, stating:“At current levels, the USFS spends $40.8 million dollars each year to treat 129,000 acres. Based on the average fire suppression cost of $780 per acre, the USFS would incur approximately $100 million in fire suppression costs each year if 129,000 acres were left untreated and burned by wildfire. The difference between the cost of implementing restoration and incurring fire suppression costs represents a potential $59.2 million annual savings for the USFS. In other words, for every $1 the USFS spends on forest restoration, the agency avoids a potential loss of $1.45.”Remember, the current forest management footprint across southern, central, and eastern Oregon is only conducting projects on 1.4 percent of the 9.2 million acres. As outlined in the report, “in order to treat all the available acres at least one time during a 20 year time period, the Forest Service will need to reach an annual pace of 5 percent.” No part of the study area even comes close to conducting projects at this level. In fact, if we doubled the amount of acres treated every year to 258,000 acres, we would still fall 202,000 acres less than what is needed to achieve a 5 percent accomplishment rate of 460,000 acres a year! I highlight all of these points because this is the exact same story which is playing out across our western forest reserves. President Theodore Roosevelt, the father of our great forest system, would be horrified at the conditions of our forest and rural communities. I assure you that he would charge forward to fix this problem. It’s clear the status quo isn’t working. We need to get our rural communities working again.I would like to enter into the record a joint Oregon Senate-House legislative resolution (SJM10) sponsored by Republicans and Democrats, including the state Senate President and Speaker of the Oregon House. The resolution urges Congress to transfer management of Oregon and California Railroad grant lands to newly established board of trustees consisting of representatives from local government, environmental organizations and timber industry.” Momentum is building for change—from county commission chambers to the committee rooms of the state legislature to the halls of Congress. We can do this. We can put people back to work in the woods. We can create prosperous communities and healthy forests. We can provide certainty for teachers and law enforcement officers. We can better manage our forests.This is our opportunity to make federal forest policy work for Oregon. I look forward to being a part of this effort.
04.04.2013	WALDEN, DEFAZIO SECURE HEARING FOR LONG-TERM, O&C LANDS SOLUTIONWASHINGTON, DC—Today, Reps. Greg Walden (R-Hood Rive) and Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) announced that the House Natural Resources Committee will conduct a hearing on a long-term bipartisan solution for the O&C lands on Thursday, April 11, 2013.The hearing was secured after DeFazio, Walden, and Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-Canby) sent a letter to Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee Representative Doc Hastings (R-WA) requesting substantive and open discussion about long-term solutions for the statutorily unique O&C lands. “One thing is clear: the status quo isn’t working for our rural communities. There’s a better way. Our forests need to be managed so we can put people back to work in the woods, create healthy forests and communities, and provide certainty for essential local services like schools and law enforcement. Momentum for changing federal forest policy has been building in Oregon’s counties, the legislature, and in Congress. We now have a historic opportunity to get this done now, and we look forward to being a part of this effort,” Walden said.“Some counties in western Oregon are on the brink of bankruptcy and are considering insolvency, or turning over their responsibilities to the state. If Congress fails to act, these counties will dissolve. We need to work towards a long-term solution, and we need to do it today. There is no excuse for inaction or delay. We are pleased that Chairman Hastings has recognized this urgency by granting our request for a hearing in the House and look forward to offering our long-term, bipartisan legislative proposal as a possible solution to create jobs and provide predictability to these struggling counties,” said DeFazio.Last February, DeFazio, Walden and Schrader offered a realistic, bipartisan legislative proposal to help solve the O&C problems. Their proposal would create jobs, provide revenues to failing Oregon counties, help sustain the local manufacturing base, save the federal government hundreds of millions of dollars, and protect water, fish, and old growth. That proposal will be discussed in the upcoming hearing.The proposal secured broad support across the state, including: the Oregon House, Oregon Senate, fifteen county boards of commissioners, the Oregon State Sheriffs Association, and labor and industry groups.The hearing will be streamed live on the House Natural Resources Committee website at 7:00 am PST on April 11, 2013 at: https://naturalresources.house.gov/live/For more information about the hearing, click here: https://naturalresources.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=326329
03.18.2013	Greg Walden to hold town hall meetings, discuss veteran and National Guard issues, and tour data center this weekendTown hall meetings in Lakeview and Burns will be 43rd and 44th in just over a yearMEDFORD - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will travel to Jackson, Klamath, Lake, Harney, and Crook counties beginning on Friday for town hall meetings, visits with veteran and active duty groups, and a tour of a central Oregon data center.“Town hall meetings in Lake and Harney counties are yet another opportunity for me to keep my ‘to do’ list fresh as I work on finding solutions for local problems here at home. This trip, I will also focus on caring for our veterans and active duty military, building our technology-based economy, and improving management of our federal forests,” said Rep. Walden.With the Lake and Harney county town hall meetings, Rep. Walden will have held town hall meetings in all 20 counties of the Second Congressional District since January 1. They will mark the 43rd and 44th town hall meetings in just over a year.Friday, March 22, 2013What: Tour of Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics (SORCC)When: 9:15 am- 10:30 am Where: Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics (SORCC), 8495 Crater Lake Highway, White CityDetails: Rep. Walden will meet with Don Burman, the new director of the SORCC, and discuss efforts to help ensure health care access for rural veterans.What: Meeting with Kingsley Field Command Team and Tour of Control TowerWhen: 12:30 pm- 2:00 pm Where: 6775 Arnold Avenue, Klamath FallsDetails: Rep. Walden will meet with Colonel Jeremy Baenen, the 173rd Fighter Wing’s new commander, and members of his team to discuss the consequences of the FAA’s proposal to shut down the air control tower that is used jointly by the Klamath Falls airport and Kingsley Field.What: Lake County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 4:30 pm- 5:30 pm Where: Lake County Courthouse, 513 Center Street, LakeviewSaturday, March 23, 2013What: Harney County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 8:30 am- 9:30 amWhere: Harney County Senior Center, 17 S. Alder Avenue, BurnsWhat: Tour of Facebook Data CenterWhen: 12:30 pm- 2:00 pm Where: 735 SW Connect Way, PrinevilleDetails: As chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, Rep. Walden has focused on unleashing innovation and creating jobs in the technology sector in Oregon.
03.14.2013	Greg Walden: Consumers deserve to know why their health insurance costs are going up Introduces “Patients’ Right to Know Act” that requires health insurers provide consumers with a line-by-line summary of how new taxes in the health care law are affecting their premiums March 14, 2013Click here or on the image below to watch Rep. Walden’s video statementWASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today introduced a bill to empower consumers by giving them more information about rising health insurance premiums.“If the federal government is going to play such a big role in our health care going forward, we have the right to know just how much it costs us. The ‘Patients’ Right to Know Act’ will require health insurers to provide consumers with a line-by-line summary of how the new health care law’s taxes and fees are impacting their insurance premiums,” Rep. Walden said.“During the debate over the health care law, then-Speaker Pelosi said ‘we have to pass the bill so that you can find out what is in it.” Well, it’s law. Consumers deserve the right to know how much of their premium is attributable to the nearly trillion dollars in taxes associated with the new health care law,” Rep. Walden said.Click here to read the text of Rep. Walden’s bill.The new health care law—the Affordable Care Act—is expected to raise health insurance premiums for Oregonians who buy their own health insurance coverage or receive it from their small employer. According to a study commissioned by Oregon Governor John Kitzhaber last year, premiums for those individuals will go up an average of 38 percent. While premiums for some Oregonians will decrease, they will rise by about 70 percent for more than one third of those in the “individual market” (Click here to read the report). According to a recent Congressional report, premiums in the “individual market” are expected to rise by 27 percent to 55 percent in Oregon due to the health care law (Click here to read the report).Tomorrow, the House Energy and Commerce Committee—of which Rep. Walden is a senior member—will hold a hearing entitled “Unaffordable: Impact of Obamacare on Americans’ Health Insurance Premiums.” Rep. Walden’s bill will be discussed as the committee begins to consider this common-sense legislation. Click here for more information.This legislation is just one way that Rep. Walden and his colleagues are analyzing the health care law’s true impact on patients, providers, small businesses, and families. Next week, Rep. Walden’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology will explore how FDA regulations and taxes could impact innovation in mobile applications and devices. Click here for more information on that hearing.
02.13.2013	Bipartisan legislation overwhelmingly passes the U.S. House, streamlines permitting process for nation’s largest renewable electricity source WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today supported the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act, which unanimously passed the U.S. House today.“I was proud to be an original cosponsor of this bipartisan, job-creating bill that’s part of an ‘all of the above’ energy strategy. Even though 75 percent of electricity in the Pacific Northwest already comes from hydropower and several new projects have come online in central Oregon in recent years, we can do more.“The plan passed today will help facilitate the development of new hydropower by reducing red tape and streamlining the permitting process for new projects. New hydropower development has the potential to produce thousands of megawatts of affordable power and create thousands of American jobs in the process. I’ll continue to work across the aisle to increase the supply of affordable energy and create good, stable American jobs,” Rep. Walden said.The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act (HR 267) was introduced by Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.) and Diana DeGette (D-Colo.). Rep. Walden was one of nine original cosponsors of the bill and helped usher it through the Energy and Commerce Committee. The bill now heads to the Senate. A similar bill was passed overwhelmingly in the House last year, but was not considered by the Senate.
02.12.2013	“My focus is on getting our economy going again and balancing the budget.”Click here or on the image below to watch Rep. Walden’s video response WASHINGTON —U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) issued the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union Address: “In over forty town hall meetings in just over a year, I’ve heard from hardworking taxpayers throughout Oregon that they want good jobs that pay the bills, that they are concerned about health insurance premiums going up, not down, and they are worried about the government borrowing and spending so much. “I’m disappointed that the President didn’t do more tonight to extend an olive branch to work with Congress to solve the country’s problems. Instead, he doubled down on his agenda from the past four years: more spending, more debt, higher taxes, and a bigger federal government more involved in our lives than ever before. This approach has not produced a strong economy or the kind of family-wage jobs that Americans need and deserve. The federal government must stop throwing up barriers to job creation and learn to live within a budget.”###
02.08.2013	In Hood River, Walden visits Providence Hood River Memorial Hospital about need for legislation to allow small hospitals to provide better care for patientsFebruary 8, 2013 HOOD RIVER —U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is in Hood River today to visit with Providence Hood River Memorial Hospital CEO Ed Freysinger about legislation he is writing to provide better health care at rural hospitals. The Critical Access Hospital Flexibility Act would give rural hospitals greater flexibility in complying with federal regulations so they can better meet the needs of patients in rural areas.Currently, federal regulations limit the number of patients per day in so-called Critical Access Hospitals (CAH). One requirement to be designated as a CAH is that a rural hospital cannot admit more than 25 patients per day. It’s rare, but when a CAH reaches this cap, it is simply forced to turn away patients, transfer them to another location at greater expense, remove individuals from occupied beds, or exercise any other option that limits its ability to focus on what it should be doing – providing patient care.“As someone who served five years on the board of the hospital I’m visiting today, I know the challenges community hospitals face with federal government red tape that prevents them from properly caring for patients. No one should ever be turned away from a hospital because of a bureaucratic barrier, and no hospital should have to be faced with such a decision. I am again working with Senator Ron Wyden to write legislation to provide flexibility for small, rural health care so patients can get the care they need in the community where they live. We will formally introduce it in Congress soon, and it’s helpful to have the input of health care providers like Hood River Memorial,” Rep. Walden said.The legislation being written by Rep. Walden would allow CAHs to choose to either meet the current 25 patient per day limit or a limit of 20 patients per day averaged throughout the year. This modest degree of flexibility would not interfere with the integrity of Medicare’s CAH program which has served small rural communities well since its creation. Rather, it would permit CAHs to better address situations like seasonal fluctuations in resort areas, flu season, unforeseen accidents, and anything else that might arise and hinder a hospital’s ability to provide patient care.This week, Mr. Freysinger wrote to Rep. Walden to support the legislation. “On behalf of Providence Hood River Memorial Hospital, I want to offer our endorsement of the Critical Access Hospital Flexibility Act of 2013. This proposed legislation would allow small, remote hospitals to provide important acute care services to rural communities across the country,” Mr. Freysinger wrote. Click here to read a copy of the letter.“In Hood River, we are challenged with the current CAH 25-bed limit during time of increased patient need, such as significant population increases during tourism season, influenza endemics, and limited ability to transfer patients in severe weather,” Mr. Freysinger continued.The legislation is intended to benefit the 11 other CAH’s in central, southern, and eastern Oregon, which in addition to Providence Hood River Memorial, include:· Heppner: Pioneer Memorial Hospital· Hermiston: Good Shepherd Medical Center· Pendleton: St. Anthony Hospital· La Grande: Grande Ronde Hospital· Enterprise: Wallowa Memorial Hospital· Baker City: St. Alphonsus Medical Center· John Day: Blue Mountain Hospital· Madras: Mountain View Hospital· Prineville: Pioneer Memorial Hospital· Burns: Harney District Hospital· Lakeview: Lake District Hospital
02.06.2013	February 6, 2013“Instead of cutting funding, we should be cutting trees,” Walden saysWASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has demanded answers from the Interior Department and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) about a decision to apply a 10 percent cut to last year’s county payment that Congress authorized and funded for 18 Oregon and California Railroad (O&C) counties in western and southern Oregon, including Josephine, Jackson, and Klamath.“This surprising raid on O&C funds by Interior or OMB is outrageous and unacceptable, and you must reverse it quickly before the payments are finalized and sent to the state for distribution to the counties. I understand that this may happen this week, so your rapid action is needed,” Rep. Walden wrote to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and OMB Director Jeffrey Zients.“Instead of cutting funding, we should be cutting trees. Our federally-forested communities are demanding that Congress act to provide certainty of timber harvests which will put people back to work in the woods. The impact of a 10 percent cut on counties who are already in a death spiral due to the lack of any meaningful production from our forests only underscores the need to get back to work in the woods which will grow healthy communities. Already, counties don’t have the resources to keep sheriff officers on the streets and criminals in jail, to run their local governments and schools, or to maintain their roads. Creating jobs in the woods for police, teachers, and healthy local communities makes sense to me,” said Rep. Walden.Within the past week, Rep. Walden has learned that either OMB or Interior Department officials decided to apply this cut to the one-year extension of county payments provided by Congress last year. While pointing to OMB as the responsible party, the Interior Department officials reasoned that the cuts were caused by across-the-board spending cuts set to go into effect. However, these payments to O&C counties are from the 2012 federal budgetary fiscal year, which is not subject to the across-the-board cuts. In January, the Forest Service provided its portion of the county payments to states without such problems. Furthermore, Congress has already delayed the impacts of the across-the-board cuts for a short period this year, so they have still not taken effect.Since hearing of this plan last week, Rep. Walden has attempted to get answers from Interior and OMB about this surprising decision. This letter was sent on Tuesday in order to make top Administration leaders personally aware of this situation.For a full copy of the letter, click here.
01.23.2013	FULL SCHEDULE: Greg Walden to hold town hall meetings in central, eastern, and southern Oregon Nine day trip with eight town hall meetings throughout Second District kicks off in Prineville on ThursdayJanuary 23, 2013PRINEVILLE - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will hold town hall meetings in central and eastern Oregon this week, kicking off a nine day trip throughout the Second District with town hall meetings in eight counties, including Crook, Deschutes, Jefferson, Union, Wallowa, Jackson, Josephine, and Klamath counties.“While the Congress and the country face difficult choices about reducing the debt and growing our economy, I’m also working on finding solutions for local problems here at home. Providing enough water and power for job creation, unleashing innovation in the technology sector, improving management of our federal forests, and taking care of those who wear or have worn our nation’s uniform remain priorities for me,” said Rep. Walden. By Feb. 1, Rep. Walden will have held town hall meetings in 16 of the 20 counties in the Second District. Last year, Rep. Walden held 24 town hall meetings, at least one in each of the 20 counties. Thursday, January 24, 2013What: Speak to Prineville Kiwanis Club When: 12:00 p.m.- 1:00 p.m. Where: Meadow Lakes Golf Club, 300 SW Meadow Lakes Drive, Prineville What: Crook County Town Hall Meeting When: 2:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Where: Prineville Senior Center, 180 NE Belknap Street, Prineville What: Deschutes County Town Hall Meeting When: 5:00 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Where: Bend Senior Center, 1600 SE Reed Market Road, Bend Note: Rep. Walden will be joined by special guests state Sen. Tim Knopp and state Reps. Gene Whisnant and Jason Conger. Friday, January 25, 2013What: Meeting with Advantage Dental When: 10:30 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Where: 442 SW Umatilla Ave. #200, Redmond What: Lunch with Sisters Community Leaders When: 12:00 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. Where: Bronco Billy’s, 190 East Cascade Avenue, Sisters What: Meeting with OSU-Cascades When: 2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Where: Graduate and Research Center, Room 138, 650 SW Columbia, Bend What: Redmond Chamber of Commerce Annual Meeting When: 6:00 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. Where: Eagle Crest, 1522 Cline Falls Road, Redmond Saturday, January 26, 2013What: Jefferson County Town Hall Meeting When: 8:30 a.m. - 9:30 a.m. Where: Madras Senior Center, 860 SW Madison, Madras What: Union County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 4:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Where: La Grande Public Library Community Room, 2006 Fourth Street, La Grande What: La Grande Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation Big Game Banquet When: 6:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m.Where: Blue Mountain Conference Center, 404 12th Street, La Grande Sunday, January 27, 2013 What: Wallowa County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Where: Community Connections Building, 702 NW First Street, Enterprise What: Wallowa County Chamber of Commerce Citizen Awards Banquet When: 4:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m.Where: Cloverleaf Hall, 668 First Street, Enterprise Monday, January 28, 2013 What: Speak to Enterprise High School Civics Class When: 8:00 a.m.- 9:00 a.m.Where: 201 Southeast 4th Street, Enterprise What: Speak to Pendleton RotaryWhen: 12:00 p.m.- 1:00 p.m.Where: 14 SE 3rd Street, Pendleton What: Tour of New St. Anthony’s Hospital Construction Site When: 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Tuesday, January 29, 2013What: Jackson County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Where: Jackson County Library, 205 S. Central, Medford Wednesday, January 30, 2013What: Josephine County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Where: Anne Basker Auditorium, 500 SW 6th Street, Grants Pass Thursday, January 31, 2013What: Klamath County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 9:00 a.m.- 10:00 a.m.Where: Oregon Institute of Technology, Mt. Mazama Room, College Union Building, 3210 Campus Drive, Klamath Falls
01.23.2013	Greg Walden: If Congress doesn’t do its work, it shouldn’t be paid U.S. House passes “No Budget, No Pay” plan with Walden’s support WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today issued the following statement upon House passage of the “No Budget, No Pay” plan:“In our part of Oregon, families sit down around the kitchen table and figure out how to balance their budget. It’s time for Washington, D.C. to do the same. If hardworking taxpayers don’t do their jobs, they don’t get paid. Congress needs to live by the same rules—no budget, no pay.“While the House has passed a budget each of the last two years, the Senate has failed to do so in nearly four. The last time the Senate passed a budget—in 2009—the iPad hadn’t even been invented yet! The federal government must write a responsible budget to get our fiscal house in order. Only then will we be able to create a good strong American economy where people can get a job that pays the bills.”The “No Budget, No Pay” plan withholds pay from members of the House and Senate if their chamber does not pass a budget by April 15. The measure also temporarily suspends the debt ceiling for three months to set up a broader debate about responsible spending.
01.21.2013	Greg Walden condemns terrorist attack in Algeria Baker County resident Gordon Rowan among three Americans who lost their lives January 21, 2013 WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today condemned the terrorist attack in Algeria, which claimed three Americans, including Baker County resident Gordon Rowan:“I am deeply saddened to learn that Gordon Rowan, of Sumpter, was among those killed in the horrific terrorist attack in Algeria. I strongly condemn this attack on innocent civilians. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and their families.“This is another reminder of the threat America faces from radical extremists around the globe. Throughout the week, I’ve been in close touch with the State Department and the Foreign Affairs and Intelligence committees in the House to learn more about the attack and the fate of the Americans there, including Gordon Rowan. I pledge to work with the Administration and the committees in the House to gain a better understanding of what took place during the attack in Algeria so that we can better protect Americans at home and abroad.”
01.20.2013	Greg Walden to hold town hall meetings in central and eastern OregonNine day trip with eight town hall meetings throughout Second District kicks off in Prineville on ThursdayJanuary 23, 2013PRINEVILLE - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will hold town hall meetings in central and eastern Oregon this week, kicking off a nine day trip throughout the Second District with town hall meetings in eight counties, including Crook, Deschutes, Jefferson, Union, Wallowa, Jackson, Josephine, and Klamath counties.“While the Congress and the country face difficult choices about reducing the debt and growing our economy, I’m also working on finding solutions for local problems here at home. Providing enough water and power for job creation, unleashing innovation in the technology sector, improving management of our federal forests, and taking care of those who wear or have worn our nation’s uniform remain priorities for me,” said Rep. Walden. By Feb. 1, Rep. Walden will have held town hall meetings in 16 of the 20 counties in the Second District. Last year, Rep. Walden held 24 town hall meetings, at least one in each of the 20 counties.Details on additional events, including the other town hall meetings, will be announced as they are finalized. Thursday, January 24, 2013What: Speak to Prineville Kiwanis Club When: 12:00 p.m.- 1:00 p.m. Where: Meadow Lakes Golf Club, 300 SW Meadow Lakes Drive, Prineville What: Crook County Town Hall Meeting When: 2:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Where: Prineville Senior Center, 180 NE Belknap Street, Prineville What: Deschutes County Town Hall Meeting When: 5:00 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Where: Bend Senior Center, 1600 SE Reed Market Road, Bend Note: Rep. Walden will be joined by special guests state Sen. Tim Knopp and state Reps. Gene Whisnant and Jason Conger. Friday, January 25, 2013 What: Meeting with Advantage Dental When: 10:30 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Where: 442 SW Umatilla Ave. #200, Redmond What: Lunch with Sisters Community Leaders When: 12:00 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. Where: Bronco Billy’s, 190 East Cascade Avenue, Sisters What: Meeting with OSU-Cascades When: 2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Where: Graduate and Research Center, Room 138, 650 SW Columbia, Bend What: Redmond Chamber of Commerce Annual Meeting When: 6:00 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. Where: Eagle Crest, 1522 Cline Falls Road, Redmond Saturday, January 26, 2013 What: Jefferson County Town Hall Meeting When: 8:30 a.m. - 9:30 a.m. Where: Madras Senior Center, 860 SW Madison, Madras What: Union County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 4:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Where: La Grande Public Library Community Room, 2006 Fourth Street, La Grande What: La Grande Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation Big Game Banquet When: 6:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m.Where: Blue Mountain Conference Center, 404 12th Street, La Grande Sunday, January 27, 2013 What: Wallowa County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Where: Community Connections Building, 702 NW First Street, Enterprise What: Wallowa County Chamber of Commerce Citizen Awards Banquet When: 4:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m.Where: Cloverleaf Hall, 668 First Street, Enterprise Monday, January 28, 2013 What: Speak to Enterprise High School Civics Class When: 8:00 a.m.- 9:00 a.m.Where: 201 Southeast 4th Street, Enterprise What: Speak to Pendleton RotaryWhen: 12:00 p.m.- 1:00 p.m.Where: 14 SE 3rd Street, Pendleton What: Tour of New St. Anthony’s Hospital Construction Site When: 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m.
01.14.2013	Greg Walden introduces Stop the Coin Act, says now is the time to get serious about real debt reductionLegislation will permanently take trillion dollar platinum coin gimmick off the tableJanuary 14, 2013WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today officially introduced the Stop the Coin Act to take the trillion dollar platinum coin gimmick off the table once and for all so that Washington can get serious about real debt reduction.“Reducing our debt can’t be done with a magic wand—or a magic coin. For weeks, some in Congress have been advocating use of a gimmick to circumvent the debt ceiling. The Administration refused to rule the idea out until last weekend. What took them so long? My bill today will permanently close the coin loophole so that Washington can get serious about real debt reduction,” Rep. Walden said.The Stop the Coin Act will remove the Secretary’s authority to issue a coin of platinum or any other material with a face value greater than $200, thus ending speculation about the trillion dollar coin gimmick. Click here for the full text of the bill and here for a summary of the legislation.On January 7, Rep. Walden announced plans to introduce the Stop the Coin Act to close the trillion dollar platinum coin loophole. Last week, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney repeatedly refused to rule out use of the gimmick to get around the debt ceiling. Meanwhile, the Senate Democratic Leadership, including Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), wrote to the President to urge him to circumvent the debt ceiling through any means necessary. On January 12, the Treasury Department finally ruled out using the coin gimmick to get around the debt ceiling.Rep. Walden was joined by 14 other members of the U.S. House in introducing the legislation, including Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Rep. Stephen Fincher (R-Tenn.), Rep. John Campbell (R-Calif.), Rep. George Holding (R-N.C.), Rep. Richard Hudson (R-N.C.), Rep. Walter Jones (R-N.C.), Rep. Leonard Lance (R-N.J.), Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), Rep. Kristi Noem (R-N.D.), Rep. Richard Nugent (R-Fla.), Rep. Alan Nunnelee (R-Miss.), Rep. Pete Sessions (R-Tex.), and Rep. Lynn Westmoreland (R-Ga.).
01.08.2013	Greg Walden to hold eight town hall meetings in the Gorge and northeastern Oregon this week Five day, 571-mile swing kicks off in The Dalles this morning THE DALLES- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will hold town hall meetings in eight counties in Oregon this week, beginning in The Dalles this (Monday) morning at the Columbia Gorge Community College. He will also hold town hall meetings in Sherman, Gilliam, Wheeler, Grant, Umatilla, Morrow, and Hood River counties this week (full details below). Rep. Walden will discuss his efforts to provide tax relief for Oregon families and small businesses, grow our economy, reduce spending, and balance the budget. Residents will also have the opportunity to ask questions and give their input for Rep. Walden’s “to do” list to take back to Washington, D.C. These will be the first town hall meetings of 2013. Last year, Rep. Walden held 24 town hall meetings in the 20 counties in Oregon’s Second District. “While the Congress and the country are facing very difficult, but very important choices going forward, here at home there are many local issues that I’m focused on, as well. Expanding access to broadband in rural areas, boosting our farm and ranch economies, improving management of our federal forests, and taking care of those who wear—or who have worn—our nation’s uniform remain priorities for me,” said Rep. Walden. Monday, January 7, 2013 What: Wasco County Town Hall Meeting When: 10:30 a.m.- 11:30 a.m. Where: Columbia Gorge Community College, 400 E. Scenic Drive, The Dalles Tuesday, January 8, 2013 What: Sherman County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 12:00 p.m. – 1:00 p.m.Where: Sherman County Public School Library Program Room, 65912 High School Loop, Moro What: Gilliam County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 3:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m.Where: Veteran’s Memorial Hall, 120 S. Main, Condon Wednesday, January 9, 2013 What: Wheeler County Town Hall Meeting When: 10:30 a.m.- 11:30 a.m. Where: Fossil School, 404 Main Street, Fossil What: Grant County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 5:30 p.m.- 6:30 p.m. Where: Mt. Vernon Community Building, Mt. Vernon Thursday, January 10, 2013 What: Umatilla County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 2:00 p.m.- 3:00 p.m. Where: Hermiston Convention Center, 415 S. Hwy. 395, Hermiston What: Morrow County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 4:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. Where: Port of Morrow, 2 Marine Dr., Boardman Friday, January 11, 2013 What: Hood River County Town Hall MeetingWhen: 8:00 a.m.- 9:00 a.m. Where: Hood River Senior Center, 2010 Sterling Place, Hood River
01.07.2013	January 7, 2013THE DALLES, Ore. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced plans to introduce a bill to stop a proposal to mint high-value platinum coins to pay the federal government’s bills.“Some people are in denial about the need to reduce spending and balance the budget. This scheme to mint trillion dollar platinum coins is absurd and dangerous, and would be laughable if the proponents weren’t so serious about it as a solution. I’m introducing a bill to stop it in its tracks,” Rep. Walden said.“My wife and I have owned and operated a small business since 1986. When it came time to pay the bills, we couldn’t just mint a coin to create more money out of thin air. We sat down and figured out how to balance the books. That’s what Washington needs to do as well. My bill will take the coin scheme off the table by disallowing the Treasury to mint platinum coins as a way to pay down the debt. We must reduce spending and get our fiscal house in order,” Rep. Walden said. Within the last week, numerous media reports (example here) have suggested that the U.S. Mint could create trillion dollar platinum coins, which would then be deposited into the Federal Reserve to be used to pay the federal government’s bills or avoid hitting the debt ceiling. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the ranking member of the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on the Constitution, touted the proposal last week (story here). New York Times columnist and Princeton professor Paul Krugman suggested the idea in an article as well (click here). Other leaders in Washington, including House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, have urged the President to raise the debt limit unilaterally without permission from Congress.Representative Walden, a member of the House Republican leadership, represents the Second District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in the southern, central and eastern regions of the state.
01.01.2013	WASHINGTON — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) issued the following statement on House passage of a plan to prevent a tax increase for 99 percent of taxpayers and stop the government from going over the fiscal cliff:“Tonight the House passed a plan to permanently extend tax relief for Oregon families and small businesses and to stop our government from going over the fiscal cliff. The plan isn’t perfect, but I would not sit by as taxes go up on all Americans, including more than $3,000 this year for the average Oregon family. I didn’t come to Washington to see taxes go up on middle income Americans, and we acted to stop that permanently.“The plan passed tonight locks into place current tax rates for middle class families as our economy continues to struggle. It permanently holds down the death tax for small business owners, farmers, and ranchers. It permanently patches the alternative minimum tax (AMT) and extends the higher child tax credit. The plan does away with a new entitlement program created in Obamacare, and stops the President from giving members of Congress a pay increase as the President proposed. Finally, it extends the existing farm bill for one year as Congress works on a new long-term farm bill.” “Now that tax relief has been extended, it’s time for the President to work with Congress to get our nation’s fiscal house in order by addressing the underlying problem, which is spending. The national debt is currently $16 trillion and climbing, over $50,000 for every American. We must cut spending and grow our economy to avoid passing on an even bigger debt burden to our children and grandchildren.” Summary of the American Taxpayer Relief ActTax Policy· Marginal rates: Permanent extension of current policy up to $400,000 for singles, $450,000 for married couples.· Capital Gains & Dividends: Makes permanent 15% top capital gains and dividends rate up to $400,000 for singles, $450,000 for married couples; 20% rate for both above that threshold.· Death Tax: Permanent extension of current policy with a $5 million exemption indexed for inflation and a 40% top rate.· Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT):Permanently indexes the AMT for inflation. Spending Policy· Debt limit: No increase in the debt limit.· “Sequester” arbitrary spending cuts: sequester is turned off for two months and paid for by a combination of other spending cuts and revenue increases.· CLASS Act: Repeals a flawed new entitlement program created in Obamacare which even the Obama Administration admitted was “totally unsustainable” after the bill was rushed to passage.· Doc Fix: One year extension of current policy that stops a drastic cut to Medicare payments for health care providers.· Unemployment insurance: 1 year extension of current extended weeks of UI.· Farm Bill: Provides for a one year extension of the 2008 farm bill at no additional cost to the taxpayer.
12.19.2012	Language based on Walden-Bonamici-Amodei legislation will require Pentagon to detail and address TRICARE Prime changesWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that he secured language requiring the Pentagon to detail and address upcoming changes to TRICARE Prime in this year’s defense authorization bill. The plan is based off legislation he, Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.), and Rep. Mark Amodei (R-Nev.) introduced earlier this month. It requires the Pentagon to assess the increased cost and overall impact that TRICARE changes will have on military retirees and their families, and, within 90 days, inform Congress of its plan to provide them with a smooth transition.“Military retirees and their families in Oregon deserve answers from the Pentagon on upcoming changes to their health plan. If the Pentagon won’t do that on its own, my colleagues and I in Congress will ensure they do. This bipartisan proposal will help eliminate confusion for affected military retirees by requiring the Pentagon to assess the impact these changes will have on them and help them transition into their new health plan,” Rep. Walden said.“My colleagues Rep. Bonamici, Rep. Amodei, and I worked with bipartisan defense leaders in the House to include this common-sense plan in the final agreement. I look forward to Congress swiftly passing the measure this week, and for the President to sign it before the end of the year. The sooner that happens, the sooner our heroes will get answers about their health care. They served our nation in uniform and deserve the very best health care we can provide them,” Rep. Walden said.Rep. Walden met with House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon (R-Calif.) recently to discuss the impact these TRICARE changes could have on military retirees in Oregon and to secure his support for including a plan to assist them in the final defense compromise. He was also appointed to be a negotiator on the final bill on behalf of the House.TRICARE Prime is available to thousands of military retirees along the I-5 corridor in Oregon, including about 2,500 military retirees in southern Oregon. Many military retirees have told Rep. Walden that they prefer their current plan and are concerned with the upcoming changes.In October, Rep. Walden heard reports that TRICARE was planning to drop the Prime option for most TRICARE beneficiaries in Oregon. He wrote to the Pentagon official in charge of health care, Dr. Jonathan Woodson, to express his deep concerns with the plan, and to urge Dr. Woodson to announce the planned changes immediately (for a copy of the letter, click here). The entire Oregon delegation followed up with a letter the following week. So far, Dr. Woodson’s office has not responded to either letter.
12.14.2012	Hermiston, Ore. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today condemned the tragic attack in Newtown, Conn. He issued the following statement:“Mylene and I were horrified to learn of this senseless tragedy, and our thoughts and prayers go out to the children, teachers, and families. Our entire nation mourns this senseless loss. As parents, we know that there are no words to adequately express our sorrow at today’s horrific events.”
12.05.2012	Teams up with Rep. Bonamici on impending loss of TRICARE Prime option for thousands in Oregon; changes could increase costs and drive times for military families WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today introduced a bill, the TRICARE Protection Act, to protect thousands of Oregon military retirees from changes to TRICARE Prime that will soon be implemented by the Pentagon. He was joined by Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-Ore.) and Rep. Mark Amodei (R-Nev.) in writing the bipartisan plan.“Thousands of Oregonians who have worn our nation’s uniform are at risk of losing access to their health care provider when the popular TRICARE Prime option is eliminated for many beneficiaries by the Pentagon. This could mean higher out-of-pocket costs and longer drives for many Oregon military retirees. These heroes have put their lives on the line for our freedom. They deserve the very best care our nation has to offer,” Rep. Walden said.“Our common-sense, bipartisan proposal will require the Pentagon to report on the impact these changes will have on Oregon military retirees and their families, so they will know what is being planned. It also requires that the Pentagon guarantee that those affected retain access to a primary care doctor for two years to allow for a smooth transition under the switch,” Rep. Walden said.TRICARE Prime is available to thousands of military retirees in the I-5 corridor in Oregon, including about 2,500 military retirees in southern Oregon. Many military retirees have told Rep. Walden that they prefer the quality of care and ease of obtaining services over alternative options. In October, Rep. Walden heard reports that TRICARE was planning on dropping the Prime option for most TRICARE beneficiaries in Oregon. He wrote to the Pentagon official in charge of health care, Dr. Jonathan Woodson, to express his deep concerns with the plan, and to urge Dr. Woodson to announce the planned changes immediately (for a copy of the letter, click here). The entire Oregon delegation followed up with a letter the following week. So far, Dr. Woodson’s office has not responded to either letter.Summary of the TRICARE Protection Act (CLICK HERE FOR THE TEXT OF THE BILL)- The Department of Defense is required to issue a report to the Congress within 90 days identifying areas where TRICARE Prime will no longer be available and an estimate of increased costs and impacts to beneficiaries as a result of the changes.- Establishment of a navigator service to assist affected eligible beneficiaries in locating a primary care provider.- Ability for eligible beneficiaries to enroll in TRICARE Prime Remote if the Secretary determines that the beneficiary would not otherwise have access to a primary care provider that meets the TRICARE access standards.- Identification by the Secretary of Defense of beneficiaries without access to a primary care provider because of the contract switch.- Implementation of above services to take place 60 days after the date on which the Secretary submits the report mentioned above.- Implementation of above services for two years to allow for ease of transition to primary care provider for retirees and their families.
12.03.2012	One of many ways he keeps in regular contact with central, southern, eastern Oregon; Second District residents are invited to join the discussion U.S. Rep. Greg Walden today announced that he will hold a telephone town hall discussion on Thursday, December 6, from 1:00-2:00 p.m. PST.Rep. Walden will answer questions from residents of Oregon’s Second District on a variety of topics, including ways to get our economy going in southern, central, and eastern Oregon.“I’ve gotten very positive feedback from people who enjoy listening to what others around our enormous district have to say, and the questions they ask. Some people prefer this way to communicate because it’s too difficult for them to attend the town halls I do in person. For others, the travel distance is too far, or they just aren’t comfortable in that kind of a setting. These telephone town halls are another effective way for me to hear from the people I work to represent in the Second District. All a person has to do is answer the phone and they’re automatically connected. Calls will begin going out just before 1:00 pm on Thursday inviting them to participate in the discussion,” Rep. Walden said. Rep. Walden held town halls in every county last this year, and more than one in some counties. Constituents who would like to ensure that they are called may RSVP for the telephone town hall by 5:00 p.m. PST on Wednesday, December 5. To register, contact Rep. Walden’s office toll-free at (800) 533-3303 or send a note on his website here.Second District residents may also ask a question to Rep. Walden before the townhall by emailing him through the website, posting on his Facebook, or sending him a message on Twitter. Rep. Walden will answer as many questions as time allows during the telephone town hall.WHAT: Telephone town hall discussion with Rep. Greg Walden and Oregon’s Second District residentsWHEN: 1:00-2:00 p.m. PST, Thursday, December 6, 2012WHERE: To RSVP to ensure that you receive a phone call, contact Rep. Walden’s office by 5 p.m. on Wednesday, December 5 at (800) 533-3303 or send a note on his website here.
11.27.2012	Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement in light of recent violence in the Middle East and terrorist attacks in Israel:“Now more than ever, America must stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our friend and ally Israel. Our countries and people share a common desire for individual freedom, security, and peace. We value democracy and we understand that these basic human rights are achieved and safeguarded at a steep price by those who wear our nations' uniforms. “Earlier this month, I was proud to support a resolution unanimously passed by the U.S. House to send a clear message: we stand with Israel. The resolution expresses our unwavering commitment to Israel’s security and strongly supports its right to defend its citizens from acts of terror.“I will continue to work with my colleagues—on both sides of the aisle—to ensure that U.S. cooperation with and support for Israel remains a priority in the U.S. House of Representatives.”
11.14.2012	House colleagues unanimously elect Walden to serve in one of the top leadership positions in the House The Republican members of the U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously selected U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) to one of the top leadership positions in the Congress. He will chair the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC). The NRCC Chairman is one of eight positions elected by Republican House Members, and works with the Speaker, Majority Leader, and other top officials to set the House’s agenda at the leadership table.“I work hard for the people of southern, central, and eastern Oregon, and this new leadership position allows me to voice the concerns of Oregonians at the decision-making table in Washington, D.C. Since 1986, I have owned and managed a small business in Oregon with my wife. I know what it takes to grow jobs. As NRCC Chairman, I will put my experience to good use to help enact a pro-jobs, pro-growth agenda in the House,” said Walden.“I will continue to reach across the aisle to enact policies that will get us back on track. We must work to promote small business and agriculture, access America’s natural resources, and better manage our forests to create jobs in the woods. As always, I will listen to and work hard for Oregonians,” said the 55 year-old Walden who lives with his wife Mylene in Hood River. The NRCC chairman ranks fifth in the House Republican leadership structure behind the Speaker, Majority Leader, Majority Whip, and Conference Chairman. As of today, at least 233 Republican members of the House will serve next year.The NRCC’s mission is to elect Republicans to the U.S. House. Greg Walden has served for nearly four years as Deputy Chairman of the NRCC with Chairman Pete Sessions. During this time, House Republicans made historic gains, regaining the majority in 2010 and preserving that majority in 2012.Greg Walden will also remain as chairman of the House subcommittee that oversees communications and technology policy in the House, a post he has held for nearly two years. In this role, he worked across the aisle to pass a major technology law that will increase access to wireless broadband in rural Oregon and create thousands of jobs in the Pacific Northwest. He will continue bipartisan work on the panel to create technology jobs and unleash innovation.
11.14.2012	House colleagues unanimously elect Walden to serve in one of the top leadership positions in the House WASHINGTON, D.C. — The Republican members of the U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously selectedU.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) to one of the top leadership positions in the Congress. He will chair the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC). The NRCC Chairman is one of eight positions elected by Republican House Members, and works with the Speaker, Majority Leader, and other top officials to set the House’s agenda at the leadership table.“I work hard for the people of southern, central, and eastern Oregon, and this new leadership position allows me to voice the concerns of Oregonians at the decision-making table in Washington, D.C. Since 1986, I have owned and managed a small business in Oregon with my wife. I know what it takes to grow jobs. As NRCC Chairman, I will put my experience to good use to help enact a pro-jobs, pro-growth agenda in the House,” said Walden.“I will continue to reach across the aisle to enact policies that will get us back on track. We must work to promote small business and agriculture, access America’s natural resources, and better manage our forests to create jobs in the woods. As always, I will listen to and work hard for Oregonians,” said the 55 year-old Walden who lives with his wife Mylene in Hood River. The NRCC chairman ranks fifth in the House Republican leadership structure behind the Speaker, Majority Leader, Majority Whip, and Conference Chairman. As of today, at least 233 Republican members of the House will serve next year.The NRCC’s mission is to elect Republicans to the U.S. House. Greg Walden has served for nearly four years as Deputy Chairman of the NRCC with Chairman Pete Sessions. During this time, House Republicans made historic gains, regaining the majority in 2010 and preserving that majority in 2012.Greg Walden will also remain as chairman of the House subcommittee that oversees communications and technology policy in the House, a post he has held for nearly two years. In this role, he worked across the aisle to pass a major technology law that will increase access to wireless broadband in rural Oregon and create thousands of jobs in the Pacific Northwest. He will continue bipartisan work on the panel to create technology jobs and unleash innovation.
10.11.2012	Along with other House and Senate technology leaders, including Sen. Marco Rubio and Rep. Fred Upton, Walden writes: "(W)e cannot afford a hasty, unilateral action that will only serve to bolster the efforts of less democratic nations to stifle the very free exchange of ideas and expression that has allowed the Internet to flourish across the globe."WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today joined other technology leaders in the U.S. House of Representative and U.S. Senate today in urging President Barack Obama to refrain from issuing an executive order regulating the Internet in the name of cybersecurity (CLICK HERE FOR A COPY OF THE LETTER).The members expressed concern that using executive power to regulate the Internet would bolster the arguments being made by nations such as Russia, China, and Iran that are seeking global government control and undermine the United States’ position to continue the current worldwide model which has allowed the Internet to flourish. Both the House and Senate have unanimously approved resolutions that oppose such attempts to exert regulatory control over the Internet. The bicameral leaders are also concerned that a top-down approach to cybersecurity will slow the response and impose unnecessary costs on the economy. The members wrote, “Lawmakers in both chambers of Congress and on both sides of the aisle agree that cybersecurity is of critical importance to America’s safety and prosperity in the 21st century. The House of Representatives has already passed the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA) to bring the nation’s considerable wealth of public and private sector intelligence to bear on the challenge of securing America’s vital communications networks. A number of proposals continue to be debated in the Senate. The United States has been a beacon of online freedom. Unilateral action altering oversight of the Internet in this country could be interpreted by the rest of the world as a statement of ‘do as I say, not as I do.’“While we have not seen your proposed executive order, multiple reports suggest that it would authorize the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to determine what constitutes ‘critical infrastructure,’ and then adopt certain standards for how such infrastructure is managed to guard against cyberthreats. This is the wrong approach…”The members concluded, “An executive order exerting influence over critical infrastructure is not just a step in the wrong substantive direction. It will almost certainly be exploited by other nations to justify their efforts to regulate the Internet. This is a most critical time, and we cannot afford a hasty, unilateral action that will only serve to bolster the efforts of less democratic nations to stifle the very free exchange of ideas and expression that has allowed the Internet to flourish across the globe. For these reasons, we urge you to rethink the wisdom of an executive order.”
07.20.2012	At Walden’s urging, Department of Veterans Affairs will upgrade Grants Pass clinic to a community-based outpatient clinicWASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced today that the VA has agreed to upgrade the Grants Pass health clinic, expanding services for the 11,000 veterans living in Josephine County.“As a nation, we owe the men and women who wore the uniform the best care possible. This long-overdue announcement by the VA will allow the more than 11,000 veterans in Josephine County to access high-quality care close to home. Some veterans must currently travel 30 to 70 miles to White City or Roseburg for routine medical treatment, so this will save many veterans and their families the time and expense of making the trip for routine medical care.” Rep. Walden said.The VA will upgrade the current Rural Outreach Clinic in Grants Pass to a Community-Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC). The VA expects the expanded clinic to become operational this year or next, telling Rep. Walden’s office that the expansion will begin as soon as possible. The CBOC will offer expanded primary and mental health services to veterans.In an April 1, 2011, letter to VA Secretary Eric Shinseki, and in a follow-up meeting with VA staff, Rep. Walden urged the agency to designate the Grants Pass Rural Outreach Clinic as a community-based outpatient clinic to serve additional veterans.During a visit in 2011 to commemorate Veterans Day, Rep. Walden announced expanded access to the present clinic in Grants Pass while the request for the upgrade worked its way through the VA. Since that time, the clinic has hired two nurses, including a nurse practitioner, and has been in the process of recruiting a physician. In the interim, the VA has implemented telehealth for veterans served by the Grants Pass clinic.
07.16.2012	As firefighters contain the historic wildfires in southeast Oregon, I wanted to take a moment to update you on the situation. I’d first like to offer thanks to the local citizens who banded together to protect their homes, ranches, and livelihoods by initially taking on these fires with limited resources. I have heard many good stories—like the work done by the Jordan Valley rangeland protection district firefighters. Folks in Harney County should be commended as well. I would also like to thank the firefighters who came in and are currently fighting these fires. These brave men and women go into harm’s way and try to protect local communities, and we owe them a debt of gratitude. The citizens of Malheur and Harney Counties— along with the firefighters—will continue to be in my thoughts and prayers this week. Tonight, I’ll be at a community meeting in Burns to listen to the concerns of the community and continue to press all levels of government to be flexible in responding to these fires and the aftermath. The meeting will be at 7 p.m. at the Harney County Community Center (484 N. Broadway in Burns). Brian Watts, the incident commander for the Miller Homestead fire, will give an update and answer questions from the community. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure federal agencies, states, and communities have what they need to fight these wildfires and assist in the recovery. On Saturday, I received additional guidance from the USDA Farm Services Agency (FSA) on their efforts to locate private farmlands in nearby counties in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) where ranchers can relocate their cattle for emergency grazing. Given that there is likely little CRP ground in the adjacent counties, I am urging FSA to allow this in other counties where ample CRP ground exists and to provide exact details on available lands for this program as soon as possible. Moving to CRP ground may not work for every rancher, but it is one short-term option to help as other solutions are being developed. For additional details, please call my office in Oregon toll-free at 800-533-3303. Over the weekend, representatives from my office were in Frenchglen, Jordan Valley, Diamond, Burns, and the headquarters of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge to listen to the people in those communities as we continue to work on fighting these fires and the recovery. A special thank you to the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge for being flexible in allowing ranchers in the surrounding area temporary access to their lands. This kind of thinking is exactly what we’ll need in the upcoming days, weeks, months, and years. A quick update on the fires themselves—as of Monday morning, the Long Draw fire in Malheur County has burned over 582,000 acres and is 100% contained. The Miller Homestead fire in Harney County has burned over 162,000 acres and is 70% contained. The Bonita Complex fire in Malheur County has burned over 18,000 acres and is 85% contained. You can find more details, including maps, at https://www.inciweb.org/state/38/.
07.13.2012	As Oregon faces the largest wildfires in nearly 150 years--and ranchers, residents, and firefighters are scrambling to save their communities, livestock, and range--I’ve been in close touch with local, state, and federal officials, as well as citizens and ranchers from the affected areas in Harney and Malheur counties. I've encouraged all levels of government to be flexible and responsive to the needs of communities, families, and businesses.This morning, at a townhall meeting I held in Ontario, a representative from the BLM briefed the community further on the situation. They told us the moisture levels of the sagebrush and grass fuel in the affected areas is 40-50% of normal for this time of year. They also told us that the recovery time for the affected areas is at least two years. These fires will have a major impact on the economy of southeastern Oregon over the long-term.Today we did receive a little bit of good news for the ranchers whose cattle are being impacted by the wildfires. Yesterday I called and asked the USDA Farm Service Agency to be flexible in locating private farmlands in nearby counties in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) where ranchers can relocate their cattle for emergency grazing. The USDA has just announced that they have done so.Here is the statement from the office of Farm Programs at FSA: “Due to the imminent threat of wildfires in Malheur and Harney counties in Oregon, FSA has authorized livestock producers for emergency use of CRP in those counties and in the contiguous counties. This allows livestock producers to move their livestock to CRP acres in neighboring counties.”I’ll keep working on encouraging all levels of government to be creative and flexible in finding solutions.A public meeting will be held in Jordan Valley tonight and in McDermitt, Nevada, tomorrow. I have a previously-scheduled townhall in Enterprise tonight, but a representative from my office will attend the meeting in Jordan Valley tonight on my behalf.I’ll continue to keep you updated on this rapidly-developing situation. In the meantime, please keep the firefighters and those in the impacted communities in your thoughts and prayers.
07.02.2012	Walden and Meeks lead bipartisan coalition of 93 Members in the House to ask Secretary to preserve nutritious, low-cost fresh fruit and vegetable options for families WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Gregory W. Meeks (D-N.Y.) today announced a bipartisan effort calling on U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack to reverse his department’s decision to ban fresh, white potatoes from the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) supplemental nutrition program.“Fresh potatoes—especially those grown in Oregon—are loaded with nutrients, and WIC participants should be free to choose them as a healthy, low-cost way to feed their families. Excluding them from the WIC program sends the wrong signal about their nutritional value, and the Secretary should reconsider the department’s decision in the light of overwhelmingly bipartisan opposition,” said Rep. Walden.“Fresh, white potatoes are a cornerstone of many freshly prepared, home-cooked meals around the country. WIC participants in New York’s sixth congressional district come from rich and diverse cultural backgrounds, and should be given the opportunity to choose how to feed their families. The WIC program should encourage a well-balanced variety in Americans’ diets, not restrict access to a single vegetable,” said Rep. Meeks.The Oregon Potato Commission cheered the letter.“With the stroke of a pen, Secretary Vilsack can make a commonsense correction and immediately close the loophole that excludes nutrient-rich fresh white potatoes from the WIC program. For too long, potato growers in Oregon and across the country have argued that adding our crop to the program would help participants stretch their household budgets and deliver nutrients their families require. We are encouraged that 93 Members of the House are helping us urge USDA to follow the latest dietary science and add fresh white potatoes to this important nutritional program,” said Marty Myers, Oregon Potato Commission Chairman and Western Business Manager of RD Offutt Company Farm Division.The letter was signed by 93 members. The USDA is currently finalizing regulations for the supplemental nutrition program for Women, Infants, and Children. Fresh, white potatoes are the only fruit or vegetable excluded from the WIC program out of more than 2,200 in the marketplace.According to USDA data, a medium white potato baked and eaten with the skin provides more folate—or folic acid—than cooked carrots or sweet potatoes. Folate is necessary for the production and maintenance of new cells, which is especially important during pregnancy. Fresh, white potatoes are not only nutritious, they are economical. According to USDA data, at 10 cents per half-cup serving, boiled white potatoes are the cheapest fruit or vegetable available from the produce aisle.The letter is part of a broader effort in the House to reverse USDA’s proposal. On June 19, the House Appropriations Committee approved its fiscal year 2013 agriculture appropriations bill that included an amendment that would prevent the USDA from implementing its proposal to exclude white potatoes for one year.
06.29.2012	House passes extension on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis as part of transportation agreement; funding provides help for rural communities while Congress works on long-term solution to create jobs WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today applauded House passage of a one year extension of county payments in the transportation agreement that he helped secure.“The House today gave a lifeline to rural communities to keep essential services like law enforcement and schools up and running. The entire delegation worked together to get this done for Oregon,” Rep. Walden said. “We can’t rest now though—the clock is ticking. We will continue our bipartisan work on a long-term solution to create jobs in the woods to make our federally-forested communities self reliant once more for the long term.”Once passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President, the law will provide about $100 million for Oregon communities.“This short-term funding will allow counties to serve the people while Congress works on a long-term solution. It’s getting harder and harder to eke out extensions of this program, though. There’s a better way. We need a sustainable policy that works in our communities, works for our forests, and puts people back to work,” Rep. Walden said. “With this one year funding approved, we can now focus our full attention on passing our Oregon forestry reform plan with Reps. DeFazio and Schrader and the Natural Resources Committee.”Earlier this year, Rep. Walden received a commitment from the highest levels of the House Republican leadership to secure this one year extension of county payments.
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.— In the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision today, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) said that the health care law is still a bad bet for Oregon and that it must be repealed before it does more damage to the economy, families, and seniors. “Speaker Pelosi said Congress had to pass the bill so Americans could find out what’s in it. Now we know: a massive tax increase on middle class families and small businesses,” Rep. Walden said. “The President’s health care law is the wrong prescription for Oregon seniors, families, and small businesses. It’s hurting our economy by making it more costly for small businesses to hire new workers. It takes half a trillion dollars from Medicare, which will only make it more difficult for seniors, especially in rural areas, to get access to Medical care. And it empowers a board of fifteen unelected bureaucrats to decide what health care individuals will get. That decision should be between patients and doctors, not unelected bureaucrats in Washington,” Rep. Walden said. “It’s your life. It’s your health. You should have the right to choose your doctor and hospital and make your own decisions about what’s best for you and your family.” “I look forward to voting on July 11 to fully repeal this unworkable law, as a clear majority of Americans favor. Oregonians deserve a patient-centered health care system that allows them to access the care they need from the doctor and hospital they choose at the lowest possible cost,” Rep. Walden said. Since the law was passed, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has said that the policies in it will reduce the labor supply by 800,000. A recent small business survey by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce finds nearly three quarters of small businesses surveyed cite the health care law as an obstacle to growing their business and creating jobs. “As a small business owner since 1986 who always provided health coverage for my employees, I know that the cost of health insurance puts a real strain on small businesses, and this law is driving up costs,” Rep. Walden said. “As I go around Oregon, the biggest concern small businesses have is the rising cost of their health insurance. Unfortunately, this law will only drive up their costs further.” The law doesn't just harm small businesses—seniors are hit hard too. Oregon has one of the highest Medicare Advantage penetration rates in the country. Over 268,000 seniors in Oregon have chosen Medicare Advantage as the plan that best meets their needs. Yet the law cuts $206 billion from Medicare Advantage and over $500 billion from the entire Medicare program, meaning higher premiums and reduced benefits for Oregon seniors. CBO has found that 20 million people could lose their employer-sponsored health insurance by 2019, and consulting firm McKinsey & Co. found that 30 percent of employers say they “definitely” plan to drop coverage. Finally, the Obama Administration’s own Medicare actuary found that the law will add at least $340 billion to the deficit. In March, CBO’s cost estimate of the law doubled from its original estimate to $1.76 trillion over ten years.
06.28.2012	Read the Supreme Court's decision on the Affordable Care Act here.
06.27.2012	House leadership supports funding in final agreement at Walden’s urging; funding would give lifeline to rural counties and breathing room for efforts to craft long-term jobs solutions to provide local services and create jobs WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has helped secure a one year extension of county payments today in the final House and Senate agreement on a long-term transportation reauthorization. A member of the House Republican Leadership, Walden has worked with his colleagues in the House to secure the funding for rural counties.“This one year extension gives us the breathing room we need to continue our bipartisan and delegation-wide work toward a long-term solution that brings jobs back into the forests to create revenues that keep essential local services like schools and law enforcement afloat,” Rep. Walden said.The funding, at about $300 million nationwide for one year, will provide about $100 million for Oregon’s cash-strapped rural counties and schools.Earlier this year, Rep. Walden received a commitment from the highest levels of the House Republican leadership to secure a one year extension of county payments.“I have consistently said we need a period of short-term bridge funding to sustain our rural communities until a long-term solution takes effect,” Rep. Walden said. “Some counties are already facing extreme budget challenges absent the federal government keeping up its commitment to rural communities. I impressed on my colleagues the urgency of this situation. Josephine County had to release inmates from its jails. The federal government, which owns the lion’s share of land in our rural forested communities, must be a better neighbor.”“The status quo of asking the federal government for a check year after year is not sustainable,” Rep. Walden said. “Our counties are heading over a fiscal cliff. They need certainty. Our people need jobs. And the forests need to be managed, for now and the future. This one year lifeline is a bridge, not a solution. I will forge ahead with bipartisan work with Reps. DeFazio and Schrader and the Natural Resource Committee to change federal forest policies so we can get Oregonians back to work in the woods.”The final agreement, which was agreed to by the bipartisan leadership in the House and Senate, must now be passed by both chambers and signed into law by the President.
06.14.2012	Walden expresses concern about new BLM proposal for Southern Oregon forests In Grants Pass, Walden urges the Bureau of Land Management to focus its limited resources on active management, not funding another multi-year, $17-million planGRANTS PASS, Ore.— Speaking to business and civic leaders in Grants Pass yesterday, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) expressed concerns about the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) effort to develop new resource management plans for the 2.5 million acres of O&C forests in Western Oregon. The new plans would outline and guide how the six BLM districts in western Oregon will be managed over the next 15 years. Walden explained that budgets are tight and that it would be difficult to provide funding for a new planning effort in the coming year—especially if it comes from cuts to other important priorities.“The BLM estimates that this new multi-year planning venture will cost at least $17 million, of which $2 million would be required next year alone. Around $15 million was spent on the last Western Oregon forest plan only to have Interior Secretary Ken Salazar withdraw it in 2009, a decision later overturned in court. BLM shouldn’t use taxpayer dollars to begin a new costly planning effort that may just end up back in the courts,” Rep. Walden said.“I am concerned that if the agency continues this new planning process, funding for it will come out of the timber management budget, further hampering efforts to increase timber production from these lands. Actively managing our forests and increasing timber production is where our focus should be, especially with the bipartisan and broad agreement and support for managing these lands in a different way,” Rep. Walden said.“At this point, a new plan is not necessary. I’ve asked House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson to include language in next year’s funding bill that would ensure that any funding reductions to the planning effort contain conditions to make sure the agency does not take money out of the timber resource management activities,” Rep. Walden said.In March, the BLM announced that it would move forward with a new planning process for the six Western Oregon O&C BLM districts because of “new scientific information related to forest health and resiliency such as the Fish and Wildlife Service’s recovery plan and proposed critical habitat designations for the Northern Spotted Owl.”On May 18, the entire Oregon House and Senate delegation sent a letter to Secretary Salazar cautioning him that “the critical habitat designation of the Northern Spotted Owl will have a major impact on our rural communities,” and urging him to extend the comment period on the proposed plan and economic analysis.
06.12.2012	At his 19th town hall of the year in Hood River on June 9, Rep. Walden had the privilege to recognize Kyle McCullough, a former Army Special Forces soldier and Dufur resident, who walked nearly 200 miles to raise awareness and funds for the Gorge Heroes Club, a Hood River non-profit. Below is the full text of a tribute to Kyle entered into the Congressional Record: Rep. Walden presents former Army Special Forces soldier and Dufur resident Kyle McCullough with a statement in the Congressional Record. HON. GREG WALDEN OF OREGON IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESFriday, June 08, 2012 Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride that I rise today to pay special tribute to Kyle McCullough. Kyle, a 28-year old Wasco County resident, is a former Army Special Forces soldier who served this country with honor and distinction. In Ramadi in 2006, he fought in one of the toughest engagements our forces encountered during Operation Iraqi Freedom. And now Kyle is currently in the process of reenlisting in the Army. While at home, his mind is not far from his comrades in harm’s way overseas. In recent conversation with his little brother, USMC 1st Lt. Kristoffer “Turf” McCullough, currently serving in Afghanistan, he was asked: “Do people even remember that we’re over here?” Kyle, as ever his nature, jumped into action. In May, Kyle walked a distance of 198 miles over eight days from his home in Dufur to the Oregon coast in Seaside to raise awareness for the troops. That’s an average of 24.5 miles every day, or two miles longer than the driving distance between Hood River and The Dalles. During the trek, Kyle not only raised a few blisters on the bottom of his feet, but he also raised money for the Hood River-based Gorge Heroes Club, which provides care packages to deployed troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. With the money Kyle raised, the Gorge Heroes Club will be able to provide 1,250 soldiers overseas with morale-boosting care packages from home. Media throughout the northwest covered Kyle’s walk—and it was not lost on deployed servicemen and women overseas, either. Oregon National Guard Major Jack Gillentine, stationed in Kabul, said in a recent letter to the Gorge Heroes Club, “Thank you very much for the packages you sent us. Some of the non-perishable food goes on our trucks for missions when we cannot get to a chow hall. I especially wanted to say thank you to Kyle McCullough. I read the article and I appreciate his huge effort. Thank you for all you do.” The Gorge Heroes Club supported more than 5,000 troops last year alone. As a direct result of Kyle’s dedication and willingness to persevere through pain and exhaustion, troops deployed around the globe will continue to receive these much needed morale boosting care packages. Mr. Speaker, I ask that my fellow colleagues join me in recognizing Kyle McCullough. He has earned the thanks of a grateful nation not only for his courage on the battlefield, but for his homefront support of his fellow servicemen and women who every day put their lives on the line for our way of life.
06.05.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives today passed by voice vote Rep. Greg Walden’s (R-Ore.) Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act (H.R. 2060), which delivers needed water to Prineville for job creation, clears the way for clean energy at Bowman Dam, and creates new water conservation opportunities in central Oregon. “This is a good, commonsense, job-creating bill,” Rep. Walden said. “The plan will create jobs in central Oregon, remove government red tape, protect family farmers, and improve water quality and flows for fish and wildlife, all without costing the federal taxpayer one penny. It is the culmination of years of collaboration between the city of Prineville, Crook County, farmers, the Warm Springs Tribes, and the Deschutes River Conservancy.” H.R. 2060 would clear the way for small-scale hydropower production at the base of Bowman Dam, creating about 50 jobs over the course of two construction seasons. It would also allow Prineville to utilize up to 5,100 acre feet of water from Prineville Reservoir, or about 6 percent of the total unallocated water behind the dam (80,000 acre feet). The water certainty would allow Prineville to entice new technology opportunities like Facebook and Apple, and service all of the homes within city limits. "Prineville should have the necessary tools to create jobs and attract new economic opportunities,” Rep. Walden said. “This small amount of water will help do just that." Because Prineville accesses its water from ground sources, the 5,100 acre feet of water would be released downstream, providing additional spilled water into the Crooked River that could benefit the blue-ribbon trout fishery below Bowman Dam. The bill also boosts conservation efforts in McKay Creek to enhance fish habitat. Prineville Mayor Betty Roppe: “I want to thank Rep. Walden for his leadership in securing passage of this important bill. This bill will provide real benefits to our community and to the Crooked River. Our family farmers and ranchers will have the long-term water certainty they need to continue to produce wholesome food and agricultural products. Our city will secure additional water supplies for growth, and for our new businesses like Apple and Facebook. The bill also will accelerate steps for the restoration of McKay Creek, an important steelhead tributary. We are hopeful our Senators will join Rep. Walden in advancing legislation that meets the city’s interests this year.” Crook County Judge Mike McCabe: “Rep. Walden’s bill will allow us to have water for our businesses as our town continues to grow, and it doesn’t cost the government anything. It gives us the hand up that we need so we can pursue other businesses with assurances that we’ll have the water resources they require. This is a good day for Prineville and Crook County.” John Mohlis, executive secretary of the Oregon State Building and Construction Trades Council: “The passage of this legislation by the House today is a critical step in providing Prineville and other communities in central Oregon with the assets and resources they need to attract and create good paying jobs for workers. Now it is time for the Senate to take up this common sense plan so we can get more folks back to work on the ground in Prineville.” H.R. 2060: Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act Clean energy and hydropower jobs . A clerical error led to the boundary line of the Crooked River Wild and Scenic Area being drawn down the middle of Bowman Dam, a U.S. Bureau of Reclamation dam and reservoir. Correcting the error requires congressional action. Moving the boundary line downstream ¼ mile will fix this issue and allow a small-scale, private hydropower facility at the base of Bowman Dam to be constructed. Construction of such a facility would employ about 50 skilled workers over the course of two construction seasons and would also provide approximately $140,000 in annual property tax revenues to Crook County. The hydropower facility may also resolve a “total dissolved gas” problem at Bowman Dam. This problem, which occurs at dams around the world, can impair fish and wildlife habitat. The new facility could potentially alleviate this problem, improving habitat in the Crooked River. Job-supporting water for Prineville. The legislation would allow the city of Prineville to utilize 5,100 acre feet of groundwater to meet existing and future demands, and allow it to attract new businesses similar to the Facebook data center, which has created new jobs and sparked investment. Prineville relies solely on groundwater from wells which are interconnected to the Crooked River. The legislation would allow the City to secure up to 5,100 acre-feet of “mitigation credits” to offset new wells with the new releases of stored water at the dam into the Crooked River. These supplies would also be protected from diversion by others, benefitting fish and wildlife habitat in the river. These new releases represent a small fraction of the 80,000 acre feet of un-contracted water stored annually in the Reservoir. The new releases will increase existing minimum releases by a total of 7 cubic feet per second (cfs) over the entire year. In dry years, particularly in the winter, this higher release requirement could benefit fish and wildlife, including the blue-ribbon trout fishery below Bowman Dam. The water allocation for Prineville will also help the city create jobs and improve business opportunities. The city is currently in talks with multiple technology companies that are interested in locating to Prineville, but have indicated that the availability of water is a key consideration in their final decision. McKay Creek restoration and other conservation efforts. Rep. Walden’s legislation would help spur the McKay Creek restoration project — which has stalled in recent years — by allowing Ochoco Irrigation District to deliver water to small family farms on the upper portions of McKay Creek. The restoration project would restore up to 11.2 cfs of water rights instream to McKay Creek. The project also improves flow during the early summer, a critical period for steelhead emergence and migration. This project is supported by numerous watershed councils and organizations including the Deschutes River Conservancy. The legislation also allows the Ochoco Irrigation District to participate in the Conserved Water program under Oregon State law, whereby a minimum of 25 percent of the total amount of water conserved must be placed instream, forever, as part of the program. Right now, the Ochoco Irrigation District, because of limitations in its contract with the Bureau of Reclamation, is unable to participate in this program.
05.31.2012	Opening Statement of the Honorable Greg WaldenSubcommittee on Communications and TechnologyHearing on “International Proposals to Regulate the Internet”May 31, 2012Nations from across the globe will meet at a U.N. forum in Dubai at the end of this year and, if we are not vigilant, just might break the Internet by subjecting it to an international regulatory regime designed for old-fashioned telephone service.The Internet is the single largest engine of global change since the printing press. From its humble roots as a network to connect computers used for Department of Defense projects, the Internet grew to include research institutions, commercial services, and the public generally. It was once the government relinquished its grip on the Internet that it began growing exponentially, evolving into the “network of networks” that we know today.With this expansion came the recognition that the organizational structure must evolve as well. Functions that had previously been managed by and for the U.S. government, like network addressing and domain name administration, were spun off to private sector entities that could be more responsive to the rapid changes in the Internet. Non-governmental institutions now manage the Internet’s core functions with input from private- and public-sector participants. This structure, called the “multi-stakeholder model,” prevents governmental or non-governmental actors from controlling the design of the network or the content it carries. The multi-stakeholder model also provides flexibility, enabling the Internet to evolve quickly. And this evolution continues at a staggering pace. Cisco estimates that by 2016 roughly 45 percent of the world’s population will be Internet users; there will be over 18.9 billion network connections; and the average speed of mobile broadband will be four times faster than it is today. Weakening the multi-stakeholder model weakens the Internet, harming its ability to spread prosperity and freedom.Yet this December at the World Conference on International Telecommunications (WCIT – pronounced “Wicket”) in Dubai, the 193 member countries of the United Nation’s International Telecommunications Union will consider expanding the ITU’s jurisdiction to the Internet, replacing the multi-stakeholder model that has served the Internet and the world so well. They will also consider imposing economic regulations on the Internet.The ITU was originally formed in 1865 to govern international regulation of the telegraph. The ITU finally updated its charter in 1988 by adopting the International Telecommunications Regulations but, even then, the communications world was dominated by voice telephony. It was in that world the ITU developed “settlement rates” at which service providers compensated each other for exchanging phone traffic across national borders. The end result was high international call rates and a transfer of money to telephone companies run by foreign governments.It would be inappropriate to apply an international regulatory scheme developed for the 1980s telephone networks to the vibrant and technologically diverse Internet. Such a regulatory regime ignores the reality of the architecture of the Internet. Unlike traditional telephony where the routing of circuit switched calls could easily be tracked, the networks that comprise the Internet do not adhere to political boundaries. Given the diversity of networks that make up the modern Internet, any implementation of an international regulatory regime would quickly become so complex as to become unmanageable. We also live in a far more competitive world, making such economic regulation not only unnecessary, but counterproductive.The Internet has prospered under the multi-stakeholder model absent the heavy-hand of government regulation. That model has enabled an Internet that creates jobs, brings a literal world of information to your fingertips, allows small businesses around the world to have a global reach, drives investment and innovation, and has even started a revolution or two. As the U.S. delegation to the WCIT takes shape, I urge the Administration to continue the United States’ commitment to the Internet’s collaborative governance structure and to reject international efforts to bring the Internet under government control.
05.17.2012	U.S. Rep. Greg Walden tours the Milton-Freewater levee system on March 23 with Lt. Col. David Caldwell and Milton-Freewater Mayor Lewis Key (r).WASHINGTON, D.C. — Last July, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan plan (H.R. 1309) to order FEMA to redraw its flawed floodplain maps and place a suspension on mandatory flood insurance purchases, bringing relief to residents in Jackson County and Milton-Freewater in Umatilla County.However, since the 406-22 passage in the House, the bill has sat in the Senate; with the expiration of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) set for May 31, the House today passed a 30-day extension of the NFIP to give the Senate more time to pass the reform bill. Without the extension, property owners and the housing market would be at risk of a lapse in the NFIP.“It’s been 10 months since the House approved H.R. 1309 in an overwhelmingly bipartisan fashion,” Rep. Walden said. “Our plan includes a 5-year reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program. After five additional short-term extensions, it’s time for definitive action on this important reform plan that’s so important to many residents in Jackson County and Milton-Freewater. This gives the Senate six weeks to schedule a final vote. I sure hope they can find the time.”In Jackson County, new floodplain maps have ensnared homeowners in high risk areas for the first time; FEMA has since admitted that the maps are flawed. In Milton-Freewater, the city has been working to improve and strengthen its levee system; this legislation requires FEMA to recognize the work that the city is performing on its levees when putting together new rate maps.“H.R. 1309 offers a commonsense fix to a flood mapping system whose integrity has come into question, especially in southern and eastern Oregon,” Rep. Walden said. “Businesses, homeowners, and communities deserve to know that the flood maps produced by FEMA are as accurate and fair as possible as they act as the basis for determining flood insurance rates. We know that the latest round of maps fell short on that measure, and it’s time to get it right.”H.R. 1309 tells FEMA to assemble a council made up of federal, state, local, and private experts to review the mapping standards and propose better strategies to produce accurate maps. FEMA would then be required to update its maps within six months of receiving the council’s recommendations.While the maps are being corrected, the bill places a moratorium on the expensive mandatory flood insurance purchase requirement for homeowners like those in Jackson County who have been placed in the high risk zones for the first time, or for folks like those in Milton-Freewater where they are taking specific steps to repair levees.H.R. 1309 reauthorizes the NFIP and would improve the program’s economic viability by encouraging broader participation and increased financial accountability, and by eliminating unnecessary rate subsidies. These measures, combined with a renewed focus on encouraging the development of a private flood insurance market, will serve to reduce the burden NFIP currently places on American taxpayers. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the reforms in H.R. 1309 would save taxpayers $4.2 billion.
05.17.2012	U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) testifies before the House Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Forest Lands in support of the La Pine Conveyance Act (S. 270) on May 17, 2012.WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today testified in support of a plan to transfer BLM land to local control in La Pine for economic development and upgrades to a wastewater treatment facility.At a hearing before the House Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, Rep. Walden said the La Pine Land Conveyance Act (S. 270)—authored by Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and cosponsored by Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.)—is offered “in the spirit of bipartisan problem solving.”“The city has taken great steps over the last few years to grow its economy, create jobs, and provide essential services to its 1,500 citizens—15,000 including the surrounding acres," Rep. Walden said.This bill would enhance those efforts by taking the following steps:Transfer 150 acres to the La Pine Park and Recreation District to establish a more permanent home for the La Pine Rodeo, and the community’s largest event of the year—the 4th of July Celebration. “The Greatest Little Rodeo in Oregon” draws thousands of people into the area. Transfer 750 acres for the purposes of building a new wastewater treatment facility that would allow residents to transition from septic systems to municipal water and sewer. This provides residents with a reliable water source while improving the water quality of the nearby Deschutes River. Transfer 10 acres to La Pine for the city’s library.“La Pine is not only surrounded by both BLM and U.S. Forest Service Ground, but also some of the heart of the city is actually owned by those agencies,” Rep. Walden said. “In fact, La Pine’s library sits on 10 acres of BLM land. The BLM shouldn’t be in the business of leasing lands to libraries. This bill would fix that.”The next step for the legislation would be a vote out in the full House Natural Resources Committee, followed by passage on the House floor, at which point it could be sent to the President.Rep. Walden’s full statement from today’s hearing is below:Thank you for the opportunity to be here today. As a former member of this committee and former chairman of the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, I appreciate the work you do on a daily basis to improve management of our public lands. I want to thank Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva for hearing the La Pine Land Conveyance Act S. 270 today – legislation drafted by Senator Wyden and strongly supported by me. It’s offered in the spirit of bipartisanship problem solving.Located in central Oregon’s Deschutes County, the city of La Pine is actually Oregon’s newest city…having been incorporated in 2006. The city has taken great steps over the last few years to grow its economy, create jobs, and provide essential services to its 1,500 citizens – 15,000 including the surrounding areas. These efforts have been led by people like La Pine resident and current Deschutes County Commissioner Tony DeBone. Tony has worked tirelessly for La Pine and the passage of this legislation, which is important to the economic growth and future of the La Pine. Chairman Bishop…I know you can sympathize with rural communities that cannot grow because they are surrounded by federal lands. La Pine is a perfect example. It not only is surrounded by both BLM and U.S. Forest Service ground, but also some of the heart of the city is actually owned by those agencies. In fact, La Pine’s library sits on 10 acres of BLM land. I think we both can agree, Mr. Chairman, that the BLM shouldn’t be in the business of leasing lands to libraries. This bill would fix that.S. 270 transfers approximately 150 acres to the La Pine Park and Recreation District to establish a more permanent home for the La Pine Rodeo, and the community’s largest event of the year—the 4th of July Celebration. Their annual rodeo, dubbed “The Greatest Little Rodeo in Oregon,” draws thousands of people into the area. This land allows the city to expand and enhance this venue with newer, larger facilities. Lastly, the bill would provide the City of La Pine with 750 acres so it can build a new water treatment facility and allow residents to transition from septic systems to municipal water and sewer. Without this land, La Pine will not have the land needed to expand its wastewater system. This provides residents with a reliable water source while improving the water quality of the nearby Deschutes River at the same time. Thank you again Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva for hearing this bill today. I look forward to working with you to get this legislation considered by full committee and to the floor of the House soon.
05.09.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and 15 House Republicans have sent a letter urging a joint Senate-House panel to include county payments and PILT funding in a final transportation bill.The Senate version of the bill, S. 1813, includes a fully offset one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS) and PILT, which represent a lifeline to more than 700 rural federally forested communities and 9 million school children across the nation.“In 2000, Congress authorized SRS in recognition that layers of environmental regulations had throttled timber production on federal lands, depriving these local communities of timber receipts that helped fund local schools, roads, and emergency services,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter, which was led by Rep. Walden. “With the last reauthorization of SRS expiring last September, rural counties across the country are currently determining how many school teachers, sheriffs, and other essential service employees to lay off this summer in order to cope with the budgetary cliff they face as their new fiscal year starts this July without this program in place.”They also wrote that “the status quo in our national forests doesn’t work and won’t work going forward,” and they are working with the House Natural Resources Committee on a meaningful long-term solution that would make rural communities more reliant on resource-based industries, rather than checks from the federal government.Last September, the government's commitment to rural forested counties lapsed with the expiration of SRS. Rural federally forested counties are now beginning to lay off sheriff deputies, teachers, county road crews and emergency-service personnel as county payments funding runs out in June.This September, funding for PILT expires. PILT offsets the loss of potential tax revenue on federal lands and keep rural county governments functioning where public lands dominate their landscape.“Retaining this provision in the surface transportation conference bill will provide us the time needed to meet this obligation through legislation that puts Americans back to work on our public lands, improves forest health, and spares communities of the uncertain future of whether the federal government will meets its end of the obligation,” they wrote. “Most importantly, it will provide our federally forested counties the budget certainty they need to avoid layoffs of teachers, first responders and road crews in the coming months.”The full text of the letter is below:May 8, 2012Dear House and Senate Republican Surface Transportation Conferees:As you negotiate a final conference committee surface transportation bill, we ask that you retain the one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS) and Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) included in Title I of Division F of the Senate bill, S. 1813. This one-year extension, which was fully offset and included in S. 1813 by a vote of 82-16, is an urgently needed lifeline for more than 700 rural federally forested communities and 9 million school children across the nation.The establishment of the National Forest System more than 100 years ago removed between 65 to 90 percent of the forests in many rural western, southeastern and southern counties from further development. Congress and President Theodore Roosevelt recognized that reducing the potential tax base could seriously hamper local communities’ prosperity and established a revenue sharing commitment that provided these communities with 25 percent of the revenues from nearby federal forests. In 2000, Congress authorized SRS in recognition that layers of environmental regulations had throttled timber production on federal lands, depriving these local communities of timber receipts that helped fund local schools, roads, and emergency services. With the last reauthorization of SRS expiring last September, rural counties across the country are currently determining how many school teachers, sheriffs, and other essential service employees to lay off this summer in order to cope with the budgetary cliff they face as their new fiscal year starts this July without this program in place.Like most of the federally forested communities we represent, we agree that the status quo in our national forests doesn’t work and won’t work going forward. That is why we continue to work with leaders in the House Natural Resources Committee on a meaningful long-term solution that transitions these counties back to the resource-based economies that provided jobs in our forests and mills, and the self-reliance these communities had before Uncle Sam locked up most of the resources and land around them.Retaining this provision in the surface transportation conference bill will provide us the time needed to meet this obligation through legislation that puts Americans back to work on our public lands, improves forest health, and spares communities of the uncertain future of whether the federal government will meets its end of the obligation. Most importantly, it will provide our federally forested counties the budget certainty they need to avoid layoffs of teachers, first responders and road crews in the coming months.We appreciate your help in this important issue for our rural communities and schools.Best regards,Greg WaldenMike SimpsonSteve PearceScott TiptonJo Ann EmersonDan LungrenTom McClintockPaul Gosar, D.D.SGlenn ThompsonJason ChaffetzCathy McMorris RodgersSteve WomackMark AmodeiKristi NoemDennis RehbergCynthia Lummis
05.02.2012	U.S. Rep. Greg Walden sent the following letter to Wallowa-Whitman National Forest Supervisor Monica Schwalbach to urge her to fully engage the public and take advantage of their knowledge in crafting a new Travel Management Plan.Read the full letter below.May 2, 2012Ms. Monica SchwalbachForest SupervisorWallowa-Whitman National ForestPO Box 907Baker City, OR 97814Dear Forest Supervisor Schwalbach:Thank you for withdrawing the travel management plan on the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest. As you begin to write a new plan, I strongly encourage you and your staff to take advantage of this second opportunity to meaningfully involve the public.The citizens who recreate in and live near these forests remain eager to help the U.S. Forest Service craft a plan that preserves traditional uses of their public lands. I ask you to fully engage the public and take advantage of their knowledge and ability to help the agency with valuable information. The public should be a partner in this process, not a foe.In a letter published in the La Grande Observer on April 18, you cited a “good bit of confusion” among the public and the need to “(clarify) misinformation” going forward. While you also rightfully noted some areas of citizen concern that the Forest Service should address, I want to be clear: the public isn’t confused. They are tired of volunteering hours upon hours of their valuable time assisting with the mapping of roads and providing suggestions only to see their sincere input and suggestions largely ignored in the agency’s final plan. As you participate in this summer’s public meetings, I urge you not to take a defensive posture on behalf of the scrapped plan, or assume it is the agency’s responsibility to re-educate the populace.In light of that, I would like to know how comments at these and other meetings will be officially gathered and recorded for inclusion in the decision making process. I am also interested in the end result of these meetings. Does the NEPA process start anew, or does the process simply move into a modified FEIS and Record of Decision? If the latter, what steps are you taking to ensure sufficient flexibility to allow the new decision to reflect public input gathered at these meetings? Also, what steps are being taken to ensure that the choice to exclude the Eagle Cap Wilderness and Hells Canyon National Recreation Area from the planning area does not skew the ratio of motorized to non-motorized areas on the forest?The local public deserves a thorough, deliberate, and transparent process that does not artificially limit the scope of issues discussed going forward. Instead, the wide range of the local citizen concerns —access and trails for motorized recreation, berry and mushroom picking, hunting and game retrieval, fire-fighting access, access to grazing allotments, mining claims, irrigation diversions, firewood, and private in-holdings and forest management — should inform the plan so it reflects their input and use of the forest.The public also deserves a plan that utilizes the flexibilities provided to forest supervisors in this planning process, including the authority to temporarily close roads when it makes sense instead of permanently placing them off limits. It’s my understanding that some national forests have taken the road closure effort too far only to have to re-open roads after the fact, for firefighting, and to address the needs of the local communities, such as protecting them from catastrophic wildfire or to provide more recreational access. I think we can both agree it’s best to avoid this problem.Once again, thank you for withdrawing this plan. I look forward to your continued help in turning around this troubled process and I stand ready to help as needed.Best regards,Greg WaldenMember of Congress
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement on the passing of Denny Jones."I am deeply saddened by the passing of my good friend Denny Jones,” Rep. Walden said. ”Denny defined eastern Oregon. He spoke little, but said so much. He always called it as he saw it, and never wavered from his conservative principles. His word was better than a written contract. He was tight with taxpayers' dollars and demanded—and got—accountability from government. And when it came to property and water rights, we had no stronger ally than Denny Jones. He was as good a card player as he was a cowboy. While the sun has set on his life on this earth, somewhere in heaven there's a skinny cowboy riding proudly toward a new round up with a twinkle in his eye and a smile on his face. I will treasure the many times we were together and the bond of friendship that we shared for nearly 40 years."
04.24.2012	HON. GREG WALDENOF OREGONIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESWednesday, April 18, 2012________OIT Hustlin’ Owls – 2012 men’s basketball NAIA Division II national championsMr. Speaker, it is with great pleasure that I rise today to congratulate the Oregon Tech Hustlin’ Owls men’s basketball team for winning the 2012 NAIA Division II national championship.Combining an impressive defensive performance with a 45-point second half outburst, the No. 2-ranked Hustlin’ Owls defeated the top-ranked Northwood University 63-46 on March 13 to take the national title in Point Lookout, Missouri. Oregon Tech set a new school record this year with 34 wins, and by notching their third national championship, they tied Bethel College for the most titles in NAIA Division II men’s basketball.Bobby Hunter scored a game-high 20 points and pulled down nine rebounds en route to earning tournament MVP honors. Jason Gamblin added 16 points on 7-of-10 shooting and David Clarke scored 11 points with five rebounds. Kyle Gomez contributed nine points and six rebounds.Congratulations to the Hustlin’ Owls are never complete without special mention of their legendary head coach, Danny Miles. In a day and age when personal advancement comes before loyalty far too often—especially in the sports world—Coach Miles has spent his entire coaching career at Oregon Tech. That’s 42 years and counting. His 971 wins make him the second winningest men’s coach in U.S. college basketball history. And his three national championships—in 2004, 2008, and 2012—are further evidence of the standard of excellence he has established at Oregon Tech.But perhaps the most important statistic is this: 14 out of the last 15 years’ teams have all maintained a 3.0 or better GPA in the classroom—and that with a very challenging curriculum of a world-class technical institute. Coach Miles has built one of the finest athletic programs in the country, be it measured on the court or in the classroom. For this, I know I can speak on behalf of the entire Oregon Tech community and the state of Oregon itself when I say, “Thank you, Coach Miles.”My colleagues, let’s recognize the tremendous effort of the Oregon Tech players: Jordan Kiely, Kyle Gomez, David Clarke, Liston Case, Bobby Hunter, Bryant Sentman, Alex Zerbach, Fred Corpening, Kyle Waits, Scott Riddle, Jason Gamblin, Josh Johnson, Braxton Miles, Austen Flint, Mihajlo Matic, Nathan Maddox, and Brandon Bautista.And, of course, we must congratulate the great coaching staff behind them: Coach Miles, Associate Head Coach Mike Pisan, Associate Coach Jason de Vries, and Associate Coach Paul Poetsch.Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Oregon delegation and the House of Representatives, congratulations to the 2012 Hustlin’ Owls!
04.16.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today called on the U.S. Forest Service to start over on its Travel Management Plan for the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest. He said the plan is the product of a flawed public process that failed to protect the public’s ability to enjoy their natural resources.Walden today spoke on the phone with Kent Connaughton, the Regional Forester for the USFS’ Pacific Northwest Region. Walden followed up the conversation with a letter.“Despite their efforts to participate, many groups and communities feel they were largely, if not entirely, ignored by the U.S. Forest Service,” Walden wrote in the letter. “This amounts to an assault on good process and the public’s ability to enjoy their natural resources. That is unacceptable.”“Start over,” Walden wrote. “Put people in charge who will value the suggestions of eastern Oregon’s citizens. And then go meet with the local residents and make sure that rural Oregon’s voice is reflected in the final plan.”At recent town halls in Union, Wallowa, and Baker counties, Walden heard from many residents who felt that their concerns and the views of their community were ignored during the planning process.“Throughout the process, I encouraged communities and user groups to tell their side of the story,” Walden wrote in today’s letter. “Unfortunately, I am told by individuals and the counties that most, if not all, of these key areas of concern were not included in the final plan. Failure to include local input results in poorly crafted plans and rules that significantly impact our rural communities.”The full text of the letter is below:April 16, 2012Mr. Kent ConnaughtonRegional ForesterUnited States Forest Service, Region 6P.O. Box 3623Portland, OR 97204-3440Dear Regional Forester Connaughton:I appreciate you taking my call earlier today. As we discussed, I strongly urge you to scrap the proposed Travel Management Plan on the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest and start over with a process that actually takes into consideration the input of eastern Oregon’s local citizens.The plan for the Wallowa-Whitman proposes major changes that will impact eastern Oregonians’ ability to recreate, hunt, cut wood, pick berries, and perform other activities that are so important to the region’s rural economy and lifestyle. Throughout the process, I encouraged communities and user groups to tell their side of the story. Many volunteers donated their time in Baker, Union, and Wallowa counties to participate in this process and provide an accurate inventory of roads to the Forest Service. These inventories formed the basis of the counties’ submitted comments and recommendations that unused and overgrown roads be closed, while popular and economically valuable roads remain open. Unfortunately, I am told by individuals and the counties that most, if not all, of these key areas of concern were not included in the final plan. Failure to include local input results in poorly crafted plans and rules that significantly impact our rural communities.Despite their efforts to participate, many groups and communities feel they were largely, if not entirely, ignored by the U.S. Forest Service. This amounts to an assault on good process, the public’s ability to enjoy their natural resources, and rural traditions on public lands. That is unacceptable.Furthermore, I understand that the Wallowa-Whitman did not include certain National Recreation and Wilderness areas in the planning process. As a result, the planning area reflected an artificially high percentage of land suitable for motorized recreation than is actually the case over the entire forest. When the Wallowa-Whitman is taken as a whole, with National Recreation and Wilderness areas included, more than 70% of USFS lands in Wallowa County are already dedicated to non-motorized “quiet” recreation.Start over. Put people in charge who will value the suggestions of eastern Oregon’s citizens. And then go meet with the local residents and make sure that rural Oregon’s voice is reflected in the final plan.Best regards,Greg Walden
04.10.2012	U.S. Rep. Greg Walden submitted the following statement into the Congressional Record to honor Central Oregon Veterans Outreach for their work on behalf of the region's veterans. He presented the organization with a copy of the statement at his town hall in Bend on April 3.HON. GREG WALDEN OF OREGON IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESThursday, March 29, 2012Tribute to Central Oregon Veterans OutreachMr. Speaker, it is with great pride that I rise today to pay special tribute to Central Oregon Veterans Outreach (COVO) for their tireless efforts on behalf of homeless veterans in Oregon’s Second District. Since its founding in 2005 by members of the Bend/La Pine Vietnam Veterans of America, COVO has grown from a handful of concerned veterans reaching out to other veterans in the homeless camps around the area to a full-fledged nonprofit organization with countless volunteers, a dedicated staff, and a truly professional board of directors.In the early years of this organization, a small group of Vietnam veterans took it upon themselves to visit homeless camps on the High Desert, providing much needed supplies and support to those veterans who fell upon hard times and were in desperate need of a hand up. Today, COVO has a full time staff that coordinates continuing volunteer efforts to deliver food, water, tents, sleeping bags, clothing, and propane to the region’s homeless camps. In addition to making weekly trips with supplies, COVO has transformed a van into a mobile medical clinic that is staffed by volunteer doctors, nurses, and medical staff who provide free care to the homeless population each week. This is an invaluable service to those in need.COVO continues to provide free assistance to veterans in the form of benefits claim-filing, bus passes, medical shuttle reservations, and assistance with accessing resources like the HUD-VASH housing voucher program and transitional housing at their 6-bed “Home of the Brave” facility. COVO continues to advocate for those veterans who are most in need of assistance and who are unable to be their own voice in times of need.Mr. Speaker, we like to say, “We will never forget what our veterans have done for our way of life.” They put their lives on the line for this country, and we cannot turn our backs on them. Any of them.Mr. Speaker, I ask that my fellow colleagues join me in recognizing COVO for their staunch and invaluable advocacy on behalf of our most vulnerable veterans: President Linda Heatley; Secretary/Treasurer Rob Bryce; Directors Susan Steves, Craig Jorgensen, Rickie Gunn, Jerry Chinn, Dan Lauderback, Lauri Imholt, and Dr. Elizabeth Leeburg; Executive Director Chuck Hemingway; Counselors Alex Weiss and Allen Wilson; Homeless Veteran Reintegration Program staff Steve Wilkes, Ruth Clark, and Yvonne Devine; Outreach Coordinator Lisa Miller; Volunteer Coordinator Kim Darling; Office Administrator and DAV Shuttle Coordinator Chuck Man; Housing Manager Steve Haupt, and; Veteran Service Officer Patricia White and VSO Intern Kim Burger.Mr. Speaker, the staff, board, and volunteers who comprise COVO deserve the thanks of a grateful nation for all they have done and continue to do for the veterans of Deschutes, Crook and Jefferson Counties.
03.26.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will hold a town hall in Jackson County on Friday, March 30. This past Friday, he was in eastern Oregon holding town halls in Union and Wallowa counties. The upcoming town hall will mark his 10th across the Second District in the last three months. Last year, he made 11 visits to Jackson County; he travels back to Oregon just about each weekend and visits each of the 20 counties he represents at least twice per year—many much more frequently than that. It’s just one of many ways he stays in touch with folks from all across the Second District to keep his to-do list fresh. He has also held multiple district-wide telephone town halls this year that have reached tens of thousands of Oregonians, and will continue to hold them throughout the year.He will also meet with the High Tech Crimes Task Force in Central Point—as chairman of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, he has launched a bipartisan cybersecurity working group to examine the current landscape and lay the foundation for the subcommittee’s efforts to address cybersecurity.“Cybersecurity is essential to maintaining our nation’s security in the 21st century,” Walden said. “The threat is real and the economic impact on businesses, especially smaller companies, is serious. The more information we gather, the more equipped we will be to combat this complex issue. This threat is not a partisan issue, and I appreciate my colleagues’ willingness to take a closer look at these complex issues and report back on their findings, which will create a foundation of expertise and understanding that will be essential as we find solutions to secure our networks."The Working Group is tasked with identifying existing legal impediments to securing communications networks against cyberthreats and incentive-based approaches to encourage private-sector companies to work with each other and the public sector. Members of the Working Group include: Subcommittee Vice-Chair Lee Terry (R-NE), Ranking Member Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA), Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH), Rep. Michael Doyle (D-PA), and Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL). Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden will serve as an ex-officio member of the working group. Vice-Chairman Terry and Ranking Member Eshoo will co-lead the group. At the conclusion of its work the group will report its findings to Chairman Walden.On Saturday evening, he will attend the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation banquet in Medford.Friday, March 30, 2012What: Meeting with the Southern Oregon High Tech Crimes Task ForceWhen: 2 p.m. Friday, March 30Where: Central Point City Hall155 South Second StreetCentral Point, Ore. What: Jackson County town hall with U.S. Rep. Greg WaldenWhen: 4 p.m. Friday, March 30Where: Medford Public Library205 S. Central AvenueMedford, Ore.Saturday, March 31, 2012What: Medford Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation annual banquetWhen: 4:45 p.m. Saturday, March 31Where: The MedfordArmory3540 North Pacific HighwayMedford, Ore.
03.09.2012	BEND, Ore. — Following up on the missed opportunity to secure a car commercial filming in the Deschutes National Forest, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has asked U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell how he plans to ensure that a similar economy opportunity is not missed again.“The U.S. Forest Service needs to understand that central Oregon is open for business,” Rep. Walden wrote. “The Forest Service should have taken a cue from Oregonians’ famous attitude ‘how can we make this happen?’ attitude. Instead, the justifications for blocking the commercial shifted course faster than a snowboarder carving up Mt. Bachelor. One day, the permit wasn’t granted because officials didn’t want to set a precedent in that area of the forest. The next day, when contacted by media, the reason was a nebulous catch-all of ‘public safety.’”The car commercial flap will feature in Rep. Walden’s remarks today to the annual luncheon of Economic Development for Central Oregon (EDCO). The luncheon begins at 11:30 a.m. at the Riverhouse.“The brightest days for central Oregon’s economy remain in the future, not the past. But to get there, we can’t afford for the bureaucracies that manage such a dominant swath of our land base to turn away gift-wrapped economic opportunities. Our natural wonders should be a boon that attracts outside investment, not an excuse to keep it away,” Rep. Walden wrote.“No one in central Oregon would say that a one-time $155,000 injection is a game changer for an economy struggling with double digit unemployment. Far from it. But every penny counts. And many local small business owners and job creators welcome this kind of outside-the-box economic thinking. Perhaps it could have even led to more projects like it,” Rep. Walden wrote.Rep. Walden also referenced in his letter input from constituents on the issue.One constituent wrote: “Just wanted you…to know that even though we are at the south end of the county and would not have benefited to a huge degree from this commercial endeavor, it angers me that this economic boost was lost to our region at all. We all work together, too bad the federal government is not on board as well.”The full text of Rep. Walden’s letter to Chief Tidwell is below.Thursday, March 8, 2012The Honorable Tom TidwellChief, United States Forest Service1400 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, D.C. 20250Dear Chief Tidwell:The U.S. Forest Service needs to understand that central Oregon is open for business.In January, a major car company identified a portion of the Deschutes National Forest as a desirable location to film their next car commercial. They selected a stretch of road already closed for the winter. To minimize impacts on recreationists, they decided to film on a weekday morning. Cognizant of the economic shot-in-the-arm that the commercial would provide to the community, members of the Oregon State Snowmobile Association agreed to groom the snow before the filming. The county quickly signed off on necessary permits. Local hoteliers and small businesses readied for the valuable mid-week business that the more than 50 out-of-town workers would bring to the city.Unfortunately, the shoot never happened. The only thing that squelched an estimated $155,000 injection to the local economy—on a single Wednesday in the middle of the winter—was bureaucratic foot-dragging by the U.S. Forest Service that drove the company to film their commercial elsewhere.The Forest Service should have taken a cue from Oregonians’ famous attitude “how can we make this happen?” attitude. Instead, the justifications for blocking the commercial shifted course faster than a snowboarder carving up Mt. Bachelor. One day, the permit wasn’t granted because officials didn’t want to set a precedent in that area of the forest. The next day, when contacted by media, the reason was a nebulous catch-all of “public safety.”So it is clear, here is the precedent that central Oregonians want on public lands: We’re open for business. The brightest days for central Oregon’s economy remain in the future, not the past. But to get there, we can’t afford for the bureaucracies that manage such a dominant swath of our land base to turn away gift-wrapped economic opportunities. Our natural wonders should be a boon that attracts outside investment, not an excuse to keep it away.As for concerns about safety, I can’t help but recall the fine print that appears on so many car commercials: “Professional driver on a closed course.” I’m confident the same would have applied in this case as well.When the clock finally ran out on the opportunity to film in central Oregon, the car company threw up its hands and went somewhere else—Mammoth, California to be exact—where they were welcomed with open arms. Just last week, the same promotion company did a shoot for another car company in Livingston, Montana, on BLM land.No one in central Oregon would say that a one-time $155,000 injection is a game changer for an economy struggling with double digit unemployment. Far from it. But every penny counts. And many local small business owners and job creators welcome this kind of outside-the-box economic thinking. Perhaps it could have even led to more projects like it.Compounding local frustration is that this is not the first commonsense initiative blocked in the Deschutes National Forest by a refusal to grant a benign permit request. Last summer, a California teen visiting his father for the summer noticed high levels of litter along his favorite Deschutes National Forest hiking trails. He organized a local clean-up effort and recruited volunteers to help make the forest more beautiful. According to a local news report, his application for a waiver and plans to clean up the land were denied by the Forest Service over concerns of—you guessed it—public safety. All the Good Samaritans had signed injury waivers, but officials wanted more planning time and safety training for the volunteers. They suggested the teen come back and try again next summer.This is why people lose faith in their government.Don’t take it just from me. When I told constituents about the car commercial flap in one of my regular e-newsletters, I received an unusual number of unsolicited responses. I’ve pasted some below so you can get a feel for just how upset local citizens are right now. I have also attached an editorial from the regional newspaper, The Bulletin.I would appreciate a response that outlines the steps you will take to ensure that these kinds of easy, slam dunk economic opportunities are not missed in the future. I look forward to your reply.Best regards,Greg WaldenU.S. RepresentativeOregon’s Second DistrictResponses from Oregonians regarding the car commercial flap:· “Just wanted you…to know that even though we are at the south end of the county and would not have benefited to a huge degree from this commercial endeavor, it angers me that this economic boost was lost to our region at all. We all work together, too bad the federal government is not on board as well.”· “Our Deschutes National Forest is seriously off course. I was pleased to see you are looking into the permit fiasco for the car commercial. I was dismayed to see that they want to spend $600,000 to pave the parking lot at the Phil's trailhead. This is a parking area for mountain bikers. They go there to ride on dirt. Mountain bikers can park on gravel just fine.”· “The Forestry people have been known for the kind of actions, or non-actions you referred to for a good many years.”· “You wrote "I’ll be working with the Forest Service going forward..." I am thrilled you will be doing so given the infuriating incident with Mercedes. Last summer you may have missed another incident involving the Forest Service. A teen-age boy from California was visiting his grandparents in Bend and started to clean up trash in the forest. When he tried to organize a larger group to do additional trash clean up, the Forest Service denied him a permit due to "safety reasons". This sounds like bureaucratic runaround, and it is just crazy! Government idiocy makes me want to scream.”· “Since the forest service was established to support the logging industry and the logging industry has died so should the forest service. A good cost cutting measure by the federal government.”· “Is there anyone else out there as angry as I am about the loss of the Mercedes commercial to California?!?!?!? We are out here busting our ****** to bring people to our area to support our economy and they can't get past the bureaucracy of a federal agency that is supposed to work for our interests. I cannot imagine what they thought was going to happen during this filming that would have caused such concern.”· “You probably weren't notified until the 11th hour because they just simply did not want anything that would bring $$$$$ to Central Oregon. Or maybe they didn't want Mercedes to see the total devastation that has incurred in our forests due to their lack of ‘management,’ and I use that term loosely!!!”
03.08.2012	March 8, 2012The Honorable Tom VilsackSecretaryU.S. Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Avenue, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20250Dear Secretary Vilsack,I write concerning the February 27 announcement of the USDA’s intention to approve closure of the Farm Service Agency office in Grant County, Oregon starting in late May. In light of the adverse impact of following through with these intentions, I ask you to strongly consider providing regular FSA staff office hours in an existing public office space in John Day as an alternative in the event of closure. Many area farmers and ranchers currently utilize the Grant County office in John Day; therefore, completely eliminating service there could require round trip travel of 150 miles or more to reach the nearest county FSA office. Although I appreciate your efforts to rein in spending and make necessary changes to improve efficiencies and reduce overall operating costs at USDA, I am concerned that there are no plans in place to provide those in rural Grant County with reasonably accessible and regular FSA service should closure of the Grant County office be finalized. Representing a congressional district that covers nearly 70,000 square miles, I want to be sure that the agency does its best to maintain necessary FSA services that farmers and ranchers rely on for their operations. With limited timber supply from federal lands to fuel wood products industry jobs in Grant County, agriculture and ranching provide the main basis for the local economy. From USDA loans to federal crop insurance and other farm and conservation programs, FSA helps keep farmers and ranchers operating and supporting the local economy’s jobs. These and other services provided by the FSA need to remain accessible. Providing regular office hours is an alternative that would accomplish this, while allowing the FSA to reduce its operating costs.Thank you for your attention to this important issue for Grant County farmers and ranchers.Best regards,Greg WaldenMember of Congress
03.06.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. —U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today praised the decision by BPA and Pacific Power to expedite the timeframe for a new transformer at the Ponderosa Substation and other transmission system upgrades and service to the Prineville area. The announcement moves up the completion date from June 2013 up to January 2013.The faster timeline will help Facebook in their expansion plans, as well as assure prospective technology companies considering Prineville as a location for data centers that sufficient energy will be available for them."This is great news for Prineville and central Oregon. Access to this power on an accelerated timeline means Facebook can continue their expansion in central Oregon and help facilitate future job-creating projects,” Rep. Walden said. “It shows other companies interested in building data centers in the region that we are open for business. When I organized a meeting with BPA, Pacific Power, and local elected officials last fall, everyone agreed to work together and seek opportunities to accelerate the timeline for the Ponderosa substation upgrade. Today I commend the work of all of those entities to achieve these positive results."Sufficient energy is a significant part of the equation to allowing Prineville to become a national hub for state-of-the-art data centers. Another important element is water; Rep. Walden’s Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act (H.R. 2060), would ensure that the region has sufficient water for new projects, along with advancing conservation measures for steelhead. Click here for more information on that measure.
02.16.2012	WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) today praised the inclusion of key spectrum reforms in legislation to extend payroll tax relief and address other key issues. Upton and Walden were two of 20 negotiators working on the conference committee, where they made spectrum reform a top priority because of its potential to create jobs, spur innovation and economic investment, and support public safety, all while maintaining strong protections for taxpayers. A summary of the spectrum provisions of the conference agreement is available online HERE.“With 13 million Americans still seeking employment, job creation is a driving force behind efforts to expand wireless broadband. Spectrum auctions are not only good public policy for the communications and technology sector, they will produce meaningful job creation when we need it most. Estimates project that the new wireless build-out will result in billions of dollars in new investment. The hundreds of thousands of jobs that are created as a result will be an economic game-changer,” said Upton and Walden.On Wireless Broadband Development“As Americans’ reliance on wireless devices such as smartphones and tablets increases, so has the demand for additional wireless broadband. After years of discussion, negotiations, and hearings, this legislation provides the FCC the necessary authority to conduct these auctions. We struck a fine balance to make more efficient use of the airwaves while also providing necessary protections for broadcasters,” said Upton and Walden.On Fair and Open Auctions“We’re pleased that we were able to come to agreement on a provision we authored to ensure all interested bidders will be able to participate in future auctions. The legislation makes clear that any party that is able to meet specific, traditional qualifications to hold a spectrum license is entitled to participate in the auction, and cannot be excluded. This will ensure auctions produce the greatest revenue for taxpayers, while also making certain that the spectrum is used where and how it offers the greatest value, as determined by the market. Competition should determine winners and losers, not the FCC. Recent history has shown the Commission meddling in auctions and trying to ‘shape’ the market not only reduces federal revenue, it harms competition and spectrum policy. The new law puts a stop to this subjective and arbitrary practice. Congress sets the policy, not independent agencies. We will be watching closely, ensuring the FCC follows the law,” said Upton and Walden.On Strong Protections for Taxpayers“The spectrum auctions will bring in more than $15 billion in federal revenue, and we went to great lengths to ensure that taxpayers’ investment to clear the spectrum for broadband use garners the maximum return on that investment. The legislation not only preserves the abundant amount of airwaves currently available for unlicensed uses like WiFi, it creates even more. At the same time, it ensures that if the FCC spends billions of Americans’ hard-earned dollars to free-up other spectrum that’s ideal for licensed use, it does not turn around and give that spectrum away for free,” said Upton and Walden.On Public Safety Network“For more than a decade this country has committed to bringing our nation’s first responders the interoperable communications they need. This bill seeks to provide an interoperable public safety broadband network to fill the current and future needs of the men and women who risk their lives for us every day. Importantly, the bill also brings public safety networks into the twenty-first century by adopting standards that bring the modern, agile, and innovative wireless technologies of the commercial wireless industry to bear on the communications challenges of first responders,” said Upton and Walden.Summary of Key ProvisionsThe Energy and Commerce Committee and its Communications and Technology Subcommittee made spectrum reform a top priority for the 112th Congress. The committee held six hearings and a markup last year, inviting the views of wireless providers, technology leaders, academics, economists and engineers to weigh in on the best policy to free up additional airwaves to fulfill growing demand for wireless broadband services. Subcommittee Chairman Walden unveiled spectrum legislation on July 13, 2011, and it was approved by the subcommittee as the Jumpstarting Opportunity with Broadband Spectrum (JOBS) Act on December 1, 2011.One study projects that build-out of next generation wireless networks could generate between 371,000 and 771,000 jobs, $25-53 billion in investment, and $73-151 billion in GDP growth. But that requires making more spectrum available. This legislation does that by allowing the FCC to share proceeds with licensees, like broadcasters, who voluntarily return spectrum to be re-auctioned to meet the exploding demand for wireless Internet service.A summary of the spectrum reforms included in the conference agreement is available on the House Energy and Commerce Committee website HERE.The spectrum provisions in the House-Senate agreement will create jobs, spur investment and innovation in the growing technology sector, and support first responders. It does all of these things while offering strong protections for taxpayers and helping offset other costs within the bill.Voluntary Incentive AuctionsA key component of the agreement is authority for the Federal Communications Commission to conduct voluntary incentive auctions.By giving a portion of the auction proceeds to licensees who return spectrum, these voluntary incentive auctions allow us to make more efficient use of the airwaves and clear valuable blocks of spectrum to support next-generation wireless networks.The agreement includes important protections for broadcasters sought by the House to ensure individuals who rely on over-the-air broadcasting will not lose access.Strong Protections for TaxpayersThe agreement aims to produce a net $15 billion in auction proceeds – more than double the amount initially proposed by the Senate – that will help offset other costs within the legislation.Like the original House-passed legislation, the agreement ensures that if the federal government spends money to clear spectrum, taxpayers will get a return on that investment by ensuring it is auctioned. Other proposals would have allowed the FCC to give away this spectrum, at a potential billion-dollar cost to taxpayers.The agreement also supports fair and open auctions that will bring in the greatest revenue for taxpayers by including limitations on the FCC’s ability to exclude bidders.Major Job CreationAccording to recent studies, investment in next-generation wireless broadband could produce an estimated 300,000 jobs or more.FCC Chairman Genachowski even cites one study indicating spectrum legislation could create as many as 770,000 jobs, generate $25 to $53 billion in investment, and produce $73 to $151 billion in GDP growth.Development of a Public Safety NetworkBoth the House and Senate had developed legislation to support build-out of a nationwide interoperable broadband public safety network, and the agreement unifies the framework that will be used to finally make this recommendation of the 9/11 Commission a reality.The agreement reallocates the “D-Block,” which – combined with spectrum already given to public safety by Congress – gives public safety the contiguous 20 MHz of spectrum they have sought for wireless broadband.It also directs a share of future auction proceeds, up to $7 billion, to support development of the network.Unlike legislation initially developed in the Senate that would have established an entirely new federal corporation to run the network, the agreement establishes a central governing authority within the National Telecommunications and Information Administration while permitting states that choose to build their own networks the opportunity to opt-out of the central network while maintaining interoperability.
02.16.2012	Click here for the text of the draft bill.Click here for a section-by-section explanation of the draft bill.Click here for a Myth-Fact of the draft bill.Click here to comment on the bill.O&C TRUST, CONSERVATION, AND JOBS ACTCreates Jobs. Stabilizes Rural Communities. Protects Oregon Treasures.Creates Jobs for Oregonians and Revitalizes Local Economies- Creates thousands of new jobs in Oregon’s rural communities, according to the Oregon Forests Resources Institute.- Continues the prohibition on exporting unprocessed logs from Federal lands. In order to preserve and expand Oregon’s manufacturing base, imposes penalties on businesses that violate the law and send family-wage jobs overseas. - Allows for permanent timber production primarily on lands that have been previously harvested, ensuring a sustainable level of timber and forest products from federal lands to maintain and create jobs in the local timber industry. It would create a 1.479 million acre O&C Trust, consisting of previously managed timber stands to be sustainably managed to meet the federal government’s obligation to the 18 O&C Counties and create jobs in our federally forested communities.- Geographically disperses timber production on the O&C Trust lands and mandates long and short timber rotation ages to meet the needs and capabilities of mills throughout western Oregon.Brings Financial Stability to Rural Oregon Counties- Provides forested counties in western Oregon with a sustainable and more predictable level of revenues in perpetuity to support essential county services like law enforcement, healthcare, schools, and transportation.- Reduce counties’ dependence on uncertain federal support payments in favor of a long-term solution that allows them to return to the tradition of self-reliance that embodies the best traditions of our state.Protects Oregon Treasures - Maintains federal ownership of the land and details strict management guidelines for Trust lands to ensure sustained yield and to protect clean water and terrestrial and aquatic values. - Proposes major wilderness and wild and scenic designations to protect some of Oregon’s most incredible natural treasures, like the iconic Rogue River. - Provides protections for old growth forests and transfers mature and old growth forests from the Bureau of Land Management to the United States Forest Service.
02.14.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will hold public town halls in Umatilla, Baker, and Malheur counties on February 21 and 22. By Easter, he plans to hold town hall meetings in 16 counties, including Union, Wallowa, Grant, and Harney counties. Last year, he held 14 town halls across the Second District and visited each of the 20 counties he represents at least twice; most counties much more often than that. It’s just one of many ways to stays in touch with folks from all across the Second District to keep his to-do list fresh, including regular meetings across the Second District to tackle the issues facing Oregonians. He has also held multiple district-wide telephone town halls this year, and will continue to hold them throughout the year as well.Tuesday, February 21What: Umatilla County town hall with U.S. Rep. Greg WaldenWhen: 11:30 a.m., Tuesday, February 21Where: Hermiston Convention Center, 415 South Highway 395, Hermiston, Ore.What: Baker County town hall with U.S. Rep. Greg WaldenWhen: 4:30 p.m., Tuesday, February 21Where: Geiser Grand, 1996 Main Street, Baker City, Ore.Wednesday, February 22What: Malheur County town hall with U.S. Rep. Greg WaldenWhen: 8:30 a.m., Wednesday, February 22Where: Josh Brennan Memorial Hall, 110 North 3rd Street, Nyssa, Ore.
02.08.2012	U.S. Rep. Greg Walden joined 181 of his colleagues to send a bipartisan letter to Department of the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar expressing strong support for new and expanded access to the OCS for production of oil and natural gas.Read the letter below, or click here for the PDF version.February 7, 2012The Honorable Ken SalazarSecretaryU.S. Department of Interior1849 C Street, NWWashington, D.C. 20240Dear Mr. Secretary:With the release of the Proposed Outer Continental Shelf Plan for 2012-2017, we write to express strong bipartisan support in the House for the consideration of new and expanded access to the OCS for the production of oil and natural gas.Opening up new areas of the OCS will bring new jobs, new energy, and new revenues to the Treasury—all at a time where each of these benefits is desperately needed. When finalized, this will be the first five year plan since the presidential and congressional moratoria were lifted in 2008. At the time these moratoria were removed, it was anticipated by the public and the Congress that without these obstacles in place the result would be that future five year plans would include significant new access to the OCS thereby laying the groundwork for new jobs, energy, and revenues. Together, these moratoria had kept more than three quarters of the OCS off limits to exploration and production activities for more than 30 years. Consequently, we were disappointed that the proposed plan announced by your Department on November 8 would open no new areas of the OCS for assessment and leave exploration and development activities focused in the same places where we have been looking for a generation. We continue to believe that any new five year leasing plan should allow for the consideration of expanding into new areas, such as offshore Virginia, as envisioned when the moratoria were lifted.We recognize that in the wake of the Gulf spill, your Department has moved aggressively to implement new safety and environmental regulations and that you have stated publicly that your Department would not be authorizing new activity if you did not believe it was being done safely. Given these regulatory changes, as well as actions taken by industry to restore confidence, we believe it is time to move ahead in facilitating new access to the OCS and that waiting until 2917 at the earliest to initiate these activities does not serve the public interest. Moreover, the public is strongly supportive of new offshore access and is ancious to realize the promised economic benefits from new access to American resources rather than continuing our overreliance upon foreign sources of energy.We ask that you take into account these views as you consider the Proposed Five Year Plan for 2012-2017. Thank you in advance for your consideration.Sincerely,/
02.07.2012	Two large-scale and job-creating forest restoration projects in southern and eastern Oregon won approval from the USDA, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced. A third project in central Oregon, approved in 2010, will continue to receive funding.In early January, Rep. Walden organized a bipartisan letter to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack that urged him to fund the Lakeview Stewardship Landscape project and the Southern Blues Restoration Coalition project, which were ranked as the top proposals of their kind in the country. The letter, dated January 4, was signed by Walden, Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, and U.S. Reps. Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, and Earl Blumenauer.The Deschutes Skyline project in central Oregon, approved in 2010, will continue to receive funding in 2012, USDA announced.The Lakeview proposal, which will receive $3.5 million, includes 150,000 acres to be treated, and estimates it will create more than 80 jobs. The Southern Blues proposal, which will receive $2.5 million, includes 271,980 acres to be treated, and estimates it will create more than 150 new jobs.Oregon Business estimates every job created in rural Oregon is equivalent to about 100 jobs in the Portland Metropolitan area.Rep. Walden was an original co-sponsor of the legislation—signed into law in 2009—that authorizes large-scale forest landscape restoration projects.“Most importantly, these are areas with unacceptably high unemployment,” Rep. Walden said. “Any additional work is welcome in our rural communities. I am pleased that Secretary Vilsack made the correct decision to support these highly rated Oregon projects.”“The Lakeview and Southern Blues proposals were the top rated and among the largest projects in the country. They will help reduce wildfire management costs and create a predictable supply of forest byproducts that will help stabilize local economies and their infrastructure,” Rep. Walden said.
02.07.2012	U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will hold a Telephone Town Hall discussion on Wednesday, February 8, from 5:30-6:30 pm PST.Rep. Walden will answer questions from residents of Oregon’s Second District on a variety of topics, including ways to get job creation going in southern, central, and eastern Oregon. He held a telephone town hall on January 22; one of many ways he keeps in close touch with the residents of Oregon’s Second District.Constituents who would like to ensure that they are called may RSVP for the Telephone Town Hall by contacting Rep. Walden’s office toll-free at (800) 533-3303 or by sending a note through his website here.WHO: U.S. Rep. Greg WaldenWHAT: Telephone Town Hall discussion with Oregon’s Second District residentsWHEN: 5:30-6:30 p.m., Wednesday, February 8, 2012WHERE: To RSVP to ensure that you receive a phone call, contact Rep. Walden’s office toll free at (800) 533-3303 or send a note through his website here.
01.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has asked the EPA to grant Bend flexibility from arbitrary water treatment deadlines so the city can sequence compliance in a way that avoids burdensome impacts to the community while protecting public health and safety.Rep. Walden sent the letter, which seeks similar flexibilities as have already been granted to communities like Portland and New York City, to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson.Bend is facing an estimated $68 million bill for its surface water treatment project—$30 million of which is specifically tied to compliance with an October 2014 deadline for compliance with the Long Term 2 Surface Water Treatment Rule (LT2).“I ask that EPA provide Bend with flexibility beyond the current October 2014 deadline,” Rep. Walden wrote. “If that flexibility is not granted, the city will be forced to decide between missing this arbitrary enforcement deadline or accelerating the project in a manner that deal a dangerous economic blow to the city through substantial water rate increases to Bend ratepayers.”“This flexibility will allow the community of Bend to sequence compliance in a way that avoids burdensome impacts to the community while protecting public health and safety,” Rep. Walden wrote.Walden will convene a roundtable discussion in Bend between a diverse group of stakeholders to discuss strategies going forward to deal with EPA’s deadlines. The meeting, scheduled for Saturday, January 21 at 9:45 am at the Bend Chamber of Commerce (777 NW Wall Street), will be attended by Mayor Jeff Eager, City Manager Eric King, Jack Holt, Tod Heisler of the Deschutes River Conservancy, Chamber President Steve Galash, Rep. Jason Conger, and Sen. Chris Telfer, among others.The full text of Walden’s letter is below:Ms. Lisa P. JacksonAdministrator, U.S. Environmental Protection AgencyAriel Rios Building1200 Pennsylvania AvenueN.W. Washington, DC 20460Dear Administrator Jackson:It is my understanding that the Environmental Protection Agency is conducting a periodic review of the 2006 Federal Long Term 2 Surface Water Treatment Rule (LT2) with respect to the rule’s open reservoir requirement. I would like to express my concerns regarding how the LT2 rule will affect the city of Bend, Oregon and its ratepayers who may be subjected to substantial rate increases.I ask that EPA provide Bend with flexibility beyond the current October 2014 deadline. If that flexibility is not granted, the city will be forced to decide between missing this arbitrary enforcement deadline or accelerating the project in a manner that would deal a dangerous economic blow to the city through substantial water rate increases to Bend ratepayers. The current estimated cost of Bend’s surface water treatment project is $68 million—$30 million of which is specifically tied to the compliance with the LT2 rule.The EPA should provide Bend the same flexibilities that the agency already provided communities like New York City and the Portland, Oregon. Specifically, I would urge you to allow Bend to negotiate with state authorities LT2 open source drinking water treatment compliance deadlines that provide more time and flexibility and take into account the financial hardships and project management limitations. This flexibility will allow the community of Bend to sequence compliance in a way that avoids burdensome impacts to the community while protecting public health and safety.Thank you for considering an extension of this deadline and more flexibility for Bend. I share your desire to ensure that our communities have the safest drinking water sources possible and I appreciate your efforts and willingness to find cost-effective ways to achieve these public safety protections.Best regards,Greg WaldenMember of Congress
01.19.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden today announced that he will hold a Telephone Town Hall discussion on Monday, January 23, from 9-10 a.m. PST.Rep. Walden will answer questions from residents of Oregon’s Second District on a variety of topics, including ways to get job creation going in southern, central, and eastern Oregon.Tens of thousands of households across the Second District will receive telephone calls beginning at 9 a.m. on Monday morning inviting them to participate in the discussion.Constituents who would like to ensure that they are called may RSVP for the Telephone Town Hall by 5 p.m. PST on Sunday, January 22. To register, contact Rep. Walden’s office toll-free at (800) 533-3303 or register on his website here.WHO: U.S. Rep. Greg WaldenWHAT: Telephone Town Hall discussion with Oregon’s Second District residentsWHEN: 9-10 a.m., Monday, January 23, 2012WHERE: To ensure that you receive a phone call, please RSVP with Rep. Walden’s office by 5 p.m. on Sunday, January 22 on his website or by calling his office toll-free at (800) 533-3303.
01.19.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement on the Obama Administration’s decision to reject the Keystone XL pipeline.“The Keystone Pipeline would mean 20,000 American jobs and $7 billion in private sector investment. The State Department bureaucrats have had this under review since 2008. They’ve had three years to figure it out. And now they say, ‘No, we haven’t had enough time.’ Look, Americans without a job are the ones who are running out of time.“These are real jobs in real communities that could have helped move America’s economy forward. It’s a great disappointment that the President and his administration have figured out a way to stop it. But we’re not going to give up on finding a way to move forward with the Keystone Pipeline.”
01.10.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. —U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) told FEMA Administrator W. Craig Fugate in a letter that Deschutes County should be commended for being careful with taxpayer dollars, instead of being punished for outside-the-box thinking.“Because of the economic downturn, small businesses and families nationwide are finding ways to stretch their dollars further than ever before,” Rep. Walden wrote. “Taxpayers should expect the same kind of commitment from their government, be it on the local, state, or federal level.”FEMA awarded Deschutes County with $6.7 million in federal grants in 2007 and 2008 to treat the region’s non-federal forests. To conserve taxpayer resources while treating as many acres as possible, the county allowed private landowners to clear their own private lots of fire-prone forest material and deposit the debris in communal drop spots. Rather than traveling to a far greater number of individual lots, county subcontractors were able to remove the debris from the communal drop spots. The costs savings allowed the county to treat more than 5,000 acres.“Since receiving the funding, the county has submitted quarterly progress reports to FEMA outlining their strategies and progress. At no point for more than two years did FEMA object to the county’s work,” Rep. Walden wrote.“Yet, all of a sudden in September 2010, FEMA informed the county that it would seek reimbursement for work ‘completed outside the project area.’ FEMA took the position that the private lots were not subject to proper environmental review before treatment. Deschutes County, however, documented the environmental review prior to receiving the grants. In fact, FEMA even referenced these lands in the county’s environmental review in its own Environmental Assessment,” Rep. Walden wrote.“Another environmental review on the same land would only be duplicative, time-consuming, and ultimately a waste of taxpayer dollars,” Rep. Walden wrote.“The county should be commended for being careful with the public’s hard-earned money; instead your agency is seeking to punish them for outside-the-box thinking. This is exactly the kind of bureaucratic thinking that makes taxpayers lose faith in their government agencies,” Rep. Walden wrote.Deschutes County Commissioner Tammy Baney will meet with FEMA officials in the nation’s capital tomorrow. In the letter, Rep. Walden strongly encouraged FEMA staff to work with Commissioner Baney to seek a swift resolution that doesn’t require the county to reimburse FEMA.The full text of the letter is below:January 6, 2012Administrator W. Craig FugateFederal Emergency Management Agency500 C Street S.W.Washington, D.C. 20472Dear Administrator Fugate,Because of the economic downturn, small businesses and families nationwide are finding ways to stretch their dollars further than ever before. Taxpayers should expect the same kind of commitment from their government, be it on the local, state, or federal level.In 2007 and 2008, FEMA awarded Deschutes County with “pre-disaster mitigation grants” totaling $6.7 million to help treat the region’s chronically unhealthy and overstocked non-federal forests.Deschutes County found a creative way to conserve taxpayer resources and treat as many acres as possible with the grant awarded to them. They allowed private landowners to clear their own private lots of fire-prone forest material and deposit the debris at geographically convenient drop spots. County subcontractors then removed the debris from a limited number of communal drop spots — rather than traveling to a far greater number of individual lots. The cost savings was tremendous, and allowed the county to treat more than 5,000 acres.Since receiving the funding, the county has submitted quarterly progress reports to FEMA outlining their strategies and progress. At no point for more than two years did FEMA object to the county’s work.Yet, all of a sudden in September 2010, FEMA informed the county that it would seek reimbursement for work “completed outside the project area.” FEMA took the position that the private lots were not subject to proper environmental review before treatment. Deschutes County, however, documented the environmental review prior to receiving the grants. In fact, FEMA even referenced these lands in the county’s environmental review in its own Environmental Assessment. Another environmental review on the same land would only be duplicative, time-consuming, and ultimately a waste of taxpayer dollars.The county should be commended for being careful with the public’s hard-earned money; instead your agency is seeking to punish them for outside-the-box thinking. This is exactly the kind of bureaucratic thinking that makes taxpayers lose faith in their government agencies.Deschutes County Commissioner Tammy Baney is traveling to Washington, D.C. next week where she will meet with some of your staff to hopefully resolve this situation. I strongly encourage your staff to work with Commissioner Baney and seek a swift resolution that doesn’t require Deschutes County to reimburse FEMA.Sincerely,Greg WaldenMember of Congress
01.10.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden has organized a bipartisan letter to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack that expresses strong support for funding two job-creating and large-scale forest restoration projects – one in the Lake County area and the other in Grant and Harney counties. The letter was signed by Walden, Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, and U.S. Reps. Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, and Earl Blumenauer.The “Lakeview Stewardship Landscape” and “Southern Blues Restoration Coalition” collaborative forest landscape restoration program (CFLRP) project proposals were reviewed and ranked by the CFLRP Advisory Committee as the top two proposals in the country. Since Congress fully funded the program this year, it is now up to Secretary Vilsack to select which projects will be funded.“I’ve been a proponent of this program as it focuses forest restoration and planning resources on large federal forest landscapes of at least 50,000 acres,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “These two projects encourage collaboration, economic growth, and large-scale forest health projects. In addition, these projects will reduce wildfire management costs and create a predictable supply of forest byproducts to stabilize local communities and infrastructure.”“Best of all, they will create and sustain jobs in areas of historically high unemployment,” Rep. Walden said. “We need jobs in these rural communities. Hopefully Secretary Vilsack follows the advisory committee’s recommendations.”The Lakeview proposal includes 150,000 acres to be treated, and estimates it will create more than 80 jobs. The Southern Blues proposal includes 271,980 acres to be treated, and estimates it will create more than 150 new jobs.“Harney County needs the jobs and forest resource production that will result from the large-scale work proposed by the Southern Blues Restoration project,” said Harney County Judge Steve Grasty. “The collaborative efforts behind this project are made up of diverse members who have come together to prioritize job creation and the need to improve the health of our federal forests. This project will actually lead to work and expand what has already been accomplished on a landscape scale.”“Congress has done its job, now Secretary Vilsack must do his by selecting these projects,” said Lake County Commissioner Dan Shoun. “The federal land managers in Lake County are ready, pen-in-hand, to sign task orders on already pre-approved projects that will create jobs once the Lakeview Stewardship Landscape proposal is selected. These jobs and the timber production look to stimulate new businesses and create even more jobs. This is exactly what has been needed to guarantee our forest and community health.”The letter asks Secretary Vilsack to make sure the projects receive his support and investment from the agency.
01.06.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — It’s one of those projects that hits all the right notes. Klamath Irrigation District (KID) is investing $2 million in a small-scale hydroelectric facility at the C-Drop that would create up to 18 jobs, 3,000 MWH of clean power annually, and hundreds of thousands of dollars in revenues every year.But it almost hit a fatal snag in the last week.Last year, KID received all the necessary state and federal agency approvals for the project after no objections were raised during public comment periods. Construction began in December on the hydroelectric facility at the “C-Drop,” where water from the A Canal spills into the C Canal. The project enjoys widespread support from organizations like the Oregon Energy Trust, the Klamath Tribes, and the Klamath Water Users Association.But at the 11th hour and long after the public comment period had closed, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) released a letter on December 29, 2011 that proposed construction of a fish screen at the C-Drop. Such a mandate, which would cost millions of dollars, would delay the project indefinitely, effectively killing it and sinking the investment already made by KID.A study performed last year by the Bureau of Reclamation already found that the project would not result in any significant impacts to wildlife, including protected fish species. That’s because a fish screen already exists on the A Canal, off which the C-Drop hydro facility is being built. In other words, a multi-million dollar fish screen on the C-Drop would be redundant and, ultimately, a waste of money.After learning of BIA’s letter, the office of Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) contacted the federal agencies involved to inquire about the last-minute threat to this popular job-creating clean energy project. KID received notice yesterday that BIA had dropped the concerns and construction could continue as planned.“These are the kinds of projects that everyone should be able to get behind,” Rep. Walden said. “I was deeply concerned when I heard that an unjustified 11th hour threat was made to this project—after construction had already begun. The project is creating good and much-needed jobs for the community and will create important revenue for both the Klamath Irrigation District and the county. I am glad that the federal agencies ultimately did the right thing and will allow this good, long-planned project continue to move forward.”“Thanks to Congressman Greg Walden and Department of the Interior staff, the Klamath Irrigation District can now again concentrate on the business at hand: completion of our hydro project and preparing for delivery of irrigation water that soon will also be able to produce clean power and revenues to the District,” said KID Manager Mark Stuntebeck.
12.22.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement upon announcement of an agreement to extend the payroll tax holiday and prevent a tax increase on working Americans in January.“I strongly believe that the House-passed plan to extend the payroll tax holiday for one year, unemployment insurance with reforms for 13 months, and a fix for Medicare reimbursement to our doctors for 24 months is the best policy that’s been offered so far,” Rep. Walden said. “However, I cannot stand by and watch working Americans endure a tax increase at the beginning of the year because the Senate refused to work with us on a long-term solution for America."“While I am disappointed that we will have to revisit this same issue in January and February, I know that American families shouldn’t have to worry through the holidays about a smaller paycheck and be punished in the New Year because of the Senate’s insistence on punting on this important issue for two months. We will continue to work hard toward a long term solution in January and February, and I am hopeful we can reach consensus on stronger policy for the American people—after all, that’s what they sent us here to do in the first place.”
12.21.2011	
12.20.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — House Speaker John Boehner today appointed U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore) to serve as one of eight House “conferees” to help negotiate differing tax and unemployment insurance plans passed by the House and Senate.“The $833.33 question is this: Do we go with the Senate plan that provides working Americans with $166.67 in payroll tax relief over two months, or the House Republican plan that would give middle class workers $1,000 in tax relief for a year?” asked Walden.“Do we go with the short-term Senate plan that the National Payroll Reporting Consortium, Inc., says, ‘…would create substantial problems, confusion and costs affecting a significant percentage of U.S. employers and employees’? Or do we pass the House Republican plan that provides more tax relief, extends unemployment insurance with real reforms and a year’s worth of certainty?”“And when it comes to making sure America’s senior citizens can see their doctors, doesn’t it make more sense to put a two-year plan in place for adequate physician payments, rather than a two-month plan, as proposed by the U.S. Senate?” asked Walden.President Obama said that, “Congress should not go home for vacation until it finds a way to avoid hitting 160 million Americans with a tax hike on January 1.” He added that it would be “inexcusable” not to extend this tax holiday for an entire year.“I for one am glad the House is back in session this week working toward an agreement with the Senate on tax reductions and unemployment extension with reforms,” Rep. Walden said. “The House sent the Senate a bipartisan plan to create jobs, take care of those seeking work, and help the middle class with tax relief. Why the Senate decided to instead punt by passing a 60-day Band-Aid and leaving town without any resolution is beyond me.”“The President is right when he said that it would be inexcusable for our elected leaders to enjoy an extended vacation and give 160 million Americans the worst kind of Christmas present: a tax increase. As a small business owner for more than two decades, I have this gut reaction when big problems get ignored and rhetoric is substituted for solutions.”“Enough is enough. It’s time to solve problems in Washington and get the job done,” Rep. Walden said. “The Senate should come back from vacation and come back to the lawmaking process so we can send a solution to the President for his signature.”
12.16.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. —A 15-year-long effort to replace the outdated National Guard armory in The Dalles with a new facility at Columbia Gorge Community College won approval by the House of Representatives today. The House passed legislation (296-121) that will fund the construction of The Dalles Readiness Center, a long-awaited project that would bring more jobs to the region. The armory is the top project in Oregon for the National Guard and the only one in Oregon identified for funding in the military construction legislation. The new facility will provide better training space for the Guard, additional classroom space for Columbia Gorge Community College, and new meeting and event facilities for the community at large. “I can’t think of an effort I’ve put more time and energy into over the years,” Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) said. “It’s nice to finally get this approval.” “The current armory is a 1950’s era building that quite frankly is in disrepair,” Rep. Walden said. “Our men and women in uniform deserve a modern facility. It’s been invaluable to have many years of partnership with The Dalles Community Outreach Team, Columbia Gorge Community College President Dr. Frank Toda, Sen. Ted Ferrioli, Rep. John Huffman, Mayor Jim Wilcox and his predecessors, the county commission, and veterans organizations as we have worked together to make this a reality.” “The city and its taxpayers also stand to benefit,” Rep. Walden added. “The land underneath the current armory, once replaced, could be leased as a prime piece of real estate to spur additional job growth.” This marks the second time that the House has passed legislation this year that included language to approve the construction of the new facility in The Dalles. The legislation must now be approved by the Senate before the President can sign it into law.
12.15.2011	Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012. The bill is a key mechanism by which the Congress of the United States fulfills its primary constitutional responsibilities, pursuant to Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution; to “provide for the common defense.” The bill ensures that our men and women in uniform deployed around the world have the equipment, resources, authorities, training, and time needed to successfully complete their missions and protect our freedom here in the United States.Many Americans voiced their concerns about earlier drafts of the bill that could be construed to extend new authority to detain U.S. citizens, and I shared these concerns about protecting our civil liberties. Thanks to Americans speaking out, the bipartisan bill was reworked to explicitly exempt U.S. citizens from these sections of the bill. The President cannot waive the citizen exemption.Here are details on the sections of the bill that were fixed (and if you’d like to read the bill, click here):DETAINING AL-QAEDA, THE TALIBAN, AND ASSOCIATED FORCES (Section 1021)This provision does not address or extend new authority to detain U.S. citizens. What it does do is affirm that the military may lawfully detain individuals who are engaged in armed conflict with the United States, as stated by the Authorization of the Use of Military Force. This provision was part of H.R. 1540, which passed the House overwhelmingly in May. It was upheld by a separate floor vote during House consideration. It does not, under any circumstances, strip or remove habeas rights -- as some organizations like the ACLU have claimed.Note on page 655: “Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect existing law or authorities relating to the detention of United States citizens, lawful resident aliens of the United States, or any other persons who are captured or arrested in the United States.” REQUIREMENT FOR MILITARY CUSTODY FOR FOREIGN AL-QAEDA TERRORISTS (Section 1022)In cases such as the Christmas Day Bomber, where a foreign terrorist is caught in a plot to attack the United States, establishes a new requirement for military custody. This provision only applies to foreign individuals who are part of, or substantially supporting, Al Qaeda or associated forces AND have participated in the course of planning or carrying out an attack or attempted attack against the United States or its coalition partners. It is vital that terrorists bent on waging war against American freedom are treated according to the laws of war, not treated like simple criminals.Note on page 657: “The requirement to detain a person in military custody under this section does not extend to citizens of the United States.”I do not believe that we must choose between our security and our freedom. This important bill protects both, protecting our freedom and our security at home and helping our soldiers deployed around the globe.
12.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC– In an ongoing effort to identify and eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse in federal programs, members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, including Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today requested an update on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ Medicare oversight.Members requested an update on the efforts of Zone Program Integrity Contractors and Medicare Administrative Contractors, which are tasked with identifying Medicare fraud and collecting overpayments. To evaluate how effectively these contractors are policing misuse of Medicare funds, the members requested information on the total number of investigations initiated, investigations initiated in response to complaints, investigations initiated as a result of proactive analysis, referrals to law enforcement agencies, requests for information, provider suspensions, overpayments identified, and overpayments recovered.Click here for a copy of the letter and questions to CMS Acting Administrator Marilyn Tavenner.###
12.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that he helped secure language in upcoming legislation that allows the Umatilla Chemical Depot to close under conditions the community had long prepared for, ensuring that economic development and other uses for the land can move forward as planned. The breakthrough overrules a decision made by a Pentagon official in May. The official concluded that because the destruction of weapons would go on past the expiration of the BRAC (Base Realignment and Closure) law, the depot would instead be closed under different protocols that would have upset years of careful balance by various community stakeholders. “The people of Umatilla and Morrow counties have spent more than 20 years and invested more than $1 million in taxpayer money to plan for the future of the Umatilla Chemical Depot’s 20,000-acre facility. Working together, local community leaders developed a plan that is fair to all sides,” Rep. Walden said. “However, one lawyer in the Pentagon nearly upended all that work through his interpretation of the law. When informed of this change over the summer, I—along with Sen. Ron Wyden and Sen. Jeff Merkley—worked in a bipartisan way with defense and appropriations leaders in Congress to that ensure the Umatilla depot is closed as long planned. “Today, I am pleased to announce that legislation that both chambers of Congress will vote on as soon as this week includes a provision to close the Umatilla depot under the BRAC process, ensuring that the future of the site will be determined by the local community.” The language, which ensures that the depot will be closed under the BRAC process, was included in the larger National Defense Authorization Act, which is expected to be passed into law by the end of the year. On June 23, 2011, Rep. Walden, along with Senators Wyden and Merkley, wrote to then-Secretary of Defense Robert Gates requesting a review of the Pentagon’s decision to reverse course on more than 20 years of local planning. Rep. Walden spoke personally about the issue with Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon, House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Bill Young, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Culberson. Planning for the closure of the depot dates back to 1990, when Governor Neil Goldschmidt appointed the “Umatilla Depot Task Force,” a group charged with making a master plan for the use of the Depot after it is closed. At the request of the Department of the Army, in 1994 a Local Reuse Authority (LRA) was organized to administer the transition from military to civilian use under the BRAC process. On July 20, the Senate unanimously approved an amendment to an appropriations bill to close the depot under BRAC — however, that bill has not been signed into law. On October 25, the last container of weapons was destroyed at the depot.
11.29.2011	WASHINGTON, DC– House Energy and Commerce Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) today unveiled the Jumpstarting Opportunity with Broadband Spectrum (JOBS) Act of 2011. The JOBS Act will advance wireless broadband service, spur billions of dollars in private investment, create thousands of jobs, help bring interoperable broadband communications to public safety officials, and reduce the deficit by approximately $15 billion. The legislation is the culmination of five hearings and extensive bipartisan negotiations to use voluntary incentive auctions to make more efficient and effective use of the public’s airwaves and support establishment of a nationwide, interoperable, broadband public safety network. Walden issued the following statement:“It’s time to unleash the full potential of America’s most innovative job-creating sector. Congress has an obligation to give America’s wireless industry the tools it needs to do what it does best: innovate and create the kinds of jobs that will keep America’s economy competitive in the 21st century.“Following nearly a year of hearings, meetings, and negotiations, I am disappointed that we could not develop a bipartisan bill. But for the sake of the economy and public safety, we need to take the best ideas, which are represented in the JOBS Act, and move forward with a subcommittee vote on Thursday. No party, special interest, or lobby gets everything they want in this legislation. But for the American people, it delivers on three important goals for the country: job creation, a nationwide public safety network, and deficit reduction.“During a visit to Silicon Valley earlier this month, I met with job creators in the industry who made it clear that Congress must act to clear the market to unleash the potential of wireless broadband. The JOBS Act of 2011 authorizes incentive auctions that will spur economic growth and job creation in an industry that impacts the daily lives of nearly every American business, consumer, and citizen.“Everyone shares the goal of creating a nationwide, interoperable public safety network on spectrum dedicated for that purpose. The JOBS Act of 2011 would give the public safety sector the contiguous 20-MHz block of spectrum they have asked for, along with up to $6.5 billion to build an interoperable public safety network that Americans deserve.“Finally, at a time when Americans expect their government to stick to a budget—just like every business and family must do—the JOBS Act of 2011 provides for approximately $15 billion in deficit reduction for the taxpayer.“Congress has a unique opportunity to deliver on multiple fronts for the American people. The JOBS Act of 2011 delivers job creation, dedicated public safety spectrum, and deficit reduction at a time when the country could use a good boost in all three areas.”
11.16.2011	By Rep. Greg Walden and Rep. Adam KinzingerThe technology and communications sector is the most innovative in our country—it deserves the most innovative and open government agency. Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski has taken some steps to open his agency’s processes to the public. However, only Congress can make permanent these reforms and others to ensure that the FCC is the kind of accountable federal agency that taxpayers deserve.To that end, the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology today (Wednesday 16th Nov) will examine a bill we recently introduced, the FCC Process Reform Act, that would put good government reforms into law for the current Commission—and for all those to come in the future.As of this summer, 1,351,898 consumer complaints, 5,328 petitions from industry stakeholders, and 4,034 license applications and renewals had been pending at the FCC for more than two years.That is over one million consumers whose complaints have not been heard, more than five thousand industry questions that have not been answered, and more than four thousand licensees who may not invest in their businesses because they’re still waiting for the FCC to tell them they can keep operating.The FCC can do better—and it does when it is held accountable. The FCC has shot clocks for some proceedings, but not others. When it has a shot clock, the FCC beats it more than 71 percent of the time. Any fifth grader can tell you why: when you have a deadline, you meet it.And today, the FCC must report to Congress each year about how quickly it processes junk fax complaints, but not other complaints. The reporting works: even though the agency had almost 3,400 junk fax complaints pending this summer, only 20 were more than two years old.The public should know how long it will take the FCC to act when they file a petition, and Congress should know whether the FCC is meetings its own deadlines.Taking a page from the President’s Executive Order, the bill would require cost-benefit analyses for economically significant rules, where increased scrutiny is most warranted. And drawing on recommendations from the Government Accountability Office, the bill would only require performance measures for those programs where the FCC collects and spends $100 million or more of federal funds.The legislation is the result of an open, transparent, and accountable process. We have held two hearings on FCC process reform and substantially refined our legislation as a result of the testimony we received. We have listened to stakeholders and reached across the aisle to understand the views of all involved.This isn’t our first time tackling transparency and process issues in the federal government. Earlier this year, the House Transition Team implemented reforms to the House rules, including the “read the bill” requirement that ensures the press, public, and members of Congress have at least three days to study legislation before it receives a vote on the House floor.What we understood then—and still do today—is that improving how our government agencies operate shouldn’t be a partisan issue. Both parties’ histories are marred by abuses of good government. That applies to Congress as it does to the FCC.As policymakers, we owe it to the taxpayers to learn from these transgressions and protect against them moving forward.We believe Chairman Genachowski shares that spirit. During his tenure, the FCC has reduced the number of backlogged broadcasting applications by 30 percent and the number of satellite applications by 89 percent; the FCC has used a streamlined process to approve more than 18,000 transactions; and the FCC has closed almost 1,000 dormant proceedings.But acts of good government like these should not vary from administration to administration.Much work remains before the FCC can meet fully the expectations of the American people. Taxpayers and the telecommunications sector deserve what only Congress can give them—reforms that will last from one chairman to the next, regardless of which party controls the legislature or the FCC.Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is chairman of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee. Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) is a member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and cosponsor of the FCC Process Reform Act of 2011.Source:https://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/193881-a-goal-we-should-all-share-a-21st-century-fcc
11.15.2011	“Oregon’s federally forested communities deserve a long-term plan that allows them to return to the tradition of self-reliance that embodies the best traditions of our state."We have worked together over the last several months to build a balanced plan that brings jobs back into the federal forests through sustainable management, ensures the health of federal forests for future generations, and provides funding certainty for our rural schools, roads, and law enforcement agencies."We have made significant progress to bridge our differences and anticipate unveiling soon a bipartisan plan that will win the support of a diverse coalition of groups who hold a keen interest in the health of our federal forests and the economic well-being of Oregon’s rural communities.”
10.26.2011	
10.17.2011	TO SUBMIT YOUR IDEA, CLICK HERE. Walden will share some of the submitted ideas on floor of the House of Representatives WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) says Washington isn’t listening to America’s job creators. He wants to share the ideas of Oregon’s small business owners with Congress. So, in letters to Oregon’s job creators this week, Rep. Walden is asking, “What stands in the way of you creating one more job?” TO SUBMIT YOUR IDEA, CLICK HERE. He will highlight some of the submitted ideas in speeches on the floor of the House of Representatives in the coming weeks so his colleagues can hear what Oregonians think about how we can get private sector jobs going again. “As a small business owner for nearly 22 years in Oregon, I know that small business owners know what stands in the way of them creating one more job. It’s time Washington listens to them,” Rep. Walden said. “What will it take for you to be able to create one more job? What are some ideas you have about how to reform the tax code and cut unnecessary government red tape?” Rep. Walden is asking. Rep. Walden wants to hear from you: what would allow you to create one more job? TO SUBMIT YOUR IDEA, CLICK HERE. “This year, I’ve joined my colleagues in the House in writing and passing legislation to empower small business owners by repealing unnecessary government regulations, fixing the tax code to help job creators, encouraging entrepreneurship and growth, and paying down America’s unsustainable debt burden,” Rep. Walden said. For example, Rep. Walden strongly supportedthe successful repeal of the burdensome “1099 requirement” that would have required businesses to complete 1099 tax forms for most business-to-business transactions above $600 in a calendar year. He also voted in the House to empower small business owners and ensure that federal agencies are not implementing duplicative or unachievable burdens on small businesses, such as the Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act (H.R. 872), the Energy Tax Prevention Act (H.R. 910), and the EPA Regulatory Relief Act (Boiler MACT, H.R. 2250).
10.13.2011	Manassas, VA – NRB presented its Faith & Freedom Award to Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology.“We are privileged to honor Congressman Greg Walden with this award,” said NRB President and CEO Dr. Frank Wright. “With his background as a broadcaster in Oregon, he has stood strong in the House in the defense of liberty with his efforts to remove the Fairness Doctrine from the federal code. We are very grateful for his leadership on the Commerce Committee and in the House of Representatives.”NRB annually presents the Faith & Freedom Award to a stalwart defender of religious liberty at its Capitol Hill Media Summit, the annual gathering of the NRB President’s Council. Past recipients include then-Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN).About NRB The National Religious Broadcasters (NRB) is a non-partisan, international association of Christian communicators whose member organizations represent millions of listeners, viewers, and readers. Our mission is to advance biblical truth; to promote media excellence; and to defend free speech. In addition to promoting standards of excellence, integrity, and accountability, NRB provides networking, educational, ministry, and fellowship opportunities for its members. Learn more at www.nrb.org.
10.12.2011	Medicare is a critical program that helps seniors achieve health security. But the truth is, without urgent action from Congress, Medicare will go bankrupt in about a decade’s time. I support a plan that protects the program for those 55-years of age and older, and takes action to strengthen Medicare so it is available for future generations, too.THE FACTSThe average American household spends nearly 50 times more on healthcare today than it spent in 1960. As a result, healthcare spending has gone from consuming 5.6 percent of our economy in 1960, to consuming 17.6 percent of our economy today.Medicare is a top driver of this unsustainable increase in costs. If we do nothing, Medicare spending will nearly double in the next decade, exhausting its remaining funds and going bankrupt by 2020, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.Medicare and other mandatory entitlement programs cost $1.5 trillion in 2010. That’s more than our total annual defense budget. The first of 77 million baby boomers turn 65 this year and qualify for Medicare. Enrollment will grow from 48 million in 2010 to 64 million in 2020 and 81 million in 2030, according to Medicare actuaries.According to 2010 figures, the average single male wage earner paid $58,000 into the system during their lifetime, but will receive $167,000 in benefits. In 2030, this figure is exasperated, with the average beneficiary paying $87,000 into and receiving $251,000 out of the Medicare program.ACCESS TO A DOCTORSo what does it mean for you when the Medicare Part A trust fund can no longer cover its debts? It means that the federal government will be forced to significantly reduce reimbursements to doctors. The end result is fewer doctors who will accept seniors with Medicare: that’s less access and fewer services for America’s seniors.Most doctors will tell you they lose money by participating in Medicare. Studies show that doctors and other healthcare providers faced with further Medicare reductions will simply stop accepting new Medicare patients, limit the services they offer, or stop taking Medicare patients altogether.The American Medical Association says that nearly one-third of primary care physicians restrict the number of Medicare patients in their practice, and the American Academy of Family Physicians reports that 13% of its doctors simply don’t accept Medicare patients, up from 8% in 2008 and 6% in 2004.PROTECTING MEDICARE NOW, SAVING IT FOR FUTURE GENERATIONSThe House of Representatives is the only chamber of Congress to have voted on a plan to save the Medicare trust fund’s past its projected bankruptcy date in one decade’s time.For Americans age 55 and upHouse plan:* No changes whatsoever.President’s plan*$500 billion in cuts to Medicare Advantage (under the new health law)*Further reduce Medicare payments to providers by handing over control to an unelected board of bureaucrats, the Independent Payment Advisory Board (under the new health law)For future generationsHouse plan: *Implements reforms similar to the successful Part D and Medicare Advantage programs to rein in the exploding costs of Medicare, while ensuring choices and access for America’s seniors*Offers future beneficiaries the same kind of health-care options available to Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit enrollees*Uses a means test so wealthy Americans contribute morePresident’s plan: *No plan to save Medicare past its bankruptcy date*Continues physician reimbursement cuts that threaten access to healthcareBuilding on the success of Medicare Part DThe House plan would be similar to the successful Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit, which allows seniors to shop around and choose their insurance provider based on their individual needs. Because of the competitive nature of Part D, the program has come in way under budget.Current estimates put the Part D program’s cost to the federal government at less than 41% what was originally projected, and that the premiums paid are substantially less. The original projection for average monthly premiums for 2011 was $53, whereas actual premiums are $30.HOW THE NEW HEALTHCARE LAW HURTS MEDICARE One of the early votes Rep. Walden cast in 2011 was to repeal the sweeping new healthcare legislation signed into law by President Obama.The new health law eliminated $500 billion in Medicare Advantage (MA) payments. Over 254,000 Oregon seniors, or 41% of the state’s Medicare population, have a Medicare Advantage plan. Nationally, only about one-quarter of the entire Medicare population has Medicare Advantage, meaning that cutting the program for Oregon seniors could have a much deeper impact.Rather than use this $500 billion to contribute to the Medicare trust fund’s insolvency, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said that it “would be used to pay for other spending and would therefore not enhance the ability of the government to pay for future Medicare benefits.”The new law created a board of unelected and unaccountable officials, called the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), who will be paid hefty salaries and will be specifically charged with finding ways to reduce Medicare reimbursement to doctors, as well as what services the program will and will not cover.The end result of the $500 billion in Medicare Advantage cuts and the cuts implemented by the IPAB is less access for seniors to doctors willing to accept them. It would also drive prices up as providers still willing to accept Medicare patients would be forced to offset their losses by charging more for non-Medicare patients.
09.29.2011	“We could start creating jobs by freezing the tidal wave of proposed federal regulations aimed at job creators until Congress can review and approve them.” - U.S. Rep. Greg WaldenFederal agencies are moving forward with a mind-boggling 4,257 new regulations that only add to the uncertainty that small business owners already feel. According to the Small Business Administration, regulations cost U.S. employers $1.75 trillion every year.A recent study by the Heritage Foundation found that an unprecedented 43 major regulations were imposed in FY 2010 with a total economic cost of $26.5 billion, the highest total since at least 1981. Small businesses — which have created 65% of all new jobs in the past 15 years — face an annual regulatory cost of $10,585 per employee, which is 36% higher than the cost facing large firms.What Congress can do to create jobs:Put Oregonians back to work in the woodsSince 1980, 74% of the mills in Oregon have closed, destroying more than 30,000 jobs.In 1980, 405 Oregon mills were in operation and provided 45,778 mill jobs. Today, just 106 mills are in operation, providing 15,706 jobs.In Oregon, the federal government owns 60% of the forests, but does 12% of the harvest.Land trust for schools, cops, and roads:Nationwide, trusts annually return billions from resources on states’ land. In Washington, 2.9 million acres of public land is managed in trust for schools. In 2005, they produced gross revenues of nearly $300 million. Pass the TRAIN Act (H.R. 2401; Rep. Walden is a cosponsor)Require an interagency committee to assess the combined impacts of recent large environmental regulations.Delays the Utility MACT rule and new transport rule, which would cost $17.8 billion each year, destroy 1.44 million jobs by 2020, and increase electricity costs by 12%.Passed the House of Representatives on Friday, awaits action in the Senate. Pass the EPA Regulatory Relief Act (H.R. 2250; Rep. Walden is a cosponsor)Protects 200,000 jobs that EPA’s boiler rules put at risk.Per Obama’s executive order, tells EPA to reissue rules that are less burdensome.Passed the House Committee on Energy and Commerce by bipartisan 36-14 vote. Pass the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act (H.R. 2681; Rep. Walden is a cosponsor):EPA threatens to shutter 20% of U.S. cement manufacturing plants in the next 2 years.The Ash Grove cement plant in Durkee has invested $20 million to install the latest technology to reduce its mercury emissions by 90%, the highest level achievable with today’s technology, but EPA wants a 98% reduction, putting more than 100 jobs at risk.Passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee by bipartisan 33-12 vote. Approve trade pacts with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea to create 250,000 new U.S. jobs.
09.26.2011	On Friday, September 23, Rep. Greg Walden co-hosted a breakfast reception honoring World War II veterans from Oregon visiting the nation's capital through Honor Flight of Eastern Oregon. He submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record to mark the occassion.HON. GREG WALDENOF OREGONIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Wednesday, September 21, 2011________ Tribute to Honor Flight of Eastern Oregon and Honor Flight of Portland OregonMr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the 47 World War II veterans from Oregon who will be visiting their memorial this Friday in Washington, DC through Honor Flight of Eastern Oregon and the newly created Honor Flight of Portland, Oregon. On behalf of a grateful state and country, we welcome these heroes to the nation's capital.The veterans on this flight from Oregon are: Elmer Beickel, U.S. Navy; Hayes Bickford, U.S. Navy; John Cleveland, U.S. Navy; Charles Decker, U.S. Navy; Leon Devereaux, Jr., U.S. Navy; Melvin Elder, U.S. Navy; Robert Ervin, U.S. Navy; Roice Fulleton, U.S. Navy; Robert Heisey, U.S. Navy; Dale Herbert, U.S. Navy; James Ogle, U.S. Navy; Edward Rose, Jr., U.S. Navy; Willard Rudd, U.S. Navy; Cameron Seitz, U.S. Navy; Russell Williams, U.S. Navy; Glen Winkler U.S. Navy; Peter McNab U.S. Navy; Henry Campuzano, U.S. Army; Vyvyan Clift, U.S. Army; James Dorgan, U.S. Army; Neil Farnham, U.S. Army; Howard Heimbuch, U.S. Army; James Howard, U.S. Army; Charles Keim, U.S. Army; Gerald Mattox, U.S. Army; William McCluhan, U.S. Army; Elliott Preble, U.S. Army; Erwin Regan, U.S. Army; James Sehorn, U.S. Army; Darrell Thompson, U.S. Army; Donald Thompson, U.S. Army; Clayton Vincent, U.S. Army; Patsy Seaman, U.S. Women’s Army Corps; Bernard Anderson, U.S. Army Air Forces; Lee Berry, Jr., U.S. Army Air Forces; T. Carl Juhl, U.S. Army Air Forces; Jack Lewis, U.S. Army Air Forces; Robert Marble, U.S. Army Air Forces; Frank Ramirez, U.S. Army Air Forces; Walter Seaman, U.S. Army Air Forces; Gilbert Sharp, U.S. Army Air Forces; Dewey Thomas, U.S. Army Air Forces; Delbert Stafford U.S. Army Air Forces; Donald Foelker, U.S. Marine Corps; Charles Porter, Jr., U.S. Coast Guard; Wayne Carlson, U. S. Merchant Marine; Paul Kirk, U.S. Merchant Marine.These 47 heroes join more than 63,000 veterans from across the country who, since 2005, have journeyed from their home states to Washington, DC to reflect at the memorials built in honor of our nation's veterans. Mr. Speaker, each of us is humbled by the courage of these soldiers, sailors, airmen, mariners and one Marine who put themselves in harm's way for our country and way of life. As a nation, we can never fully repay the debt of gratitude owed to them for their honor, commitment, and sacrifice in defense of the freedoms we have today. I will be hosting a special forum on Capitol Hill on Friday for these highly distinguished Americans, and I'm very eager to thank them all in person.My colleagues, please join me in thanking these veterans and the volunteers of Honor Flight of Eastern Oregon and Portland, Oregon for their exemplary dedication and service to this great country. I especially want to recognize Dick Tobiason, a U.S. Army veteran, and the Bend Heroes Foundation whose tireless work will result in over 100 WWII veterans from Oregon visiting the memorials and U.S. Capitol.Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
09.22.2011	Draft legislation considered today would replace ‘county payments’ with a solution that produces revenue for schools, law enforcement, and roads by putting Oregonians back to work in the woodsWASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden released the following statement following the House Natural Resources Committee’s hearing on draft legislation to increase active federal forest management, put Oregonians back to work in the woods, and create revenue for rural schools, first responders, and transportation budgets.“The House Natural Resources Committee today took the first step toward developing a long-term sustainable solution for our rural forest communities. There is bipartisan agreement that the status quo doesn’t work. Counties don’t want a federal handout anymore. Oregonians want jobs back in their communities and forests that are actively managed instead of tied up in endless lawsuits.“Unemployment remains at unacceptably high levels. Our federal forests are choked due to overgrowth and the resulting wildfire comes at extraordinary costs to federal taxpayers. Forest management is frozen on public lands, due in large part to endless litigation against productive use or maintenance of our renewable natural resources. It’s time to put Oregonians back to work in the woods to improve the health of our forests and re-establish the federal government’s commitment to federally forested counties. “The most certain way to bolster local school, law enforcement, and transportation budgets is to put people back to work so they can earn a paycheck and contribute taxes. That’s all rural Oregonians are asking for — access to work once more on the public lands that surround their communities. Solutions like the one the committee explored today is what our forests and rural economies need, and I look forward to continuing to work with the committee and my colleagues to move this legislation forward so it can be signed into law and put people back to work in the woods.”
09.20.2011	By JOSEPH DITZLEREast Oregonianhttps://bit.ly/oPPXqlAnother prominent Republican congressman, a member of the so-called super committee, Friday downplayed tax increases as a viable option to reduce the national debt.U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-Mich., visiting the Pendleton Round-Up, echoed remarks Thursday by House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, who said the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction should rule out tax increases as a tool in reaching its target of $1.5 trillion in spending cuts.You must be logged in with the proper services to print this article.“Most of us don’t mind new revenues as long as it’s not an increase in taxes,” said Upton. “But rather more people working and paying taxes.”Upton, one of 12 on the bipartisan deficit-reduction committee, is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. He rolled along with his host, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., and their wives Friday morning in a horse-drawn stagecoach in the Westward Ho! Parade in Pendleton. Afterward, the group ate lunch at the hospitality suite on the Round-Up Grounds before Walden and Upton met with reporters at the rodeo bucking chutes.Upton said he bailed out of the parade partway to take a phone call related to super-committee business. “I had a little cauliflower ear from standing in the Albertson’s parking lot for a little while,” he said. The committee convened for the first time Sept. 8. It meets again Tuesday.The deficit-reduction, or super, committee emerged as part of a deal to raise the national debt ceiling in August and remove an impasse between the Republican-controlled House of Representatives and the Democratic administration of President Barack Obama. The public perceived the government as preoccupied in narrow partisan squabbling while the nation inched to the brink of default on its financial obligations, and with it economic ruin.The super committee, comprised of six Republican and six Democratic members of the House and Senate, has until Nov. 23 to find $1.5 trillion in cuts in the federal budget. If it fails, automatic, across-the-board cuts will kick in.Economic growth alone can solve the problem, Upton said.“For every 1/10th of a percent increase in GDP (Gross Domestic Product), that is the equivalent of $300 billion in deficit reduction. So if you can raise the growth rate by a half a percent, from 2½ to 3, from 3 to 3½, that is the equivalent of the bottom line of what we need, one and a half trillion dollars,” he said.Thursday, Boehner told an audience in Washington, D.C., that “tax increases, however, are not a viable option” for the super committee. Spending cuts and reform of entitlement programs are the way to go, Boehner said. His remarks were reported as a return to the entrenched partisanship that marked the debt-ceiling standoff.Boehner did not rule out tax reform, but stressed reform that “will lower rates for individuals and corporations” while closing loopholes and exceptions for special interests.Upton and Walden emphasized regulatory relief for small business, especially, as a path toward economic recovery.“We’ve lost one in five manufacturing jobs in the last 10 years — most of those have been in Michigan,” Upton said. “I don’t think you’ll see anyone on the Republican side looking to raise tax rates … that would really drive folks’ jobs somewhere else. We need to put people back to work.”Upton and Walden, the lone Republican in the Oregon delegation to Washington, D.C., and the Republican leadership chairman, both said they found encouraging the administration’s willingness to roll back regulations they said kill the small-business impetus to hire.They also commented on results of a CBS/New York Times poll released Friday that showed 80 percent of Americans disapprove of the job Congress is doing.“People knew that the debt ceiling was a real fracas,” Upton said. “Greg (Walden)?and I?were both on the side of ‘can’t let the country default, no way.’ But we also knew that we had to use it to find a solution to long-term debt and that’s exactly what we’re doing.”
09.15.2011	Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) sent the following letter to the U.S. Forest Service expressing concern about the spread of the Dollar Lake Fire:September 13, 2011 Chris WorthSupervisorMt. Hood National Forest16400 Champion WaySandy, Oregon 97055Dear Supervisor Worth,As a lifelong Oregonian who recreates on Mt. Hood and has been a longtime advocate for forest health and the mountain, I have great concerns about reports I have heard that this fire could have been extinguished much earlier during its infancy. With that deep kinship to the mountain and its importance to Oregon, I write to share my concerns and those voiced to me by my constituents regarding the Dollar Lake Fire on the Mt. Hood National Forest.I understand and appreciate the fact that you and your crews are currently doing everything possible to contain and ultimately extinguish this fire. Oregonians are grateful for the tireless work performed by the men and women that volunteer to put themselves on the front lines of defense against these wildfires.Unfortunately, local residents who live nearby the fire have relayed to me that the United States Forest Service could have launched a much faster response to this fire during its early stages but instead chose to let the fire, then only a handful of acres, burn. As I write this letter, the size of the blaze is approximately 6,100 acres.I also understand from local reports that the Dollar Lake Fire poses health risks to surrounding communities that have been inundated by smoke. As you know, the fire is also perilously close to one of the most important watersheds in the state and it threatens valuable state and county forest lands that are used to generate significant amounts of revenue for Oregon roads and schools. It is also my understanding that the fire has adversely affected private businesses that count on recreation and tourism revenues from visitors to the forest, especially since the fire was well underway during one of the busiest weekends of the year – Labor Day weekend. The costs to fight this fire have risen to over $9 million and are likely to far exceed that before it is extinguished given the fire is only 40 percent contained.After the fire is under control, I ask that you please brief me on the timeline and decisions made during the earliest stages of the fire. I also ask that you and your staff provide me with details about the forest health conditions and land designations in the burned area, and an explanation of how you plan to address the post fire forest clean up and restoration in areas where allowed.Thank you for your efforts to devote the necessary resources to bring this fire under control. The fire and its impacts on public land and communities comes at a high cost to the taxpayer and local businesses. Best regards,Greg WaldenMember of Congress Cc: The Honorable Tom Tidwell, Chief, United States Forest ServiceKent Connaughton, Regional Forester, Pacific Northwest Region, United States Forest Service
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement following the President’s address to Congress.“As Americans, we’re all concerned about the need to create good and sustainable jobs,” Rep. Walden said. “Congress and the White House should seek common ground to remove barriers to job creation in the private sector, so I look forward to reviewing the finer details of the President’s proposal.”“We could start by freezing the tidal wave of proposed federal regulations aimed at job creators until Congress can review and approve them. Federal agencies are moving forward with a mind-boggling 4,257 new regulations that only add to the uncertainty that small business owners already feel. According to the Small Business Administration, regulations cost U.S. employers $1.75 trillion every year.”“I hear the same thing from business owners all across Oregon: the economy is already on the rocks, and with thousands of proposed rules and regulations aimed at private business, small business owners feel too paralyzed to invest confidently in their enterprise or new jobs. It’s frustrating for investors, employers, and job seekers alike.”“Here in Oregon, we’re battling the EPA on numerous rules that threaten to destroy hundreds of jobs in rural Oregon by shutting down the cement plant in Durkee and further regulating boilers all across the state.”“Especially at a time when so much of our forestland is going up in smoke, Congress has an obligation to act and deliver a real solution that puts Oregonians back to work in the woods, makes our forests healthy for habitat and taxpayer alike, and spares counties the uncertainty of wondering every few years if the federal government will owe up to its end of the bargain of supporting rural roads, schools, and emergency services.”“We can and should approve three pending trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea that open new markets to Oregon products and create up to 250,000 new American jobs.”“Finally, the House has passed more than a dozen pro-growth measures to address the jobs crisis. The Senate can pick up the work that the House has started and take up these measures quickly to eliminate unnecessary regulations on small businesses, produce American energy from domestic resources, and rein in out-of-control spending in Washington.”“The American people rightly expect their elected leaders to find common ground where possible to move the country and the economy forward. In the House, we stand ready to work with any serious and willing partners interested in removing barriers to creating new jobs in the private sector.”Jobs-related bills passed by the House of Representatives that await action in the Senate:The Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act (H.R. 872), which would halt duplicative federal regulations on farmers and small business owners that are impeding job creation. The Energy Tax Prevention Act (H.R. 910), which would stop the federal bureaucracy from imposing a job-destroying national energy tax. The Clean Water Cooperative Federalism Act (H.R. 2018), which would restrict the federal government’s ability to second-guess or delay a state’s permitting and water quality certification decisions under the Clean Water Act once the EPA has already approved a state’s program, preventing approval process delays that cost jobs and leave businesses hampered by uncertainty. The Consumer Financial Protection & Soundness Improvement Act (H.R. 1315), which would increase consumer protection and government accountability by eliminating the ability of Dodd-Frank’s unelected Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director to unilaterally carry out regulations that hurt job growth. The Restarting American Offshore Leasing Now Act (H.R. 1230), which would help to address high gas prices and support the creation of new American jobs by increasing offshore energy production. The Putting the Gulf of Mexico Back to Work Act (H.R. 1229) and the Reversing President Obama’s Offshore Moratorium Act (H.R. 1231), which would help to put thousands of Americans back to work by ending the de facto moratorium on American energy production in the Gulf of Mexico in a safe, responsible and transparent manner by setting firm timelines for considering permits to drill. The Jobs and Energy Permitting Act of 2011 (H.R. 2021), which would streamline the permit process for American energy production to help lower prices and create tens of thousands of new jobs. The North American-Made Energy Security Act (H.R. 1938), which would require the federal government to make a determination by a date certain on whether or not it will allow the Keystone XL pipeline expansion, which is projected to directly create 20,000 jobs and support the creation of thousands more, to move forward. A Budget for Fiscal Year 2012 (H.Con.Res 34). With Washington’s failure to control spending hurting job creation in America, the House has passed its budget, while the Senate has not yet considered a budge of its own.
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications Technology Chairman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Vice Chairman Lee Terry (R-Neb.) released the following joint statement on the “America’s Broadband Connectivity Plan.”“We are encouraged by the growing consensus among stakeholders as developed in the ‘America’s Broadband Connectivity Plan’ filed with the Federal Communications Commission today, and we hope that consensus will continue to grow. The Universal Service Fund and the intercarrier compensation regime are broken in many ways and both need to be fixed. We urge the FCC to use the momentum this proposal has created to complete the reform process this fall. “The stakes are high in rural districts across America where access to affordable phone and broadband service is essential for economic growth, job creation and the quality of rural healthcare and education.“All those who have an interest in reforming the USF and intercarrier compensation should weigh the proposal carefully and consider using it as a basis for continued dialogue and discussion with the FCC.”
07.19.2011	Washington, D.C.– The Oregon congressional delegation today asked the Inspector General of the National Guard Bureau to investigate the Guard’s refusal to honor bonus contracts signed by members of the Oregon National Guard.Six members of the Oregon National Guard have contacted Oregon’s congressional offices seeking help after the Guard failed to honor the second half of bonus contracts.The letter from the delegation to the Inspector General cites the example of PFC Chelsea Wells, a Milton-Freewater native, who enlisted in Dec. 2007 and signed a contract for a $20,000 bonus. The first half of the bonus was paid on time following her initial training. However, when she was due to receive the second half of her bonus in Dec. 2010, the Guard refused to pay, claiming that she was never qualified in the first place. Worse yet, the Guard said it intends to seek recoupment of the first half of the bonus.“As a country, we ask these brave men and women to serve their country and promise to compensate them for their service,” the members of Oregon’s Congressional delegation wrote to Inspector General H. Cronin Byrd. “These soldiers should not be punished due to a potential clerical error by the Guard. They deserve better than a bait and switch from Uncle Sam.”“We request that you swiftly investigate the violation of these contracts by the Guard to resolve why these soldiers will be unfairly punished for mistakes outside of their control,” they wrote. “Furthermore, we understand that the problem is not isolated to soldiers in Oregon, and we fear that many soldiers that have been denied some or all of their bonuses have not come forward to tell their stories. How many soldiers, both in Oregon and nationwide, have been denied bonuses in a similar fashion to PFC Wells?”Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, and U.S. Reps. Greg Walden, Earl Blumenauer, Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, and David Wu signed the letter.The full text of the letter is below. Mr. H. Cronin ByrdInspector General, National Guard BureauArlington Hall Station111 S George Mason DriveBldg 2, 3rd Floor-TI342Arlington, VA 22204Dear Mr. Byrd:We write today to request an investigation into the National Guard reneging on the bonus annex of the enlistment contracts of Oregon National Guard soldiers. Six members of the Oregon National Guard have contacted our offices to inform us that the National Guard has refused to honor the second half of bonus contracts they signed in late 2007.For example, PFC Chelsea Wells, a native of Milton-Freewater, enlisted as a 35F (intelligence analyst) in December 2007. She signed an annex to her enlistment document (DD Form 4) that stipulated she would receive a $20,000 bonus for enlisting in a critical Military Occupation Specialty (MOS). The agreement, signed by the enlisting official at her processing station, also stipulated that she would receive the first half of the bonus upon completion of her initial training, and the second half of the bonus upon completion of 36 months of enlistment.PFC Wells indeed received the first half of her bonus — $10,000 — upon completion of her initial training. However, when the 36-month anniversary of her enlistment arrived, she was denied the second half of her bonus.Following an official congressional inquiry, the National Guard Bureau Office of Legislative Liaison stated that the payments have been denied because her MOS was not on the critical skills list on the date of enlistment. However, the annex offered to and signed by PFC Wells very specifically stated that her MOS, 35F, was indeed a “Critical Skill MOS.”What’s even more disturbing is that the National Guard says it intends to recoup the first half of PFC Wells’ bonus — $10,000.The stories of at least five more Oregon National Guard soldiers, all who enlisted during the latter months of 2007, are all similar. However, the soldiers enlisted in various MOS specialties, and were not all processed through the same facility.As a country, we ask these brave men and women to serve their country and promise to compensate them for their service. These soldiers should not be punished due a potential clerical error by the Guard. They deserve better than a bait and switch from Uncle Sam.We request that you swiftly investigate the violation of these contracts by the Guard to resolve why these soldiers will be unfairly punished for mistakes outside of their control. Furthermore, we understand that the problem is not isolated to soldiers in Oregon, and we fear that many soldiers that have been denied some or all of their bonuses have not come forward to tell their stories. How many soldiers, both in Oregon and nationwide, have been denied bonuses in a similar fashion to PFC Wells?We have attached PFC Wells’ bonus annex and the response from the National Guard Bureau for your review. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to your reply.Sincerely,/s ###
07.14.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. —U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) testified today at a hearing focusing on county payments before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forest, and Public Lands.Click here to watch his testimony.“Our communities don’t want the status quo,” Rep Walden said. “They don’t want the handout that’s made them dependant on the federal government. They want jobs. They want healthy forests. They’re tired of the catastrophic fire and the bug infestation. They’re sick of the budgeting uncertainty that comes with not knowing if Uncle Sam will pay his fair share.”“They want the ability to pursue the American ideal of self-reliance once more,” he said.“The federal government owns most of the land, but has all but stopped productive forestry on it, is shutting down public access to it, fails largely to produce economic value or renewable energy from it, and all-too-often stands idly by and lets it go up in smoke every year,” Rep. Walden said.“My colleagues, this isn’t an opportunity to act,” Rep. Walden said. “This is an obligation to act and deliver a real solution — one that puts Americans back to work on public lands, makes our forests healthy for habitat and taxpayer alike, and spares communities the uncertainty of wondering every four years if the federal government will owe up to its end of the bargain.”A transcript of his full testimony is below:I’m encouraged by the Committee’s interest in identifying a long-term solution for our federal forest counties and the people who live there.I recognize my colleague from Oregon, Congressman Peter DeFazio. We’ve had productive discussions and agree that the status quo serves no one well. It’s time for real change.In 2000, Congress authorized county payments in recognition that layers of environmental regulations had throttled timber production on federal lands, depriving local communities of timber receipts that helped fund local schools, roads, and emergency services. This year, the third reauthorization of county payments expires and more than 9 million school children and 729 counties nationwide will be impacted.I think we can all agree that the status quo doesn’t work and won’t work going forward. Our communities don’t even want the status quo. They don’t want the handout that’s made them dependant on the federal government. They want jobs. They want healthy forests. They’re tired of the catastrophic fire and the bug infestation. They’re sick of the budgeting uncertainty that comes with not knowing if Uncle Sam will pay his fair share.They want the ability to pursue the American ideal of self-reliance once more. When county payments was created in 2000, it was thought of as a bridge payment so rural counties could transition away from a resource-based economy. But let’s get real. These are federal forest counties, the government controls more than half the land…nearly 80 percent in some counties…and the notion that they have the ability to recreate their economies in a decade’s time is absurd.The federal government owns most of the land, but has all but stopped productive forestry on it, is shutting down public access to it, fails largely to produce economic value or renewable energy from it, and all-too-often stands idly by and lets it go up in smoke every year. The loss of county payments will be felt most in Western states like Oregon, where the federal government owns 60 percent of the forests, but only produces just 12 percent of the timber harvest.The mortality rates are above 19 percent on federal lands. That’s not a healthy picture.Private forests in Oregon produce 73 percent of the harvest, with a mortality rate of 3.8 percent, maintaining a net growth rate of 22 percent.According to the Forest Service, timber harvest from our federal lands nationwide has fallen nearly 80 percent from 1990, while wildfires have burned an average 7.8 million acres a year for the last five years – an area larger than the state of Maryland. Meanwhile, there is an unemployment crisis in many rural counties. In central, southern, and eastern Oregon, unemployment is commonly well into the double digits.From 1980 to 2010, we went from 405 open mills to just 106 open mills – a 74 percent decrease in capacity available to do work in the woods. We went from 45,778 mill jobs to 15,706 in that time – a 66 percent drop.My colleagues, this isn’t an opportunity to act. This is an obligation to act…and deliver a real solution…one that puts Americans back to work on public lands, makes our forests healthy for habitat and taxpayer alike, and spares communities the uncertainty of wondering every four years if the federal government will owe up to its end of the bargain.Here are some thoughts for the committee to consider.‘Paralysis by analysis’ and litigation have pushed federal forested counties to the brink. There’s bipartisan agreement that using the HFRA-style pre-decisional objection and expedited judicial review processes would help. There is also an understanding that in order to get the job done, there should be exemptions for certain qualifying projects from appeals and litigation.Trusts also work. Nationwide, land trusts annually return billions to beneficiaries from resources on states’ land. Chairman Hastings’ state is a good example. 2.9 million acres are managed by the Washington Department of Natural Resources in trust for schools. In 2005, they produced gross revenues of nearly $300 million. Trusts work in place in Arizona and New Mexico, too.On a nationwide basis, trusts could help keep the school doors open, keep the roads in good repair, and keep the sheriff’s deputies on patrol while families sleep at night. These are just a few ideas. I appreciate the committee coming together today to look at this long-running problem and helping us tackle this difficult issue and taking charge on a solution.
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C— Rep. Greg Walden’s Central Oregon Water and Jobs Security Act received a legislative hearing today, an important step in the process of advancing the bill in the House of Representatives.H.R. 2060 is a no-cost bill that would ensure Prineville has enough water to attract new jobs, clear the way for clean hydropower at Bowman Dam, and help spark important conservation efforts on McKay Creek. Crook County has the highest unemployment rate in the state at 15.1 percent.The construction of the hydropower project would employ about 50 construction workers for two construction seasons and provide approximately $140,000 in annual property tax revenue to Crook County. Prineville is also courting new technology projects similar to the Facebook data center, but they need access to adequate water, which the bill provides.Prineville City Manager Steve Forrester and Dan Gardner, a representative from the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, both testified in support of the bill. Their respective testimonies are attached.“If you want to do a no-cost, job creating, clean energy piece of legislation, this is it,” Rep. Walden said.“There are other entities besides Facebook that has contacted this community and said, ‘We are real interested in locating there.’ It’s a bit like Lowe’s follows Home Depot,” Rep. Walden said. “Their decision is in large measure contingent upon whether or not there’s adequate water available.”“It’s time to act,” Rep. Walden said.The hearing today was before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power.Click here to watch video from the hearing and Rep. Walden’s full remarks.The Prineville Chamber of Commerce, Central Oregon Cities Organization, Oregon State Building and Construction Trades Council, IBEW Local 280, Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs, Deschutes River Conservancy, Central Oregon Association of Realtors, PGE, National Hydropower Association, Crook County, City of Prineville, Ochoco Irrigation District, and League of Oregon Cities all back the legislation.The legislation has three major components:Job-supporting water for Prineville. The legislation would allow the city of Prineville to utilize 5,100 acre feet of water to meet future growth needs and allow it to attract new job-creating business opportunities similar to the Facebook servers, which recently came online in Prineville.Prineville does not access water directly from Prineville Reservoir — it uses groundwater. The extra 5,100 acre feet credit in the bill would allow the city to mitigate an increase of groundwater use with a release of up to 5,100 acre feet from the reservoir. Currently, there is about 80,000 acre feet of un-contracted water in the Reservoir.The extra allocation for Prineville means the minimum release of water from Bowman Dam will increase by up to 7 cubic-feet per second (cfs). In dry years, particularly in the winter, this higher release requirement could benefit fish and wildlife, including the blue-ribbon trout fishery below Bowman Dam.The water allocation for Prineville will also help the city create jobs and improve business opportunities. The city is currently in talks with multiple technology companies that are interested in locating to Prineville, but have indicated that the availability of water is a key consideration in their final decision.Carbon free energy and hydropower jobs at Bowman Dam. A clerical error led to the boundary line of the Crooked River Wild and Scenic Area being drawn down the middle of Bowman Dam. Correcting the error requires congressional action.Moving the boundary line will allow a small-scale, private hydropower at the base of Bowman Dam to move forward.The construction of the hydropower project would employ about 50 construction workers for two construction seasons and provide approximately $140,000 in annual property tax revenue to Crook County.McKay Creek restoration and other conservation efforts. Rep. Walden’s legislation would help spur the McKay Creek restoration project — which has stalled in recent years — by allowing Ochoco Irrigation District to deliver water to upper McKay Creek patrons.The restoration project would restore up to 11.2 cfs of water rights instream to McKay Creek. The project also improves flow during the early summer, a critical period for steelhead emergence and migration.The legislation also allows the Ochoco Irrigation District to participate in the Conserved Water program under Oregon State law, whereby a minimum of 25 percent of the total amount of water conserved must be placed instream, forever, as part of the program. Right now, the Ochoco Irrigation District, because of limitations in its contract with the Bureau of Reclamation, is unable to participate in this program.# # #
06.22.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Allyson Schwartz (D-Penn.), along with 25 co-sponsors, introduced bipartisan legislation to ensure that seniors and disabled citizens have timely access to home health services under Medicare.The Home Health Care Planning Improvement Act, H.R. 2267, will allow physician assistants (PA), nurse practitioners (NP), clinical nurse specialists, and certified nurse midwives to order home health services for Medicare beneficiaries.Currently, Medicare recognizes NP’s and PA’s as authorized providers who are able to order nursing home care for Medicare beneficiaries. However, they are not able to order less costly and less intrusive home care services. Even in states that have explicitly expanded their laws to allow other medical providers to order home care, Medicare will still not certify payment for these services until a physician signs the order.Those seniors and disabled citizens who see these medical professionals as their primary care providers often need an extra office visit with an unknown physician in order to get the care they need. This legislation will relieve that burden for our most vulnerable citizens.“This bill will reduce unnecessary and duplicative burdens on providers and seniors in need of home health services,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “Particularly in rural areas like central, southern, and eastern Oregon where physicians are scarce, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, clinical nurse specialists, and certified nurse-midwives are essential components of the health care delivery system. Not only are they serving on the front lines of primary care, but also in many areas they are the only option readily available.”“We have a responsibility to provide America’s seniors with high quality health care, and a key part of that is ensuring they have access to timely home health care services,” Rep. Allyson Schwartz said. “These valued health care professionals play a central role in the delivery of primary care, particularly in medically underserved areas, and are essential to the coordination of team-based care.”Eleven Republicans and 17 Democrats, including the rest of the Oregon House delegation, have already signaled their support for the legislation.In the rural eastern Oregon town of Enterprise, Theresa Russell serves as the only permanent primary care provider in her clinic, Olive Branch Family Health. As an NP, current law allows her to treat patients in home health settings, but she must wait for a physician’s signature to do so. In rural towns like Enterprise, that wait time often stretches as long as one month. This commonsense, bipartisan change in the law would allow NPs like Russell to make the decision and speed rural health delivery to seniors.“Under current law, NPs not being able to order home health for Medicare patients results in delay for the patient and interruptions in continuity of care,” Theresa Russell said. “This also leads to increased cost of care when a patient of mine needs to be seen by an additional provider.“Thanks to Congressman Walden’s leadership, this bill will eliminate unnecessary administrative burden for physicians and improve access to care for seniors,” said Cheryl Olson, division director of Providence Home Services.“This bill will eliminate barriers that currently exist to home health care services for the patients that urgently need them,” said Susan Schrand, MSN, CRNP and Executive Director of the Pennsylvania Coalition of Nurse Practitioners. “Nurse practitioners care for thousands of patients across Pennsylvania and the nation each day, and are perfectly suited to make this determination.”“This legislation is long overdue and welcome news for thousands of nurses who have had expanded roles in the care of Medicare patients, but who have had their hands tied by CMS in their ability to certify home health services for patients,” said Val J. Halamandaris, president of the National Association for Home Care and Hospice. “This legislation will ensure that important care to these Medicare beneficiaries is not interrupted.”
06.20.2011	By: Rep. Greg WaldenJune 20, 2011https://bit.ly/jkqUWYWhat’s green, grows on trees, creates jobs and supports healthier forests in rural America?Answer: woody biomass.If you were enraptured with the cap-and-trade debates in the House Energy and Commerce Committee two years ago, you’re likely already familiar with my passion and advocacy for energy produced from woody biomass.But most of you probably had something better to do.Woody biomass is the general term for byproducts from forest management projects — limbs, tops, needles, leaves and other scrap waste. After forest restoration projects on federal land, this waste has traditionally been put in piles to rot or be burned.But this renewable waste can be turned into a source of energy. It’s already happening in Oregon and holds great promise for creating jobs in economically depressed portions of the country. It also moves America toward our goal of achieving energy independence.Now, I’m not one to say there’s a silver bullet for getting our country off its addiction to foreign oil, a substantial amount of which comes from regimes that don’t like us very much. Nor will the journey to energy independence happen overnight.But there are a number of technologies that can support good jobs at home and produce the clean energy we’ll need for a smarter and more prosperous energy future. Solar, wind, hydro and geothermal are among them. Woody biomass is a renewable resource that deserves to be considered as well.In my district, for example, a wood-pellet system at the new Harney District Hospital in Burns, Ore., replaced 17,000 gallons of heating oil that cost $2 per gallon to more than $4 per gallon in the old hospital. The biomass heating system will pay for itself in less than five years. Remarkably, the waste from this heat source is one garbage can of ash — every two months — that hospital staff take home and use in their gardens.In Wallowa County, Enterprise High School installed a biomass heating system that could save more than 45,000 gallons of fuel oil a year and is expected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 1 million pounds, equivalent to removing 67 cars from the road, while saving the school district more than $1.7 million over 30 years.During the most recent district work period, I visited the Lakeview community, the site of a number of renewable-energy projects. In November 2010, Iberdrola announced that construction would begin on a 26.8-megawatt biomass cogeneration plant there. The project is expected to produce enough power for 18,000 typical homes by the fall of 2012 and provide as many as 150 to 200 jobs during the construction phase and 50 to 75 jobs once operational.And that’s in a county with a population of less than 8,000 and a 12 percent unemployment rate. According to the Oregon Employment Department, losing 200 jobs in rural eastern Oregon has the same economic effect as losing 26,400 jobs in the Portland metro area. Every single job is precious in these communities, let alone several dozen.As a nation, we lag far behind global leaders in the use of woody biomass.In Sweden, biomass has surpassed oil as the top source for energy generation, comprising 32 percent of the country’s total energy supply, according to Wood Resource Quarterly. In America, we’re at about 3 percent.According to the International Energy Agency, Sweden has reduced its carbon dioxide output by 9 percent in recent years, while increasing its gross national product by 48 percent. In Sweden, where biomass energy created 30,000 new jobs, the model has worked.Still, some special interests have worked behind the scenes to lobby against the growth of this proven technology.They successfully added language to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 that said, in essence, energy produced from woody biomass from federal land is not “renewable.”But here’s the catch: Woody material from most state and private land is considered renewable. So, two identical piles of woody debris — one from federal land and one from state or private lands — are viewed completely differently under the law.This only underscores the all-too-often counterproductive regulation of our national forests. There is bipartisan agreement that our forests are choked and overstocked. Just 10 percent of the annual growth in federal forests located in Oregon is harvested each year. Another 25 percent is lost to mortality. The rest of the growth, if not managed through responsible forest health projects, just serves as fuel for catastrophic wildfires like the current inferno in Arizona.With the proper tools, professional foresters can manage our forests back into balance with nature, make them more resistant to wildfire and provide better habitat for wildlife. That’s a goal we should all share. According to the National Center for Atmospheric Research, wildfires release about 2.5 tons of mercury into the air annually, more than twice as much as the amount released from power plants and factories.And the byproduct of these forest health projects — woody biomass — can be a source of job creation that will contribute to economic recovery in rural parts of the country, like eastern Oregon, where the downturn has been felt most acutely.Finally, woody biomass is a worthy piece of the puzzle that gets us that much closer to a smarter and more independent energy future that’s better insulated from the volatility of energy prices that has become all too familiar in recent years.It’s good for the forests. It’s good for jobs. And it’s good for energy independence. It’s the kind of win-win-win scenario that public policymakers should crave.Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) serves on the Energy and Commerce Committee.
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is leading a bipartisan chorus of House members in protesting the administration’s national forest planning rule, saying it will lead to more litigation that will divert limited agency resources from badly needed job creation in rural communities.On Feb. 14, 2011, the U.S. Forest Service issued their proposed “National Forest System Land Management Planning Rule.” The rule will govern the planning process for establishing management plans for the nation’s national forests and national grasslands.This is the fourth attempt to implement a new planning rule since 2000. This proposed rule would have far reaching impacts on permitting processes and the current multiple-use standard for National Forest System lands. This will place additional burdens on multiple use industries, including grazing, timber, recreation, and resource development.Walden and Rep. Mike Ross (D-Ark.), organized a bipartisan letter signed by 60 members to U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to tell him that this new rule fails to avoid the pitfalls that have put the Forest Service in seemingly endless litigation for the last three decades. Taken together, the signers of the letter represent 77.7 percent of the nation’s 193 million acres of federal forest land.“The proposed rule moves the agency further away from a simple, concise rule that can be understood by both agency personnel and the public and implemented with a minimum amount of contention among stakeholder groups,” the lawmakers wrote. “By adding more process requirements and introducing new technical terms, you are increasing the likelihood that like previous attempts at reform, the proposed rule will be tied up in courts for years.”“We foresee limited federal dollars available for U.S. Forest Service operations being consumed by these processes to the detriment of the health of our federal forests and continuation of multiple uses of our federal resources,” the lawmakers wrote. “This, in turn, will reduce the number of jobs in our already distressed rural communities and further limit the amount of American wood and fiber available to aid our economic recovery.”The lawmakers also note in the letter that the rule will shift significant costs onto already burdened taxpayers in the form of legal fees and settlements.On January 18, 2011, President Obama issued an executive order that requires agencies to assure that the costs of a rule are justified by the benefits achieved and that the regulations impose the least burden on society.“We do not believe that the proposed rule complies with the President’s executive order,” the bipartisan group of lawmakers concluded.They then asked the Forest Service chief to redraft the rule to make it “simpler and less encumbered with process,” and pointed out that it’s possible to meet the goals of the agency without bogging it down and further separating the public lands from the many taxpayers that depend on them for sustainable clean air, clean water, recreation, harvesting of fish and wildlife, grazing, and timber production.The full text of the letter is below:May 31, 2011The Honorable Tom VilsackSecretary of AgricultureU.S. Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Ave., S.W.Washington, D.C. 20250Dear Secretary Vilsack:We write to express our concern over the Proposed National Forest System Land Management Planning Rule published in the Federal Register on February 14, 2011 (proposed rule) that would affect the management plans of the nation’s 155 national forests and 20 grasslands.With a keen interest in the active management of our nation’s federal forest resources and the multiple uses that benefit our global environment and our local rural economies, we were hopeful that this iteration of the planning rule would avoid the cumbersome and inefficient pitfalls that have led to seemingly endless litigation since the issuance of the first planning rule under the National Forest Management Act in 1982. Instead, the proposed rule moves the agency further away from a simple, concise rule that can be understood by both agency personnel and the public and implemented with a minimum amount of contention among stakeholder groups. By adding more process requirements and introducing new technical terms, you are increasing the likelihood that like previous attempts at reform, the proposed rule will be tied up in courts for years.In this era of shrinking agency budgets, we are very concerned that the proposed rule saddles the agency with a number of expensive processes and procedures, such as the assessments (Sec. 219.6), requirements to extensively document its conclusions regarding what is “best available scientific information” (Sec. 219.3), expansion of monitoring activities (Sec. 219.12), and the continued reliance on and further expansion of the “species viability” requirement beyond vertebrate animals to include all species, counting fungi, slugs and mosses (Sec. 219.9). We foresee limited federal dollars available for U.S. Forest Service operations being consumed by these processes to the detriment of the health of our federal forests and continuation of multiple uses of our federal resources. This, in turn, will reduce the number of jobs in our already distressed rural communities and further limit the amount of American wood and fiber available to aid our economic recovery.We also caution that there is much in the proposed rule that invites litigation by those who oppose a balanced multiple use management approach on our forests. Under the National Forest Management Act, the U.S. Forest Service has historically been charged with the primary responsibility to manage our nation’s forests under multiple-use and sustained-yield principles, including mineral and energy development under the Mining and Minerals Policy Act and the Multiple-Use Sustained-Yield Act of 1960. We are concerned that the proposed rule seeks to elevate vague, undefined new concepts and categories of analysis such as “species of conservation concern,” “restoration,” “social sustainability,” and “ecosystem resiliency” above its primary multi-use statutory mandate. The proposed rule also seeks to insert controversial climate change policies, not authorized by Congress, as a primary driver of future regulations on forest unit management. These controversial proposed changes not only will add to the gridlock currently faced by the agency, but also will force significant costs onto already burdened taxpayers as the federal government is required to pay for agencies’ legal fees and, either as part of a settlement or because it does not prevail in litigation, other parties’ attorneys’ fees out of Judgment Act and Equal Access to Justice Act funds. In the latter case, the payments come directly out of the agency’s budget, further hampering its ability to manage our nation’s forests. The impairment of the process by which state, county, and local governments may meaningfully participate in the development of land and resource management plans (a process known as “coordination”, found in Sec. 219.7 of the current rule) further adds to the threat of litigation against the agency.Given the above mentioned potential costs and risks associated with the proposed rule, we call your attention to President Obama’s January 18, 2011 executive order that requires agencies to assure that the costs of a rule are justified by the benefits achieved and that the regulations impose the least burden on society. We do not believe that the proposed rule complies with the President’s executive order.We urge you to direct the U.S. Forest Service to redraft the proposed rule to make it simpler and less encumbered with process, and to eliminate provisions like the “species viability” clause that surpass Congress’ statutory direction. It is possible to meet the objectives of the National Forest Management Act and the Multiple Use-Sustained Yield Act without bogging the agency down with exercises that further separate it from the many citizens who depend on our nation’s forests for sustainable clean air, clean water, recreation, harvesting of fish and wildlife, grazing, and timber production. Please do not lose this opportunity to produce a planning rule that is truly simple, understandable, flexible and defendable in court.Thank you for your immediate attention to these important concerns.Best regards,/s
06.01.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has introduced a jobs plan in the House of Representatives that delivers needed water to Prineville for job creation, clears the way for carbon-free energy at Bowman Dam, and creates new water conservation opportunities in central Oregon.The Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act (H.R. 2060), introduced last night, is a no-cost piece of legislation.“This small act could be huge for central Oregon,” Rep. Walden said. “The commonsense solutions in this plan have the potential to support hundreds of new jobs in a part of the state that needs jobs as badly as anywhere in the entire country. Its no-cost price tag for the taxpayer is the kind of bill that Congress should be passing in the current economic environment. I look forward to working with the House Natural Resources Committee to move this bill along the legislative process.”Job-supporting water for PrinevilleThe legislation would allow the city of Prineville to utilize 5,100 acre feet of water to meet future growth needs and allow it to attract new job-creating business opportunities similar to the Facebook servers, which recently came online in Prineville.Prineville does not access water directly from Prineville Reservoir — it uses groundwater. The extra 5,100 acre feet credit in the bill would allow the city to mitigate an increase of groundwater use with a release of up to 5,100 acre feet from the reservoir. Currently, there is about 80,000 acre feet of un-contracted water in the Reservoir.The extra allocation for Prineville means the minimum release of water from Bowman Dam will increase by up to 7 cubic-feet per second (cfs). In dry years, particularly in the winter, this higher release requirement could benefit fish and wildlife, including the blue-ribbon trout fishery below Bowman Dam.The water allocation for Prineville will also help the city create jobs and improve business opportunities. The city is currently in talks with multiple technology companies that are interested in locating to Prineville, but have indicated that the availability of water is a key consideration in their final decision.Crook County’s unemployment rate of 15.3 percent is the highest in the state."Prineville should have the necessary tools to assist in creating jobs and attracting new economic opportunities,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “This small amount of water will help do just that."Crook County Commissioner Mike McCabe: “This bill is vital for our community, both from a residential and industrial perspective. With one of the highest unemployment rates in the country, we need to find sustainable ways to provide water for businesses, cities, and farmers and ranchers. Rep. Walden’s bill is a terrific step to sustaining and creating jobs in Oregon.”John Mohlis, the executive secretary of the Oregon State Building and Construction Trades Council: “This legislation will give Prineville the assets and resources they need to attract and create good paying jobs for workers in central Oregon. Congress should quickly enact this common sense plan so we can get more folks back to work on the ground in Prineville." Charles "Jody" Calica, the secretary-treasurer of the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs: “I am confident that the Tribal Council will be pleased to see that Congressman Walden’s bill not only provides some stability for the City of Prineville and the agricultural community, but that it advances our work on steelhead reintroduction by knocking down hurdles to a broadly supported and critical steelhead restoration project in McKay Creek. This is a significant step forward for our steelhead reintroduction efforts. Steelhead restoration in the Crooked River is a goal that the Tribe and its partners in the region are committed to, and this is a long-term endeavor – Congressman Walden’s proposal should give our partners and other stakeholders the assurances they need to continue to work with the Tribe on doing what is necessary to return healthy, harvestable steelhead populations to the Crooked River system.”Carbon free energy and new jobs at Bowman DamUtilities have expressed interest in developing a small-scale 6 megawatt hydropower facility at the base of Bowman Dam — such a facility could produce enough energy to power up to 4,500 homes, and offset carbon emissions equivalent to the pollution from up to 2,000 cars. The construction alone would create dozens of good-paying construction jobs.But as the law is written right now, this commonsense project and the good jobs it would provide can’t happen.In 1988, Congress designated 17.8 miles of the Crooked River as part of the “wild and scenic” rivers system, which is charged with preserving rivers with “outstanding natural, cultural, and recreational values in a free-flowing condition for the enjoyment of present and future generations.”But when the BLM drew up the maps for the new wild and scenic area on the Crooked River after the 1988 designation, they placed one end of the boundary right down the middle of Bowman Dam.“There is nothing wild and scenic about a dam,” Rep. Walden said.Hydropower is not permitted in wild and scenic areas, so an act of Congress is required to fix the mistake and place the boundary line below the dam, where it should have been all along. Doing so will allow the hydropower project — and the jobs it would create — to go forward.The construction of the hydropower project would employ about 50 construction workers for two construction seasons and provide approximately $140,000 in annual property tax revenue to Crook County.In a letter sent to Rep. Walden in 2008, BLM State Director Ed Shepard said, “The BLM does not believe that it was the intent of Congress to place the wild and scenic river boundary on the center of the dam or to even include the dam, but rather just below the dam and spillway structures.”The hydropower facility may also resolve a “total dissolved gas” problem at Bowman Dam. This problem, which occurs at dams around the world, can impair habitat for fish and wildlife. The new facility could potentially alleviate this problem, further improving habitat in the Crooked River.McKay Creek and other conservation effortsRep. Walden’s legislation would help spur the McKay Creek restoration project — which has stalled in recent years — by allowing Ochoco Irrigation District to deliver water to upper McKay Creek patrons.The restoration project would restore up to 11.2 cfs of water rights instream to McKay Creek. The project also improves flow during the early summer, a critical period for steelhead emergence and migration.Prineville Mayor Betty Roppe: “Water supply certainty for the City of Prineville will not only benefit all of our citizens, but enable us to attract new companies and opportunities that will provide much-needed jobs in Prineville, while benefitting the Crooked River environment. All of us are really pleased with Rep. Walden’s leadership.”The legislation also allows the Ochoco Irrigation District to participate in the Conserved Water program under Oregon State law, whereby a minimum of 25 percent of the total amount of water conserved must be placed instream, forever, as part of the program. Right now, the Ochoco Irrigation District, because of limitations in its contract with the Bureau of Reclamation, is unable to participate in this program.Redmond Mayor George Endicott, chairman of the Central Oregon Cities Organization: “The Central Oregon Cities Organization strongly believes that Congressman Walden’s legislation is a responsible, balanced step to improve central Oregon’s social, economic and environmental values."
05.31.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is teaming up with the Portland VA Regional Office to hold office hours throughout central and southern Oregon to give rural veterans the unique opportunity to sign up for a helpful new online benefits website without having to travel all the way to Portland to enroll.Through the eBenefits website, veterans have near-instant access to their service records, apply for VA benefits online, track their claim/appeal status, view payment history, request information from state and federal benefits agencies, determine eligibility for healthcare and home loan programs, and much more.Ordinarily, veterans would have to travel to Portland to enroll in person for full access to the website. But through the collaboration of Rep. Walden’s office and the Portland VA Regional Office, veterans can visit one of the office hour sessions listed below and enroll without traveling the great distance to Portland.“This is a unique opportunity for rural veterans to sign up for a website that can help them track their records, claims, and VA benefits with just the click of a mouse,” Rep. Walden said. “Typically, veterans must travel all the way to Portland to gain full access to the website. Our nation’s heroes deserve the best we can provide, and I am excited to help bring this unique opportunity to central and southern Oregon.”To gain full access to eBenefits, veterans should bring with them any two forms of the following ID to the nearest office hours location.Driver’s LicenseSocial Security CardPassportBirth CertificateDD214DOD Identification CardVeterans will also be able to receive additional information on VA health and education benefits and Congressional services that are available to them.The office hours will be staffed by Cody Standiford and John Howard, both aides to Rep. Walden. Cody is a Wounded Warrior Program fellow who served in the Iraq War, and John is a retired Navy officer. Brian Guinther, a veterans service representative from the Portland VA Regional Office and a retired Navy senior chief petty officer, will be in attendance to represent the VA.This is the second set of office hours that Rep. Walden is hosting. The first swing through central and eastern Oregon enrolled 381 veterans over four days. On average, those veterans would have needed to travel 374 total miles at an average cost of $81.00 for fuel alone to enroll in eBenefits.Had these 381 veterans not been able to enroll in their local communities, resulting expenditures would have been approximately $30,294 spent collectively by the veterans to sign up for the website.The schedule for the office hours is below: Monday, June 69am-10:30amSisters City Hall, 520 E. Cascade, Sisters, OR 9775911:30am-1pmRedmond VFW, 1836 SW Veterans Way, Redmond, OR 977562pm-4pm BendVFW, 1503 NE 4th St., Bend, OR 977015pm-7pmLa Pine American Legion, 52532 Drafter Road, La Pine, OR 97739 Tuesday, June 79:30am-11:00amNorth Lake Clinic, 87520 Bay Road, Christmas Valley 976412pm-4pmLake County Courthouse, Memorial Hall, 513 Center Street, Lakeview, OR 97630 Wednesday, June 89am-11amAnne Basker Auditorium, 604 NW 6th Street, Grants Pass, OR2pm-5pmMedford: SOU/RCC Higher Learning Center, 101 S. Bartlett Street, Medford, OR 97501 Thursday, June 9 10:30am-1pmKlamath County Commissioners Meeting Room, 305 Main Street, Meeting Room #219, Klamath Falls, OR 97601
05.18.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has helped secure a decision that will further assist conservation efforts in the Deschutes Basin aimed at improving habitat for steelhead reintroduced above Pelton Round Butte Dam.The National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) has released a proposed decision to list hatchery steelhead reintroduced into the Deschutes River and its tributaries as a “nonessential, experimental” population under Section 10(j) of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) – for a period of approximately 12 years.“This Section 10j designation will ensure that locally-supported conservation projects will continue in the region as the steelhead species are reestablished in the Deschutes River and its tributaries for the first time in nearly 40 years,” Rep. Walden said. “The decision, when finalized, will provide clear legal assurances to cities, counties, irrigation districts and others in central Oregon that their lawful use of water will not be at risk by the ESA. The decision will protect central Oregon communities and their economy, as well as accelerating steelhead recovery efforts.”The designation has been previously used as a means to responsibly promote the reintroduction of federally protected species, and is currently under review on Oregon’s Clackamas River.Rep. Walden led the effort to urge the administration to use the 10j designation. During a breakfast meeting attended by Oregon’s full congressional delegation in March 2010, Walden encouraged his colleagues to join onto a letter to Jane Lubchenco, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration administrator. All agreed – signatories included Reps. Walden, Earl Blumenauer, Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, David Wu, and Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden.The letter urged the administration to support a Section 10(j) classification for the steelhead, which would allow area conservation projects, the City of Prineville’s multi-species Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP), and steelhead reintroduction to proceed without the threat of counter-productive litigation that would disrupt restoration projects and economic development.“The restoration efforts in the Deschutes Basin are a model for locally organized projects that benefit fish, farmers, and the local economy at the same time,” Rep. Walden said. “This unique designation will play a very helpful role in speeding along species and habitat restoration and promote the central Oregon economy and hopefully spark job creation. The administration took a responsible step in acknowledging our bipartisan request to exercise this commonsense provision of the Endangered Species Act.”The lawmakers’ efforts were strongly supported by the Central Oregon Cities Organization, which represents Bend, Culver, La Pine, Madras, Maupin, Metolius, Prineville, Redmond, and Sisters.Portland General Electric Company, the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs, the Deschutes River Conservancy, seven irrigation districts, and the cities of central Oregon have all been involved in the extraordinary local restoration efforts in the Deschutes Basin.Since 2005, more than 25 large-scale water conservation and restoration projects have been initiated in the basin to improve steelhead and other fisheries habitat. The measures are designed to sustain agricultural productivity, reduce diversions and increase instream flows in the Deschutes River and its tributaries.“As the Chair of the Central Oregon Cities Organization that represents the communities impacted by the reintroduction of steelhead in the Deschutes River, I am pleased that the Administration answered Rep. Walden’s call to provide the 10(j) designation,” said Redmond Mayor George Endicott, chair of the Central Oregon Cities Organization. “The designation protects central Oregon’s economy and promotes the reintroduction of steelhead while mitigating any adverse impacts on the species while the communities are able to study potential impacts and develop plans to mitigate those impacts.”
05.18.2011	Rep. Walden receives the honor from 60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin.Washington, D.C.– Because of his commitment to the elderly, Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), has earned the coveted Guardian of Seniors' Rights award from the 60 Plus Association, a national non-partisan organization advocating lower taxes and an adherence to the Constitution.Now in its 19th year, 60 Plus presents Guardian awards each Congress to Democrats and Republicans alike based on their 'pro-senior' views and legislative initiatives.60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin said, "we seniors felt we should show our gratitude to dedicated lawmakers like Greg Walden who show compassion towards the elderly by pledging to 1) always protect Medicare, 2) always protect Social Security, and 3) just as importantly, to vote against wasteful spending of our tax dollars, excessive spending that has our government now borrowing over 40 cents of every dollar it needs to pay its bills. Seniors have to balance their budgets and so should our government.”In an award ceremony in the nation's capital, Martin cited Congressman Walden for "his commitment to look out for America's greatest generation as well as the Congressman's promise to always work to preserve Medicare and Social Security for future retirees, our children and grandchildren."While both programs are running deficits, seniors are not to blame," Martin emphasized. "After all, we seniors have paid into both all our working lives. We've paid our dues but seniors know why deficits face both Medicare and Social Security. For example, Congress raids the annual surpluses from Social Security to pay for other government programs, leaving nothing but trillions of dollars of IOUs."Seniors know this. Many of us are well aware of the famous quote from two U. S. Senators, the late Republican, John Heinz of Pennsylvania and the recently retired Democrat, Fritz Hollings of South Carolina who called the annual raid on the Social Security Trust Fund 'embezzlement,' robbing Peter to pay Paul."Thankfully it’s Members of Congress like Greg Walden who show caring concern towards our senior population, the very ones who have sacrificed all these years and who now face uncertain retirements due to the impending bankruptcy of their entitlement programs. Representative Walden has also pledged to work hard to halt out of control spending of hard earned tax dollars in order to right our fiscal ship before it sinks from tons of heavy debt."On behalf of 7.l million seniors that 60 Plus looks to for support, seniors know you’re in our corner. Congressman Walden, you have earned our respect and our appreciation. 60 Plus thanks you."
05.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), the chairman of the communications and technology subcommittee in the House of Representatives, today convened a hearing on the need for reform at the Federal Communications Commission.Click here to watch the video of his opening statement.A transcript of his prepared remarks are below:I welcome the FCC Chairman and commissioners to our hearing today and thank you for your thoughtful testimony and the time you each took to meet individually with me to discuss process reform ideas that could improve the transparency and accountability of the FCC. As I told the chairman and each commissioner, and as Ms. Eshoo and I discussed and agreed yesterday, a discussion about reforming process is not, and should not become, an exercise in partisanship, or serve as a cloak to attack past or present commissions or chairmen. As I’m sure all will notice, only four witness chairs are occupied in light of Commissioner Baker’s announcement Wednesday. I’d like to thank her for her many years of public service, not only as a commissioner, but also in helping us complete the DTV transition while she was heading up the NTIA. I wish her well in her new endeavor.Turning to today’s topic, it is our responsibility to review how independent agencies to whom we have delegated authority and over which we have jurisdiction conduct the public’s business. At times, the FCC succumbed to practices under both Democratic and Republican chairmen that weaken decision-making and jeopardize public confidence. While Chairman Genachowski and some of his predecessors have taken steps to improve process, we’ve all witnessed how process and procedures of one chairman can change dramatically under another. One FCC is open and transparent and the next is closed and dysfunctional. The time is ripe to codify best practices to ensure consistency from issue to issue, and commission to commission.Many of my colleagues on this subcommittee have worked on reform ideas in the past, and some have proposed changes in bill form. We will consider those, as well. To kick things off, here are seven items to think about:First, the FCC could be required to start new rulemaking proceedings with a notice of inquiry rather than a notice of proposed rulemaking. An NPRM presumes regulation is needed. The FCC should first examine the state of the relevant markets, services, and technologies. Even when regulation may be appropriate, the FCC is unlikely to craft as useful a proposal without first gathering preliminary information.Second, the FCC does not always publish the text of proposed rules for public comment before adopting final rules. Providing specific text will allow for more constructive input and a better end product. Crafting proposed rules should not be difficult if there is a genuine need and the FCC has started with an NOI.Third, finite timelines for resolution of matters would be helpful. Parties and the public should have some sense of when resolution will come.Fourth, the FCC now makes information available about which draft items are circulating before the commissioners. The FCC could be required to provide additional information, such as a list of all unfinished items at the commission, the date the items were initiated, their current status, and expected date of completion.Fifth, a bipartisan majority of commissioners other than the chairman could be allowed to initiate items to prevent a chairman from stopping consensus items.Sixth, the President’s Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies, “Regulatory Flexibility, Small Business, and Job Creation,” requires executive agencies to conduct cost-benefit analyses before adopting regulations. The memorandum does not apply, however, to independent agencies like the FCC. We could remedy that by requiring the FCC to identify actual consumer harm and conduct economic, market and cost-benefit analyses before adopting any regulation.Seventh, the FCC’s transaction review standards are vague and susceptible to abuse. Parties with a pending transaction should not feel pressure to accept “voluntary” conditions on the deal or to curtail their advocacy in other proceedings. These concerns are neither new nor of concern to only one party. Indeed, my good friend from Michigan, Chairman Emeritus Dingell, observed in a March 2000 hearing that there is “great need to address and to reform the way the FCC handles its merger reviews. These are a remarkable exercise in arrogance, and the behavior of the commission, oft-times by reason of delay and other matters, approaches what might well be defined as not just arrogance but extortion.” The concerns Mr. Dingell raised then have been borne out with increasing frequency over the last decade. To address this, the FCC could be prohibited from adopting any conditions unless they are narrowly tailored to any transaction-specific harm. To prevent the FCC from using transactions to commence industry-wide changes it could not otherwise adopt, the FCC could be required to show statutory authority for the conditions outside the transaction review provisions of the Act.These suggestions are simply meant as conversation starters. I look forward to additional suggestions from my colleagues or the commissioners themselves.
05.12.2011	House also passes bill to lift ban on new offshore domestic energy productionWASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) head Lisa Jackson calling on the agency to produce a long-stalled energy supply study. The letter, which is attached, was signed by 27 Representatives and 9 Senators.The Energy Information Administration (EIA) has pointed to the increased use of different types of fuels in different locations as one factor in our nation’s gasoline price volatility. The proliferation of these specialty or “boutique” fuels increases the chance that localities using them will experience inventory shortages when nationwide fuel supplies are low; thus, causing gasoline prices to rise.In 2005, Congress directed the EPA and the Department of Energy (DOE) to undertake a Fuel Harmonization Study in order to examine the effects varying fuel standards might have on issues like fuel prices. This report was due to Congress by June 2008 but has never been completed, which is a clear violation of Congress’ intent to find out what is causing price spikes in gasoline. The letter called on Jackson to conduct the Fuel Harmonization Study as soon as possible and to respond to Congress promptly.“Oregonians are tired of paying nearly $4 at the pump while the federal government fails to take a comprehensive approach to energy policy that would make us less reliant on foreign oil,” Rep. Walden said. “This study is just one step, and it should have been done long ago.”Today, the House of Representatives also passed H.R. 1231, legislation that would lift the President’s ban on new offshore energy production by requiring the administration to move forward on American energy production in areas containing the most oil and natural gas resources.In 2008, in response to record-high gasoline prices, both Congress and the President acted to end the decades-long bans on offshore drilling – opening new areas off the Atlantic Coast and the Pacific Coast.Since President Obama took office, he has systematically taken steps to re-impose an offshore drilling moratorium. He first abandoned the (2010-2015) leasing plan that would have allowed for drilling in these newly opened areas. He postponed and cancelled previously scheduled lease sales. He later announced a restrictive drilling plan that placed the Pacific, the Atlantic and the Eastern Gulf off-limits to future energy production – the way it was before the record high gasoline prices of 2008.“We can continue to develop renewable energy technologies like biomass while also allowing safe and responsible domestic energy production both on and off our shores,” Walden said. “We can create jobs, decrease our reliance on OPEC oil, and ease the pain at the pump with access to America’s great energy reserves.”“On the west coast, we now import about 50 percent of our crude oil, the majority of which comes from OPEC nations like Venezuela,” Walden said. “An all-of-the-above energy policy includes putting Americans to work to develop the energy resources here at home so we can bring down the price at the pump and reduce our dependence on foreign oil.”Specifically, the legislation passed in the House of Representatives would:Require that each five-year offshore leasing plan include lease sales in the areas containing the greatest known oil and natural gas reserves. For the 2012-2017 plan being written by the Obama Administration, the areas with the greatest known reserves are specifically defined as those estimated to contain 2.5 billion barrels of oil or 7.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. At least 50 percent of those areas must be made available for leasing in the 2012-2017 plan. Currently, the administration’s 2012-2017 draft plan includes no new leasing and drilling, only possible future lease sales in the Gulf. The requirements to lease in these most prospective offshore areas reverses the Administration’s effective moratorium on opening new areas. A state’s Governor may request to opt-in to a five-year leasing plan and the Secretary of Interior will include a lease sale, or sales, of the state’s offshore area in the plan. Require the Secretary to establish a production goal when writing a five-year plan. The goal will be the specific amount of oil and natural gas production that is estimated to result from leases made under the plan. Establishes the production goal for the 2012-2017 plan being written by the Obama Administration at 3 million barrels of oil per day and 10 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day by 2027. This 2012-2027 time encompasses the fifteen year period of the five-year plan and resulting ten-year leases made under that plan. By comparison to today’s levels, this increase in oil equates to a tripling of current American offshore production and would reduce foreign imports by nearly one-third.
05.04.2011	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is joining with House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), Chief Deputy Whip Peter Roskam (R-IL), Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings (R-WA) to announce the creation of the House Energy Action Team (HEAT).HEAT will consist of a committed group of House members to promote energy policies that will address rising energy prices, create thousands of good jobs and enhance our national security by promoting energy independence for America. HEAT will clearly demonstrate that House Republicans are on the side of the small businesses and families who are increasingly harmed by record high energy prices. “The skyrocketing price of energy is placing a heavy burden on Oregon’s farmers, ranchers, small businesses, and families alike. I recently met with trucking companies in southern Oregon that are having difficulty staying in business because of pain at the pump and unnecessary government regulations,” Rep. Walden said. “The fact is, we are looking at losing good jobs in our community if we can’t do something about the rising cost of energy in this country. The HEAT initiative will promote energy policies that create and protect jobs, encourage economic recovery, and lead to a smarter energy future for America.”“Traveling around my district during the district work period, my constituents overwhelmingly wanted to talk about the steadily increasing price of gas that is placing great strain on their families and small businesses,” Whip McCarthy said. “The restrictive policies of this Administration are bringing unnecessary pain at the pump and they are costing our nation jobs. The HEAT initiative will further highlight Republican energy proposals to expand domestic energy production. These proposals will help create American jobs, grow our economy, and enhance our security through greater energy independence.”"My constituents in Chicagoland are vitally concerned about continually rising gas prices and the Administration’s refusal to accept commonsense energy solutions,” Chief Deputy Whip Roskam said. “With our economy still struggling, now more than ever, we need an all-of-the-above energy approach that removes barriers to job creation and relieves the burden on consumers and small businesses. HEAT will be an important tool for House Republicans to advance our commonsense energy solutions.""House Republicans are hard at work through the American Energy Initiative crafting the common-sense solutions we need to create a more secure energy future. Today's high gas prices are squeezing family budgets and making it hard for our economy to bounce back. As we work to cut the red tape that is blocking energy production and finally harness our available resources with an all-of-the–above energy strategy, I'm pleased to have this team of talented members volunteer to take our message of job creation and energy security to the American people," said Chairman Upton.“With the price of gasoline increasing daily, and the prospect of $5 gasoline looming ahead, it is time for Congress to put an end to the Obama Administration’s anti-energy, job-destroying policies that are inflicting further economic pain,” Chairman Hastings said. “House Republicans are taking action this week to reverse these Obama Administration policies and pass legislation to expand American energy production, create new American jobs and lower energy prices. HEAT is an important initiative to promote Republican energy policies that will grow our economy and strengthen our national security by decreasing our dependence on unstable foreign energy supplies.”###
04.21.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is teaming up with the Portland VA Regional Office to hold office hours throughout eastern and central Oregon to give rural veterans the unique opportunity to sign up for a helpful new online benefits website without having to travel all the way to Portland to enroll.Through the eBenefits website (https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/), veterans have near-instant access to their service records, apply for VA benefits online, track their claim/appeal status, view payment history, request information from state and federal benefits agencies, determine eligibility for healthcare and home loan programs, and much more.Ordinarily, veterans would have to travel to Portland to enroll in person for full access to the website. But through the collaboration of Rep. Walden’s office and the Portland VA Regional Office, veterans can visit one of the office hour sessions listed below and enroll without traveling the great distance to Portland.“This is a unique opportunity for rural veterans to sign up for a website that can help them track their records, claims, and VA benefits with just the click of a mouse,” Rep. Walden said. “Typically, veterans must travel all the way to Portland to gain full access to the website. Our nation’s heroes deserve the best we can provide, and I am excited to help bring this unique opportunity to eastern and central Oregon.”To gain full access to eBenefits, veterans should bring with them any two forms of the following ID to the nearest office hours location:Driver’s LicenseSocial Security CardPassportBirth CertificateDD214DOD Identification CardVA Identification CardVeterans will also be able to receive additional information on VA health and education benefits and Congressional services that are available to them.The office hours will be staffed by Cody Standiford, an aide to Rep. Walden and Wounded Warrior Program fellow who served in the Iraq War, and Brian Guinther, a veterans service representative from the Portland VA Regional Office and a retired Navy senior chief petty officer.The schedule for the office hours is below:Tuesday, April 26Hood River: 9:45 a.m. – 11 a.m., Hood River County VSO, 601 State StreetThe Dalles: Noon – 1 p.m., Wasco County VSO, 201 Federal StreetHermiston: 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m., ORANG Armory, 900 SE Columbia DrivePendleton: 6:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m., Pendleton VFW Post 922, 1221 SE Court PlaceWednesday, April 27Pendleton: 8 a.m. – 9 a.m., Umatilla County VSO, 109 SW Court AvenueMilton-Freewater: 10:15 a.m. – 11:15 a.m., American Legion, 424 NE 8thAvenueEnterprise: 1:45 p.m. – 2:45 p.m., Wallowa County VSO, 104 Litch StreetLa Grande: 5:30 p.m. – 6:30 p.m., American Legion, 301 Fir StreetThursday, April 28Baker City: 8 a.m. – 9 a.m., National Guard Armory, 1740 Campbell StreetOntario: Noon – 1 p.m. (MDT), Malheur County VSO, 316 NE Goodfellow StreetBurns: 4 p.m. – 5 p.m., Harney County Senior Center, 17 South Alder AvenueFriday, April 29Prineville: 12:15 p.m. – 1:15 p.m., Apple Peddler, 1485 NE 3rdStreetMadras: 2:15 p.m. – 3:15 p.m., Jefferson County Senior Center, 860 SW Madison Street
04.14.2011	Read Full ReportKey Facts & SummaryA Contrast in BudgetsThe current path – which the President’s irresponsible budget commits us to – will result in a debt-fueled economic crisis, the shredding of the safety net, and a diminished future. Americans deserve better than empty promises from a government going broke. The budget advanced by the House Budget Committee ensures real security through real reform. The House Budget Committee’s FY2012 Budget Resolution helps spur job creation today, stops spending money the government doesn’t have, and lifts the crushing burden of debt. This plan puts the budget on the path to balance and the economy on the path to prosperity.ECONOMIC GROWTH AND JOB CREATION: Fosters a better environment for private-sector job creation by lifting debt-fueled uncertainty and advancing pro-growth tax reforms.SPENDING CUTS AND CONTROLS: Stops Washington from spending money it does not have on government programs that do not work. Locks in spending cuts with spending controls.REAL SECURITY: Fulfills the mission of health and retirement security for all Americans by making the tough decisions necessary to save critical health and retirement programs.PATIENT-CENTERED HEALTH CARE: Repeals and defunds the President’s health care law, advancing instead common-sense solutions focused on lowering costs, expanding access and protecting the doctor-patient relationship.RESTORING AMERICA’S EXCEPTIONAL PROMISE: Tackles the existential threat posed by rapidly growing government and debt, applying the nation’s timeless principles to this generation’s greatest challenge. Ensures that the next generation inherits a stronger, more prosperous America.
04.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that the 2011 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, is now open to high school students throughout Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes central, southern and eastern Oregon. The contest is a nationwide endeavor for students to showcase their artistic abilities while competing for the chance to have their work displayed in the United States Capitol.“This competition is a tremendous opportunity for young people interested in art, and it gives students the chance to have their work showcased for a national audience,” said Walden. “I encourage all high school students with work they would like to share to send it in and be a part of this year’s An Artistic Discovery.”To enter the Congressional Art Competition, students must submit no more than two photographs of their work to Walden’s office by Monday, May 2, 2011. After artwork is received, one winner will be selected from Oregon’s Second Congressional District. A panel of judges will determine the final winners. The overall winner will have his or her artwork sent to Washington, D.C. to be displayed as part of the national student art exhibition in the U.S. Capitol. Four runners up will be invited to have their artwork hung in Walden’s Washington, D.C., Medford, Bend and La Grande offices. Artwork will hang in the Capitol and Walden’s offices for one year and will be returned at the conclusion of An Artistic Discovery in 2012.Guidelines and entry forms can be obtained from Congressman Walden’s website: https://walden.house.gov/ArtCompetition.Questions about the competition should be directed to Belinda Scalas in Walden’s Medford, Oregon office at (541) 776-4646 or Belinda.Scalas@mail.house.gov. Students may e-mail photos of their artwork by May 2 to Belinda at the above address (jpeg files), or photos of artwork can be sent via U.S. mail to the following address (must be received by May 2):Congressman Greg WaldenCongressional Art Competition843 East Main Street, Suite 400Medford, OR 975041-800-533-3303 ###
04.07.2011	Would patents be affected, including the processing of applications and the review of disputes?According to the House Committee on the Judiciary, the Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) is a fee-funded agency but they have to ask the appropriators for their money back through CJS appropriations (sometimes they receive less than they generate in a given year). PTO has access to carryover funds that would allow it to operate at “full throttle” for maybe six days. Once their reserves dry up, however, they would have to determine who is “essential” out of a workforce of approximately 10,000 employees. This likely means that at some point they would cease processing patent and trademark applications and all other non-essential activities.Would tax returns get processed and refund checks get issued?According to the House Committee on Ways and Means, with regard to tax filings and refunds, this would be the first time the IRS would be faced with a government shutdown during tax season. IRS Commissioner Shulman testified at a Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee hearing last week and said he was working with OMB to prepare for such an event. He would not elaborate beyond that. According to IRS Legislative Affairs, there would be some minimal level of staff present, and they would expect there would be some staff handling filings and refunds. If the IRS does not provide a refund within 45 days, the government would be required to pay interest. OMB has instructed the IRS not to disclose any further information about the plans for a government shutdown.Would project permits be issued?According to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, project permits are issued by state DOTs, not FHWA. Those types of projects are funded out of the Surface Authorization extension passed at the beginning of this month and is not tied to the CR.
04.07.2011	Would a shut down affect BOEMRE’s permitting process for oil and gas exploration and production in the Gulf?According to the House Committee on Natural Resources it is expected that the Administration would stop all permit processing as “non-essential.” That is what happened in 1995. The BOEMRE would continue conducting oversight and inspections to ensure safety, but all activity related to permitting of exploration and production would be stopped.Would federal courts shut down? How would pending cases be treated? Would timelines keep running?According to the House Committee on the Judiciary, the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts (AO) has said that the Federal Judiciary would not have to shut down immediately because of the availability of other sources of funds. During previous shutdowns, the Judiciary used fee revenues and “carryover” funds from prior years to support what it considered its essential function of hearing and deciding cases, including payment of salaries and benefits of all judges and court employees, as well as support and administrative. These funds should sustain Judiciary activities for approximately ten working days after an appropriations lapse. Once these balances are exhausted, if a lapse in appropriations still exists, each court will need to limit its operations to mission-critical activities, but the AO expects most judicial functions should continue during any appropriations lapse.U.S. courts should continue to hear and decide cases without interruption. Thus, all cases including civil and criminal, old and new should be processed and argued, and judgments should be issued and enforced, according to normal schedules and priorities. Judicial activity should be limited to those functions necessary and essential to continue the resolution of cases.Most activities of probation and pretrial services office staff will continue. Supervision of potentially dangerous probationers and parolees will be maintained and needed treatment services should be provided. In non-emergency situations, probation and pretrial services should continue to handle new cases or maintain existing cases.The jury system will operate as necessary to assist the courts in the performance of Article III duties, though juror payments may be delayed.Attorneys and essential support staff in federal defender offices and court-appointed counsel will continue to provide defense services, as needed.Interpreters, librarians, circuit executives, and other like personnel will continue to be employed only if necessary.Recently, an AO spokesperson said serious disruptions could occur if a shutdown were prolonged. This could mean that the district and circuit courts couldn’t afford to pay jurors, court reporters, clerks, probation officers, or security personnel. At that point, each court would have to determine which employees are “essential” for furlough purposes. Obviously, litigation conducted by Federal agencies could be delayed, even if the Federal courts remain open, because agency lawyers may not be considered exempt employees. That could delay certain types of litigation against the government, including claims for Social Security disability benefits, veterans’ benefits, claims for medical injuries, and the like. Bankruptcy courts should continue those operations that may be considered part of the exercise of the judicial power of the United States or which preserve life or property. During the FY 1996 shutdowns, work on many bankruptcy cases was suspended.What would happen to NASA and civil servants in the event of a shutdown?According to staff at the House Committee on Science Space and Technology, to date, NASA has not provided Congress with their plans in the event of a shutdown. When the Federal government shut down previously, NASA established the critical support personnel necessary for continued safe operation of space assets, including the International Space Station, Space Shuttle, TDRS communications satellites, deep space, and earth observation satellites. Those employees provided the necessary functions to keep things safe. Historically, the contractor workforce (which is a significant percentage of the total) was not affected because the shutdowns were not lengthy. They continued to come to work without interruption.Would prisons be secure?According to the House committee on the Judiciary, care of prisoners and other persons in the custody of the United States is considered an excepted activity, as are personnel, in the event of a shutdown. Everyone who works at a the Bureau of Prisons is considered a federal law enforcement officer and expected to help with safety, even if their daily focus is on food preparation, health services, or something of the sort. Thus, during the last shutdown all prison employees were treated as essential. However, there will likely be some furloughs at the administrative offices, but employees working on intelligence and monitoring will likely also be considered essential. The same is likely to be true for pre-trial detainees held in the custody of the U.S. Marshals Service.What would happen with federal contracts?According to CRS Report RL34680, federal employees and contractors cannot be paid, for example, if appropriations have not been enacted. It would still be possible under the Constitution, nevertheless, for the government to make contracts or other obligations if it lacked funds to pay for these commitments. The so-called Antideficiency Act prevents this, however. The act prohibits federal officials from obligating funds before an appropriations measure has been enacted, except as authorized by law. The act also prohibits acceptance of voluntary services and employment of personal services exceeding what has been authorized by law. Exceptions are made under the act to the latter prohibition for "emergencies involving the safety of human life or the protection of property." Therefore, the Antideficiency Act generally prohibits agencies from continued operation in the absence of appropriations. Failure to comply with the act may result in criminal sanctions, fines, and removal. According to CRS Report RL34680, of $18 billion in Washington, DC, area contracts, $3.7 billion (over 20%) reportedly were affected adversely by the funding lapse; the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) was unable to issue a new standard for lights and lamps that was scheduled to be effective January 1, 1996, possibly resulting in delayed product delivery and lost sales; and employees of federal contractors reportedly were furloughed without pay.Would non-federal entities be able to continue administering federal grants? ie: research through NIHAccording to CRS Report RL34680, While not indicative of future shutdowns, in the past new patients were not accepted into clinical research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical center; the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ceased disease surveillance; and hotline calls to NIH concerning diseases were not answered.
04.07.2011	Would FBI agents come off the streets?Using past shutdown experience as a guide, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform anticipates that FBI agent personnel would be exempt from furlough and thus continue to perform their assigned duties. In accordance with OMB Circular No. A-11, the FBI prepares an annual plan which guides agency activities in the absence of appropriations. This includes a breakdown of employees that would be retained in absence of appropriations because they are “engaged in military, law enforcement, or director provision of health care activities.”Would CIA officers get paid?Using past shutdown experience as a guide, the Committee on House Oversight and Government Reform anticipates that CIA officers would be considered excepted employees and required to work during a shutdown. Consistent with OPM guidance,4 CIA officers who qualify as excepted employees would continue to earn pay, but would not receive pay until the enactment of appropriated funds.Do computer operated government systems shut down? Would local law enforcement still have access to Federal databases? Would the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) still be available so that firearm purchases would not be interrupted?It is the understanding of the House Committee on Homeland Security that state and local law enforcement would continue to have access to federal law enforcement databases for homeland security oriented issues and access to the government systems that support them. DHS has not yet provided the Committee specific information on these issues.Would FEMA and disaster assistance be affected?CRS informed the House Committee on Homeland Security that disaster assistance would likely not be affected because the Disaster Relief Fund is categorized as “no year money.” DHS has not yet provided the Committee specific information on these issues. According to CRS Report RL34680, though not indicative of future shutdown activities, emergency and disaster assistance was an excepted activity in FY 1996.
04.07.2011	Would the passport offices still be open to receive applications/process passports since they are a fee for service operation?According to the House Foreign Affairs committee, the State Department has not yet issued any final guidance, and these issues are still under internal discussion. State did say that -- during the mid-1990s shutdown -- processing was cut back to just emergency passport and visa issuance. Normal passport and visa processing was put on hold. According to the committee, Consular Affairs says that while those activities are largely fee-for-service funded – not all of the links in the issuing chain are fee-funded. Also, according to CRS Report RL34680, though not necessarily indicative of future shutdown effects, in the past approximately 20,000-30,000 applications by foreigners for visas reportedly went unprocessed each day; 200,000 U.S. applications for passports reportedly went unprocessed; and U.S. tourist industries and airlines reportedly sustained millions of dollars in losses.How would this affect our customs and border patrol? Airport screeners? Air Traffic Controllers? What would happen to U.S. Border Patrol agents at the U.S.-Mexican border?It is the understanding of the House Committee on Homeland Security that CBP agents and TSA screeners would likely be deemed essential personnel and that they would continue to be operational. DHS has not yet provided the Committee specific information on these issues. According to a CRS Report RL34680, though not indicative of future shutdown activities, border and coastal protection and surveillance and the continuance of air traffic control and other transportation safety functions and the protection of transport property was an excepted activity in FY 1996. In FY 1996 cancellation of the hiring of 400 Border Patrol agents occurred during the shutdown according to the report.How would TSA be affected?It is the understanding of the House Committee on Homeland Security that Customs and Border Protection agents and TSA screeners would likely be deemed essential personnel and that they would continue to be operational. DHS has not yet provided the Committee on Homeland Security specific information on these issues.Would there be disruptions in the aviation system? Would air traffic controllers be affected?According to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Air Traffic Controllers would continue operating as normal. Almost all ATCs are considered essential/exemptWould Amtrak run?According to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure staff, Amtrak would continue to operate.
04.07.2011	What is being done to ensure consistency from agency to agency in the designation of essential personnel? (i.e. what if one agency only deems emergency/first responder type personnel essential where another might take a broader liberal view and consider someone who is conducting research?)According to CRS Report RL34680, OMB's Circular No. A-11 requires executive agencies to submit to OMB "plans for an orderly shutdown in the event of the absence of appropriations" when the plans are either first prepared or later revised. OMB has required the development and maintenance of these shutdown plans since 1980. It is not clear, however, the extent to which agency shutdown plans have been made publicly available or systematically shared with Congress and agency stakeholders for feedback. Scrutiny over agency shutdown plans may provide incentives for agencies to improve the quality of the plans, should it become necessary at some point for agencies to execute the plans, and may inform budget policy debates about the potential impacts of shutdowns. On the other hand, such inquiries may distract agency personnel from other duties and raise sensitive issues regarding what activities and employees should be considered exempt from Antideficiency Act restrictions. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) provides agencies with annual instructions on how to prepare for and operate during a funding gap in Circular No. A-11. The circular cites the two Civiletti opinions and the 1995 OLC opinion as "background" and "guidance." The circular establishes two "policies" regarding the absence of appropriations: (1) a prohibition on incurring obligations unless the obligations are otherwise authorized by law and (2) permission to incur obligations "as necessary for orderly termination of an agency's functions," but prohibition of any disbursement (i.e., payment). According to the CRS report, the circular also directs agency heads to develop and maintain shutdown plans, which are to be submitted to OMB when initially prepared and also when revised. Agency heads are to use the DOJ opinions and the circular to "decide what activities are essential to operate their agencies during an appropriations hiatus." Among other things, a shutdown plan is required to includean estimate of the time to complete the shutdown, to the nearest half-day;the number of employees expected to be on-board (i.e., filled positions) before implementation of the plan;the total number of employees to be "retained" under the plan (i.e., not subject to furlough), broken out into two categories: (1) employees "engaged in military, law enforcement, or direct provision of health care activities" and (2) employees whose "compensation is financed by a resource other than annual appropriations"; andthe total number of additional employees who will be retained, in order to protect life and property, who are not "exempt" from furlough because of the two previous criteria, above.Does the President get paid?According to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, under current law, the President continues to receive a paycheck during a federal government shutdown.1 His salary is paid through mandatory spending rather than through the appropriations process.What essential agencies would be in operation during the shutdown?The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform anticipates essential government functions spread across agencies and departments will continue. Employees responsible for imminent threats to human life or property will continue to work, as determined by their agency.Relevant guidance includes the OMB Memorandum of November 17, 1981, that counseled:“Beginning [on the first day of the appropriations hiatus], agencies may continue activities otherwise authorized by law, those that protect life and property and those necessary to begin phase down of other activities. Primary examples of activities agency many continue are those which may be found under applicable status to:Provide for the national security, including the conduct of foreign relations essential to the national security or the safety of life and property.Provide for benefit payments and the performance of contract obligations under no-year or multi-year or other funds remaining available for those purposes.Conduct essential activities to the extent that they protect life and property, including:Medical care of inpatients and emergency outpatient care;Activities essential to ensure continued public health and safety, including safe use of food and drugs and safe use of hazardous materials;The continuance of air traffic control and other transportation safety functions and the protection of transport property;Border and coastal protection and surveillance;Protection of Federal lands, buildings, waterways, equipment and other property owned by the United States;Care of prisoners and other persons in the custody of the United States;Law enforcement and criminal investigations;Emergency and disaster assistance;Activities essential to the preservation of the essential elements of the money and banking system of the United States, including borrowing and tax collection activities of the Treasury;Activities that ensure production of power and maintenance of the power distribution system; anActivities necessary to maintain protection of research property.Would the FDA be affected – for example food inspection, drug approvals?CRS notes that essential services, such as, “activities essential to ensure continued public health and safety, including safe use of food and drugs and safe use of hazardous materials,” would likely be preserved. This is up to the Agencies, but if in the interest of public health, it is likely that those activities would continue, even if streamlined. According to CRS, they cannot comment specifically on the status of food safety inspections by FDA during a funding gap. The situation may be slightly different from that for meat and poultry (regulated by USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service), for which inspection is required in order for a product to be introduced into commerce. In both cases, however, it is up to the agencies and OMB to determine "excepted" positions.Does the interest on the debt still get paid?According to the House Budget Committee, interest on the debt would still get paid in the event of a government shutdown. Revenues would still be coming into Treasury to cover interest payments and it could still issue debt to make payments. A shutdown would be different than breaching the debt limit. If the debt limit was breached and the government was prevented from legally borrowing money, then interest payments could go unpaid and the government could "default."
04.07.2011	Would the mail be delivered? Would post offices be open?According to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the U.S. Postal Service would continue mail delivery, retail service, and other operations in the event of a government shutdown. The Postal Service is essentially funded through the sale of postage.How would a potential shutdown affect Indian Affairs? How would affect services on Reservations?According to staff at the House Committee on Natural Resources, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) manages or supervises many of the day-to-day affairs of Indian Reservations, particularly the large land-based tribes west of the Mississippi. They are under the assumption that if money were cut off to the BIA they expect “critical” services relating to law enforcement (i.e., BIA police), Indian Health Services relating to life and limb, resource protection will continue. But other operations, such as reviewing and approving a lease of Indian or tribal land to building a house, to sending a check to an Indian, to providing day care, running some dams and irrigation projects, drilling oil and gas, running Indian school operations would shut down. Non-essential personnel, such as a receptionist in a health clinic, might be furloughed. They are under the impression that essential personnel (i.e. doctors, etc) must work. Also, under a certain law, many tribes throughout the U.S. effectively bypass the BIA and receive appropriated money directly – they then provide services through tribal structures rather than through the BIA bureaucracy. Unless the tribes have amassed some reserves, their funding would cease. While well over a hundred tribes operate casinos, not all provide large profits. Most of them receive federal dollars.Would National Parks and Museums (Smithsonian) be shut down?According to the House Committee on Natural Resources, parks would be closed to public use. “Critical” personnel would be kept in place for resource protection (and to tell people that arrive that they are closed). The National Park Service has informed the Natural Resources Committee that they do not expect to close access to open-entrance park land, such as the National Mall and the GW Parkway. According to CRS Report RL34680, while not indicative of future behavior, 368 National Park Service sites (loss of 7 million visitors) reportedly occurred in a previous shutdown.
04.07.2011	Would Social Security checks still go out? If the checks are stopped, would all monies due be paid eventually?Because Social Security benefits are not subject to appropriation, the Social Security Administration has told the House Committee on Ways and Means that the checks would go out.Would Medicare payments be made, to doctors, hospitals, including emergency hospitalization and ER visits?The House Committee on Ways and Means asked the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) if they have any information as to what would happen if there were a government shutdown and CMS would not give any guidance. According to Ways and Means, CMS had not thought about it. According to Ways and Means, the House Committee on Financial Services also made a similar request to CMS. CMS did note that Medicare doesn’t pay in real time. There’s a minimum two-week lag time, so if the government is shut down for more than two weeks there could be an issue. CMS could also hold claims like they did with doctors in a previous situation. According to the Congressional Research Service, non-essential services could see an impact. The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services will have to issue guidance on what they deem to be essentialWould Medicaid/SCHIP payments be made?According to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, because Medicaid allotments are paid to states in advance on a quarterly basis, it is likely states will not see an immediate impact from a temporary government shutdown and consequently, nor will providers who serve the Medicaid and SCHIP populations.What would happen with disability benefits (SSDI)?According to the Committee on Ways and Means, disability benefits would continue to be paid. New benefit applications for retirement, disability, and survivors benefits may be delayed depending on the staffing plan Social Security develops, as the number of staff on hand would determine the amount of work processed. The plan is still with OMB for their review.What would happen with Unemployment Benefits?According to the House Committee on Ways and Means, benefits weren’t affected during the 1996 shutdown, and as mandatory spending, they would not expect them to be. States were just transferred their quarterly amounts to pay state benefits through at least the next two months. There is a concern about federally funded state administrative funds, but the Department of Labor just did a major transfer of state administrative funds in anticipation of the shutdown.What would happen with Work training programs?According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, workforce training programs are funded through June. Unless there is a protracted shutdown there should be no impact.What would happen with Welfare (TANF)?According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, TANF is shared jurisdiction with Ways and Means. Education and the Workforce has jurisdiction over the work requirements portion and Ways and Means has jurisdiction over the funding. According to staff at the House Ways and Means Committee, TANF is authorized through FY 2011, and states have received their quarterly allocations through June 30. As a result, there would be no effect on states receiving their federal funds to run TANF. TANF was extended by the Claims Resolution Act of 2010 (H.R. 4783) for all of FY 2011.How would housing – Section 8, Section 202 (elderly), Section 811 (disabilities), homelessness programs – be affected?According to the House Financial Services Committee, HUD programs would be affected in some way though it is not clear how. Most of the HUD programs are run on schedules other than day-to-day Federal involvement – that is, they are administered by local authorities, they are grants made to non-Federal entities (public or private), or they are contract payments made in advance (payment is made now for services to be rendered, rather than services being performed and sending a bill after). In some way, and depending on the length of a shutdown, those programs would be affected where there will be no actual disbursements under 202 or 811 during the shutdown. However, they will not close overnight.Would the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation be affected?According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, participants in terminated plans at PBGC would not be affected by a government shutdown.How would Food stamps be affected?According to the House Committee on Agriculture, without knowing USDA's contingency plans, it’s hard to definitively say what would happen to food stamps. In short, food stamps would not immediately be affected at all. Food Stamps since they are administered at the state level should continue. USDA would have to determine how exactly that happens, but in the 1996 shutdown food stamp delivery was not compromised. During an absence of appropriation every agency would have to limit obligations to those needed to maintain the minimum level of essential activities necessary to protect life and property. It’s believed food stamps would be maintained, but without definitive word from USDA it is speculation. Food stamp recipients should see no lapse in their benefits.What would happen to school lunches?According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce there should be no impact felt by students. They would continue to get a school lunch. Unless the shutdown dragged on to May there would be no impact by the schools. The program is reimbursed on a quarterly basis and the next reimbursement would be in May.How would student Loans/work study be affected? Would funding be released? Would repayment checks be cashed?According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, CRS has limited information on the student aid programs as OMB has directed the agencies not to speak to anyone about shut down plans. Most of the impact is still unclear. However, Pell Grants would likely continue to be made since those are forward funded. Loan funds would likely continue to flow but there is some question about the administrative aspects of the aid disbursement. Much of student aid is run by contractors, who would have likely been paid for the year (although, that is not certain either). It is unclear about whether students would be able to file their FAFSAs since there would not be any administration support for the website, etc.How would Farm Subsidies be affected?According to the House Committee on Agriculture, direct payments go out twice a year, in an advanced direct payment form and a final direct payment. The advanced direct went out months ago and the next one is not supposed to come out again until October, so no direct payments would be affected. Most payments from USDA in the form of "subsidies" come out during certain times of year and would not be affected by a short term shutdown. Conservation payments might be affected during the time of a shutdown but could certainly be sent out after a shutdown ended. USDA has not shared their contingency plans so it is unknown exactly how FSA and NRCS staff would be affected but it is assumed that those offices would close during this time.Would FHA Mortgage loans be affected?According to the House Financial Services Committee, under a temporary government shutdown, FHA will no longer have the commitment authority to endorse/insure new loans. Lenders offering FHA loans may chose to go forward with the loan at closing, but they would have to assume the risk that FHA would normally take on. Some lenders’ internal governance do not allow that, others do; it depends on the individual lender. Therefore, while the FHA endorsement process does not come until a couple of weeks after closing, it is committee staff’s understanding that a temporary shutdown could disrupt closings.How would the National Flood Insurance Program be affected in terms of mortgage closings and payment of claims?According to the House Financial Services Committee, NFIP would continue to pay claims and sell policies in the event of a shutdown. Responses to day-to-day questions would be curtailed due to only essential personnel being on the job.
04.07.2011	Would foreign embassies and Consulates be shut down?According to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, State Department internal guidance has been finalized, but not yet promulgated (which would require a decision at the most senior level). While they cannot talk specific details, it would almost certainly parallel their practice during the FY1996 shutdown, which paired down Embassy/Consulate staffs to essential personnel. While they still would provide some level of American Citizen Services overseas, they would curtail visa processing.
04.07.2011	Would members of the military be paid?According to the House Committee on Armed Services, Military personnel would serve without pay until funds are appropriated by Congress and signed into law by the President. In any shutdown plan, all military personnel would be deemed exempt and would not be subject to furlough. Accordingly, military personnel on active duty, including reserve component personnel on Federal active duty, would continue to report for duty and carry out assigned duties. Generally, they would accrue pay but not receive a paycheck for any days worked after April 8th until an appropriations bill is passed. Once an appropriation is passed, service members would be paid for the days for which they received no pay.If there is a government shutdown at midnight on April 8th, service members would receive midmonth pay (on April 15th) for the 8 days of April covered by the current continuing resolution (CR).If there is a 1 week extension of the current CR through April 15th, service members would receive their normal midmonth pay for the first 15 days of April.Would military operations overseas be affected? How would it impact operations in the three war theaters?According to the House Committee on Armed Services, in developing the Department’s shutdown plan, the Secretary of Defense would ensure mission accomplishment of critical activities that are needed to prosecute the war in Afghanistan, to complete the military mission in Iraq, and to ensure safety of human life and protection of property including operations for the security of our nation. These activities would be considered “exempt” from shutdown. The Service Secretaries, under the DOD guidance, would also have flexibility to determine what activities should be exempt.How would services and benefits for military families be impacted?According to the House Committee on Armed Services, though the shutdown would have a direct impact on families, according to guidance issued by the Department of Defense, among the exempt activities that would continue are:Inpatient care in DOD hospitals and acute and emergency outpatient care in DOD hospitals and treatment facilities, but not things like elective surgeries or other procedures.Department of Defense schools, “to the extent required by law.”Legal assistance for deploying and deployed service members.Morale, Welfare and Recreation activities supporting exempt activities. For example, operation of mess halls, physical training, and child care activities required for readiness; and any activity funded solely through non-appropriated funds.Would resources be available to troops? (ammunition, vests, equipment, etc)According to the House Committee on Armed Services, the Department’s guidance does not identify every exempt activity, but makes it clear it would be applied in the context of a Department at war, with decisions guaranteeing robust support for those engaged in war, and with assurance that the lives and property of our nation’s citizens would be protected.What would happen to military installations? Would they be closed?According to the House Committee on Armed Services, the Department of Defense and each of the Service Secretaries would have latitude in determining which operations and activities are exempt from the shutdown. According to DOD guidance, military operations and activities determined necessary for national security, including administrative, logistical, medical, and other activities in direct support of such operations and activities would be exempt.Would defense contract operations continue?According to the House Committee on Armed Services, DOD guidance is that contractors performing under a contract that was fully obligated prior to the expiration of appropriations may continue to provide contract services, whether in support of exempt activities or not. However, new contracts may not be executed unless the contractor is supporting an exempt activity.
04.07.2011	How would a shut down affect veterans’ pensions?According to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, disabled veterans in receipt of disability compensation or pension checks should continue to receive those payments. Veterans with new or pending claims may be impacted with a delay in their claims until funding for claims processors is appropriated.How would a shut down affect survivor benefits?According to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, survivor benefits are similar to disability/pension benefits paid to veterans. Thus, survivors currently in receipt of Dependency and Indemnity Compensation or Survivors’ Pension will continue to receive those payments. New claims may be delayed. The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs is attempting to confirm this with the Administration.How would a shut down affect veterans’ educational assistance?The House Committee on Veterans Affairs attempted but was unable to get guidance from the Administration in an April 5th hearing. A bipartisan letter has been sent to the VA Secretary requesting a briefing on a shutdown contingency plan.How would a shut down affect veterans disability compensation and claims processing?According to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, disability compensation would be the same for survivor, education, and pension benefits. Those checks would go out, but no new claims would be adjudicated.How would a shut down affect veterans housing?The House Committee on Veterans Affairs attempted but was unable to get guidance from the Administration in an April 5th hearing. A bipartisan letter has been sent to the VA Secretary requesting a briefing on a shutdown contingency plan.How would a shut down affect veterans Health services – through VA hospitals, reimbursement for other services?According to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, the VA received a full year appropriation to operate its health care system for all of FY 2011. Therefore, veterans’ medical care would not be affected. Hospitals, clinics, Vet Centers, and homeless domiciliaries would remain open.What would happen to VA hospitals and clinics? Would they still operate and could veterans receive treatment, including pharmacological? If there was an emergency and the VA Offices were closed would the VA pay the bill if a Veteran went to a civilian hospital for treatment?According to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, medical care is already fully funded is not an issue; however additional information is not being released by the Administration. The committee sent a bipartisan letter to the VA Secretary requesting a briefing tomorrow on shutdown contingency planning.
04.07.2011	Last year, the Democratic leadership failed to fulfill one of Congress’s most basic responsibilities by not passing a budget for 2011.As Congress continues to negotiate plans to prevent the federal government from shutting down, Congressman Walden remains committed to cutting as much spending as possible and helping remove uncertainty for workers and private-sector job creators. While it remains unclear if the government will shut down, it would be irresponsible not to prepare for that possibility.The executive branch, not Congress, determines which executive branch activities are carried out during a lapse in appropriations, and therefore the information below is subject to change. As Congressional Research Service Report RL34680 notes, “Previous determinations of excepted activities and personnel would not necessarily hold for any future shutdown.”Below are links to answers for frequently asking questions (FAQs) during a federal government shutdown:VeteransMilitaryInternational AffairsSocial Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and other BenefitsFederal ServicesAdministrationLaw Enforcement and Federal AssistanceTravelFederal Projects and OperationsMiscellaneous
04.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The House Republican budget released last night makes county payments a priority in the federal budget should the bipartisan and bicameral effort to reauthorize the important program identify funds to pay for the program.“The Budget Committee has acknowledged in these very difficult and lean economic times that county timber payments are an important lifeline for rural forested communities,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “This is a small but very important first step toward keeping the federal government’s commitment to rural Oregon. We have a lot of work before us in the House and Senate and I look forward to our delegation continuing our bipartisan outreach across Capitol Hill to maintain support for forested communities throughout the federal budget process.”While Rep. Walden stressed the effort to fund county payments is far from over, inclusion in the House budget at the outset of the process is an important first step. Authored by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wisc.), the federal budget must navigate a long road of debate, amendments, and votes before both chambers consider individual spending bills that fund federal agencies for the next fiscal year, which begins on October 1.On March 22, Rep. Walden was joined by the rest of the Oregon House delegation — Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), Kurt Schrader (D-Canby), Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland), and David Wu (D-Hillsdale), in sending a letter to the House Budget Committee asking them to accommodate a reauthorization of county payments in the budget.Funding county payments in FY 2012 would ensure rural counties have the resources to provide essential services like emergency services, health care, and schools while Congress works to find long-term funding solutions for timber dependent communities.The full text of the letter from March is below:March 22, 2011The Honorable Paul D. Ryan The Honorable Chris Van HollenChairman Ranking MemberHouse Committee on the Budget House Committee on the Budget207 Cannon House Office Building B71 Cannon House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515Dear Chairman Ryan and Ranking Member Van Hollen:We request your assistance as we work with our rural counties to identify solutions to extend and fund the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 (“SRS,” P.L. 94-565) in FY 2012 and beyond. Furthermore, we request that the House Budget Committee accommodate this reauthorization in its FY 2012 House Budget Resolution. This is an important issue impacting jobs and the funding of schools and emergency services in our rural counties.We understand well the current budgetary climate and the need to reduce deficit spending, and support offsetting a long-term reauthorization of SRS. Furthermore, we appreciate your willingness to work with us and the authorizing committees in the coming months to help identify legitimate offsets that sustainably fund this important rural priority without adding to the growing federal deficit.With the establishment of the National Forest System between 1891 and 1911 by Congressional action and Presidential Proclamation, hundreds of millions of forestland acres throughout the United States were set aside in perpetuity and removed from further settlement. These new forest reserves, which were to be managed by the U.S. Forest Service, in many cases consumed between 65 to 90 percent of the land in rural western, southeastern and southern counties. Setting aside large blocks of public lands and the ongoing acquisition of large tracks of private forestlands since have diminished the potential tax base and ability for the counties to generate economic activity.Congress in 1908 and subsequently in 1913 acknowledged the enormous collective impact these actions had on counties and their ability to fund essential services, including the education of rural school children, the maintenance of rural roads and infrastructure, and the provision of emergency services. President Theodore Roosevelt signed into law the Twenty-five Percent Fund Act of 1908 (16 USC. 500) and in 1913 amendments were made to the Weeks Act, which created a revenue sharing mechanism specifying that 25 percent of all revenues generated from the multiple-use management of our national forests would be shared with the counties for “the benefit of the public schools and public roads in the county or counties in which such national forests are situated”. Through this action, Congress committed to a long-term partnership referred to by many as a “compact” and recognized as a fundamental obligation of the federal government in exchange for establishing the National Forest System.The intent of Congress that our national forests be managed in a sustained multiple-use manner to provide revenues for local counties and the federal treasury in perpetuity worked well from 1908 until about 1986. From 1986 to the present, due to reduced active management of our federal forests and increased protections for species on federal lands, these revenues dropped precipitously (as much as 99 percent in some counties and on average 70 percent nationwide).Congress responded by passing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in 2000. In many rural counties once dependent on timber revenue, these payments are the lifeblood of local schools and community essential services. The legislation also created highly successful “Resource Advisory Committees,” which have brought polarized groups together to conduct hundreds of restoration projects on national forests across the country without being litigated or appealed.In 2007, Congress reauthorized this important law and extended SRS payments for one year to help rural counties and schools avert a major financial crisis. In October 2008, Congress reauthorized the SRS legislation for four years as part of H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The reauthorization provided rural counties with four years of payments on a declining scale for fiscal years 2008-2011.While the four-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act was a rare legislative accomplishment that helped preserve and create jobs across America, rural counties are again facing a budgetary cliff after they receive the final SRS payment in FY 2011. In response to this ongoing issue, we need a meaningful and long-term solution that will help ensure rural communities have the resources they need to provide basic county services.Congress made a promise to these counties more than 100 years ago and we intend to do all that we can to make sure Congress honors its commitment. Accommodating the reauthorization of the SRS, while showing that it will be offset by the relevant authorizing committees in the FY 2012 House Budget Resolution, will go a long way in demonstrating Congress’s commitment and responsibility to the economic security and sustainability of our rural counties.Thank you for your attention and consideration to this important issue. We look forward to working with you and the appropriate authorizing committees to develop a plan for reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act.Sincerely,Greg Walden Peter DeFazio Kurt SchraderMember of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer David WuMember of Congress Member of Congress
03.24.2011	Meetings and public events in Wallowa, Union, Umatilla, Malheur countiesNOTE:Following Saturday’s dedication ceremony for the Joshua Brennan Memorial Hall in Nyssa, Rep. Walden will travel to Klamath Falls for additional public meetings and events. In total over the three days, he will cover 1,360 miles to visit 5 separate counties. Last week, when Rep. Walden flew from the nation’s capital to Medford for public meetings, it marked the completion of his 420thround trip between Oregon and the Washington, D.C. since taking office. Thursday, March 24Remarks to Hermiston RotaryWhen: NoonWhere: Trinity Lutheran Church, 485 W. Locust, HermistonDetails: Rep. Walden has been invited to give a congressional update to the Hermiston Rotary. He will also take questions from those in attendance. Rep. Walden was recently in Hermiston on January 21 to tour the city’s Emergency Services Communication Infrastructure.Ribbon cutting – Olive Branch Pharmacy (Enterprise)When: 5 p.m.Where: 306 W. North St., EnterpriseDetails: Rep. Walden will attend the ribbon cutting at the Olive Branch Pharmacy in Enterprise. Commissioners Hayward, Roberts, Castilleja, Sheriff Fred Steen, and Mayor Steve Lear are expected to be in attendance.No-host Enterprise community dinnerWhen: 5:30 p.m.Where: Lear’s Main Street Pub and Grill, Enterprise, ORDetails: No-host cocktails will begin at 5:30 p.m., and Rep. Walden will make remarks and take questions shortly after 6 p.m. A no-host dinner will also be available --- meal options are meatloaf and lasagna, and the cost is $10 per person plus gratuity. Commissioners Hayward, Roberts, Castilleja, Sheriff Fred Steen, and Mayor Steve Lear are expected to be in attendance.Friday, March 25 Coffee roundtable with the Union County Chamber of CommerceWhen: 10 a.m.Where: Flying J, 63276 Highway 30, La GrandeDetails: Rep. Walden will participate in a roundtable coffee with the Union County Chamber of Commerce. Union County Commissioners Mark Davidson, Steve McClure, and Bill Rosholt, La Grande Mayor Dan Pokorny, and other local civic and economic leaders are expected to be in attendance.Roundtable discussion with the Farm BureauWhen: 1:30 p.m.Where: Pendleton Convention Center, 1601 Westgate, PendletonDetails: Rep. Walden will participate in a roundtable discussion with state and area agriculture leaders. Oregon Farm Bureau President Barry Bushue, Umatilla-Morrow County Farm Bureau President Julia Spratling, Union County Farm Bureau President Matt Insko, and additional agriculture leaders are expected to be in attendance.Tour of Interpath LaboratoryWhen: 2:45 p.m.Where: 1100 Southgate, Suite 13Details: Rep. Walden has been invited to take a tour of Interpath Laboratory and meet with company leaders. They are a growing company that works in various health care arenas, and currently employs around 400-500 people.Saturday, March 26 Joshua Brennan Memorial Hall DedicationWhen: 11:30 a.m.Where: Joshua Brenna Memorial Hall, 110 North 3rdStreet, NyssaDetails: Rep. Walden has been invited to attend and deliver remarks at the dedication ceremony for the Veteran Advocates of Ore-Ida’s new building in Nyssa, named for Ontario Army Sgt. Joshua Brenna, who died as a result of wounds sustained from combat in October 2007 in Afghanistan.
03.03.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The House of Representatives today voted overwhelmingly by a 314-112 margin to scrap a widely-panned new tax-reporting burden that more than 175 small business organizations have asked Congress to repeal.Buried deep in section 9006 of last year’s sweeping health care reform law is a requirement for businesses to complete 1099 tax forms for most business-to-business transactions above $600 in a calendar year.For many businesses, this means hundreds of new pieces of paperwork to fill out, and according to the Small Business Administration, the cost of complying with the new tax code is 66 percent higher for small business than for large business.“As a former small business owner for nearly 22 years, I understand well the frustration that job creators nationwide feel toward this onerous provision,” Rep. Walden said. “Small businesses should be focused on business expansion and job creation, not devoting precious limited resources to additional tax filing.”In fact, the 1099 reporting mandate is so overbearing that the IRS ombudsman has determined that the agency is ill-equipped to handle all the resulting paperwork.“Repealing the 1099 requirement removes a huge new tax compliance burden on small businesses and reduces the deficit by $166 million over the next ten years,” Rep. Walden said. “I hope the Senate acts quickly to send this commonsense legislation to the President.”The bill repealing the 1099 mandate is H.R. 4, the “Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act.”‘Exhibit A for why taxpayers demanded reform’The 1099 provision was slipped into the health care reform law, which was infamously written behind closed doors and rushed to a vote with little public scrutiny.“This is the kind of junk that makes it into a bill when you write it behind closed doors and rush it to a vote,” Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) said. “It’s Exhibit A for why taxpayers demanded a reform to the way Congress does business and more transparency in the nation’s capital.”“Through the Transition Team that I led, we were able to deliver on our promises in the Pledge to America to add more transparency and openness to the legislative process. Damaging provisions like this wasteful 1099 reporting requirement are exactly what we can avoid with a careful, open, and transparent process,” Rep. Walden said.What others are sayingOregon Farm Bureau: “The new requirements will dramatically increase these costs, pulling capital out of the business that could be better used to reinvest in the business and create jobs. It is also feasible that this requirement will force a business to streamline its vendor relationships and not seek competitive prices best for their businesses and ultimately the consumer.”National Federation of Independent Business: “A bookbinding business in Denver, Colorado would see an increase in 1099 filings from less than a dozen last year to more than 1,000. The business does not have an in-house accountant and would have to consider hiring a part-time employee just to complete the forms. The owner said, ‘If I have to hire a part-timer, I don’t want them filling out government forms, I want them to be binding books.’”Assisted Living Federation of America: “The requirements of this provision are unnecessarily burdensome on our senior living providers. Our members predict that they will have to generate thousands of new 1099s per year – an extraordinarily expensive and unnecessary exercise. In addition, our senior living providers will also have the expense of buying new data collection software necessary for complying with these new requirements.”American Farm Bureau Federation: “The negative impact of new reporting requirements on farmers and ranchers is further compounded by increased penalties for the failure to comply that were passed [and] included in the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010…Not only will farm operators be required to prepare additional 1099 forms, they will also face a new administrative burden from reconciling the forms they receive from the sales of their products.”American Medical Association: “A 2005 study published in the Annals of Family Medicine estimated that paperwork, or documentation, takes up as much as a third of a physician?s workday. Physicians already deal with piles of charts, and encounter and billing forms from innumerable insurance companies, which takes away from their time with patients. Under Section 9006, more 1099 reporting forms will be added to that paperwork burden." American Institute of CPAs member from Alpharetta, GA: “A prime example of the burden exists with a client of mine who travels extensively. Under the law he would need to get the EIN of every hotel he may stay at in the chance that he pays them over $600 throughout the year. His travel is mainly to the same regions of the country and he may stay at the same hotel, eat at the same restaurant a few times during the year. Many hotels are franchisees so you can?t just issue Hilton Hotels a 1099, but each franchisee. So when his credit card bill arrives his bookkeeper will need to track every payee, find out who the owners are, and get their EIN. If the law does remain in effect my client would most likely need to hire an additional person to assure he remains compliant. The cost for salary alone would be in the range of $25,000 to $30,000.”
02.10.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. —U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), Mike Ross (D-Ark.)., and Jim Matheson (D-Utah) today announced the introduction of legislation to give rural Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries equal representation on the boards that set policy for the public programs.Not enough rural voices on the policy making boardsThe Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC) establish policy and provide recommendations for improving Medicare and Medicaid, and have been instructed by Congress to balance the unique needs of urban and rural beneficiaries.But in practice, rural representation on the boards lags far behind the actual number of rural enrollees in Medicare and Medicaid:About 26 percent of Medicare recipients are from rural America, yet according to the National Rural Health Association (NRHA) just 3 of the 17 MedPAC board members have significant experience delivering health care in rural America and can adequately represent the interests of rural patients. About 20 percent of Medicaid recipients are from rural America. The MACPAC board also has 17 members.NRHA CEO Alan Morgan said: “You would certainly expect to see rural representation on any national health care advisory body. We are concerned that the current composition of the MACPAC does not have adequate rural representation. All federal health care advisory bodies should ensure that the rural voice is represented.”Solution: Ensure rural representationThe bipartisan group of lawmakers have introduced legislation that would ensure the proportion of members on MedPAC and MACPAC representing rural beneficiaries is no less than the proportion of the total number of Medicare and Medicaid patients residing in rural areas:With about 26 percent of Medicare recipients from rural America, this legislation would require that at least 5 of MedPAC’s 17 board members adequately represent rural patients. With about 20 percent of Medicaid recipients from rural America, this legislation would require that at least 4 of MACPAC’s 17 board members adequately represent rural patients.Rep. Walden:“Rural America continues to confront challenges posed by shortages of health care providers and barriers to health care access,” said Rep. Walden, who received NRHA’s 2010 Legislative Award. “Because of these unique challenges, rural Americans and rural Oregonians deserve a voice on the boards empowered with making the major policy decisions that affect how they get health care.”Rep. Thompson:“Rural Americans deserve advocates who know the needs of rural patients. Unfortunately, many of MedPAC and MACPAC’s board members do not have experience delivering health care in rural areas. It’s time to take action to ensure rural families in California and across the country have a voice at the table to ensure their unique health care challenges are being addressed.”Rep. McMorris Rodgers: “Rural Communities in Eastern Washington are faced with unique needs, particularly as it relates to accessing quality health care. Too often, rural communities have been left out of the decisions that impact them. The bill that we are introducing today would ensure that rural communities are represented in the health care debate and their needs addressed.”Rep. Ross: “We’re facing a major crisis in rural health care as small town hospitals and rural doctors are closing their doors across America,” said Ross. “Rural Americans are having to travel farther and pay more for health care and we deserve advocates on these advisories boards who understand the complexities and challenges of rural health care, particularly in the areas of access and affordability. This commonsense bill ensures that the membership of these boards is proportionate to the people they serve.”Rep. Matheson: “For far too long, the voices of rural Utahns have been missing from the discussions that decide federal health care policy. Rural residents face different issues with respect to accessing affordable, quality care and this bill seeks to bring their perspective to the decision-making process.”TransparencyThe American people expect their business be conducted in a transparent way and subject to scrutiny from the press, public, and their elected representatives.In that spirit, the legislation also calls for greater transparency in how MedPAC and MACPAC operate. The bill would require both boards to:Provide on the Internet full and timely public disclosure of its proceedingsPost on the Internet either audio or video coverage of its proceedingsPost transcripts of its proceedings online“This legislation is good public policy, and certainly good for rural America,” NRHA CEO Alan Morgan said.###
01.28.2011	Greg Walden Opening StatementSubmitted to the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee By Unanimous Consent on January 26, 2011 Chairman Stearns, thank you for convening an oversight hearing on “Administration and Regulatory Reform”, and allowing me to submit an opening statement to the record. As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and as a former Ranking Member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee I look forward to working with you and value the important efforts the subcommittee will undertake in this new Congress.I have briefly described below a few of the major administrative and regulatory rules that will have an impact on job creation and the rural economy in Oregon. Each of the issues reiterates the need to reform the regulatory process and bring accountability and transparency to the agencies that promulgate and implement these rules.Despite the fact that some of these rules and regulations have yet to be finalized or are in legal limbo, they have already had a chilling impact on the growth of jobs in Oregon and reduced the ability for businesses to plan how to best invest in growing their business. Frustrating to many businesses and Oregonians with whom I’ve met is the fact that these agencies rarely take into consideration the economic impact that their rules and regulations will have once implemented, not to mention the cumulative impact of multiple costly rules on American businesses and manufacturers.Thank you for considering these and their unique impact to Oregon’s natural resource based economy as the subcommittee undertakes its important oversight responsibilities.Boiler MACT Rules: In June 2010, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced a Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) rule that would set unreasonably strict emissions limits and other requirements on industrial, commercial and institutional boilers, and process heaters that use fossil fuels and renewable biomass. The Boiler MACT rule has drawn criticism from bipartisan groups of lawmakers and from manufactures across the country including those in Oregon that utilize renewable biomass as a feedstock for their boilers. Impacting about 55,000 boilers nationwide, this EPA rule would require more than 99 percent of boilers to meet standards that only the top 12 percent of boilers can meet. According to industry reports, the cost to the forest products companies alone is estimated at around $7 billion, and the cost to the manufacturing economy would be between $20 billion and $50 billion. I’ve enclosed a letter from Members of Congress to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson regarding concerns about this issue as well as numerous letters from forest products companies in Oregon that would be impacted by this rule.Portland Cement MACT Rules: In September, the EPA finalized new national emission rules for Portland Cement manufacturing plants. Unfortunately, EPA did not utilize its authority to issue a subcategory under the rule to recognize the unique difference in manufacturing processes, raw material inputs, and associated emissions at various cement manufacturing facilities across the country. I, along with a number of state and local officials, have for over two years now explained to EPA the extensive efforts and investments undertaken by Ash Grove Cement Company to reduce the high levels of mercury emissions that are attributable to naturally occurring mercury in the limestone quarries where Ash Grove’s Durkee Cement Plant is located in eastern Oregon. Without the inclusion of a subcategory, this rule could lead to the closure of Ash Grove’s Durkee, Oregon plant affecting 116 family-wage manufacturing jobs. Despite working closely with, and with approval from, the State of Oregon Department of Environmental Quality and local stakeholder groups to reduce mercury emissions levels by up to 90 percent through the installation of $20 million of the most advanced control technologies available, the Administration’s unreasonable regulation insists that they reduce emissions by 95 percent. This standard could result in the closing of the plant and the loss of 116 jobs in rural Oregon. I’ve enclosed two letters that I have sent to EPA regarding this rule as well as a series of letters from local elected officials and the business community. Particulate Matter Regulation: In July 2010, the EPA through its review of air quality standards for particulate matter laid the foundation for establishing the most stringent and unparalleled regulation of dust in our nation’s history. EPA’s draft policy assessment for particulate matter would disproportionately affect rural America and the ability of Oregon’s farmers and ranchers to produce food and fiber for the world. Through these new standards, EPA has essentially proposed to reduce the particulate matter size to a point where everyday actions in rural America such as driving on gravel roads, harvesting grain or gathering cattle on the range would generate dust in violation of the standard. I have enclosed a letter from Members of Congress to the EPA regarding the agency’s Second Draft Policy Assessment for particulate matter and its potential negative impacts.Tailoring Rule: In May 2010, the EPA’s final PSD Tailoring Rule failed to recognize the carbon cycle of biogenic sources, such as renewable biomass, despite long standing national and international policy to the opposite. Central Oregon has at least two major biomass power proposals underway—projects that are expected to bring in nearly 100 jobs in a region where unemployment is over 14 percent. Nationally, one expert estimated that implementing this rule would cause a loss of $18 billion in capital investment. After numerous Congressional efforts to explain the carbon neutrality of biogenic sources, EPA in early January decided to postpone for three years the pre-construction permitting requirements under the Tailoring Rule for biomass and other biogenic emissions until a more thorough internal evaluation can be conducted. Although this is a positive step, I am concerned that the ambiguities surrounding EPA’s treatment of biomass will only lead to three more years of uncertainty about how they will treat biomass from federal and private forest lands as a renewable resource. I am deeply concerned that the delay in consideration of this misguided rule will have a chilling effect on potential biomass power projects during the interim period. I have enclosed two letters from a bipartisan group of Members of Congress as well as EPA’s response where from January 12, 2011 where it announced the three-year deferral.Pesticide Buffer Zones: Last spring, the EPA issued an ultimatum to implement the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) 2008 biological opinion (BIOP) for the use of certain pesticides in Oregon, Washington, California, Idaho, and other states. EPA’s guidance, which was based on a flawed NMFS BIOP that EPA itself said “lacks a level of transparency necessary for EPA to understand NMFS’s rationale for it opinion that the use of any of the pesticides will jeopardize the continued existence”, failed to take into consideration the latest science or input from agriculture producers and will require producers in Oregon, Washington, California and Idaho to create 500-1,000 foot spray-free buffer zones around streams and rivers. This would have a devastating impact. In Oregon alone, 40 percent of agriculture lands would have to be taken out of production to comply with a 500-foot buffer zone requirement—up to 67 percent with 1,000 foot buffers. I’ve enclosed a letter I sent with other members of the northwest delegation to express concerns about the EPA’s reliance on a flawed process to implement these job-destroying buffer zones.
01.25.2011	‘The formula of spend now and bill the grandkids later hasn’t worked'WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement this evening in reaction to President Obama’s State of the Union address.“As a small business owner for nearly 22 years, I know that you can’t borrow and spend your way into prosperity.“Because of years of record deficits, the national debt has ballooned to a staggering $14 trillion while unemployment hovers near 10 percent nationwide and far higher in many parts of rural Oregon.“The formula of ‘spend now and bill the grandkids later’ hasn’t worked. If nothing is done to rein in spending, CBO predicts the national debt will reach $23 trillion by 2020.“The freeze in spending suggested by the President locks in record spending increases and amounts to a less than 2 percent cut in deficits over 10 years. We must do better.“In just the first few weeks of the new Congress, House Republicans have acted on their pledge to repeal the health care law, roll back spending to 2008 levels, and approve with an overwhelming bipartisan majority my bill to cut Congress’ own budget.“That’s just a start. Much more needs to be done to control spending and curtail job-destroying government rules and regulations.“The country faces daunting challenges and difficult decisions, so I appreciate the President’s call for a bipartisan way forward. In November, voters delivered a divided government full of checks and balances. While we will have philosophical differences and principled debates, I welcome the opportunity to work with anyone — Republican, Democrat, or Independent — who is serious about really reducing wasteful Washington deficit spending and putting this country back to work again.”
01.13.2011	Monday, January 17PRESS CONFERENCE AT BOWMAN DAM TO LAY OUT THE NO-COST JOBS PLAN FOR PRINEVILLE When: 11:20 a.m.Details: U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will join local leaders to lay out his plan to fix the boundary line of the Crooked River Wild and Scenic River Area --- which was mistakenly drawn down the middle of Bowman Dam, therefore blocking any clean energy development and new economic opportunities at the dam.Read the Central Oregonian editorial supporting Rep. Walden’s conceptsWhere: Bowman Dam TOUR OF THE FACEBOOK CONSTRUCTION PROJECTWhen: 1:30 p.m.Details: Rep. Walden will tour the site of the new Facebook project in Prineville. Without access to a sufficient water supply, the city never would have been able to attract the company – and the new jobs it will provide – to Prineville. Rep. Walden’s jobs plan for Prineville will include giving the city access to 5,100 acre feet of water in the Prineville Reservoir, a small fraction of the 80,000 acre feet behind Bowman Dam. Without the access to additional water, Prineville is unable to attract new economic opportunities like the current Facebook project. MEETING WITH CENTRAL OREGON VETERANS ADVOCATESWhen: 3:15 p.m.Details: Because of unacceptable bureaucratic delays, 25 housing vouchers for central Oregon veterans have not been distributed since the VA received them in July 2010. One veteran, Delbert Dungan, was involved in a serious accident in his tent outside of Bend on Christmas Day, but was qualified to receive a housing voucher. Rep. Walden has strongly pressed the Portland VA Medical Center and the Department of Veterans Affairs to distribute the vouchers as soon as possible. He will meet with veterans advocacy organizations – and some of the veterans who have qualified to receive the housing but have yet to receive the voucher – on Monday.Where: COVO, 354 NE Greenwood Ave. Ste. #113, Bend CENTRAL OREGON VISITORS ASSOCIATION ANNUAL FUNDRAISING GALAWhen: 5:30 p.m.Details: The 19thannual COVA Gala beneficiary is Sparrow Clubs, a non-profit organization of school-based clubs that assist children in medical crisis. Sparrow Clubs matches local children in medical need or crisis with neighborhood schools and young people who ‘adopt’ the child and family. It helps kids ‘find their wings’ and rise above their own difficulties by helping others. Every child has a gift, and Sparrow Clubs helps each one find it.Where: Riverhouse Convention Center###
01.12.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) this morning delivered remarks on the House floor during consideration of a resolutioncondemning the tragic and senseless attack in Tucson, Ariz. and honoring the victims. Text of Rep. Walden's remarks: “I rise on behalf of the people of Oregon’s Second District to offer my deepest sympathies to the families of the victims of Saturday’s senseless shooting in Tucson. “Americans see each of us taking this personally because Congresswoman Giffords and her staff were doing what each of us does in our way: we go home, we reach out to listen to people who agree and disagree. We practice the art of democracy. “It is a practice so fundamental to our nation. Families bring their young children who are interested in public service. Senior judges attend to discuss federal policy. Citizens come to get help with their Medicare and veterans affairs benefits. “No one comes thinking such a despicable act of violence will occur. “Despite deep philosophical differences sometimes argued vigorously and vociferously in our meetings, Americans share a common belief that violence has no place in democratic discourse. “In Romans 12:1, Paul writes, ‘Don’t be overcome by evil; but overcome evil with good.’ “We stand together across America committed to this calling and in the belief that the great good in America will always overcome the isolated evil. “May God’s healing hand be on our colleague and those affected and bring comfort to all.”
01.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will soon introduce no-cost legislation in the House of Representatives to fix the boundary line of the Crooked River Wild and Scenic River Area to place Bowman Dam outside of the "wild and scenic" land, and allocate extra water to the city of Prineville, moves that will create new jobs and economic opportunities for Crook County.The boundary line problemUtilities have expressed interest in developing small-scale hydropower at the base of Bowman Dam – such a facility could produce enough carbon-free energy to power up to 4,500 homes, according to press reports in the Bulletin. The construction alone would create dozens of good-paying construction jobs.But as the law is written right now, this commonsense project and the good jobs it would provide can’t happen.In 1988, Congress designated 17.8 miles of the Crooked River as part of the “wild and scenic” rivers system, which is charged with preserving rivers with “outstanding natural, cultural, and recreational values in a free-flowing condition for the enjoyment of present and future generations.”But when the BLM drew up the maps for the new wild and scenic area on the Crooked River after the 1988 designation, they placed one end of the boundary right down the middle of Bowman Dam.“There is nothing wild and scenic about a dam,” Rep. Walden said.Hydropower is not permitted in wild and scenic areas, so an act of Congress is required to fix the mistake and place the boundary line below the dam, where it should have been all along. Doing so will allow the hydropower project — and the jobs it would create — to go forward.In a letter sent to Rep. Walden in 2008, BLM State Director Ed Shepard said, “The BLM does not believe that it was the intent of Congress to place the wild and scenic river boundary on the center of the dam or to even include the dam, but rather just below the dam and spillway structures.”No-cost solution that creates jobsRep. Walden plans to introduce legislation in the House this month to move the boundary line a short distance to ensure the dam is no longer included in the wild and scenic area.“Moving the boundary line is a no-cost solution to taxpayers that would lead directly to much-needed new jobs and economic development in Crook County.”The small-scale hydropower project would not affect the flow of water to fish downstream.“This commonsense legislation is exactly the kind of bill that can move quickly through this Congress,” Rep. Walden said.Adtional water for the city of PrinevilleAdditionally, part of the legislation would allow the city of Prineville to utilize 5,100 acre feet of water needed to meet future growth needs and allow it to attract new job-creating business opportunities like that of Facebook, which recently came to Prineville.Currently, there is around 80,000 acre feet of unallocated water in Prineville Reservoir. The 5,100 acre feet for Prineville represents a small fraction that will help create jobs and improve business opportunities.The extra allocation for Prineville will not impact the flow of water downstream for fish.Crook County’s unemployment rate of 19.2 percent is the highest in the state."Prineville should have the necessary tools to assist in creating jobs and new economic opportunities,” Rep. Walden said. “This small amount of water will help do just that."
01.04.2011	Washington, D.C.–Yesterday, House Republicans introduced - and posted online- the text of a resolution to reduce the operating budgets of House committees, leadership offices, and individual member offices. A key recommendation of the House transition team, these five percent budget cuts will save taxpayers an estimated $35 million in the first year alone. Made in order by the House rules package, the resolution is expected to be voted on by the full House on Thursday, January 6th. The majority transition team has encouraged all officers of the House to find ways to save taxpayer money and increase efficiency, and further cost savings are expected to be announced throughout the 112th Congress. Upon introduction of the resolution, Chairman of the Majority Transition Team, and sponsor of the cost cutting measure, Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) released the following statement.“In our Pledge to America, Republicans promised to cut spending,and with this measure we are leading by example. While only a first step, these cuts provide real savings for the American people and demonstrate our commitment to ending the culture of spending here in Washington. This $35 million serves as just the first installment of savings produced by the new majority, and our work to provide oversight and ferret out waste here in the House will continue throughout the 112th Congress.”NOTE: The text of the resolution to be considered Thursday on the House floor can be found here. Below is a breakdown of the projected savings, in FY2011 alone, produced by this measure.Projected savings in FY 2011:Leadership offices $1 millionCommittees $8.1 millionMembers’ office budgets $26.1 millionTotal $35.2 millionSource: House Appropriations Committee and Chief Administrative Officer of the House
12.23.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Yesterday, House Republicans released the draft of a House rules package for the 112thCongress. The resolution will be voted on the first day of the new Congress and provides a series of reforms to the current rules of the House of Representatives. Changes to the House rules were one of the principal focuses of the GOP Majority Transition Team.A summary document highlighting many of the reforms is available here.Upon release of the rules package, the chairman of the transition team, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), released the following statement:“If there’s one thing all Americans can agree upon it’s that Congress isn’t working the way it should. The backroom deals, curtailed debate, and disconnect from the concerns of the people have left Congress a damaged institution in the minds of too many. To begin to restore trust with the American people, Republicans have pledged to operate Congress differently: with real transparency, greater accountability, and a renewed focus on the Constitution. The sweeping reforms offered in this package make clear we intend to keep that promise.“These new rules put in place the congressional reforms proposed in the Pledge to America. They ensure the public will have greater information on what Congress is doing. And the package makes it easier to address one of the top priorities of the American people: cutting spending. While we will ultimately be judged on our actions, this new structure will help Congress to keep its focus on the priorities of the people.”The full text of the draft rules package can be found here.House Republicans will meet January 4 to consider any amendments to the rules package, and Democrats will be provided an opportunity to offer a substitute package when it is considered on the House floor January 5.Representative Greg Walden is the chairman of the House Republican Leadership and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.###
12.21.2010	Hearings and oversight will be high on the agenda - Reps. look toward Congressional Review Act to strike down net neutralityWASHINGTON, DC– Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, joined Reps. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Lee Terry (R-NE), incoming Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, respectively, in pledging immediate action in the new Congress to fight the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) action to regulate the Internet. Reps. Upton, Walden and Terry will look toward the Congressional Review Act of 1996 (CRA) to fight the FCC's actions. The CRA allows Congress to review and, through joint resolution, repeal federal agency-promulgated rules.Rep. Fred Upton, incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, stated:"The FCC's hostile actions toward innovation, investment and job creation cannot be allowed to stand. We must use every resource available, including the Congressional Review Act, to strike down the FCC's brazen effort to regulate the Internet. Today's vote is a sad commentary that this administration and the FCC continue to ignore the will of the American people - our new majority is committed to protecting personal liberty and reducing the size and scope of the government. Despite FCC claims that these are just rules of the road that everyone agrees with, anyone can recognize that what the Commission claims to be statements of broad industry support are really cries of 'uncle' resulting from threats of even more onerous regulation. All the Commission has done today is further harm our economy and job growth."Rep. Greg Walden, incoming Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, stated:"More troubling than the substance of the network neutrality rules are the legal theories underpinning them. If left unchallenged, this power grab will allow the Commission to regulate any interstate wired or wireless communication on barely more than a whim. For all these reasons, we plan to look at all legislative options for reversing the decision. We also plan to hold a series of hearings early next year on the substance, process and claims of authority underlying this proceeding."Rep. Lee Terry, incoming Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, stated: “The FCC has irresponsibly decided to pursue a course unauthorized and opposed by most members of Congress. Today’s decision is a huge disappointment as this will be a major setback for consumers and will stifle new investment. This is just more big government intervention in the marketplace to try and fix something that isn’t broke.”Last week, Upton, Walden and Terry called upon FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski for greater transparency as the Commission considers rules to regulate the Internet. Read their joint letter HERE. ###
12.16.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden has been named the chairman of the House subcommittee that will oversee communications and technology policy in the 112thCongress.He will chair the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, one of six panels underneath the full Energy and Commerce Committee. The subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes oversight of the Federal Communications Commission and telecommunications policy spanning the Internet, broadcast, radio, wire, and satellite.What it means for OregonCommunications and technology related industries support nearly 10,000 jobs in Oregon’s Second District, and more than 50,000 statewide."As we've seen from the establishment of Google in The Dalles, the new Facebook project in Prineville, the first cell tower in Fossil, and a long list of other projects in the state, communications and technology play a critical role in the economy and quality of life in rural Oregon,” Rep. Walden said.“These are industries that play a major role in the health of the state’s economy and, with the correct policies in place, hold promise for private sector growth and new jobs for Oregonians,” Rep. Walden said. “The challenge of delivering high-speed Internet, broadband, and technological capabilities to communities and schools all across rural America and Oregon will be handled in this subcommittee.”“Billions of dollars have been allocated to expand broadband in unserved and underserved areas across the country,” Rep. Walden said. “With that much money going out so quickly, taxpayers need to know how it’s being spent and what they’re getting for it. We will conduct oversight on those expenditures and will also review the existing regulatory policies and new regulations under consideration by various agencies.”Rep. Walden’s knowledge of communications issues and their impact on the economy is deeply rooted in his experience as a small business owner; he and his wife owned and operated a group of local radio stations in Hood River and The Dalles for nearly 22 years. (He is also one of two licensed amateur radio operators in Congress.)He broke the news about his new appointment via a Twitter message in morse code.Transparency also a focusAs the chairman of the House GOP Transition Team, he is implementing reforms to make the House of Representatives more transparent, accountable, and efficient. He says federal agencies should operate under the same principles, and that will continue to be a focus of his as chairman of the communications and technology subcommittee.“After all, it is the public’s business, it’s the taxpayers’ money, and they should have the right to participate in the process,” Rep. Walden said.Rep. Walden will continue to serve as chairman of the House Republican Leadership.Representative Greg Walden is the chairman of the House Republican Leadership and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.###
11.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – In the Weekly Republican Address, Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) discusses the transition effort and plans to go to work right away on the people’s priorities: creating jobs, cutting spending, and reforming Congress. These priorities are embodied in the Pledge to America-- a governing agenda built by listening to the people. To that end, Rep. Walden encourages Americans to visit the new majority’s transition website and share their ideas. Following is the text of Rep. Walden’s address. “Hello, I’m Congressman Greg Walden of Oregon. “The American people have sent their government a clear message. They want us to focus on creating jobs. They want to see Congress spend less. And they want government to be smaller and less intrusive. They want health care reform that protects jobs instead of this government takeover that’s costing us jobs. And they want Congress to respect their will and honor our Constitution. “These priorities are embodied in the Pledge to America – it’s a governing agenda focused on creating jobs, cutting spending, and reforming Congress, a blueprint built by listening to the American people. In the new majority, the people’s priorities will be our priorities. “Having run a small business for more than 20 years, I can tell you that no turnaround succeeds without a change in culture. For too long, Washington has been doing what’s best for Washington, and they get away with it. Too often, accountability counts for nothing, and transparency for even less, and common sense -- well it’s an endangered species. “That’s why our leader, John Boehner, has pledged to run the House of Representatives differently than it’s been run in the past – by both parties. And he’s asked me to lead a transition effort designed to ensure our new majority will be ready to serve as the people’s voice and implement the proposals that Americans are demanding. “So we’ve assembled a transition team of proven reformers, including citizens newly elected to Congress who’ve jumped at the opportunity to begin changing Congress before being sworn-in. The incoming Republican freshman class – well it’s no ordinary group: nearly half of its roughly 80 members have never served in elective office before. So they bring a fresh perspective and a lot of the energy, intelligence and experience that we want to incorporate into how we implement reforms that give the government back to the people. And for this reason, we’re not only including them in the transition to a new majority, but also giving them a seat at the leadership table in the next Congress. “We’ve already begun initiating changes to open up the people’s House, including installing public cameras in the powerful Rules Committee. That’s where they decide which bills and which amendments come to the floor for a vote. “We’re evaluating how Congress operates to make sure there’s time for lawmakers to actually read the bills before they’re voted on and to make certain every one of those bills contains a clear citation of constitutional authority. We want taxpayers to be able to keep tabs on bills as they’re being written and hearings as they’re happening. We’ve got the people’s business to do, and the people have the right to watch that business being done. “And we’re also tracking down every last rule and roadblock rigged to keep government’s spending binge on auto-pilot. If we’re ever going to change the broken status quo, we need to make it easier to cut spending and harder to increase it. “And we’re searching for savings so we can cut the cost of Congress, and make this institution more efficient. As is the case for any business seeking a turnaround, there won’t be any sacred cows here. “Now, we don’t pretend to have all the answers. We invite Americans from all walks of life to visit GOPLeader.gov/NewMajority where you can submit your ideas. We’ve already received hundreds of ideas from across the country. Thank you. Whether you associate with one party, no party, or the Tea Party, we want to hear from you. “Listening is how we built the Pledge to America, and listening is exactly how we’re going to keep it. So, log on to GOPLeader.gov/NewMajority to learn more and to have your say. “Thank you very much.”
11.10.2010	Washington, D.C.–Majority Transition Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) joined Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) today at a media availability to discuss the transition effort and Republicans’ plans to get to work right away addressing the priorities of the American people: creating jobs, cutting spending, and reforming Congress. Below is a transcript of Chairman Walden’s remarks. “I think we got off to a really good start in the transition team. As many of you know, we had a couple of hours meeting on Monday night in Leader Boehner’s office, had a good presentation from different folks about the issues here, and how we can make this place more open, more accessible to the public. “It is the public’s business, by the way. That’s a statement I’m giving out to everybody on the transition team: remember this is the public’s business that we’re doing. How do we open it up, how do we make it more accessible, how do we bring the public in, how do we return this government back to the people? How do we reform this process, how do we do get at the cost savings we all know can be achieved here, how do we improve the efficiencies … how do we do the things that you would reform if you were in charge?“So let’s start and build a House that works for the people, because this is the people’s House. We’re also putting a lot of ideas out there, and I wanted you to understand that. Having been a small business owner for over 20 years, I ask all my people in the company: how do you fix it? Let’s throw them all up there and talk about it. It doesn’t mean every idea is one you go with, but I want to create the atmosphere we can have legitimate brainstorming, where we can really look at these issues and resolve them in a really positive way. And, by the way, take advantage of modern technology. Wouldn’t it be great if you could use modern technology so you didn’t have 200 copies of every single amendment in a bill, that everybody could maybe see it online in real time, including the members.“I don’t know if we can get there tomorrow, next week, or a year from now, but we should invite in the people who can help us decide that and actually implement new technology into this facility. So wherever you are in America, you can watch your business being done and maybe help us do that business better.”###
11.03.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Republican leaders today established a committee to manage the transition to a new majority in the U.S. House of Representatives for the 112th Congress, naming Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) to serve as transition chairman. The Majority Transition Committee will review all House procedures and structures, with the goal of ensuring the new Congress can get to work immediately on the priorities of the American people.“As a former small businessman, skilled legislator and trusted member of our leadership team, Greg Walden is the right person to lead this transition effort. I’m grateful he has agreed to serve,” Leader Boehner said.Since early 2010, Walden has served as chairman of the House Republican Leadership and was one of the first Members of Congress to call for House rules changes that would require all bills to be posted online for at least three days before they can be brought to a vote – one of the key congressional reforms in the Pledge to America, unveiled in September 2010 after a nationwide process of listening to the American people.“Leader Boehner has pledged to run the House differently than it has been run by both Democrats and Republicans in the past – with respect for the American people, their intelligence, and their will. The groundwork for these changes will be laid through the transition process,” Congressman Walden added. “I’m grateful for the opportunity to serve the American people as chairman of this process.”“The results last night were a repudiation of Washington; a repudiation of Big Government; a repudiation of politicians who refuse to listen to the people,” said Boehner. “Americans have been clear about what they want: more jobs, less spending, and a more open Congress that respects and abides by the Constitution. In the new Congress, the people’s priorities will be our priorities. The goal of the transition will be to ensure the House is ready to begin implementing the Pledge to America – a governing agenda built by listening to the people – so we can begin to cut spending and end the job-killing uncertainty being created by Washington.” NOTE:The Republican Pledge to America sets forth a plan to reform Congress and, in doing so, begin restoring the public trust. These reforms include:A requirement that legislation be available online for 3 days before a vote so that members of Congress and the American people can read the bill. A requirement that all bills include a citation of constitutional authority so that Congress respects the limits imposed on it by our founding document.Changes to House rules to make it harder to increase spending and easier to cut it so that we begin a new era of fiscal responsibility in Washington.An end to the practice of passing "comprehensive" or "omnibus" bills that package unrelated legislation together in an effort to avoid public scrutiny.Leader Boehner has also pledged to end the days of bills being written in the Speaker’s Office behind closed doors, and instead vowed to move bill-writing authority back to committees, which would be required to post amendments and votes online to ensure full transparency.###
10.10.2010	Meetings in central Oregon mark 14th visit to Deschutes County this year Monday, October 11KEYNOTE ADDRESS TO THE OREGON FOREST INDUSTRIES COUNCIL When: NoonDetails: U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has been invited to deliver the keynote address to the annual meeting of the Oregon Forest Industries Council. Rep. Walden was a former chair the forests and forests health subcommittee, and helped author bipartisan legislation during this Congress in the House to give federal foresters and scientists the tools they have been asking for to perform forest health projects on a landscape-size level.He is also an original cosponsor of the bipartisan FLAME Act, which has already led to funding for forest restoration on the Deschutes Skyline project, which aims to restore forest ecosystems.Still, much work remains to be done in the woods, for both local economies and the environmental health of the national forests, and the first step is better forest policies from the nation’s capital.Where: Sunriver, Great HallMEETING WITH SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS – RECOGNITION OF “GUARDIAN OF SMALL BUSINESS AWARD”When: 2 pmDetails: Greg Walden will speak to and take questions from a gathering of member small businesses of the central Oregon chapter of the National Federation of Independent Business. As a small business owner with his wife for nearly 22 years, Walden knows what it takes to create sustainable jobs in the community, and he understands the challenges involved with trying to grow a business while dealing with growing government regulation.He and the small business owners in attendance will discuss what needs to be done to create the kind of sustainable jobs in the private sector that are necessary to get the economy back on track and moving again.Walden will also be recognized for receiving the National Federation of Independent Business “Guardian of Small Business” award. He was awarded the honor for voting favorably on key small business issues at least 70 percent of the time.Where: Carlson Signs, 1605 Forbes Road, BendTuesday, October 12COFFEE AND CONGRESSIONAL UPDATE WITH CENTRAL OREGON VETERANSWhen: 7 amDetails: Rep. Walden (R-Ore.) will visit with the Central Oregon Veterans Council at their monthly coffee to provide an update on veterans’ issues. Walden has strongly backed efforts in the nation’s capital to support our veterans, including expanding higher education benefits in the GI Bill, preserving vital VA centers, ensuring quality health care for women veterans, better reimbursement for VA medical travel, and providing a soft landing for Oregon National Guard troops returning home from service overseas.The COVC convenes monthly and is composed of representatives from most of the veterans’ organizations in and around Deschutes County. These include VFW, American Legion, Vietnam Veterans, Marine Corps League, Military Officers Association, Disabled American Veterans, and County Veterans Service Officers.Where: VFW Hall, 1503 N.E. Fourth St., Bend ORRepresentative Greg Walden is the chairman of the House Republican Leadership and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.###
09.18.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — In the Weekly Republican Address, Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) calls for an up-or-down vote before Congress adjourns for the fall on legislation to stop all of the job-killing tax hikes that are scheduled to take effect on January 1. Rep. Walden notes that stopping all the tax hikes is the will of the people and an emerging bipartisan majority in the House, and is essential to helping our economy get back to creating jobs. House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) pressed Speaker Pelosi for an up-or-down vote to stop all the tax hikes in a letter on Wednesdayand at his weekly press briefing on Thursday. Watch the address here: Audio of the address is available here. Video of the address is available here. Text of the address follows. “Hello, I’m Representative Greg Walden, and I work for the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District.“Before being sent to Congress, like many Americans, I worked for myself. My wife and I were small business owners for nearly 22 years. So we know what it’s like to sign the front of a payroll check, and scratch out a business plan on the back of a napkin.“You know it’s this entrepreneurial spirit, unfortunately, that is lost on the powers-that-be in Washington, who think that the change comes in the form of 2,000-page monstrosities that transfer money and freedom from the people to the government. “Americans have had enough of permanent bailouts, government takeovers, and ‘stimulus’ spending sprees. Democrats’ job-killing policies have left our small businesses tied up in uncertainty and our economy bogged down by nearly 10 percent unemployment. “America is speaking out, and it’s time Washington started listening. “Republicans have warned that excessive government spending, along with uncertainty facing small businesses, are hampering job creation in America, and we’ve called for bipartisan action this month to address both of these issues. “First, Republicans want to stop all of the tax hikes that are set to take effect on January 1st. Now, for his part, President Obama proposes raising taxes on half of small business income in America. But economists, and frankly a growing chorus of Democrats in Congress, agree with us that raising taxes on anyone in a struggling economy – especially small businesses – is the exact wrong thing to do. “Next, Republicans want to cut non-security government spending to 2008 levels, before all of the bailouts, before the government takeovers, and the ‘stimulus’ spending sprees began.“You know American families and small businesses have been making really tough choices over the last couple of years to cut back spending and to adjust to this new economic reality. Why should the federal government be any different? Our plan saves taxpayers nearly $100 billion and represents a first step on the path to fiscal sanity so that we can stop piling debt on our kids and grandkids. “Now, with just days remaining in this legislative session, House Republican Leader John Boehner has informed Speaker Nancy Pelosi that Republicans are ready to work together to enact this two-point jobs plan immediately. “Even as we seek to act quickly, we must also act openly. You know, taxpayers were rightly outraged when Democratic Leaders tried to short-circuit the rules and rig the final vote to force President Obama’s government takeover of health care through Congress.“The American people didn’t stand for this power grab then, and they won’t stand for it now – especially with their jobs, their families, and their futures at stake. “That’s why Leader Boehner has asked Speaker Pelosi to assure the American people that she will allow nothing short of a full up-or-down vote on bills to cut spending and stop all of the looming tax hikes. “This way, the will of the people and their elected representatives can be heard. Anything less fails our economy and provides further evidence that Democrats are more committed to preserving their power than helping our economy. “If President Obama and Washington Democrats are truly focused on creating jobs, we should take action immediately to cut government spending and stop all of these impending tax hikes.“And if Speaker Pelosi will allow up-or-down votes on these priorities this month, we can show the American people we’re listening and ready to put their best interests those of our constituents – the people we work for – first. “Thank you for your time.” Representative Greg Walden is the chairman of the House Republican Leadership and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. ###
09.17.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. —U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement in observance of National POW/MIA Recognition Day, which is marked on the third Friday of September each year.“Today at events all across the country, families, citizens, and our government renew their commitments to obtaining the fullest possible accounting for all Americans held captive or missing from our nation's ongoing and past conflicts.“We will continue to prepare and train personnel who may become isolated and to recover those who become missing in the future. Let us never forget that we do these things because of the more than 88,000 Americans remaining missing from World War II, the Korean War, the Cold War, and the Vietnam War.“More than 200 years ago, General George Washington said, ‘The willingness with which our young people are likely to serve in war, shall be directly proportional to how they perceive veterans of earlier wars were treated and appreciated by our nation.’“A key part of that treatment relates to our efforts to account for our missing and recover our prisoners. Let us never forget the sacrifice that they have made for our freedoms and let us always remember their families.“It is an honor to represent the men and women of our nation’s military, and I will continue my efforts in Congress to ensure that they and their efforts are never forgotten.”Representative Greg Walden is the chairman of the House Republican Leadership and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. ###
09.13.2010	PORTLAND, Ore.— In an interview today with Fox News, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) called on the Senate to act on food safety legislation to update the nation’s defenses against foodborne illness. The late 2008/early 2009 salmonella outbreak linked to Peanut Corporation of America (PCA) claimed at least nine lives and sickened more than 600 nationwide, including Jake Hurley of Wilsonville, Oregon, who was also featured in the interview. More than a year and a half after the outbreak, the federal government is still investigating PCA CEO Stewart Parnell, who according to the Associated Press is once again working in the peanut industry, despite his company being responsible for the largest food recall in the nation’s history. “Why after nearly 18 months they haven’t brought charges, I cannot explain,” Walden said today. “This is not swift and certain justice for anyone involved.” As a result of numerous oversight hearings, the House passed bipartisan legislation last year to bring the nation’s food safety defenses up to date. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius last week urged the Senate to act as well so a bill could hit the President’s desk by year’s end. “The House acted on bipartisan legislation a year ago to try and correct this problem and the Senate has yet to take it up,” Rep. Walden said today in an interview with Fox News. “The Senate needs to act as well so we can send a final product to the President and protect kids like Jake Hurley.” Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. ###
09.01.2010	Walden asks Transportation Secretary LaHood for official explanationHOOD RIVER, Ore. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) yesterday told Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood in a letter he is disappointed by the “heavy-handed” $30,000 fine of Mercy Flights for using the word “our.”Mercy Flights, a non-profit and the nation’s longest serving air ambulance operator, was punished for an infraction unrelated to safety or hazardous conditions. Their offense, according to the Federal Aviation Administration, which levied the fine, was using the pronoun “our” on its website and other company literature when referring to an air ambulance helicopter that it operates.While Mercy Flights has exclusive use of the helicopter, pays all the costs of maintaining and operating the helicopter, and employs all the medical staff that work on the helicopter, the pilots and mechanics are controlled by BTS LLC.So, the FAA decided the use of “our helicopter” in Mercy Flights’ literature constituted an act of deceiving the public, and slapped them with a $30,000 fine without even the opportunity to change the wording.“Since when did the FAA become the grammar police? This is the kind of nuance that only bureaucrats could love,” Rep. Walden said. “It is obvious that Mercy Flights wasn’t trying to deceive anyone. It is beyond me why the FAA would think that this exceedingly minor word choice merits such a severe penalty. Mercy Flights provides an essential service and creates good jobs to southern Oregon. This is Exhibit A for excessive government control.”In the letter to Secretary LaHood, Rep. Walden says he was “shocked and disappointed” to learn of the FAA’s action.“Let me be clear in that Mercy Flights did not contact me regarding this matter,” Walden writes in the letter. “Rather, I share the frustration of many of my constituents in southern Oregon who have contacted me to express their concerns about the apparent mistreatment of Mercy Flights by a federal agency once this matter was reported in the media.Rep. Walden said he wants answers for the FAA’s decision to jump straight to a fine without even working with Mercy Flights to identify a non-punitive solution.“I would appreciate you informing me of the details of FAA’s enforcement investigation into this matter and explaining why the FAA chose to levy such an unreasonable fine on Mercy Flights without even affording it the opportunity to immediately modify the language in question in its promotional materials or comply with a non-punitive cease and desist order.” The full text of the letter that Rep. Walden sent to Secretary LaHood is below: August 31, 2010 The Honorable Ray LaHoodSecretaryU.S. Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Ave., SEWashington, DC 20590Dear Secretary LaHood,I appreciate that the core mission of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is to ensure the safety of all aspects of air transport. However, I was shocked and disappointed to learn of the heavy-handed action recently taken by the FAA against Mercy Flights Inc., the nation’s longest serving air ambulance operator, located in Medford, Oregon for an infraction that was unrelated to safety or hazardous operations.The FAA is extracting a $30,000 civil penalty from Mercy Flights, a non-profit first responder that serves southern Oregon and northern California, for using the pronoun “our” when referring to an air ambulance helicopter (N131AE) in its newsletters, other printed material, and website. It is my understanding that Mercy Flights has exclusive use of, pays all the costs of maintaining and operating, and employs and oversees the medical staff used to respond to medical emergencies that fly on the helicopter. It even holds the State of Oregon ambulance license for the aircraft.As I understand it, the FAA imposed this steep fine on the grounds that Mercy Flights was deceiving the public regarding the air ambulance helicopter because, although Mercy Flights has exclusive use of the aircraft, the helicopter’s pilots and mechanics are controlled by BTS LLC. It is clear that Mercy Flights did not intend to act deceptively or mislead patients, the public or regulators with respect to operational control of the air ambulance helicopter, proven by the fact that the aircraft in question has always bared clear markings which indicate that BTS LLC is the aircraft’s operator.Let me be clear in that Mercy Flights did not contact me regarding this matter. Rather, I share the frustration of many of my constituents in southern Oregon who have contacted me to express their concerns about the apparent mistreatment of Mercy Flights by a federal agency once this matter was reported in the media. As a non-profit organization, Mercy Flights provides life-saving medical care and transport to all patients regardless of ability to pay, or if they have health insurance or not. Unfortunately, the fine it must remit to the FAA for a harmless error adversely impacts this important community resource fighting to provide emergency services during these difficult economic times.I would appreciate you informing me of the details of FAA’s enforcement investigation into this matter and explaining why the FAA chose to levy such an unreasonable fine on Mercy Flights without even affording it the opportunity to immediately modify the language in question in its promotional materials or comply with a non-punitive cease and desist order.I look forward to your response. Best regards,GREG WALDENMember of Congress CC: J. Randolph Babbitt, FAA Administrator
08.08.2010	Click here to read the story on the Mail-Tribune's website.Illegal marijuana plantations on government lands are expanding, putting forest users at risk, say Southern Oregon law officers By Paul Fattig Mail Tribune August 08, 2010 2:00 AM As the helicopter raced over the Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest Saturday morning, the pilot explained his rationale for flying low and fast. "We try to fly about 300 feet above the ground," said the Jackson County Sheriff's deputy. "It's better than at high altitude. This way you are only a target for a few seconds." Folks who grow marijuana on federal forestland have been known to take shots at unwanted visitors, he will tell you. He and the copilot — both of whom asked not to be named or photographed because of the sensitivity of their work — were flying U.S. Rep. Greg Walden, R-Hood River, to Gold Beach to discuss the growing marijuana problem on federal land with a team of drug fighters called Southern Oregon Multi-Agency Marijuana Eradication and Reclamation — or SOMMER. En route, the deputies pointed out sites where patches of marijuana plants had been confiscated in the mountains overlooking the Applegate Valley. Most of the raided patches resembled clear cuts from the air. The pot isn't just on federal land: the helicopter flew over countless marijuana plants growing behind tall fences adjacent to homes in Jackson and Josephine counties, which one of the deputies described as "pseudo medical marijuana" patches. Some of the sites had more than two dozen plants that look like oversized tomato plants from above. But the pilot steered clear of what he described as two active "cartel grows" on federal land farther into the flight, noting he didn't want to tip off the growers. A "grow" refers to an illegal marijuana patch. "Cartel" is a reference to Mexican drug-trafficking organizations which law enforcement officials say are now involved in growing marijuana on federal land in the region. To a man, the seven sheriffs in the group organized by Jackson County Sheriff Mike Winters urged Walden for more funding to beef up their departments, which have been hit hard by budget cuts over the years. Unlike domestic pot operations of years past, many of the plantations now growing on federal land are operated by Mexican drug-trafficking organizations who are well-financed and well-armed, the sheriffs said. "The longer it goes on, the harder it will be for us to overcome," Winters told Walden. "They are better funded than us ... There are more of them than there are of us." In fact, the U.S. Department of Justice's National Drug Intelligence Center's 2010 national drug threat assessment released in February reported that the number of plants removed from public land grew more than 300 percent from 2004 to 2008, primarily from pot gardens operated by Mexican drug cartels. The pot growers favor public land because of its remoteness and because it can't be seized or traced to an owner, the report said. A separate 2008 NDIC report on cartel-related drug-trafficking organizations said the Federation cartel was active in Klamath Falls, and undetermined cartels were working in Medford and Roseburg. To consolidate law-enforcement efforts, Winters came up with the SOMMER project and received a $202,000 federal grant to find, investigate, remove and clean up marijuana gardens on federal land this summer. Other counties participating in SOMMER include Josephine, Curry, Coos, Douglas, Klamath and Lake. The seven counties pulled out more than 55,000 pot plants from federal land in 2009, with nearly 30,000 of them coming from Jackson County. The Domestic Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program, the Drug Enforcement Administration operation that funded SOMMER, reported earlier this year that pot plantations on federal land in Oregon, California and Washington are among the biggest producers in the nation. After observing one eradicated pot plantation after another during the flight, Walden concluded to no one in particular, "We used to grow timber." The congressman, who told the sheriffs he would do everything he could to help their cause, is urging U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and U.S. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar to increase their efforts to stop pot growing on federal lands. Vilsack oversees the Forest Service, while Salazar is in charge of the Bureau of Land Management. In a separate letter to Oregon Gov. Ted Kulongoski, Walden asked for increased assistance from both the Oregon National Guard and the state police in helping stop the illegal drug operations. "These growing operations are typically guarded largely by armed foreign nationals, who pose a direct and dangerous threat to ranchers, hikers and anyone enjoying our public lands," Walden warned in the letters. The Justice Department's 2010 national drug threat assessment concluded the operations "constitute the greatest drug-trafficking threat" to the nation, he added. Like Winters, Curry County Sheriff John Bishop told Walden that his deputies are spread very thin, although working together through SOMMER has boosted their combined resources. But overtime and flight time eats into their extremely tight budgets, Bishop said. "We are getting into country now where we can't expect our guys to hike in there in 120-degree weather, cut the plants, haul that out and then haul out the trash and toxins and all that," he said. "We've got to have helos, and that is expensive." Helicopters enable law enforcement officers to hit more "grows" per week, an activity that averages about three patches a week during this time of year, Winters told the congressman. "In the old days, when we used to hike in with the steep terrain and everything, our guys were wiped out," he said, adding they were lucky to hit one patch a week. "And there is so much more dope now," he added. "You aren't dealing with just a few plants now. You are dealing with grows that have 5,000 plants." In 2009, his department assisted law enforcement officers just across the state line in Siskiyou County, Calif., raiding a patch which had 200,000 plants, Winters said. "We've picked up our efficiency and are doing the best we can but we don't have enough people," Winters said. "Most of us are half-staffed or losing people." "Consolidation is absolutely the only way to combat this — we just don't have the resources," stressed Josephine County Sheriff Gil Gilbertson. Klamath County Sheriff Tim Evinger said departments can't hire law enforcement officers on a seasonal basis to eradicate pot on federal land. "These are guys you are pulling off the street to handle this work," Evinger said. "So you have to pay them overtime or go short on shifts." In answer to a question by Walden, all the sheriffs said the lion's share of the illegal pot patches they are eradicating are on federal land. They also observed that using federal funds literally ties them up in red tape. "The cartels shouldn't be able to do business easier than us," Winters said at one point. While the sheriffs were quick to tell Walden the Forest Service and BLM work with them, they asked for more federal help. "It's already a collective effort," Winters said. "We need them to come in and help us a little more. It's their land. "The problem we get into as county sheriffs, we have to protect our people from county line to county line," he added. "They recreate, fish and hunt out there. So we end up having that responsibility whether we like it or not." Noting the cartels use money raised from pot to fund other criminal activities, the sheriffs said they often find gang members and others manning the illegal patches. "Now they are going in with weapons and camping," Bishop said. "It is more dangerous going into gardens now than anytime in the 24 years I've been in law enforcement." Reach reporter Paul Fattig at 541-776-4496 or e-mail him at pfattig@mailtribune.com. Proposed law would boost penalties U.S. Rep. Greg Walden supports the Federal Lands Counter-drug Strategy and Enforcement Enhancement Act, which increases penalties for those convicted of growing marijuana on federal lands. Known as House Resolution 5645, it was introduced earlier this year by U.S. Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif. The bill would dramatically increase penalties for growing and manufacturing illegal drugs on public lands. Penalties would include: A 10-year prison term in addition to existing prison terms for violating the current laws. A five- to 10-year prison term for using a poison, chemical or other hazardous material while growing drugs on federal land. A 10-year prison term for diverting water or clear-cutting timber. A prison term for assembling a booby trap on federal property where a controlled substance is manufactured, to be served consecutively to any term already imposed. A stiffer sentence for pot growers who use a firearm in the commission of their crime.
08.04.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Joe Barton, (R-Texas), and Michael Burgess (R-Texas) today unveiled a Government Accountability Office report confirming that for major developing nations like China, Brazil and India, most greenhouse emissions reports are outdated and of substandard quality.“The lack of comparable, high-quality inventories” from these nations is important, GAO noted, “because they represent the largest and fastest growing portion of the world’s emissions, and information about their emissions is important to international efforts to address climate change.”Rep. Walden released a statement on the GAO report today:"It's no surprise that developing nations, including some of the world's biggest carbon emitters, do not have high-quality reporting mechanism that could stand up to independent scientific review," Rep. Walden said. "Before the Obama administration and Speaker Pelosi clamp down on American jobs with new global warming regulations, wouldn't it make sense to make sure we can trust the measuring regimes of other countries? We need to have more cooperation from developing countries like China and India. Americans want to do the right thing for the environment, but we don't need to play by one set of rules while our economic competitors play by another."The report was requested on Feb. 10, 2009, by Barton, the ranking member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Walden, then-ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and later by Burgess, the subcommittee's current ranking member. The lawmakers asked GAO to examine the quality and comparability of nations' reporting about the greenhouse gas emissions. GAO also questions the ability of the United States and other developed nations to monitor the greenhouse gas emissions reductions or efficiency gains promised by China and other major developing countries under the 2009 Copenhagen Accord.“International global warming agreements require comparable, reliable measurements of greenhouse gases. What the GAO has found, however, is that some nations have not produced high-quality emissions inventories," Barton said. “It’s also worrisome that China, Brazil, India and other major developing nations still refuse to match their reporting regimes to those of the developed world even as they rapidly surpass both us and Europe in the amount of greenhouse gases they produce.” The latest emissions inventories from Brazil, China, India, Malaysia and Indonesia cover emissions only to 1994.GAO found for the most part that the selected developed nations – Australia, Canada, Germany, Japan, Russia, United Kingdom, and the United States – were generally comparable and of high quality. (The nations' reports nevertheless had some limits because of the lack of independent verification.) However, unlike the developed nations reviewed, the emissions reports from the developing countries reviewed – Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, and South Korea – are not subject to same reporting standards or to formal reviews, and the United Nations has not attempted to assess whether these reports meet accepted reporting guidelines.“This report reiterates why the U.S. should not rush to enact energy policies that would disadvantage our own economy before having firm commitments from other nations as to their own emissions plans. Alleged 'global warming' is just that – a global issue," Burgess said. "To unilaterally tie our own hands – especially during such economically uncertain times – would only punish our own industries, while doing nothing to combat global environmental issues. Until we have firm commitments from the other major developing nations that they will get serious about curbing their own emissions, our country’s leaders must keep the best interests of Americans in mind, knowing that involvement by other countries is, at best, only wishful thinking at the moment.”Annual greenhouse gas emissions from the selected developing nations reviewed grew by about 5 billion metric tons by 2005, which was about the annual emissions of Canada, Germany, Japan, and Russia in 2005 combined.Developing nations’ reports lacked specific information to determine how emissions were calculated, and have limited incentive to improve their emissions reporting, in part because the nations do not want to make commitments to limit emissions, the GAO noted.The report also calls into question the ability of the United States and other developed nations to monitor the greenhouse gas emissions reductions or efficiency gains promised by China and other major developing countries under the 2009 Copenhagen Accord, agreed to this past December.For example, the current reporting and review system is not sufficient to monitor China’s and India's promise to reduce by up to 45 percent and by up to 25 percent from 2005 levels, respectively, the amount of carbon dioxide per unit of GDP by 2020, or Brazil's, Mexico's, and South Korea’s promise to reduce emissions up to 30 percent and more from “business as usual” levels in 2020.GAO recommends that the secretary of State work with other parties to the United Nations FrameworkConvention on Climate Change to (1) continue encouraging China, India and other developing countries to improve their greenhouse emissions reporting, and (2) to strengthen the quality assurance for reviewing the emissions reports.A copy of the report can be found here.# # #
07.30.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C.—A Government Accountability Office report released Thursday shows that the Department of Energy has spent more than $1.9 billion in so-called stimulus funds to create 10,018 jobs through May, an average of $194,213spent per full-time job created.“As a small business owner for nearly 22 years, I’m shocked that these jobs cost taxpayers nearly $195,000 each,” U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) said. “Taxpayers deserve more for their investment. This is more evidence that the private sector is far more capable than the federal government at creating the long-term jobs required for a sustainable economic recovery.”“It looks like the Department of Energy got in over its head when it was handed $6 billion in stimulus money to create jobs by accelerating environmental cleanup work. This report says that DOE managed its timetables well enough, but it also indicates that so far, the jobs that DOE created cost $194,213 each,” said U.S. Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, ranking member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.While DOE reports that it created 10,018 jobs through May of this year, the department has also used a more unorthodox methodology to inflate job creation in some of its reports, a methodology the GAO says may mislead the public. For example, using the method GAO was critical of, the agency reports roughly 20,000 jobs created through May of this year, counting the number of “lives touched” in some documents.Barton and Walden, then-ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, asked the GAO in March 2009 to examine the Department of Energy’s management of the stimulus funding for environmental cleanup. U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess, R-Texas, later joined the request when he became the subcommittee’s ranking member.“It seems our concerns about DOE’s ability to effectively and efficiently used the funds given to them have become reality. This is yet another example of how, despite the White House’s assertions, the almost $1 trillion of stimulus funding has failed to stimulate anything other than government bureaucracy,” Burgess said.The lawmakers were concerned about the department’s ability to manage the extra $6 billion in funding DOE was provided in the stimulus effort, given the agency’s difficulty in managing environmental cleanup spending in a cost-effective manner. The funds were supposed to create jobs and promote economic recovery by expanding and accelerating the environmental cleanup of hazardous and radiological waste at the nation’s nuclear weapons complex. The report shows DOE has taken some positive steps to manage the spending and meet project timetables, but also finds that DOE does not clearly show how the funding has impacted job creation or will reduce environmental risks and future cleanup costs.A copy of GAO report can be found here. # # #
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC– Representatives Greg Walden (OR-02), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) and Senator Ron Wyden today described the Department of the Interior’s Western Oregon Task Force recommendations as “too little, too late” for western Oregon’s rural communities. The Task Force recommendations come more than one year after the administration’s decision to withdraw the Bush-era Western Oregon Plan Revisions (WOPR) for managing BLM forest lands. When the Department of Interior announced it was withdrawing the WOPR, it also announced that the BLM would offer forest restoration and timber projects aimed at sustaining timber jobs and maintaining the industry’s infrastructure for the next 18-24 months, while it continued to work on a long-term plan. However, the projects haven’t resulted in any meaningful harvest levels and the Task Force recommendations simply outline a process to get a plan within the next 3-5 years. DeFazio and Schrader were joined by Wyden and Walden in sending a letter to Secretary Salazar asking him to meet with the Oregon delegation to discuss their recommendations on how to move forward with a long-term forest plan. The delegation requested a meeting in May, but has not yet received a response.“It’s extremely disappointing that the administration’s task force doesn’t provide a clear path forward for creating jobs in western Oregon’s forests and mill towns,” Walden said. “Instead their report suggests more bureaucracy, study, and delay at a time when unemployment remains well above the national average in Jackson and Josephine counties. It’s doubly frustrating that while this report was being put together, timber sales dropped to historic lows. The sick forests and the economy in southern Oregon can’t wait any longer.”“After one year of delay, the administration has not delivered on the short-term timber supply, and the Task Force’s recommendation is to plan to have a plan,” DeFazio said. “This is not acceptable. This needs to be a priority. We need a short-term timber supply, adequate funding in the budget to get the projects done, and a tangible plan forward for the communities that have been hanging in limbo now for nearly a decade.”“I am disappointed with this Task Force Report,” said Schrader. “It contains little substance on creating a forest plan for Western Oregon that will help revitalize our rural forested communities. Western Oregon needs a science-based forest plan which allows for a sustainable and predictable timber harvest to create jobs, keep our forests healthy, and promote the use and development of clean and renewable biomass. A forest plan implemented with the recommendations included in the Task Force report would be nothing short of a death sentence for rural Oregon timber communities. The Department of Interior and the Bureau of Land Management must and can do better than this.”“This report and the studies it recommends will do nothing to keep our mills open and save family wage jobs in Southern Oregon,” Wyden said. “I have made it clear to the Interior Department that we are facing a time-sensitive and very serious challenge in Southern Oregon, but I see no sense of urgency or responsiveness in today's report. I intend to make it very clear to both the Secretary and the President that this isn’t going to cut it, and I will explore legislative alternatives on a bipartisan basis with my Oregon colleagues if Interior continues to ignore the urgency of our situation."The full text of the letter is below: July 22, 2010The Honorable Ken SalazarSecretaryU.S. Department of Interior1849 C Street, NWWashington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar:We write to express our deep disappointment in the recommendations of the Western Oregon Task Force and to share our continued concerns about the lack of progress in offering a viable interim timber supply and developing a long-term forest plan for Western Oregon. More than a year ago, the Department of the Interior withdrew the Western Oregon Plan Revisions (WOPR). At the time, the Department promised to offer an interim supply of timber while the Administration developed a long-term strategy to provide a predictable and sustainable supply of timber to rural communities in Western Oregon. The Department of the Interior’s plan hasn’t delivered. Timber-dependent communities in rural Oregon stand at an economic precipice. Many existing forest management projects in the Medford and Roseburg Bureau of Land Management (BLM) districts cannot move forward due to ongoing litigation. In the current fiscal year, the Medford BLM district has sold two million board feet of timber; the Roseburg BLM district has sold 22 million board feet. Both are near historic lows. Without immediate and decisive action by the Administration, there is little prospect of moving forward with responsible timber projects that are needed to improve forest health and that are economically viable for industry. Absent action, Western Oregon will continue to lose jobs, timber industry infrastructure, and know-how.The prospects of a long-term forestry plan in Western Oregon are equally dismal. The sole product after 12 months of study and deliberation by the Department and the Task Force is a recommendation for additional studies, plans, and task forces. This is simply unacceptable for our rural communities. One year after WOPR was withdrawn, we are no closer to a long-term strategy for restoring forest health, offering a predictable supply of timber, and putting Oregonians back to work in the woods than we were in July, 2009. Based on recent meetings with the BLM Director Bob Abbey and Mike Pool and in reviewing the Task Force’s recommendations, it is our understanding that a long-term forest plan could take as long as three to five years to develop and implement. Such a timeline does not reflect the strong sense of urgency required to meaningfully respond to the economic and forest health crises we face in Western Oregon. We see no reason the Department cannot produce a long-term forest plan for Western Oregon in the next 12 months. We simply cannot afford another year of inaction. In May, 2010 the Oregon Congressional delegation sent you a request for a sit down meeting to discuss your plans for replacing WOPR, to express our collective concerns about the lack of viable timber sales in the Medford and Roseburg BLM districts and to offer recommendations on how the Department can move forward with a long-term forest plan. To date, we have not received a reply. We once again request a meeting to engage in a constructive discussion about the Department’s next steps to offer an interim timber supply and to develop a long-term forest plan for Western Oregon.Mr. Secretary, our communities face some of the highest unemployment rates in the country. Our public forests are overstocked, fire-suppressed, and unhealthy. We are losing timber industry infrastructure, know how, and family wage jobs. We need action, and we need it now.Sincerely, Peter DeFazioKurt SchraderGreg WaldenRon Wyden
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — On the day Gallup reported that the American people’s confidence in Congress has fallen to a record low, House Republicans launched a renewed push to highlight and enact “read the bill” reforms demanded by the American people.“Everywhere I go, taxpayers want to know why they don’t give Congress and the public enough time to read and understand these enormously costly bills, ” U.S. Rep. Greg Walden said. “This is a no-brainer. It’s time to let the sun shine in and change how the House operates.”House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) has posted on America Speaking Out an idea that Rep. Walden a bipartisan coalition of members have been promoting to prohibit the House from considering any bill that has not been publicly available via the Internet for three days. This is the first idea Leader Boehner has posted on America Speaking Out, which was launched by House Republicans in May to engage the American people in building a more responsive government and a better country. “One of the reasons why Americans have such little confidence in Congress is because of the practice of rushing massive, expensive bills to a vote without giving lawmakers or the American people time to read them,” Boehner said. “This is the people’s House: ‘read the bill’ should not be just an afterthought – it should be the first and only thought.” “Read the bill” reform is the first plank of the transparency initiativeHouse Republicans released last fall. In September, Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) filed a discharge petitionto force a floor vote on bipartisan three-day public review legislation authored by Reps. John Culberson (R-TX) and Brian Baird (D-WA). To date, the petition has garnered 182 signatures – including five rank-and-file Democrats — 36 short of the 218 needed to secure a vote on the floor. Leader Boehner, a co-sponsor of the Culberson-Baird measure, has pledged that Republicans would implement “read the bill” reform should they earn back the majority. “At a time when record high spending bills are passing the House, this resolution would give Members of Congress and the American public a chance to read legislation before a vote,” said Culberson. “This resolution will enhance public participation in our democracy and help restore the public trust in government by raising the level of transparency, order, and discourse.NOTE: Americans are fed up with Congress passing bills no one has read. Speaker Pelosi and Democratic leaders have rushed hugely consequential and expensive legislation through the House without giving the American people time to review the measures. Here are just five high-profile examples:Trillion-Dollar ‘Stimulus.’ In one of the most infamous displays of brazen partisanship, Democratic leaders posted the text of their ‘stimulus’ bill in the dark of night well past midnightonly to turn around and force members to vote on it less than 12 hours after it was made public. ‘Cap-and-Trade’ National Energy Tax. House Democrats passed a national energy tax bill loaded with special-interest giveaways no one had discovered because a 300-page, never-before-seen amendment to their already massive 1,200-page bill was unveiled at 3am the day of the vote. $500 Billion Omnibus Spending Bill. When trying to beat a path out of Washington last December, Democratic leaders rushed a 2,500-page,half trillion omnibus spending bill to the floor with less than 24 hours notice and just an hour of debate.DISCLOSE Act. At the last minute, Democratic leaders produced a new 46-page manager’s amendment to their 84-page campaign bill that was chock full of backroom deals and carve outs for special interest groups.SCHIP. The Democrats brought their flawed State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) bill – which shortchanged low-income children and expanded coverage to illegal immigrants and adults – to the House floor for a vote less than24 hours after it had been unveiled.Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. ###
07.15.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — One week after touring Milton-Freewater’s levees and organizing an inter-agency roundtable on the next steps for repairs, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) yesterday voted to give residents much-needed breathing room as efforts to repair and re-certify the levees continue.“Hopefully this will help Milton-Freewater and similarly situated communities that would otherwise face significant costs on fixed incomes,” Rep. Walden said. “The bottom line is this bill gives Milton-Freewater the important breathing room it needs right now and for the coming five years as we continue to work toward a solution that will bring the levees back into compliance.”The Flood Insurance Reform Priorities Act (HR 5114) overwhelmingly passed the House today with Rep. Walden’s vote.The bill would delay for five years the mandatory flood insurance purchase requirement for areas designated as Special Flood Hazard Areas after Sept. 1, 2008 — that includes much of the city of Milton-Freewater. Under current law, Milton-Freewater residents would be required to purchase the flood insurance once the new flood maps are finalized on Sept. 1, 2010.However, if residents decide they’d like to purchase flood coverage through the National Flood Insurance Plan (NFIP), the bill allows Milton-Freewater residents for the next five years to purchase flood insurance at a much-reduced rate: from $237 to $388 per year.Without the bill, the reduced rates would only be available for two years. After that, the rates for some homes would be much higher — up to $1,000 per year. The rates for business properties would be much higher. Across all the affected homes and businesses, the potential savings could be in the hundreds of thousands, or even millions, of dollars.The legislation now heads to the Senate where it must be approved before it can be signed into law by the President.This vote on the bill comes shortly after Rep. Walden met with community leaders and federal agencies to discuss repairing the levees in Milton-Freewater. One of the main topics of discussion was flood insurance and the cost it will have to the community.Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. ###
07.07.2010	ENTERPRISE, Ore. – U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced this morning at a town hall meeting in Enterprise that he is asking the state of Oregon to investigate a home energy assistance program that federal investigators last week revealed is riddled with waste, fraud, and abuse in at least seven other states.“Taxpayers shouldn’t have to tolerate waste, fraud, and abuse with their tax dollars, and those who legitimately deserve help should not be denied it because crooks and con-artists steal from the program,” Rep. Walden said. “We must make government more accountable. Low-income home energy assistance is a valuable program, but it is being abused at an alarming rate in other states.”A recent snapshot of Oregon households identified 16,996 applicants in the state on waiting lists for home energy assistance.“Every swindler and con-man that is allowed to abuse the system lengthens the wait for these needy families,” Walden said.In March 2009, Rep. Walden asked the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate potential abuse in the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which helps needy households across the country.Last week, GAO released its finding that 9 percent of households receiving benefits in the seven states it investigated could be improperly receiving LIHEAP funds at a cost of $116 million per year—which, properly distributed, would provide assistance to about 290,000 needy households.Common fraud uncovered by GAO included using the names of the deceased or the incarcerated to apply for and receive taxpayer funds. GAO also found that more than 1,000 federal employees whose federal salary exceeded the maximum income eligibility threshold received benefits—including one US Postal Service employee in Illinois who earned about $80,000 a year who said she wanted the “free money.”GAO did not investigate Oregon’s LIHEAP program.Today, Rep. Walden sent a letter to Oregon Secretary of State Kate Brown asking that she initiate an investigation into the state’s LIHEAP program.“I am sure you would agree that there is no place for this kind of abuse in Oregon, especially at a time when every dollar in the program matters so greatly,” Rep. Greg Walden wrote to Secretary Brown.“The taxpayers rightly expect their public institutions to be accountable and transparent. A thorough investigation of Oregon’s LIHEAP program would help give taxpayers the peace of mind they deserve,” Rep. Greg Walden wrote.Below are additional examples of fraudulent or improper activity in LIHEAP that GAO uncovered in other states:Illinois provided $540 in energy assistance to an applicant who fraudulently used the identities of two deceased family members to qualify for LIHEAP. New Jersey provided $3,200 in energy assistance to a nursing home facility whose director claimed to represent eight patients residing in the facility. These patients had their nursing home care paid by Medicaid. Posing as low-income residents, landlords and an energy company, GAO used bogus addresses and fabricated energy bills, pay stubs and other documents to apply for energy assistance. All fraudulent claims were processed and the energy assistance payments were issued to our bogus landlords and company. Rep. Walden’s letter to Secretary Brown is below.July 6, 2010The Honorable Kate BrownSecretary of StateState of Oregon136 State CapitolSalem, OR 97301Dear Secretary Brown:Because you share my commitment to the success and integrity of important public programs that aim to better the lives of our state’s most needy citizens, I respectfully ask that you investigate Oregon’s Low Income Energy Assistance Program to ensure that it is free of waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer dollars.The impetus of my request is the recent Government Accountability Office report, which I requested, that uncovered shocking levels of waste, fraud, and abuse in the LIHEAP programs of seven states.GAO estimated that 9 percent of households receiving benefits in the seven states it investigated could be improperly receiving LIHEAP funds at a cost of $116 million per year—which, properly distributed, would provide assistance to 290,000 needy households. GAO discovered that the identifications of more than 11,000 deceased persons and hundreds of prisoners were used as applicants or household members for LIHEAP benefits. More than 1,000 federal employees whose federal salary exceeded the maximum income eligibility threshold received benefits. In several cases, people living in million-dollar houses received benefits.I am sure you would agree that there is no place for that kind of abuse in Oregon, especially at a time when every dollar in the program matters so greatly. The most recent snapshot of the state’s low-income energy assistance programs was conducted on January 15, 2010, by the Community Partnership of Oregon. On that day, 16,996 qualified Oregon households languished on waiting lists for energy assistance.It is in that spirit that I ask you to investigate Oregon’s LIHEAP program to ensure that Oregon is free of the kind of waste, fraud, and abuse uncovered in the GAO report.The taxpayers rightly expect their public institutions to be accountable and transparent. A thorough investigation of Oregon’s LIHEAP program would help give taxpayers the peace of mind they deserve. I have enclosed a copy of the GAO report for your review. Please do not hesitate to contact me with any questions you may have. Best regards, Greg Walden# # #
07.01.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and two other top Republican lawmakers today released a Government Accountability Office report that found nine percent of households in seven states could be improperly receiving Low Income Heating Assistance Program funds at a cost of $116 million dollars a year.The report was requested by Rep. Walden, Rep. Michael Burgess (R-Texas), and. Rep. Joe Barton, (R-Texas), the ranking member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.“This is yet another poster child of waste, fraud, and abuse,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “Taxpayer dollars for heating assistance were shelled out to the well-off and crooks posing as the deceased. Taxpayers may have been cheated out of more than $100 million because HHS couldn’t figure out that the deceased don’t need energy assistance? By the way, this is the same outfit that’s going to run the $1 trillion government takeover of healthcare. The American people deserve far better protection of their tax dollars.”LIHEAP, which is administered through the Department of Health and Human Services, costs $5 billion a year and serves 8.3 million low-income households by providing financial assistance to low-income households for heating and cooling costs.In its investigation, GAO found that more than 11,000 dead people and hundreds of prisoners were used as applicants or household members for LIHEAP benefits. More than 1,000 federal employees whose federal salary exceeded maximum income threshold received benefits and in several cases, people living in million-dollar houses received benefits.“It looks like a ton of LIHEAP money was disbursed to con artists who applied under the names of convicts and the dead. Even some people living in million-dollar houses got their utility bills paid by the taxpayer,” Rep. Barton said. “LIHEAP is supposed to be for poor people, not for cheats who pose as something or someone they’re not and get their paperwork rubber-stamped by gullible government officials. It’s Secretary Sebelius’ responsibility to run this program right, and she needs to start doing it by stopping this fraud.”“This program is intended to benefit poor Americans who need assistance paying their energy bills, but for the fact that it’s abused and administered inefficiently,” Rep. Burgess said. “LIHEAP seems to be another example of waste, fraud and abuse running rampant and unchecked in government programs, and must be reined in. Low-income Texans have a hard time accessing their fair share of LIHEAP funding, so to learn that nine percent of LIHEAP funds are wasted is astonishing.”Below are examples of fraudulent or improper activity in LIHEAP that GAO uncovered:• “Illinois provided $540 in energy assistance to an applicant who fraudulently used the identities of two deceased family members to qualify for LIHEAP.• “Illinois provided $840 in energy assistance to a U.S. Postal Service employee who fraudulently reported zero income to qualify for LIHEAP. Despite earning about $80,000 per year, the employee stated that she saw ‘long lines’ of individuals applying for LIHEAP benefits and wanted the ‘free money.’• “New Jersey provided $3,200 in energy assistance to a nursing home facility whose director claimed to represent eight patients residing in the facility. These patients had their nursing home care paid by Medicaid.• “Posing as low-income residents, landlords and an energy company, GAO used bogus addresses and fabricated energy bills, pay stubs and other documents to apply for energy assistance. All fraudulent claims were processed and the energy assistance payments were issued to our bogus landlords and company.”# # #
06.23.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Emergency repair funds are on their way for the Wallowa Mountain Loop Road, a major tourist attraction in northeast Oregon that supports local economies in Baker, Union, and Wallowa counties.Just after the washout occurred on the popular road, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) alerted U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Ray LaHood to the scope of the economic challenges posed to the region. Today, DOT will announce $3.2 million in quick relief emergency funds for Oregon. The road was washed out in several places during heavy rains about two and a half weeks ago.That money will be used to address repairs on U.S. Forest Service Road 39 in the Wallowa Whitman National Forest – commonly known as the Wallowa Mountain Loop Road, an essential part of the popular Hells Canyon Scenic Byway.“I know how important the Wallowa Mountain Loop Road is to the economies of northeast Oregon,” Rep. Walden said. “I thank Secretary LaHood for his fast response and urge the department to get boots on the ground just as quickly to get the road back in shape again.”Following the wash-out of the road, Rep. Walden appealed to the U.S. Forest Service and DOT to repair the road quickly as the peak sightseeing season of the summer approaches. He also flew over the damaged road before a town meeting in Richland in Baker County on June 13.Earlier today Walden spoke with DOT Deputy Secretary John Sporcari to receive an update on the application for the emergency funds.“I know how difficult the current economic conditions are, especially in rural Oregon,” Rep. Walden said. “And I know that this couldn’t have come at a worse time for businesses and employees in the area that count on a productive tourism season.”“Securing the funds is only half the battle,” Walden said. “I will continue to work closely with the Forest Service and DOT to make sure work is progressing as fast as possible.”The Wallowa Mountain Loop Road, a major component of the Hells Canyon National Scenic Byway, is a major tourist attraction and economic engine during the spring and summer months for Baker, Union, and Wallowa counties.The Wallowa County Chamber of Commerce estimated that the closure of the road would cause an economic impact of $1.88 million to Wallowa County alone.According to the Eastern Oregon Visitors Association, the average visitor spends between $150 and $200 per day per travel party when visiting the Hells Canyon National Scenic Byway.Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.###
06.22.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) renewed the bipartisan effort to create jobs for rural Oregonians this week by asking once more for congressional hearings on forest health and renewable biomass energy legislation introduced last year.In a letter to committee chairmen, Walden and a bipartisan group of colleagues from forested states write that “we are concerned with the lack of oversight hearings aimed at addressing the issues that threaten our federal forests, particularly as we approach wildfire season.”“Over the last few years, we have been lucky in Oregon, Washington and other forested states to have not faced devastating fire seasons despite the fact that our federal forests are still overcrowded, plagued with disease, and ready to burn,” the letter states. “Once again, we could be facing a destructive fire year. We respectfully request that the committees immediately hold oversight hearings to examine the state of our federal forests and request that you develop policies aimed at improving the health of our forests.”The letter was signed by Walden and Reps. Brian Baird (D-Wash.), Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-S.D.), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), and Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.). The letter was sent to the chairmen and ranking members of the House Agriculture Committee and the House Natural Resources Committee.The group also asked once more for hearings on legislation they introduced last year: H.R. 4233 and H.R. 4227. The members originally requested hearings in January but never received a response.“Another fire season approaches and Congress has still not taken action to give the federal foresters and scientists the tools they need to bring the forests back to health,” Rep. Walden said. “We can create jobs, revenue, and healthier forests on federal lands if only the right policies are put into place in the nation’s capital. Our legislation is bipartisan and can help put people back to work, and it deserves a hearing.”The bipartisan bills would give federal foresters and scientists the tools they need to do landscape-scale restoration work to bring the forests back into balance with nature, and also create incentives to help jump-start the renewable biomass energy market. The bipartisan legislative effort of H.R. 4233 and H.R. 4227 seeks to:Create jobsOregon holds one of the highest unemployment rates in the country. Many counties in rural Oregon are well above the state and national averages where choked federal forests dominate the landscape -- push 15 or even 20 percent unemployment.Bring forests back to healthIn 2003, Congress passed the strongly bipartisan Healthy Forests Restoration Act. Where implemented, it has reduced the incidence and severity of catastrophic wildfire. Since the bill was signed into law, however, wildfires have burned more than 40 million acres in the United States, an area larger than North Dakota, and have devastated habitat, water sources, and communities in the West.Now, professional foresters and scientists have asked Congress for the same successful tools provided in HFRA to use outside the 1.5-mile-wide, donut-shaped Wildland-Urban Interface (WUI), that surrounds communi­ties, where forests are most at risk of catastrophic wildfire and where the biggest fires start.The bill would provide the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management clear authority to use the proven-to-work tools in HFRA to address areas of highest risk of catastrophic fire.Jumpstart the clean biomass energy market This legislation would help the renewable biomass energy industry plant firm roots by encouraging universities, public schools, hospitals, local governments and Native American tribes at non-gaming facilities to install or convert to clean biomass energy, heating or cooling systems.The full text of the bipartisan letter that the members sent this week is below:Dear Chairman Peterson, Chairman Rahall, Ranking Member Lucas, and Ranking Member Hastings:We are writing to follow up on our letter of January 13, 2010 that requested a legislative hearing on two important bipartisan bills that promote job creation and healthy forests. Given that we have not received a response to our request, we again write to strongly urge the committees to hold legislative hearings on the Healthy Forests Restoration Amendments Act of 2009 (H.R. 4233) and the Incentives to Increase Use of Renewable Biomass Act of 2009 (H.R. 4227). Both bills represent extensive bipartisan collaboration and reflect the urgent need to implement common sense policies that will allow our federal land managers to better manage our nation’s federal forests.We are concerned with the lack of oversight hearings aimed at addressing the issues that threaten our federal forests, particularly as we approach wildfire season. Over the last few years, we have been lucky in Oregon, Washington and other forested states to have not faced devastating fire seasons despite the fact that our federal forests are still overcrowded, plagued with disease, and ready to burn. Once again, we could be facing a destructive fire year. We respectfully request that the committees immediately hold oversight hearings to examine the state of our federal forests and request that you develop policies aimed at improving the health of our forests.We believe that the federal forests could be better utilized to provide a steady and affordable supply of clean woody biomass energy. Our forests could be the home to new jobs that could help sustain our rural infrastructure. That is why we introduced H.R. 4233 and H.R. 4227. We appreciate your attention to these important matters and look forward to your response. Congressional oversight on the state of our federal forests and legislative hearings on H.R. 4233 and H.R. 4227 cannot wait any longer.Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.###
06.07.2010	
06.07.2010	
06.07.2010	
06.06.2010	
06.06.2010	
06.05.2010	Click here to watch Rep. Walden’s speech on the House floor April 27, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) spoke on the House floor about the impact the government takeover of health care will have on the more than 38,000 seniors in Oregon’s Second District that have chosen Medicare Advantage as the best plan that suits their needs. According to an independent government actuarial analysis released by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Studies (CMS) last week, half of all seniors who have Medicare Advantage will lose their coverage under the new law. Oregon has the highest penetration rate of Medicare Advantage in the country. Ten counties in Oregon have Medicare Advantage penetration rates of 45 percent or higher and, of those, six counties are above 50 percent. That means, in those counties, more seniors are in a Medicare Advantage plan than are not. In their new analysis of the healthcare legislation, CMS concluded: “We estimate that in 2017, when the MA provisions will be fully phased in, enrollment in MA plans will be lower by about 50 percent (from its projected level of 14.8 million under the prior law to 7.4 million under the new law).” “That’s a big problem for seniors in Oregon,” Walden said today. “We now know under this independent evaluation that half of the seniors in Oregon that have chosen Medicare Advantage will lose their plans.” A full transcript of Rep. Walden’s remarks on the floor are below: “The Speaker of the House told the National Association of Counties a while back that, ‘Congress needed to pass the health care bill so we could find out what’s in it.’ Well we are finding out now. “The chief actuary for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is the independent score keeper of legislation like this. Their report that they just issued said half of all seniors in America who are on Medicare advantage plans — half —are going to lose that coverage under the bill that was signed into law. “Well that is a big problem for seniors in Oregon. Oregon has had one of the highest penetration rates in the United States of seniors who wanted Medicare advantage and signed up for it. “I was out in Ontario, Oregon not long ago and the seniors there raised their hands and said, ‘Why are the taking away that Medicare advantage I have?’ “We now know, under this independent evaluation, half of them will lose that care. Thirty-eight thousand seniors in my district alone (are enrolled in Medicare Advantage). We need to repeal and replace this law that was jammed through this Congress.” Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
06.05.2010	
05.31.2010	{insert subtitle} May 31, 2010 - CENTRAL POINT, Ore. - Please find below the remarks, as prepared for delivery, of U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) for the Memorial Day ceremony at the Oregon Fallen War Heroes Memorial in Central Point on Monday, May 31 at 9 a.m. ….. Thank you, Dennis. Good morning Senator Wyden, participants, volunteers, families and friends. Today marks the second anniversary of the groundbreaking of the Oregon Fallen War Heroes Memorial. I commend Dennis, a Vietnam War veteran, for his vision on the project. While I was unable to join him for the groundbreaking in 2008, I am honored to join him today on this solemn occasion when we honor those who have served our country in the cause of freedom. Inscribed on the columns before you are the names of the more than 5,800 soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, Coast Guardsmen and merchant mariners who gave their lives in defense of this country’s freedom since Oregon became a state in 1859. Looking at the names, I am reminded of the poignant words of General John Pershing, the commander of American forces in World War I and the first chairman of the American Battle Monuments Commission. He said of the fallen: “Time will not dim the glory of their deeds.” He was right. Time will not dim the glory of their deeds, because we refuse to forget that behind each name is an extraordinary story of sacrifice and bravery. One of the names is Army Corporal Jessica Ellis from Baker City, Oregon. Jessica was a medic in the elite 101st Airborne. In April 2008, during a night mission on her second tour of duty in Iraq, an IED hit the Buffalo that she and five other soldiers were riding in. Jessica sustained cuts and bruises, but refused to stay on the sidelines. Her father, Steve Ellis, said later: “She went right back out there. What a brave thing.” Three weeks later, likely before her cuts and bruises were even fully healed, another IED detonated that took Jessica’s life. Her father said that “(Jessica) knew the risks, but she felt that if she didn’t go, she was letting her buddies down. She felt a commitment to be there for them.” What a brave thing indeed. That bravery is the common thread that binds every patriot who gave the ultimate sacrifice for this great country, from the fields of Gettysburg to the woodlands of the Argonne Forest, from the beaches of Normandy to the seas and islands of the South Pacific, from the jungles of Vietnam to the streets of Baghdad and mountains of Afghanistan. Across the world today, Americans stop, remember, and pay their respects. They do so with their families at parades on Main Street, with their communities at memorials like this, or with the thoughts and prayers of an entire nation at a hallowed place like Arlington National Cemetery. Today, at that cemetery a continent away, the spirit of southern Oregon is in full bloom. In 1999, I helped plant the first “Veterans Honor Roses” — from Jackson and Perkins — in a memorial garden at Arlington National Cemetery. The roses, which bloom each year, serve as a living and lasting tribute not only to those who made the ultimate sacrifice, but to all veterans who wear the nation’s uniform. Veterans…like those of the Oregon National Guard’s 41st Brigade Combat Team who, just over a month ago, returned home from Iraq. The 2,700 Oregon National Guard troops who shipped overseas and into harm’s way represented the largest deployment of Oregon servicemembers since World War II. We must pause to remember two members of the 41st Brigade Combat Team, based in Clackamas, who did not come home—Specialist Taylor Marks, from Monmouth, Oregon and Sergeant Earl Werner from Amboy, Washington, who gave their lives in Rashad, Iraq last August. Their sacrifice in the battle against the enemies of freedom will not be forgotten. And make no mistake, the battle to keep our country safe from threats both domestic and foreign is still very much ongoing. The Christmas Day bomber and the failed Times Square plot are recent chilling reminders that terrorists remain intent on destroying our free way of life. But they will not succeed. They will not succeed because our men and women in uniform comprise the most professional and effective fighting force in the world. They will not succeed because of our defenders on the homefront — the police, firefighters, and first responders — who every day remain vigilant and prepared to put themselves in harm’s way. They will not succeed because this country won’t let them. I want to read the words of Debbie Lee, the mother of Marc Alan Lee, a native of my hometown of Hood River and the first Navy SEAL killed in Iraq on August 2, 2006. “A huge hole is left in my life as I think of my son,” Debbie wrote. “Yet I am so proud of this young man whose name means ‘Mighty Warrior.’ His selfless character allowed him to make the choice to give his life so that others could live. He stood in the direct line of fire three times that day to defend his buddies but he didn't do that just for them. He did that for you and for me and this country he so loved. That same character runs true for those that we remember on this Memorial Day.” We are free because of heroes like Marc Alan Lee, Jessica Ellis, Taylor Marks, Earl Werner, and the rest of the heroes whose names are inscribed on these columns. Their sacrifice mattered. And time will never dim the glory of their deeds. Thank you for coming today. God bless America. Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
05.27.2010	May 27, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Oregon Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden successfully amended a Senate emergency spending bill to include $10 million in drought relief for farmers and ranchers in the Klamath Basin. In an unusual move, Representative Greg Walden came over to the Senate side of the Capitol to join Merkley and Wyden in encouraging members of the Senate to adopt the amendment. The funding will go toward a land idling program that will provide relief to farmers who will not receive Klamath Project irrigation water this growing season. “Farmers and their families in the Klamath Basin have been hit terribly hard by this drought and relief can’t come quickly enough,” said Merkley. “The farmers have stepped up to the plate to help each other, and I'm grateful the Senate is ready and willing to show them our full support. This additional funding for the land idling programs will help our farmers get through this tough season.” “This additional funding won’t make the drought disappear, but it will help farmers in the Klamath Basin meet their equipment payments and pay their bills,” said Sen. Ron Wyden. “The Basin is facing an economically devastating situation and I appreciate the Senate coming together today to help our Klamath farm families weather this crisis.” “I want to thank Sen. Merkley and Sen. Wyden for their leadership and support as we continue to work to deliver assistance to the farmers and ranchers in Klamath basin,” Rep. Walden said. “It’s another example of the delegation coming together in a bipartisan way to help Oregonians dealing with an emergency situation.” Earlier this month, the U.S. Department of Agriculture declared the Klamath Basin a federal disaster area. The Upper Klamath Lake, which provides most of the water to irrigators in the region, had only one-third of normal water levels this year – leaving over 1,400 farmers and ranchers without the needed resources to irrigate their crops. The land idling program alleviates the worst effects of water shortages and extreme drought conditions. Through a competitive bidding process, Klamath farmers and ranchers entered into agreements to irrigate only some or none of their land for the 2010 season in exchange for drought aid. These additional funds will support those farmers who would otherwise face financial demise because they were required to plant crops, only to see them fail due to a lack of water. The additional funding would supplement $8.75 million that the federal government has previously made available for the operation of drought wells and for land idling. The final bill still needs to pass the full Senate and be reconciled with the House of Representatives before becoming law.
05.26.2010	2015 Press Releases2014 Press Releases2013 Press Releases2012 Press Releases2011 Press Releases2010 Press Releases2009 Press Releases2008 Press Releases2007 Press Releases2006 Press Releases2005 Press Releases
05.25.2010	May 25, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) issued the following statement on the launch of AmericaSpeakingOut.com, an online effort by House Republicans to engage the American people in the process of building a new policy agenda for America. Through America Speaking Out, the American people will be given a voice in setting the priorities for a national agenda. "As a small business owner with my wife for nearly 22 years, I know just how difficult it is right now for Americans making the tough decisions to balance their business and family budgets. I also know how frustrated folks are when they look at Washington and see a government unwilling to make the same tough choices,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “There’s a serious disconnect between what the American people need and want, and what Washington is delivering. The American people have been perfectly clear. They want their government to stop the wasteful spending and borrowing, and instead let the private sector do what it does best: create jobs. Yet all they see is a spending binge with no end in sight that is setting our country on the path to Greece,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “The old ways don’t work anymore. The time has come for a new way of operating in the nation’s capital, where the American people are listened to and help write the agenda in Congress. The center of the effort is a new online forum, AmericaSpeakingOut.com, where you can lend your voice to the building of the new agenda. At this brand new forum, you can submit your policy solutions, debate the ideas posted by others, and get involved in the conversation with Americans from all over the country,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “I’ve always believed the best ideas come from the people,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “Hopefully, AmericaSpeakingOut.com will be the home to a vibrant and productive online conversation between Americans and those elected to represent them.” Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
05.25.2010	May 25, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that Kieron Callahan of John Day has been selected as the winner of Oregon’s Second Congressional District in the 2010 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Kieron, a senior at Grant Union High School, will have his artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Kieron’s acrylic piece is titled, The Journey. “I want to congratulate Kieron on this accomplishment. I look forward to seeing his artwork featured in the U.S. Capitol alongside some of the best artistic talent in the from high schools across the country,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “This competition is a tremendous opportunity for young people interested in art and I want to thank the dedicated and fantastic team of judges from college art programs throughout the Second District who helped with this year’s competition.” The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide program for students to showcase their artistic abilities and to highlight the importance of art education. In order to enter the competition, high school students had to submit two-dimensional artwork that was original in concept, design and execution.Below is an image of Kieron’s acrylic piece “The Journey.” If you would like a high-resolution image, please contact Andrew Whelan at Andrew.whelan@mail.house.gov or (202) 226-7338. Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
05.24.2010	May 24, 2010 - MEDFORD, Ore. - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) on Saturday in Medford introduced Oregon to the “YouCut” program, an innovative new online initiative launched by House Republicans to the American people a direct connection to helping Congress cut wasteful federal spending. “Our national debt is simply unsustainable,” Rep. Walden said. “Not only is it immoral to keep passing along such debt to our children and our grandchildren, but our debt and deficit levels are hurting the economy and the prospects for job creation and future economic growth.” Congress has long had a spending problem. It is not just that Congress spends too much (it does), but the whole legislative process and culture of Congress is set up to find new ways to spend more money. It is almost unheard of for Congress to consider bills to actually eliminate wasteful programs or reduce unnecessary spending. In fact, more time has been devoted to considering bills to name post offices (62 and counting) or congratulate sports teams (also 62 and counting) than to considering bills to reduce spending. The YouCut project is designed to challenge Congress’s culture of spending. It is a first of its kind effort designed to engage the public in refocusing Congress’s priorities. With a deficit near $1.5 trillion, it shouldn’t be too much to ask of Congress to spend some time debating bills to actually reduce spending. How it Works:The project revolves around a very simple two-step process: Each week, House Republicans will post online (at https://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut ...or just Google “YouCut”) a list of five proposals to reduce wasteful or unnecessary federal spending. The public will have a chance to vote online or on their cell phones on the proposal they would most like to see Congress take up the next week. And the next week House Republicans will force the House to vote on whether or not to take up and debate the bill.Each week, House Republicans will post relevant floor speeches, bill summaries, and vote tallies online for the public to review. The public will also have an opportunity to recommend their proposals to reduce wasteful spending. The proposals put forward for consideration as a part of this project will not in and of themselves solve our deficit and debt problems. The YouCut project is not about finding the one silver-bullet to our debt problems. It is designed, rather, to challenge Washington’s culture of spending and replace it with one of savings. After all, if Congress can’t bring itself to make the small decisions to reduce wasteful spending, how can we ever trust them with the big decisions that must be made? In case you missed it, here is the story from the Mail-Tribune: Help cut wasteful government spendingProjects will be offered each week so Americans can decide whether to cut itMay 23, 2010https://www.mailtribune.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20100523/NEWS/5230327By Paul FattigMail TribuneThe next time you sit down to balance your checkbook, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden hopes you will take a few additional minutes to help Congress with the national budget.Not by writing a check to Uncle Sam but by texting or e-mailing the GOP's YouCut program, which allows people to propose programs that Congress should cut, Walden, a Republican from Hood River, explained in a Medford news conference Saturday."The Republicans in the House are reaching out to Americans to participate and recommend things they think could begin the process of reducing wasteful spending," said the House Republican Leadership chairman, who represents Oregon's 2nd Congressional District."Each week Americans will have the ability to text in and vote on alternatives of what should be cut," he said, adding later, "We want to allow Americans the opportunity to weigh in."Launched last week by GOP House Minority Whip Eric Cantor, R-Va., the YouCut initiative — republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut — offers five projects each week that Americans can vote on to decide whether they should go on the budgetary chopping block. While the projects put to a vote are submitted by the GOP, participants also can suggest their own projects to be eliminated.But House Democrats aren't too keen on the YouCut program.When the first vote failed, 177-240, last week, U.S. Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Fla., said Republicans were trying to stop the House business."First this is not 'American Idol' or 'Dancing With the Stars'," he said on the House floor. "This is America's legislature. For all we know, on YouCut, Osama bin Laden could be voting."Noting that the national deficit is expected to top $1 trillion by next year, Walden claimed the program isn't a political gimmick but a serious way to empower average Americans."We have to change the wasteful and reckless Washington spending and put a stop to it," he said. "This is not fair to this generation. And it is reckless and completely unfair to our children and grandchildren."Walden was joined by seven GOP state legislators or candidates, including Sen. Ted Ferrioli of John Day, Republican leader in the Oregon Senate, and Rep. Bruce Hanna of Roseburg, the Republican leader in the House. State Reps. Sal Esquivel of Medford and Dennis Richardson of Central Point, as well as Sen. Doug Whitsett of Klamath Falls, were also present.Those participating in YouCut aren't expected to balance the entire national budget, Walden said."That is a monumental task," he said. "But, having been a small-business owner for nearly 22 years, having signed the front of a payroll check and paid the bills, I know every dollar matters."So, if we are ever going to get a hold of the big programs, you got to start with the little programs," he added.To make it easier for the average American to participate, the GOP is breaking it down to five spending projects at a time, he said. Each week the GOP will present the program that gets the most votes to the House and force a vote on whether it should be cut, he added."With the tools now available on the Internet, they can dig as deep as they want to with each one," he said. "But each of these are ones that will be voted on in Congress."I think it is important to get Americans more engaged in the budget," he said, adding that voters are showing an eagerness to participate more in the process.The budget situation in Oregon is similar, albeit on a smaller scale, Ferrioli observed."There is a tendency to view these alarms that Republicans are raising in a partisan light," he said.However, he noted that Gov. Ted Kulongoski, a Democrat, recently released what he calls a "reset document" to cut back on overspending within the state."The conclusion of the report is that we have to do something different," Ferrioli said. "That something different is curbing government spending. That something different is refusing to allow the growth of government in Oregon at the rate we've seen it grow in the last 20 years."
05.14.2010	Bipartisan letter requests briefing on administration’s interim plans to replace WOPR, help grow resource jobs in southern Oregon May 14, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) wants to know how the Obama Administration plans to manage Oregon’s west side forests, including the BLM forests in Josephine, Jackson, and Klamath counties. In a bipartisan letter also signed by U.S. Reps. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.) and Sens. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Walden asked Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar for a briefing on the administration’s plans to replace the Western Oregon Plan Revisions—or WOPR— which the BLM adopted in 2008 to manage 2.1 million acres of federal lands in western Oregon. In July 2009, the Obama administration withdrew the WOPR. In October, BLM announced a short-term strategy that they said would supply the timber needs of area mills and forest product manufacturers. Instead, this plan shifted the focus of the management to thinning projects on younger forests predominantly in the northwestern Oregon BLM districts, thus reducing the amount of timber volume available for southern Oregon’s Medford and Roseburg BLM districts. “We need to put people back to work, period,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “We can't start doing that in the forests of southern Oregon until there is an immediate re-focus of the short-term plan. Oregonians want a balance that will allow them to once again do the work in the woods to keep the forests healthy and also help turn local economies around. Right now, the federal government has no plan to manage these forests adequately in the short term or long term. We need to know what’s in the works.” “We just need to put people back to work and get our local economies back on track,” said David Schott, executive director of the Southern Oregon Timber Industries Association. "It's a win-win situation when we can create jobs and also protect our forests from catastrophic fire through careful and professional management practices. We appreciate Rep. Walden’s leadership over the years on behalf of the health of our forests and the jobs and quality of life that healthy forests support. I hope this bipartisan effort can spur some action on the federal level to get a plan in place to manage our forests in a sustainable way once again.” The 2.6 million acres of Oregon forest land managed by the BLM in western Oregon grow 1.2 billion board feet of timber each year. “While we appreciate the outreach and efforts to address the individual concerns throughout the past few months since the withdrawal of the WOPR, we strongly feel that a direct delegation sit-down meeting with you is necessary,” the five lawmakers wrote in the bipartisan letter to Salazar. For nearly 100 years, the economic vitality of western Oregon has been intrinsically linked to the federal government’s management of BLM lands. “As evidenced by a decline in timber volume produced, the BLM appears to be unable to offer an adequate and sustainable timber supply throughout much of Western Oregon,” the bipartisan letter said. “This is particularly evident in the Medford and Roseburg BLM Districts, where harvest levels are far below those forecast under the Northwest Forest Plan.” Walden, DeFazio, Schrader, Wyden, and Merkley also noted in the letter that Oregonians want a balanced approach in place that produces sustainable timber, protects endangered species, reduces hazardous fuels, and ensures that the forests remain healthy for future generation. “The Association of O&C Counties appreciates the bipartisan effort of members of Oregon’s congressional delegation to find a balance between environmental protection, job creation and community stability,” said Rocky McVay, executive director of the Association of O&C Counties. “We need action now to get jobs back in Oregon’s forested communities.” The full letter is pasted below: The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: We are requesting a delegation meeting in the immediate future to get an update on what actions the Department of Interior is taking to address the factors which limit the planning and implementation of forest management projects on the Oregon & California Grant lands in Western Oregon. Coupled with the lack of volume produced off O&C lands, the development of new resource management plans as a way to add economic certainty for local communities is also of great importance. While we appreciate the outreach and efforts to address the individual concerns throughout the past few months since the withdrawal of the Western Oregon Plan Revisions (WOPR), we strongly feel that a direct delegation sit-down meeting with you is necessary. For nearly 100 years, the economic vitality of Western Oregon has been intrinsically linked to the federal government’s management of BLM lands. As you may know, the history and geographic distribution of these forestlands is quite unique compared to BLM administered-lands in other areas of the country. These lands are of critical importance to our constituents for the many qualities they provide, including habitat for fish and wildlife, clean air and water, carbon sequestration, recreational opportunities, revenue for local governments, a sustainable and predictable supply of timber for local industry and employment opportunities in rural areas. As evidenced by a decline in timber volume produced, the BLM appears to be unable to offer an adequate and sustainable timber supply throughout much of Western Oregon. This is particularly evident in the Medford and Roseburg BLM Districts, where harvest levels are far below those forecast under the Northwest Forest Plan. More recently, we have been told that the BLM is anticipating a further reduction in harvest levels in Fiscal Year 2010 and Fiscal Year 2011 to 180 million board feet or less. These anticipated reductions are in part due to the proposed budget cuts included in the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2011 budget request for the BLM. The 2.6 million acres of Oregon forest land managed by BLM in Western Oregon grow 1.2 billion board feet of timber each and every year. Our constituents strongly support balanced approaches for the management of Western Oregon Federal forestlands to produce sustainable timber, protect endangered species, reduce hazardous fuels, and ensure that our forests remain healthy and productive for future generations of Oregonians. We feel a sit down briefing to update our delegation on your strategy for replacing the WOPR effort and allow us to express our shared concerns is crucial. We also ask for you to provide a status update on the 62 BLM timber sales that were announced on October 14, 2009 as well as an accounting of those plans and their impact to the various BLM districts in western Oregon. Though many have concerns over where the Department is heading, we inherently believe that there is a solution to this issue that will properly manage and maintain our forests while putting jobs back in our rural communities. At your earliest convenience, please contact Ethan Pittleman in Congressman Schrader’s office to set up a time and date for this meeting. Sincerely, GREG WALDEN PETER DEFAZIO KURT SCHRADER RON WYDEN JEFF MERKLEY Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
05.06.2010	Retains expertise of long-time district director John Snider in new role May 6, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that Rob Patridge began serving as district director and general counsel effective May 1, 2010. Patridge succeeds John Snider, who has served as Rep. Walden’s district director since he was first elected and who will continue to serve Oregonians on a part-time basis as Rep. Walden’s director of community relations. This role will allow Snider’s expertise in assisting Oregonians to continue while he enjoys new personal pursuits and gains more family time. “Rob Patridge’s experience as a state representative, Medford city councilman, deputy district attorney, small business owner, and general counsel for Pacific Retirement Services, Inc. give him a deep understanding of the needs of Oregonians,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “Rob grew up on a ranch in Eagle Point feeding cattle every morning and doing irrigation every day after school. His proven leadership and demonstrated commitment to Oregon will aid me in continuing to serve the citizens of our great state.” “I am very excited to join Representative Walden’s team and make a positive difference for Second District residents,” Rob Patridge said. “I hope to use my experience to continue the longstanding tradition of excellent service by Representative Walden to the people of Oregon. Growing up in the Second District and doing my very first college internship with Rep. Bob Smith, I know what a profound impact an engaged and effective representative can have on the prosperity of the people in his district. I am humbled by the opportunity to help a dynamic and intelligent leader like Greg Walden serve the people of southern, central, and eastern Oregon.” “I am very happy that John Snider will continue as director of community relations on a part-time basis,” Rep Walden said. “His experience will provide continuity and a smooth transition as Rob joins our team. John has proved himself to be a dedicated servant to the people of the Second District. I know he is looking forward to the opportunity to spend more time with his family, but I am also happy that I will continue to be able to lean on his guidance as he remains a key member of our team.” “While working with Greg Walden, I have shared his passion in serving the people of Oregon and our nation. Nobody works as hard as he does to get things done for the people, not only in his legislative role, but also with his unequalled constituent service,” John Snider said. “I feel very fortunate that I have been given an opportunity to stay meaningfully involved, yet carve away some much-needed time for family and friends. I feel like I am leaving a great job to take a dream job.” Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
05.06.2010	May 6, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and the Congressional Western Caucus joined in opposition to legislation introduced by Rep. James Oberstar (D-Minn.) that seeks to provide the federal government with jurisdictional authority over all water across the entire United States. The legislation, titled “America’s Commitment to Clean Water Act,” seeks to expand the federal government’s control of U.S. water under the Clean Water Act by removing the existing requirement that regulated waterways be “navigable.” Under the proposed legislation, all inland waters, on both public and private lands, would be controlled and regulated by the federal government. “Oregon’s farmers and ranchers depend on the land and the water for their livelihood,” Walden said. “There’s already enough concern in certain areas of our state that there may not be enough water to get through the growing season. And now this bill proposes an unprecedented federal government takeover of water in Oregon, from ponds to irrigation ditches that would put the federal government in charge.” “I have long supported just the opposite: a ground-up effort to land management and regulation. This is top-down Washington, D.C.-driven federal takeover of our water rights,” Walden said. “It amounts to an unprecedented attack on state water rights and water law by the federal government. We already have too many difficulties dealing with federal agencies on water issues in our part of the world. The last thing we need is to cede more jurisdiction to the feds. Oregon has strong water and environmental laws and Oregonians have a greater ability to work positively to resolve issues with state regulators than they’ll ever have with federal agencies.” Last December, Rep. Walden joined 27 other lawmakers from the House and the Senate in sending a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid strongly opposing the idea of a federal government takeover. The letter outlined various concerns with the concept and explained the many negative consequences it will have on people who live in the rural West and whose livelihoods depend on agriculture, raising livestock, and water storage and delivery projects. Oregon Farm Bureau 2nd Vice President Peggy Browne, a rancher from the Baker Valley, said yet another layer of bureaucracy would threaten restoration work already under way. “In Oregon there are already several layers of protection that anyone must go through before accessing water in a ditch or stream, including the Oregon Department of State Lands, Department of Environmental Quality, and United States Army Corps of Engineers,” Browne said. “With the current regulatory structure it is very costly to even be permitted for restoration work involving water — I can’t imagine the additional costs added from another layer of federal regulation. Given the current costs and challenges faced by individuals trying to perform restoration, this legislation may only be a commitment to shutting down voluntary restoration work.” Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
05.05.2010	The AAA honors Congressman Greg Walden for his continued support of ambulance service agencies in Eastern Oregon and the communities which they serve May 5, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - The American Ambulance Association (AAA) has recognized Congressman Greg Walden with its 2010 Legislative Recognition Award. This is the second year that the AAA has bestowed the award on the Congressman. The AAA “Stars of Life” and ambulance service agency leaders from Oregon presented Congressman Walden with the award during a ceremony in his Capitol Hill office on Tuesday, May 4. The AAA is once again recognizing Congressman Walden for his efforts to ensure that ambulance service agencies in Eastern Oregon and around the country have the resources necessary to continue to provide critical emergency and non-emergency ambulance services. “Medicare reimburses ambulance service agencies below our costs of providing vital health care services to Medicare patients, especially in extremely rural areas of Oregon” says Shawn Baird, President of the Oregon Ambulance Association. “Congressman Walden understands the problem and has continually helped lead or support efforts for additional Medicare funding for ambulance services.” “I am honored to be presented with the award from the “Stars of Life” from Oregon who are paramedics, EMTs and other emergency medical service personnel who provide life-saving care on a daily basis,” stated Congressman Walden. “It is imperative that they have the proper resources to provide high-quality health care services. Medicare therefore needs to reimburse ambulance service agencies fairly so EMS can continue to answer calls for help no matter the day, hour or patient’s location.” Last Congress, Congressman Walden cosponsored the Medicare Ambulance Payment Extension Act and joined with Senator Wyden to introduce the Health Care Access and Rural Equity Act in the House and Senate. Both of these bills would provide additional Medicare funding for ambulance services. This year, Congressman Walden helped spearhead a letter from the House Rural Health Care Coalition to House Democratic and Republican leaders on the need for additional funding for rural Medicare providers including ambulance service agencies. “Simply put, Congressman Walden strives to ensure that the people of Eastern Oregon have the best health care possible,” says Ken Parsons of Mercy Flights, which provides emergency ground and air ambulance services to Medford and surrounding portions of Jackson County. About the American Ambulance Association (AAA) The American Ambulance Association is the primary national trade association for providers of emergency and non-emergency ambulance services. The AAA is comprised of more than 600 ambulance service operations which account for providing services to over 75% of the U.S. population. AAA members include private, public, fire-based, hospital-based and volunteer ambulance service providers serving urban, suburban and rural areas. The AAA was formed in 1979 in response to the need for improvements in medical transportation and emergency medical services. For more information about the AAA, visit www.the-aaa.org.
05.04.2010	Drafts bill in response to leaked memo that maps blueprint for government takeover of land in Oregon May 4, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has introduced legislation to protect land in Oregon from a unilateral government takeover that would redefine how the land could be used – or not used — all without any input from local communities and Congress.“My philosophy has always been that federal land decisions are best made from the local level on up, instead of the other way around where bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. dictate to local communities how land should be used,” Walden said. “When you wall off land from the public, you’re bound to impact the local economy, recreation, tourism, and job creation.” A leaked memo from the U.S. Department of the Interior in February identified a large swath of land in southeast Oregon’s Owyhee Desert for potential inclusion in the national monuments system. Under the 100-year-old Antiquities Act, the President has the sole power to designate new national monuments without any input from Congress or local communities, which can jeopardize private property rights, economic development and job creation. Walden’s bill, H.R. 5135, would require congressional approval before any lands in Oregon could be set aside as a national monument by the President — just like congressional approval is required for designation of federal wilderness, national parks, or federal forest lands. The bill would also require a full NEPA process on proposed national monuments, a process that otherwise is mandated before any actions are taken on federal land. The original intent of the Antiquities Act was to protect land for historic and/or archaeological purposes — lands that contain important historic landmarks, prehistoric structures, or other objects of scientific significance. The leaked memo details plans to unilaterally lock up 700,000 acres of the Owyhee Desert in Oregon and Nevada. “Here in Oregon, we have a rich history of getting local stakeholders together to create new designations for federal land. I was deeply involved in leading the bipartisan negotiations to create the wilderness and special management area on Steens Mountian. We developed the Steens legislation on a local foundation, from the land owners, ranchers, birdwatchers and recreationists on up,” Walden said. “It’s not rocket science: Get local groups together, figure out common goals, and work out compromises where opinions differ,” Walden said. “How can bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. know without local input or a NEPA process what the best management strategy is for land in Oregon? There’s a right way and a wrong way to go about this sort of thing. This is the wrong way.” Rep. Walden has also joined 14 colleagues on a resolution of inquiry (H. Res. 124) asking the Department of Interior to disclose more information about its plans for creating new national monuments. Unfortunately, this wouldn’t be the first time that a national monument has been declared in Oregon without much transparency or local input. With almost no discussion with local communities and elected representatives, President Clinton established by presidential proclamation the Cascade-Siskiyou National Monument in Jackson County on June 9, 2000, which covers over 53,000 acres in southeast Oregon. Jackson County Commissioner CW Smith remembers well how that process felt, and hopes it never happens again to any community in Oregon. “The Clinton administration declared the Cascades-Siskiyou National Monument with little to no involvement from local elected officials, and significant impacts were felt locally by ranchers, land owners, and recreationalists,” Smith said. “I am encouraged that Rep. Walden is standing up for us and others communities so this won't happen again. That was a case where the federal government ceased being a good neighbor and partner, and became our adversary.” Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
05.03.2010	May 3, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement after the USDA announced that farmers in Klamath, Jackson, Deschutes, and Lake counties will be eligible for disaster assistance programs to help relieve the impact of their losses due to the drought that continues to affect the region. On March 18, Rep. Walden sent a letter to the USDA asking the USDA to issue a drought declaration to make emergency funds and aid programs available to farmers, ranchers and small businesses dealing with the drought. That letter is attached. “The USDA did the right thing in responding to the bipartisan calls for extra help for the farmers and ranchers that are facing the greatest water challenge since the 2001 water shut-off,” Rep. Walden said. “I've stayed deeply involved with the Klamath Basin community since 2001 when the government turned off the spigot. I've seen firsthand its devastating impact on the farmers, ranchers and small businesses that are the economic engines in these rural communities. We must work to get water certainty for the Basin that is predictable regardless of the water year. Meanwhile, we must continue to provide the emergency support that our farmers and ranchers need.” According to the USDA, all qualified farm operators in the designated counties are eligible for low interest emergency (EM) loans from USDA’s Farm Service Agency (FSA), provided eligibility requirements are met. Farmers in eligible counties have eight months from the date of the declaration to apply for loans to help cover part of their actual losses. FSA will consider each loan application on its own merits, taking into account the extent of losses, security available and repayment ability. FSA has a variety of programs, in addition to the EM loan program, to help eligible farmers recover from adversity. Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
04.30.2010	DoD says it will no longer oppose construction of one of the world’s largest green energy projects. April 30, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - A months-long stand-off came to a close today after the Deputy Secretary of Defense informed U.S. Senators Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) that the Pentagon would no longer block construction of the Shepherds Flat Wind Farm in Oregon’s Gilliam and Morrow counties and would instead upgrade a nearby radar system which had until now put the project’s future in doubt. The announcement would also eliminate the threat to other planned wind farms in the area that is adjacent to the Columbia River. “In allowing this project to go forward both the White House and the Pentagon have underscored their commitment to U.S. energy security,” said Wyden. “As I have said throughout this effort, blocking this project would have had a chilling-effect not just on Shepherd’s Flat but on private investment in new energy projects across the country. As a member of both the Senate Committees on Energy and Intelligence, I am convinced that national security and energy security are not only compatible they are one and the same.” “The Department of Defense’s earlier decision threatened to drop a bomb on job creation in Central Oregon. Today’s decision defused that bomb. This is great news for thousands of families who will earn a paycheck because of work on this project. And it will help contribute to Oregon’s emergence as a global leader in clean energy production,” Merkley said. “I thank the Department of Defense for resolving this issue and responding to our concerns about the negative effect that shutting down this project would have had on the Oregon economy.” “This is a major relief for the landowners, business owners, and community members who endured weeks of nerve-wracking uncertainty over the future of the project,” Walden said. “They deserve credit for remaining patient and engaged. Going forward, Congress must work on reforming this process to provide smoother siting while protecting security and aviation. Our great state can and should play a role in a strong national defense and be a leader in our country’s smarter energy future at the same time.” If completed, the Shepherds Flat wind farm will be the largest land-based wind energy project in the world, producing 845 megawatts of power, which is the equivalent of a nuclear power plant. At the beginning of March, days before the project was slated to begin construction, the Pentagon brought the project to a halt citing its concerns that wind turbines could interfere with a 50-year old radar system located in nearby Fossil, Oregon. Oregon’s congressional delegation has spent the last two months pressing both the White House and Department of Defense (DoD) to discuss ways that the Pentagon’s concerns might be addressed without halting new green energy construction. DoD’s announcement today will allow the FAA – which on behalf of the Pentagon had formally placed the project on hold -- to remove all “notices of presumed hazard” thus clearing the way for Caithness Energy to begin hiring the more than 700 construction workers that will be needed to build Shepherds Flat. While clearing the way for Shepherds Flat, today’s decision still leaves undetermined how future projects may be affected. Oregon’s representatives intend to keep working with DoD to ensure that national security objectives are met while not impeding efforts to increase energy independence and promote job creation.
04.28.2010	Oregon lawmaker recognized for pro-business record April 28, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (OR-02) was honored on Capitol Hill by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and presented with the Spirit of Enterprise Award for his pro-business record during the first session of the 111th Congress. “The Chamber applauds Representative Walden for supporting the private sector and job growth through these difficult times,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “He has demonstrated great courage and we commend him.” Eligibility for the award is based on how Members of Congress vote on key business issues, which the Chamber outlines in its annual publication How They Voted. These designated “key votes” are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the vote. Those members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes receive the award. According to the scorecard, Representative Walden maintained an 86% rating with the Chamber this year and collectively holds a 95% ranking during his tenure in Congress. The Chamber scored Congress on 7 Senate and 15 House votes in 2009, including the economic stimulus package, legislation to promote the U.S. as a travel destination abroad, and both the House and Senate healthcare reform bills. To view a complete list of the 2009 Spirit of Enterprise recipients, please visit www.uschamber.com/soe. The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation representing more than 3 million businesses of every size, sector, and region.
04.24.2010	Legislation would more than double the federal resources available to organizations like the Jackson County Children’s Advocacy Center — without spending more taxpayer money April 24, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced at the Jackson County Children’s Advocacy Center that he is cosponsoring two pieces of legislation to increase the availability of federal resources for victims of crime. Taken together, the Crime Victims Fund Preservation Act (H.R. 3402) and the Victims of Crime Act Preservation Fund Act (H.R. 483) would free up hundreds of millions of dollars of federal resources for victims of crime and the organizations that support them — like the Jackson County Children’s Advocacy Center — without raising any taxes on the public. “Organizations on the front lines that provide invaluable services to victims of crime should not be forced to fight an annual battle over a fund that was set up solely to provide victim assistance,” Rep. Walden said. “Victims of crime, especially children, don’t have high-powered lobbyists fighting for them in Washington, D.C.” “The important work done by dedicated community organizations like the Jackson County Children’s Advocacy Center deserves more dedicated federal support. Through the passage of H.R. 3402, Congress can provide more help to victims and expand the outreach of local victim service providers,” Walden said. “Ensuring that victims of child abuse and other violence receive essential services – such as shelter from domestic violence, victim witness support, and mentoring abused children – empowers them to become survivors and move forward with their lives,” Walden said. The end result of H.R. 3402 would be more than doubling the amount of federal resources available for organizations like the Jackson County Children’s Advocacy Center, hopefully making it easier for them to secure the competitive federal grants that they deserve. Rep. Walden is also an original co-sponsor of a resolution recognizing April as Child Abuse Prevention Month. Background on federal funding for victims of crime The Crime Victims Fund, established in 1984 by the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), is dedicated solely to supporting services to help crime victims. The money comes entirely from fines and other penalties paid by federal criminal offenders, not from taxpayers. Grants to state VOCA victim assistance programs fund services to more than 4 million victims of all types of crimes, including, among others, domestic violence, sexual assault, child abuse, survivors of homicide victim, drunk driving crashes, stalking, and elder abuse. The Jackson County Children’s Advocacy Center regularly applies for the highly competitive grants. Currently, Congress imposes a cap on the annual distributions from the fund and maintains a “rainy day reserve” to ensure the fund can remain solvent in years when large fluctuations in federal criminal fines occur. The current cap on the fund is $705 million; the rainy day reserve holds more than $2.2 billion. As crime victims’ needs and the costs of programs to serve them continue to increase, the distribution cap becomes even more restrictive for the local services that depend on the federal support. According to the U.S. Department of Justice, 336,000 fewer crime victims received VOCA assistance services in 2008 than during the previous year. What H.R. 3402 would do H.R. 3402 would increase the annual cap on funds distributed to support victims while maintaining a rainy day fund of at least $800 million. Including Rep. Walden, the legislation has 13 co-sponsors — four Republicans and nine Democrats. Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) is a cosponsor of the Senate version of the bill. Under the bill’s minimum funding level the distribution amount would be: • $705 million for fiscal year 2010 • $867.1 million for fiscal year 2011 • $1 billion for fiscal year 2012 • $1.3 billion for fiscal year 2013 • $1.6 billion for fiscal year 2014 HR 3402 has been endorsed by 44 national and state victim advocacy and criminal justice organizations, including the National Center for Victims of Crime, National CASA Association, Family Violence Prevention Fund, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, and the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence. A letter of support for the bill was signed by 54 state Attorneys Generals, including Oregon Attorney General John Kroger. What H.R. 483 would do H.R. 483 would put the VOCA rainy day fund in a lock box to prevent the funds from being used for anything other than victim assistance programs. HR 483 has 38 cosponsors (9 Republicans and 28 Democrats), including Rep. David Wu (D-Ore.). Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
03.29.2010	{insert subtitle}INVITE TO SPEAK TO THE BEND ROTARY When: Noon Details: Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has been invited to deliver a congressional update to the Bend Rotary, where he will also take questions and answers from those in the audience. Where: Bend Golf and Country Club VISIT TO GOODY’S When: 1:45 pm Details: Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) helped the Bend Chamber of Commerce secure a unique designation from the U.S. Department of Labor that it had been pursuing for six years to allow it to offer health insurance to its member businesses. This ability to allow small businesses to group up for better options cut health insurance costs for some businesses by 15-20 percent. One success story of this new plan is Goody’s, a local family-owned business. Owner Dane Danforth immediately signed up four additional employees for health insurance once the option was available to him through the Bend Chamber of Commerce. Where: 330 SE Bridgeford Rd. #7 TOUR OF BREEDLOVE GUITARS When: 2:45 pm Details: Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has been invited to visit and tour Breedlove Guitars, a local business that has hired 15 new employees this year. Where: 2843 NW Lolo, Bend Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
03.29.2010	Rep. Greg Walden also to focus on local job creation, higher education during local meetings and tours March 29, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - After completing 392 round trips between Oregon and the nation’s capital, Rep. Walden will be in Klamath Falls on Tuesday, March 30 to hold a major meeting with federal, state, and local officials on the Klamath drought disaster. He will also visit small business MCX and Klamath Community College to highlight productive steps in creating new jobs and providing quality higher education in the basin. TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 2010 TOUR AND MEETING WITH MCX When: Noon Details: Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will tour the facilities of MCX, a company located in Klamath Falls that builds wiring harnesses and cable and electro-mechanical assemblies for aerospace, industrial, instrument, military, and telecommunications industries. The company asked Rep. Walden for guidance in becoming HUBZone certified — because of their joint efforts, the company was able to boost its payroll from 15 to 25 people. Where: 1315 Oregon Ave., Klamath Falls VISIT TO KLAMATH COMMUNITY COLLEGE When: 1:45 p.m. Details: Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has been invited to visit Klamath Community College and meet with the college’s president, Gerald Hamilton, and dean for administrative services, Renee Ferguson. Due to the unexpectedly high number of veterans taking advantage of the new Post 9/11 GI Bill, the time it’s taking to process some of the claims have put some schools and veterans in a short term financial bind. Rep Walden’s office has been actively involved in resolving these slow payments. Veterans needing assistance can contact Rep. Walden’s southern Oregon office at (541) 776-4646. Where: 7390 South 6th Street, Klamath Falls BIPARTISAN CONGRESSIONAL-AGENCY KLAMATH DROUGHT BRIEFING When: 3 p.m. Details: Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is organizing a bipartisan briefing between federal agencies and congressional offices. State officials and county leaders will be on hand to learn the federal agency plans for Klamath drought situation. The goal is to identify each agency’s drought plans and what type of congressional assistance they might need. The briefing will be cablecast. On March 25, Rep. Walden participated in a meeting in Washington, D.C. organized by Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) to hear from federal agencies about how they’re responding to the drought disaster. On March 18, farmers and ranchers in the basin were told they may only receive 30-40 percent of their annual average water irrigation water beginning in May. Where: Klamath County Government Center, Room #219 Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
03.21.2010	March 21, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement on his vote against the government takeover of healthcare: “This bill costs too much and puts too much government between people and their health care. This bill doesn’t reign in junk lawsuits nor reduce premium costs. Real health care reform would make premiums more affordable, allow small businesses to group up, and make coverage more accessible, all without a government takeover or new taxes,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “Speaker Pelosi wrote this bill behind closed doors and cut sweetheart deals to get votes.” The bill levies $569 billion in new taxes, spends $1.2 trillion, cuts over $500 billion from Medicare — including $202 billion in cuts from Medicare Advantage — threatening the health care coverage of 38,000 seniors in Oregon’s Second Congressional District. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, four million Americans can expect to lose their current coverage because of this plan, and the White House’s own economic formulas show that 5 million American jobs could be lost. “Only in Washington, D.C. can they spend $1 trillion, cut Medicare by $500 billion, and claim they’re going to reduce the deficit,” Rep. Greg Walden said. Federal government programs don’t have a good history of coming in under budget: Medicare Part A ran 700 percent over budget, and Medicare Part B a whopping 4300 percent over. In order to help pay for this new government entitlement, the bill launches a government takeover of student higher education loans that will eliminate the 2,000 choices students have today from which to borrow and threaten 31,000 private sector jobs that work in that industry. “Finally, I bet taxpayers would be surprised to learn that the IRS will be charged with enforcing the mandate to purchase health insurance,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “The IRS will need up to $10 billion and 16,500 additional auditors, agents, and other employees to investigate and collect billions in new taxes from Americans.” “They should have scrapped this flawed bill and started over on a bipartisan plan that makes the reforms we need without jeopardizing the quality care millions of Americans depend on today,” Rep. Greg Walden said. Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
03.21.2010	After stripping Greg Walden’s bipartisan amendments behind closed doors, Speaker Pelosi’s powerful Rules Committee again blocks fair representation for rural America in public health care policy decisions March 21, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) once again tried to add common sense language to the government takeover of health care to give rural areas fair representation on the panels that will be charged with making major public health care policy decisions. The two amendments were voted down along party lines in the House Rules Committee. “Rural America continues to be challenged by shortages of health care providers and barriers to health care access,” said Rep. Walden, who received the National Rural Health Association’s 2010 Legislative Award. “Because of these unique challenges, rural America and rural Oregon deserve proportional representation on the boards empowered with making major public health care policy decisions in this country.” “Two ‘fair representation’ amendments I authored were adopted unanimously in the House Energy and Commerce Committee last summer, only to be dropped from the bill behind the closed doors of Speaker Pelosi’s office,” Walden said. “And to this day, no one has explained to me why simple amendments to give rural America fair representation have been blocked time and again from being added to the bill, despite their strong bipartisan support.” Details on the amendments: Amendment #1: Rural representation on MedPAC • MedPAC is the nonpartisan commission that advises Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program, such as access to care, quality of care and the appropriateness of Medicare payments to health care providers. • Currently 26 percent of the Medicare population lives in rural areas. However, just two of MedPAC’s 17 commissioners have rural healthcare credentials — that’s just 11 percent of the board. In the past it’s been as low as just one single commissioner. • The amendment would mandate that the number of MedPAC Commissioners representing rural beneficiaries and providers be proportional to the number of rural Medicare beneficiaries in the Medicare program. • According to the National Rural Health Association: “This amendment is a huge step for rural America, which has traditionally been underrepresented in MedPAC despite statutory requirements that a “balance” of its commissioners have rural experience.” Rural representation on the Independent Medicare Advisory Board • Section 3403 of the government takeover of healthcare establishes an Independent Medicare Advisory Board. • The bill says that the purpose of the new board is to “reduce the rate of per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending,” which equates to cutting Medicare. The government takeover of healthcare will already cut over $500 billion from Medicare. • Currently 26 percent of the total U.S. population lives in rural areas, so this amendment would require that at least one quarter of the new Independent Medicare Advisory Board members be practitioners who have legitimate experience practicing in a rural area for at least a five-year period preceding their appointment. Representative Greg Walden is the House Republican Leadership Chairman and represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon.
03.18.2010	March 18, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - In anticipation of the Bureau of Reclamation’s announcement today of their plans to provide water to irrigators in the Klamath Basin during this drought disaster, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today asked the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Department of the Interior for a federal drought declaration and the agencies’ assistance in launching a public information campaign to give guidance to farmers, ranchers, and members of the business community who will be impacted by the federal government’s ruling. “I have worked extensively on water and related issues in the Klamath Basin for many years. And I recall well the Bucket Brigade with thousands of hard-working basin residents during the 2001 water shut-off and the tremendous strain it placed on scores of families and businesses. I assure you the preparation and clarity I request here are key to the chances of successfully managing the extremely challenging drought reality in the basin. I stand ready to assist,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “That is why I am asking the agencies to pull the resources together to hold well-publicized public workshops and informational sessions where their experts can advise those in the community about what they need to do to receive the aid they are entitled to under this drought declaration,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “My office will help coordinate meeting locations and invitations to the various agriculture and livestock groups to ensure that producers in the basin have an opportunity to learn firsthand about disaster assistance that’s available to them,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “I am committed to ensuring that producers have the best, most timely information available,” Rep. Greg Walden said. Rep. Greg Walden sent the following letter today. March 18, 2010 The Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture Washington, DC 20500 The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretaries Vilsack and Salazar, I am writing to urge you to swiftly issue a federal drought declaration for the Klamath Basin in Oregon that will allow for emergency funds and aid programs to assist family farmers, ranchers and small businesses dealing with the basin’s ongoing drought disaster. I also request that you make experts within your agencies available for public workshops in the basin as soon as possible to provide farmers and ranchers with information regarding what programs may be available to them if and when the federal drought declaration is made. As you are aware, on March 9, 2010 the Klamath County commissioners requested a state drought declaration for Oregon’s Klamath Basin. Acting on that request, Oregon Governor Ted Kulongoski last night issued a state drought declaration and requested a federal natural disaster determination for the basin. Although the needed federal drought declaration will not provide immediate assistance to the farmers, ranchers and small businesses who will be impacted by what is expected to be the worst drought to hit the area, your assistance in communicating clearly and openly with basin stakeholders at this time is essential and will be appreciated. I offer the assistance of my district office and staff to help coordinate meeting locations and invitations to the various agriculture and livestock groups to ensure that producers in the basin have an opportunity to learn firsthand about federal disaster relief programs that may be available. In many cases, farmers and ranchers remain unaware of the disaster assistance options available to them and the decisions that must be made in advance to qualify for assistance down the road. I cannot overstate the importance of producers having the best, most timely information available. Your agencies’ cooperation in providing and disseminating this information will be critical to the economic well-being of the basin this year. It is also important for your agencies to work in a coordinated fashion, provide easy-to-understand options and be as flexible and inclusive as possible in implementing or executing federal programs under their purview. I have worked extensively on water and related issues in the Klamath Basin for many years. And I recall well the Bucket Brigade with thousands of hard-working basin residents during the 2001 water shut-off and the tremendous strain it placed on scores of families and businesses. I assure you the preparation and clarity I request here are key to the chances of successfully managing the extremely challenging drought reality in the basin. I stand ready to assist as it is helpful. I look forward to working with you and your appropriate staff in the state offices to plan these workshops. Please feel free to contact me or your staff can contact Nathan Rea in my Washington, D.C. at (202) 226-5234 or John Snider in my Medford district office at (541) 776-4646. They will be happy to help coordinate this much-needed effort. Best regards, Greg Walden Member of Congress
03.12.2010	March 12, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - WHO: House Republican Leadership Chairman Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) WHAT: Press conference to discuss House Republicans’ ban on earmark spending projects in recognition of record out-of-control spending and need to get the federal budget under control.WHEN: Friday, March 12, 2010 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Rep. Greg Walden’s central Oregon district office 1051 NW Bond Street, Suite 400 Bend, Oregon In case you missed it, pasted below is Rep. Greg Walden’s announcement on the ban issued yesterday: Walden helps lead new GOP policy to ban earmark spending projects WASHINGTON, D.C. — House Republican Leadership Chairman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement on the decision by House Republicans to place a moratorium on all earmarks: “Federal spending is out of control and unsustainable. The American public is sick and tired of it, and changing the long-standing broken ways of Congress is overdue,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “As a small business owner of more than 21 years, I know how important it is to run a balanced budget. Congress could take a lesson from small business owners and local governments on how to manage a checkbook, and a moratorium on earmarks is a good first step. But there’s a long way to go to get the flawed budget process under control. Congress simply cannot continue on the reckless borrow and spend ways of the past.” An Associated Press story published yesterday noted that the federal government produced a $1.4 trillion deficit last year alone, and is expected to register an additional $1.6 trillion in debt this year. Next year, the federal government is expected to run another deficit of over $1 trillion. Prior to 2008, the federal deficit never topped $459 billion, but it is expected to average $900 billion in red ink over the next ten years. In years past, Rep. Greg Walden has maintained a policy of only passing earmark requests to the Appropriations Committee on behalf of non-profit or local and state government entities proposing projects to directly benefit Oregonians. He was one of the first members of the U.S. House to adopt a policy of transparency and post his earmark requests on his website.
03.11.2010	March 11, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - House Republican Leadership Chairman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement on the decision by House Republicans to place a moratorium on all earmarks: “Federal spending is out of control and unsustainable. The American public is sick and tired of it, and changing the long-standing broken ways of Congress is overdue,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “As a small business owner of more than 21 years, I know how important it is to run a balanced budget. Congress could take a lesson from small business owners and local governments on how to manage a checkbook, and a moratorium on earmarks is a good first step. But there’s a long way to go to get the flawed budget process under control. Congress simply cannot continue on the reckless borrow and spend ways of the past.” An Associated Press story published yesterday noted that the federal government produced a $1.4 trillion deficit last year alone, and is expected to register an additional $1.6 trillion in debt this year. Next year, the federal government is expected to run another deficit of over $1 trillion. Prior to 2008, the federal deficit never topped $459 billion, but it is expected to average $900 billion in red ink over the next ten years. In years past, Rep. Greg Walden has maintained a policy of only passing earmark requests to the Appropriations Committee on behalf of non-profit or local and state government entities proposing projects to directly benefit Oregonians. He was one of the first members of the U.S. House to adopt a policy of transparency and post his earmark requests on his website.
02.11.2010	WASHINGTON, DC - After completing 387 round trips between Oregon and the nation’s capital, Rep. Walden — fresh off an appointment as House Republican Leadership Chairman — will be in central Oregon to meet with local community groups to focus on job creation and economic development. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2010 PRINEVILLE When: Noon What: Rep. Walden has been invited by the Crook County Rotary Club to deliver a congressional update and take questions from their membership. Where: Meadow Lakes Golf Club, 300 SW Meadow Lakes Drive BEND When: 3:30 p.m. What: Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update to a roundtable of the Bend Chamber of Commerce. Where: Broken Top ClubRepresentative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 count
02.04.2010	Oregon Congressman Joins Republican Leadership Team, Assumes Post Previously Held by Former GOP Reps. Walker, Paxon, Portman Thursday, February 4, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) today announced he has appointed Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) to join the House Republican leadership team as Chairman of the Republican Leadership, a leadership position previously held by former GOP Reps. Bob Walker (R-PA), Bill Paxon (R-NY), and Rob Portman (R-OH). Rep. Walden will immediately assume the post. Boehner made the announcement at his weekly press briefing. “Greg Walden is a proven leader and a champion for smaller, more accountable government. We need him at the leadership table as we enter this critical year for our country, and I deeply appreciate his willingness to serve as our leadership chairman,” Boehner said. As Republican Leadership Chairman, Walden will participate in regular GOP leadership strategy meetings and direct key projects such as the House GOP Congressional Transparency Initiative, a reform project aimed at making the House more open and accountable to the American people. Walden will also continue to serve as a deputy whip and deputy chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC). “I am humbled by Leader Boehner’s trust to serve in this leadership capacity,” Rep. Walden said. “Having been a small business owner through both good times and bad, I look forward to using that experience at the leadership table to help continue to push the Republican case for common sense policies that create more jobs, not bigger government and more reckless spending. The American people expect Republicans to develop sound policy alternatives, and I am eager to help contribute to the good work already being done in that area.” Rep. Walden and his wife owned and operated radio stations in the Columbia River Gorge region in Oregon for more than 21 years. Now in his sixth term in Congress, Walden will go on temporary leave from his seat on the House Energy & Commerce Committee, but will retain his full seniority on the panel. Rep. Bob Walker (R-PA) served as Republican leadership chairman during the 104th Congress under Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-GA). After Rep. Walker’s retirement at the end of 1996, Rep. Bill Paxon (R-NY) was tapped by Speaker Gingrich to serve in the post. In 2001, Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-GA) appointed Rep. Rob Portman (R-OH) to serve as leadership chairman. Rep. Portman served in the post
01.27.2010	January 27, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s State of the Union address. “I wholeheartedly embrace the President’s call for Congress to work together to solve the country’s problems,” Rep. Walden said. “Americans expect us to work together, and I hope Speaker Pelosi embraces the President’s message and invites Republicans to the negotiating table on critical issues like health care, energy independence, and creating jobs and turning around the economy.” “Americans cannot afford for this Congress to continue on the current borrow-and-spend track,” Rep. Walden said. “Under the Democrats’ budget, America will have deficits of more than $900 billion a year. After increasing spending by 66 percent last year alone, freezing it at that level is hardly fiscal restraint.” “If there’s one thing we’ve learned over the past year, it’s that bigger government will not solve the country’s economic problems,” Rep. Walden said. “Since President Obama signed the $862 billion so-called stimulus into law, 2.7 million American jobs have vanished and unemployment has risen from 7.6 percent to 10 percent.” “The best thing we can do is control federal spending and give tax relief to individuals and businesses to create real jobs that will sustain and be long lasting,” Walden said. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
01.27.2010	Walden to continue regular visits to Baker, Wallowa, Union, Umatilla, Morrow counties January 27, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden will hold meetings and public events throughout eastern Oregon this coming Sunday and Monday after he completes his 387th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. The schedule of public events and meetings is below. SUNDAY, JANUARY 31, 2010 BAKER CITY When: 10:30 a.m. What: Coffee with Baker County business leaders to deliver a congressional update and discussion of the current economic climate. Where: Geiser Grand Hotel ENTERPRISE When: 2:30 p.m. What: Rep. Walden will meet with the Wallowa County Commissioners to receive an update from the commissioners and discuss federal issues affecting the county. Where: 101 S. River Street ENTERPRISE When: 4:00 p.m. What: Rep. Walden has been invited to attend the Wallowa County chamber annual banquet. Where: Clover Leaf Hall, Enterprise MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2010 LA GRANDE When: 9:45 a.m. What: Rep. Walden will meet with EOU President Bob Davies and the university vice presidents and foundation officers. Where: Eastern Oregon University, One University Blvd, Inlow Hall, Presidents Office PENDLETON When: 12:00 p.m. What: Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update and question and answer session with the Pendleton Rotary. Where: Pendleton Rotary, Pendleton Elks Lodge, 14 SE 3rd Street BOARDMAN When: 4:00 p.m. What: Meeting with Port of Morrow Commissioners and business leaders to deliver a congressional update and discussion of current legislation. Where: Port of Morrow, 2 Marine Drive Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
01.26.2010	Walden, Barton ask Schapiro to explain how global warming action plan improves safety, security for investors January 26, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Reps. Greg Walden, (R-Ore)., ranking member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, and Joe Barton, (R-Texas), ranking member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today wrote to Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro regarding plans under consideration by the commission to call for corporations to be required to explain how they are alleviating global warming. “We note with interest that the Securities and Exchange Commission evidently has concluded that, having permitted the now-imprisoned Bernard Madoff to bilk as much as $50 billion from trusting investors, it will now turn its investigative eye toward global warming instead of investor protection,” Walden and Barton wrote. “Had the colossal failure of the commission to notice the Madoff Ponzi scheme after six separate and substantive tip-offs not occurred, and even if you had not overlooked a top SEC official’s romantic involvement with Mr. Madoff’s niece during that disgraceful episode, we would be troubled by an undertaking which seems so transparently political and such a breathtaking waste of the Commission’s resources.” Walden and Barton wrote that the commission is reviewing a recommendation to use an “interpretative release” as its enforcement mechanism. An interpretive release doesn’t have the full force of law but it considered by corporations as absolutely binding. It also has the advantage of effectively functioning as a rule without the formal rulemaking process, thereby skirting the collecting, reading and considering of public comments. Walden and Barton asked Schapiro to respond to the following questions: • As recently reported in The Washington Post, the agency has overlooked problems that are well within its jurisdiction on repeated occasions during recent years. Are you priorities now to shift from verifiable effectiveness in exercising jurisdiction over investment matters to overseeing corporate participation in global warming abatement? • What is your statutory authority for assembling an interpretative release on global warming? • Given that there is no current federal law on the subject of global warming and no evident impact on corporate profits and losses, how does a corporation’s action on global warming relate to the safety and security of its investors? How could corporate action under these facts be material to a corporation’s financial condition and require disclosure under the securities laws? • On October 2, Commissioner Walter stated that the SEC is “not an agency populated with climate experts.” How many environmental scientists are currently employed at the SEC? • We understand that you have received petitions from organizations with extensive social agendas to abrogate your primary mission of protecting investors from corporate fraud. What is your statutory obligation to shift priorities to accommodate social action agendas? • Do you anticipate that registrants will be subjected to civil lawsuits for non-compliance with a global warming interpretative release? • Do you anticipate that registrants will be subjected to criminal penalties for non-compliance with a global warming interpretative release? A copy of the letter can be found here
01.21.2010	January 21, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Facebook user Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today welcomed the announcement from Facebook that they plan to construct a new high-tech data center in Prineville, a move that promises to bring 35 new jobs to Crook County. “Facebook’s decision to base new data operations in Prineville and provide new family wage jobs is an exciting development and a very welcome piece of good economic news for Crook County,” Rep. Greg Walden said. “The presence of a high profile company like Facebook will add yet another dynamic to a region already rich in recreation, resources, and hardworking central Oregonians, and hopefully will help attract more employment opportunities for the region. I look forward to a productive relationship with Facebook over the coming years and am grateful for the helpful boost these new jobs will provide.” To follow Rep. Greg Walden on Facebook, click here. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
01.20.2010	January 20, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) supported today in the House of Representatives a bill that would allow individuals who make charitable contributions to victims of the earthquake in Haiti before March 1 to claim an itemized deduction on their 2009 tax return, instead of having to wait until next year to claim the deductions. Click here to view text of the legislation. “The United States is the most generous country in the world, and Americans have responded to the tragedy in Haiti with a typical eagerness to help those in dire need,” Rep. Walden said. “Any small amount that can be spared right now will help make the difference between life and death for those struggling with the catastrophic conditions in Haiti. I commend all those who have already helped, and those who will help, and hope this legislation further encourages the spirit of generosity that best defines Americans.” The bill passed the House today without any opposition, and is expected to be taken up in the Senate soon. In January of 2005, Congress enacted this type of relief for individuals that made charitable contributions to victims of the Indian Ocean tsunami that occurred in late December of 2004. That bill (H.R. 241 in the 109th Congress) passed the House of Representatives without objection and subsequently passed the Senate by unanimous consent. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
01.15.2010	January 15, 2010 - EUGENE, Ore. - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and the bipartisan cosponsors pushing new healthy forests and job creation legislation in the House are asking that their bills receive hearings in the House of Representatives. Walden announced the request during a speech to the Association of Oregon Loggers in Eugene. “With a bipartisan, multi-state coalition, we’ve made a good case that these bills have broad support and should receive hearings in House committees,” Walden said. “With staggering unemployment and sick national forests in Oregon, action is needed now to put Oregonians back to work taking care of the forests and habitat they provide. The first step would be a hearing, and hopefully the majority will grant that as quickly as possible.” The letter was signed by the original cosponsors of the two pieces of legislation: Reps. Walden, Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.), Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-S.D.), Brian Baird (D-Wash.), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.) on Dec. 8, 2009. Between the five representatives, their districts represent a total of over 112.4 million acres, or 175,755 square miles of land, and have over 15.3 million acres of national forest, an area about the size of West Virginia. The Healthy Forests Restoration Amendments Act of 2009 (HR 4233) has 21 bipartisan cosponsors and would amend the original bipartisan and successful Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA), which was signed into law in 2003. Where implemented, it has reduced the incidence and severity of catastrophic wildfire. Since the bill was signed into law, however, wildfires have burned more than 40 million acres in the United States, an area larger than North Dakota, and have devastated habitat, water sources, and communities in rural America. The new legislation would give federal foresters and scientists the clear authority to use the proven-to-work tools in HFRA to address areas of the forests at highest risk of catastrophic wildfire. The second bill, the Incentives to Increase Use of Renewable Biomass Act of 2009 (HR 4227), has eight bipartisan cosponsors and would encourage the renewable biomass energy industry to take firm roots by encouraging universities, public schools, hospitals, local governments, and Tribes at non-gaming facilities to use clean biomass energy, heating, or cooling systems. Support for the legislation: “The Healthy Forests Restoration Act was passed in 2003 to address catastrophic wildfire, insects and disease through forest restoration projects, but needs clarifying amendments to allow its intended implementation on the ground. To give our forests a fighting chance to adapt to a changing climate, we must restore health and resiliency. We believe this legislation will help accomplish this goal.” -- Bernard Hubbard, president, Society of American Foresters "It's been six years and it's time to make a few modifications so that the HFRA truly accomplishes what was intended--namely to prevent catastrophic wildfires and insect and disease infestations.” -- Tom Thompson, former deputy chief of the USFS “Forest managers would welcome the opportunity to plan and prescribe treatments that better match the scale of the problems that exist. Concerns about the effects of climate change and carbon losses only add to the impor¬tance of getting more effective treatments quickly underway. Forest health and fuel treatments can be very costly when most of the material removed has little or no value. Biomass fuel use would offer a great tool to help cover treatment costs while also providing low-cost energy for public buildings in local communities.” -- Dr. Paul Adams, College of Forestry, Oregon State University “Future climate scenarios predict longer, drier, hotter, summers which will lead to greater wildfire activity and more insect outbreaks with a very real threat of regeneration failure after disturbance. Letting forests die and burn in an¬ticipation that the past forest will replicate itself in a future with large uncertainties around future climate conditions is a high risk approach. The potential for these forests to act as carbon sources instead of carbon sinks in the very near future is substantial. By thinning these forests to a level consistent with their carrying capacity, we can mitigate wildfire and insect impacts, and build resilience into the system while choosing the specimens and species that we think can survive and perpetuate on these landscapes. In effect thinning becomes both the climate mitigation and the adaptation strategy on these forests.” -- Dr. Elaine Oneil, School of Forest Resources, University of Washington “This legislation goes a long way toward facilitating fuel reduction and restoring health and resiliency to our national forests and surrounding communities. This will help insure those forests provide environmental benefits everyone expects. Despite all the biomass that is available here in Oregon, the use of biomass for energy produc¬tion here in central Oregon has not progressed as fast as we had hoped primarily due to up-front costs.” -- Dr. Stephen Fitzgerald, Oregon State University, professor of silviculture & wildland fire specialist “Since HFRA was passed, in Deschutes County we have completed seven community fire plans, treated 103,833 acres of national forest lands, and treated an additional 63,100 acres of private lands. All of these acres are within the designated Wildland-Urban Interface as identified by Community Wildfire Protection Plans and we have not lost one home to wildland fire. This is a classic example of where federal legislation works and works as was intended.” -- Joe Stutler, Deschutes County Forester, Oregon
01.13.2010	Walden continues push for ‘common sense’ transparency, time to read the bill January 13, 2010 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today continued his push for greater transparency in Congress by signing a petition to air negotiations over the House and Senate healthcare bills on C-SPAN so the public can watch the debate. “We are talking about 1/6 of the country’s economy and a bill that will touch the lives of every American,” Walden said. “The press, public, and members of Congress deserve to see the negotiations between the House and Senate bills. The President promised that transparency during the campaign, and it’s time for Speaker Nancy Pelosi to deliver it.” During his campaign, President Obama promised on at least eight separate occasions to air the healthcare negotiations on C-SPAN. On December 30, C-SPAN CEO Brian Lamb asked Speaker Pelosi (D-San Francisco) to fulfill that promise by allowing cameras into the rooms where a select few Democrats in Congress and the House are holding negotiations. Speaker Pelosi turned down the request, and negotiations have continued in secret in the nation’s capital. The petition, filed today, requires 218 signatures (a simple majority of the House) to be successful. If every Republican signs the petition, as expected, 40 Democrats must also lend their names to the transparency movement for the petition to take effect. A continuing transparency effort This movement comes on the heels of a separate transparency push by Walden to post legislation online for at least 72 hours before a vote to give the press, public, and members of Congress enough time to review it. That effort and the wave of support it garnered from the public put enough pressure on Democratic leaders to force them to hold the vote on the House healthcare bill 72 hours after the bill was unveiled. “That’s a partial victory,” Walden said. “But for a bill of this magnitude that is so important to the future of this country, we really need weeks to review it, not days. Even now, we’re still uncovering problematic features in the House bill, like a $2,000 marriage penalty for middle class couples. The American people deserve the time to fully vet the legislation before the government launches a takeover of their healthcare.” Given the budget woes the state of Oregon faces, Walden sent a letter to Governor Kulongoski asking how the state plans to pay for the bills’ massive expansion of Medicaid that could cost the state hundreds of millions of dollars. A copy of that letter is attached. “We’re having a hard time figuring out how this is going to affect the state of Oregon because we just don’t know what the final language of the bill will look like,” Walden said. “This is a horrible way to go about this process. We should require more transparency.” Today, Walden also signed a letter spearheaded by Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) that asks for at least 14 days to review the House-Senate compromise bill before a vote. “The American people have a right to read and review the final health care bill in a time that is honest, reasonable and fair,” the letter states. “And members of Congress deserve a reasonable time to review this legislation in order to fully understand the bill’s ramifications on our current health care system prior to casting their votes. This is a transparent, simple and common sense request. PRESIDENT OBAMA’S PROMISES TO MAKE HEALTHCARE NEGOTIATIONS PUBLIC 1. “Not negotiating behind closed doors, but bringing all parties together, and broadcasting those negotiations on C-SPAN so the American people can see what the choices are, because part of what we have to do is enlist the American people in this process.” January 2008, Democratic Debate 2. “These negotiations will be on C-SPAN. The public will be part of the conversation and will see the choices that are being made.” January 2008, SF Chronicle 3. “I respect what the Clintons tried to do in 1993 in moving health reform forward. But they made on really big mistake, and that is they took all their people and all their experts into a room and then they closed the door. We will work on this process publicly. It’ll be on C-SPAN. It’ll be streaming over the net.” November 14, 2008, Google Q&A 4. “We’ll have the negotiations televised on C-SPAN so that people can see who is making arguments on behalf of their constituents, and who is making arguments on behalf of the drug companies or the insurance companies.” August 8, 2008, Virginia town hall 5. “But here’s the thing: we’re going to do all these negotiations on C-SPAN so that the American people will be able to watch these negotiations.” March 1, 2008, Ohio town hall 6. “We will have a public process for forming this plan. It will be televised on C-SPAN. I can’t guarantee you that it will be exciting so not everyone will be watching. But it will be transparent and accountable to the American people.” November 27, 2007, Keene Sentinel 7. “I want the negotiations to take place on C-SPAN.” May 2008, St. Petersburg Times 8. “So I’ll put forward my plan but what I’ll say is, ‘Look, if you’ve got better ideas, I’m happy to listen to them.’ But all this will be done on C-SPAN in front of the public.” April 25, 2008, Indiana town hall Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
12.08.2009	December 8, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - A bipartisan group of lawmakers from Oregon, Washington, and South Dakota today introduced legislation to give federal forest managers and scientists the tools they need to do necessary work on choked and beetle-infested forests to avoid catastrophic wildfire and put rural Americans back to work taking care of the forests again. The legislation was introduced by Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.), Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-S.D.), Brian Baird (D-Wash.), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.). Between the five representatives, their districts represent a total of over 112.4 million acres, or 175,755 square miles of land, and have over 15.3 million acres of national forest, an area about the size of West Virginia. The Healthy Forests Restoration Amendments Act of 2009 would amend the original bipartisan and successful Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA), which was signed into law in 2003. Where implemented, it has reduced the incidence and severity of catastrophic wildfire. Since the bill was signed into law, however, wildfires have burned more than 40 million acres in the United States, an area larger than North Dakota, and have devastated habitat, water sources, and communities in rural America. The new legislation would give federal foresters and scientists the clear authority to use the proven-to-work tools in HFRA to address areas of the forests at highest risk of catastrophic wildfire. The bipartisan group also introduced a second bill, the Incentives to Increase Use of Renewable Biomass Act of 2009, which would encourage the renewable biomass energy industry to take firm roots by encouraging universities, public schools, hospitals, local governments, and Tribes at non-gaming facilities to use clean biomass energy, heating, or cooling systems. “Perhaps it’s how I was brought up on a cherry farm or owning a small business for over 21 years, but one thing I learned is that you don’t solve a problem by ignoring it,” Rep. Walden said. “We’ve ignored federal forests long enough to take stock of the results: staggering unemployment in rural Oregon, catastrophic wildfire, massive bug kill, and threatened habitat and watersheds. Simply put, our federal forests are a national treasure in peril. It’s time to act and get our rural communities working and taking care of the forests again.” “Forests can be managed in an environmentally-friendly way while producing much needed jobs in our communities,” Rep. Schrader said. “We need to recognize the economic and stewardship opportunities available in our national forests that will go a long way toward creating more jobs and managing our natural resources in a more sustainable way; and that is exactly what these two bills will accomplish. I’m proud to join Congressman Walden, my co-chair on the Healthy Forest Caucus, and the rest of my colleagues in continuing to advocate for bi-partisan solutions that help our local rural communities.” “This bipartisan package of measures represents an innovative way forward in forest and energy policy,” Rep. Herseth Sandlin said. “These bills will reduce wildfire risk, incentivize sound forest management and the use of woody biomass as a source of renewable energy, and create jobs in rural communities in western South Dakota. Taken together, I'm convinced these pieces of legislation will not only produce healthier forests and reduce wild fire risk, but complement efforts in the 2007 Energy Bill and jump start our nation's effort to become truly energy independent.” “Eastern Washington has felt the devastating effects of the Mountain Pine Beetle,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers said. “These effects, together with the lack of forest management, have left our forests vulnerable to dangerous and costly wildfires. We need to update the Healthy Forest Restoration Act to ensure that foresters and scientists have the tools they need to protect our forests and give them the resiliency they need to survive changing environments.” “The focus of fuel reductions must be shifted to Condition Class II and III forested areas that pose the highest risk of catastrophic wildfires,” Rep. Baird said. Doing so would simultaneously improve the health of our forests, reduce the risk of wildfires, and provide raw materials needed to sustain our forest products infrastructure.” Support for the legislation: “The Healthy Forests Restoration Act was passed in 2003 to address catastrophic wildfire, insects and disease through forest restoration projects, but needs clarifying amendments to allow its intended implementation on the ground. To give our forests a fighting chance to adapt to a changing climate, we must restore health and resiliency. We believe this legislation will help accomplish this goal.” -- Bernard Hubbard, president, Society of American Foresters "It's been six years and it's time to make a few modifications so that the HFRA truly accomplishes what was intended--namely to prevent catastrophic wildfires and insect and disease infestations.” -- Tom Thompson, former deputy chief of the USFS “Forest managers would welcome the opportunity to plan and prescribe treatments that better match the scale of the problems that exist. Concerns about the effects of climate change and carbon losses only add to the impor¬tance of getting more effective treatments quickly underway. Forest health and fuel treatments can be very costly when most of the material removed has little or no value. Biomass fuel use would offer a great tool to help cover treatment costs while also providing low-cost energy for public buildings in local communities.” -- Dr. Paul Adams, College of Forestry, Oregon State University “Future climate scenarios predict longer, drier, hotter, summers which will lead to greater wildfire activity and more insect outbreaks with a very real threat of regeneration failure after disturbance. Letting forests die and burn in an¬ticipation that the past forest will replicate itself in a future with large uncertainties around future climate conditions is a high risk approach. The potential for these forests to act as carbon sources instead of carbon sinks in the very near future is substantial. By thinning these forests to a level consistent with their carrying capacity, we can mitigate wildfire and insect impacts, and build resilience into the system while choosing the specimens and species that we think can survive and perpetuate on these landscapes. In effect thinning becomes both the climate mitigation and the adaptation strategy on these forests.” -- Dr. Elaine Oneil, School of Forest Resources, University of Washington “This legislation goes a long way toward facilitating fuel reduction and restoring health and resiliency to our national forests and surrounding communities. This will help insure those forests provide environmental benefits everyone expects. Despite all the biomass that is available here in Oregon, the use of biomass for energy produc¬tion here in central Oregon has not progressed as fast as we had hoped primarily due to up-front costs.” -- Dr. Stephen Fitzgerald, Oregon State University, professor of silviculture & wildland fire specialist “Since HFRA was passed, in Deschutes County we have completed seven community fire plans, treated 103,833 acres of national forest lands, and treated an additional 63,100 acres of private lands. All of these acres are within the designated Wildland-Urban Interface as identified by Community Wildfire Protection Plans and we have not lost one home to wildland fire. This is a classic example of where federal legislation works and works as was intended.” -- Joe Stutler, Deschutes County Forester, Oregon
10.20.2009	November 10 application deadline fast approaching for House Page Program October 20, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is accepting applications for the House Page Program’s Spring 2010 semester and for college internships in his Washington, D.C. office. HOUSE PAGE PROGRAM – SPRING 2010 SEMESTER The House Page Program 2010 spring semester will last from January 24, 2010 to June 4, 2010. Interested applicants must contact Congressman Walden’s office to receive an application form, which must be completed and returned no later than Tuesday, November 10, 2009. “Serving as a congressional page is a rare and tremendous opportunity for young people,” said Walden. “The program allows energetic young adults interested in the inner workings of federal government to gain firsthand experience in the Congress. It is a wonderful accomplishment for which the page, as well as their family, teachers and friends, can be very proud.” As a page for the House of Representatives, students will be directly involved in various duties as assigned by the Clerk of the House, including assisting members, helping with House Floor operations and ensuring that the overall processes in the House of Representatives are conducted. Oregonians interested in the House Page Program are encouraged to download the application here or request applications from Congressman Walden via email at erica.chalkley@mail.house.gov. Applicants can also call Walden’s Medford office toll-free at 1-800-533-3303 or his Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-6730 for an application and more information. Completed applications can be emailed to Erica.chalkley@mail.house.gov, faxed to (202) 225-5774, or submitted by mail to Congressman Walden’s Medford office at the following address: House Page Program Applications Office of Congressman Greg Walden 843 E. Main St, Suite 400 Medford, OR 97504 Applications must be received by Tuesday, November 10, 2009. To qualify for service as a congressional page, applicants must meet the following criteria: 1) Be at least 16 years of age by January 24, 2009 (verification of age is required) 2) Be a junior in high school 3) Have a cumulative 3.0 academic Grade Point Average (GPA) in all five major subject areas (Math, English, Science, Social Studies, and a foreign language) 4) Be a legal resident of the United States of America WASHINGTON, D.C. COLLEGE INTERNSHIP PROGRAM Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is currently accepting resumes from college and graduate students interested in an internship in his Washington, D.C. office in Spring 2010. Interns are an integral part of Walden’s D.C. team as they help with office management, constituent services and various projects. “Serving as a Congressional intern is an exciting education opportunity for those interested in learning more about the Congress and the inner workings of an office in the U.S. House of Representatives,” Walden said. “Washington, D.C. is a tremendous place to gain experience in the government, learn about our nation’s history, and live among some of the most significant monuments and museums in the United States.” Those interested in applying for an internship should fax or e-mail their resume with a cover letter, as well as any questions, to Erica Chalkley in Walden’s Washington, D.C. office (Erica.chalkley@mail.house.gov or fax: (202) 225-5774). Applicants should be in college or graduate school, or recent graduates of either, and willing to spend approximately three months working in the office. Opportunities occur throughout the year and the office can be flexible regarding start and end dates. Please direct questions about the program to Erica at (202) 225-6730. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
09.29.2009	Petition to guarantee public’s right to know needs just 40 more signatures September 29, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - {If 359 members of Congress endorse a 72-hour review period for an agriculture appropriations bill, what stops them from demanding the same for all bills, including a major reform of healthcare? That’s the question Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is asking tonight after the House overwhelmingly approved a 72-hour review period for the agriculture appropriations bill by a 359-41 margin. Walden and Rep. Brian Baird (D-Wash.) last week launched a petition to bring H. Res. 554 up for a vote, which would ensure that the public, press, and members of Congress have at least 72 hours to read and understand bills in the House. “If the 72-hour rule is good enough for the agriculture appropriations bill, then what stops my colleagues from signing the petition to give the public time to review all bills, like major healthcare reform?” Walden said. “This is about one thing: the public’s right to know. It’s time to change how Washington works.” As of tonight, 178 House members have signed the bipartisan Walden-Baird petition. Just 40 more signatures are needed to meet the 218-signature threshold to force the vote on H. Res. 554. Follow the progress of the petition by clicking here. Separately, last week the Senate Finance Committee rejected an amendment by Sen. Jim Bunning (R-Kent.) to make the Senate healthcare bill—which currently isn’t drafted—available for 72 hours before a vote. The amendment was narrowly rejected, 12-11, with Democratic Sen. Blanche Lincoln (Ark.) crossing party lines to vote with the ten Republicans on the committee. Earlier this year, the public, press, and members of Congress were given 12 hours to review the 1,073-page long stimulus bill that cost $787 billion. The cap and trade bill, which would cost $846 billion and weighs in at 1,428 pages, was available for 16.5 hours before the vote. And under Republican rule in 2003, for example, the 852-page Medicare Part D bill was available for 29 hours before a vote was called on the $395 billion legislation. Watch Walden’s speech on the House floor by clicking here. Watch Walden discuss the effort on Fox and Friends here. What others are saying: The Wall Street Journal: Polls show overwhelming agreement outside the Beltway that it's more important for Congress to get health-care reform done right than done quickly. A Polling Company survey conducted last month found 95% agreeing that members of Congress shouldn't vote on any bill they haven't read in full. … It's time for Congress to change its ways. Haste can make for more than waste and lead to populist outrage that often takes on a life of its own. That happened after this year's stimulus bill included the infamous provision authorizing executives of bailed-out AIG to get retroactive bonuses. (“Congress needs a 72-hour waiting period,” by John Fund, Sept. 26) The Bulletin: Rep. Greg Walden, R-Hood River, is trying to change the way the House works. He is working to get the House to put its bills online for 72 hours before voting on them. It would give members, the media and the public a chance to vet what’s being voted on. Similar measures have died in recent years. … It’s simple enough. Bills should be voted on their merits. And that can’t be done unless they can be read in advance. (“Find the time to read the bills before voting,” editorial, Sept. 27) The Columbian: And as for Democrats who don’t like Baird’s tactic, too bad. Show Americans, please, why and how a 72-hour review is bad. The only excuse we’ve heard is that the need to pass key legislation such as health care reform is too crucial to be slowed down. What? Slowed down?! You gotta be kidding! We’re talking three days! As we have advocated for years, members of Congress could coax applause from no wider segment of their constituents — from rock-ribbed Republicans and ultra-liberal Democrats alike — than by approving and obeying this resolution. (“Read the bills,” editorial, Sept. 29) Washington Times: The resolution is supported by several public-interest groups, including the Sunlight Foundation, which pointed out that hasty votes can result in unintended consequences, such as the provision tucked into the stimulus bill that had the effect of authorizing executives of bailed-out insurance giant AIG to receive retroactive bonuses. (“GOP seeks 72-hour window to read bills,” by Kara Rowland, Sept. 24) Sunlight Foundation: H. Res. 554 would help ensure that rushed bills become a thing of the past. If a discharge petition is the only way to get a vote on this piece of legislation, we’re all for it. (“72 Hour Rule Momentum,” by Lisa Rosenberg (blog), Sept. 23) Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
09.25.2009	September 25, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), top Republican of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s investigation panel, and Committee Ranking Member Joe Barton (R-Texas), questioned in a letter this week some of the grants being funded with taxpayer money by the National Institutes of Health. CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE INTERVIEW ON FOX NEWS.Some of the questionable grants include: • $73,000 to study the “Impact of Dragon Boat Racing on Cancer Survivorship.” According to the applicants, the study will examine “whether participation in a dragon boat paddling team enhances quality of life in cancer survivors above and beyond an organized walking program.”• $325,000 to study “Substance Use and HIV Risk Among Thai Sex Workers.” According to the applicants, the study will “investigate the sociocultural contexts of HIV risk behaviors and drug use among Thai female and male-to-female transgender…sex workers in Bangkok.” • $29,000 to study the “Patterns of Drug Use and Abuse in the Brazilian Rave Culture” (University of Delaware). According to the applicants, “The topic is interesting and the data will be useful to understand the emerging problem of club drugs and raves in Brazil.”A copy of the letter can be found here. For the Fox News piece on the NIH grants, click here.
09.24.2009	Walden: ‘This is how you change Washington’ September 24, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Just 46 more signatures from members of Congress are needed on a bipartisan petition to require a 72-hour public review period for bills before they’re voted on in the House of Representatives. Right now, 172 members have signed the petition started yesterday by Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Brian Baird (D-Wash.), John Culberson (R-Texas), and Walt Minnick (D-Idaho). A majority of House members—218—must sign the petition for a vote to be held on the 72-hour rule. Follow the progress of the petition by clicking here. “This is how you change Washington,” Walden said. “Rushing bills to a vote before anyone has had a chance to read or understand them has been a bad practice under both Republican and Democratic control of the House. It’s an institutional problem. The public, press, and representatives in Congress should have the right to see and read legislation before it’s brought up on the floor of the House. It doesn’t get more commonsense than that. It’s a reform that’s long overdue.” Watch Walden’s speech on the House floor by clicking here. Earlier this year, members, the public, and press were given 12 hours to review the 1,073-page long stimulus bill that cost $787 billion. The cap and trade bill, which would cost $846 billion and weighs in at 1,428 pages, was available for 16.5 hours before the vote. And under Republican rule in 2003, for example, the 852-page Medicare Part D bill was available for 29 hours before a vote was called on the $395 billion legislation. Yesterday, Walden filed what’s the “discharge petition” to bring H. Res. 554 up for a vote on the House floor. H. Res. 554 would amend House rules to require that all legislation be readily accessible for public review on the Internet for at least 72 hours before a vote on the House floor. Exceptions would be made for classified material, which would continue to be handled under existing laws and rules. The legislation was introduced by Baird in June. He has introduced it in each of the last three Congresses. Walden has also been a cosponsor in the past. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
09.23.2009	Seeking 72 hours of public review before votes September 23, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Brian Baird (D-Wash.) today launched a bipartisan effort today to mandate that all legislation before the House of Representatives be made public for at least 72 hours before receiving a vote on the House floor. Reps. John Culberson (R-Texas) and Walt Minnick (D-Idaho) are also helping lead the effort. Earlier this year, members, the public, and press were given 12 hours to review the 1,073-page long stimulus bill that cost $787 billion. The cap and trade bill, which would cost $846 billion and weighs in at 1,428 pages, was available for 16.5 hours before the vote. And under Republican rule in 2003, for example, the 852-page Medicare Part D bill was available for 29 hours before a vote was called on the $395 billion legislation. “Make no mistake about it—this has been a bad practice under both Republican and Democratic control of the House,” Walden said. “It’s time to let the sun shine in. It’s time to change how the House operates.” “At my public meetings and events, people always want to know ‘Have you read these bills? Why don’t they give you time to read these bills?’” Walden said. “Members of Congress, the public, and the press all deserve the time to read these bills before we have to vote on them on the House floor.” Today, Walden filed what’s called a “discharge petition” to bring the sunshine legislation up for a vote on the House floor. Once the petition receives 218 signatures—a simple majority of the full House—the bill, H. Res. 554, could be voted on. H. Res. 554 would amend House rules to require that all legislation be readily accessible for public review on the Internet for at least 72 hours before a vote on the House floor. Exceptions would be made for classified material, which would continue to be handled under existing laws and rules. The legislation was introduced by Baird in June. He has introduced it in each of the last three Congresses. Walden has also been a cosponsor in the past. “This is not a partisan issue; it’s an American issue,” Walden, Baird, Minnick, and Culberson wrote to their colleagues in the attached letter. “A broadly informed public is the cornerstone of our representative democracy. It’s high time to deliver the change that ensures rank and file representatives and Americans across our nation receive full transparency in the legislative process.” Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
09.22.2009	CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. WALDEN’S FLOOR SPEECH September 22, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - A plan led by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) for a new wastewater reuse system in Hermiston to benefit the community, farmers, and fish passed the House of Representatives unanimously this afternoon. The bill, H.R. 2741, would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to design, plan, and construct water recycling facilities in Hermiston. “This bill is good for farmers and good for fish,” Walden said. “This plan authorizes the Bureau of Reclamation to work with Hermiston to simultaneously keep up with the demands from the growing population and put clean water back into the Umatilla River for threatened salmon species. It would also provide much-needed additional water to area irrigators, and help offset costs to local ratepayers for the needed upgrades.” The current facility will be unable to meet new pollution regulations set to go into effect in December 2010. The proposed project would produce 3,400 acre feet of high-quality Class A water that can be used for all agriculture irrigation needs—not merely pasture land irrigation, as is the case with the current recycled water. This high-quality water will also benefit the salmon and the environment by meeting pollution standards for decades to come. The Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation support the legislation, and Hermiston City Manager Ed Brookshier testified in the nation’s capital in July on its behalf. Now, with a unanimous endorsement from the House of Representatives, the Senate must act before the President can give the plan the final go-ahead. Walden met with city leaders and toured the current Hermiston facility on June 30 (photo attached). The existing wastewater facilities in Hermiston were constructed in 1979 and, after 30 years, are in need of modernization. If signed into the law, the project will achieve a list of important local, agricultural, and environmental objectives: * Enable the city to reliably meet new pollution reduction requirements for the next 20-plus years * Increase wastewater treatment capacity to match the growth in the region’s economy and population. * Return of top quality, Class A water to the Umatilla River that will provide additional protections for threatened salmon species * Drought-resistant water delivery of recycled water to the diverse agriculture community in the West Extension Irrigation District The project will comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and the city has already completed the required supporting environmental assessment. This included preparation of an environmental assessment for potential impacts from the proposed project, such as a cultural resources survey, wetland delineation, and an Endangered Species Act biological assessment. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
09.09.2009	Bipartisanship and transparency key to real healthcare reform, Walden says September 9, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement on the President’s address to Congress on healthcare. “Americans have spoken loudly and clearly that they want bipartisan healthcare reform, rather than current proposals that jeopardize the care they have. The President should encourage Speaker Nancy Pelosi to finally work with Republicans to achieve real, bipartisan reform. “Politics as usual is no prescription for real healthcare reform. No party has a monopoly on good ideas. Given a chance, Democrats and Republicans can come to the table to transparently build healthcare reform that America needs. The public and members of Congress deserve time to actually read and understand any proposal before it’s voted on in Congress. “Americans are wary of a government takeover, but want real reform that is deliberate, bipartisan, and reins in the spiraling cost of healthcare. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the current legislation would deepen the national debt by $239 billion and leave millions of Americans uninsured. This is not the kind of change we can afford. “Real reform would strengthen senior care, not jeopardize it through extensive Medicare cuts. We should address the waste, fraud, and abuse and stop frivolous lawsuits that drive up the cost of care for everyone. We can build upon successful state programs that provide coverage for those with pre-existing conditions, and help folks keep their coverage if they lose their job. Small businesses should have the power to group together to bargain for better rates and plans for their employees. “There’s a lot of commonsense reform that can and should happen without dismantling what we know already works today.”
08.28.2009	In recession-hit rural forested communities, forest stewardship yields self-reliance and sustainable renewable energy August 28, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - A bipartisan team of House members announced this morning their plan to address forest health issues and put rural America back to work. Without waiving any environmental laws, the plan would allow federal scientists and foresters to manage fire-prone forests back to health and encourage the growth of an important new renewable energy industry. The bipartisan group includes Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.), Brian Baird (D-Wash.), and Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-S.D.). “Catastrophic wildfire and bug infestation are leaving a different forest landscape for our grandchildren than what we grew up with,” Walden said. “Working in a bipartisan way, we will update federal forest policies to allow federal scientists and foresters to do the work required to bring our forests back to health. We will maintain on-the-ground environmental standards and build on the success of established bipartisan law to reduce the needless red tape that blocks proper stewardship of our national forests. Doing this will create much-needed jobs and healthier forests.” “Representative Walden and I created the Healthy Forest Caucus because we believe our forests can be managed in an environmentally-friendly way while producing much needed jobs in communities throughout rural America,” Schrader said. “This legislation builds on the progress our region has already made in converting biomass into renewable energy. Healthy forest policies will reduce wildfires while also decreasing our carbon footprint and bringing thousands of well-paying jobs to the Pacific Northwest.”“I am proud to work on these bipartisan, common-sense proposals that will breathe new life into the timber industry that has been hurting for many years and incentivize new renewable energy operations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” Baird said. “Every year we see the overwhelming majority of the forest service budget literally go up in smoke. By embracing a new approach to forest management we can reduce the risks of future forest fires with responsible policies while creating jobs and stimulating the local economy at the same time.” “The goal of this new bipartisan initiative is to enhance our ability to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire and strengthen the development of woody biomass as a source of renewable energy, which will increase our energy independence and foster economic development in rural communities,” Herseth Sandlin said. “This effort builds on my work to incentivize the use of woody biomass to produce renewable fuels through the federal Renewable Fuels Standard. Together with Congressman Walden, I’ve already introduced legislation to correct the flawed definition of renewable biomass in the 2007 Energy Bill. I’m hopeful that in continuing to work with a bipartisan group of my colleagues on this issue, we will be able to fully capitalize on the potential of renewable biomass in meeting our country’s energy needs while also ensuring the health of our forests for generations to come.” The bipartisan legislative effort will seek to: „Ï Vastly improve forest health by reducing fuel loads, bug infestation and disease „Ï Enhance the self-reliance of rural communities and create new jobs in rural forested America „Ï Promote energy independence by expanding renewable woody biomass energy production „Ï Comply with all existing environmental laws and retain current old growth protections The bipartisan plan to rein in wildfire, foster economic development and put rural America back to work Allow work in the forests before wildfires burn – Without waiving any existing environmental laws, the bipartisan Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (HFRA, PL 108-148) streamlined burdensome federal regulations to cut through red tape and frivolous lawsuits to allow management of overgrown federal forests. Where implemented in the areas immediately surrounding rural forested communities, it has succeeded in helping curb catastrophic wildfire and improve forest health. However, since the landmark legislation was signed into law, over 40 million acres have burned in the United States, an area larger than North Dakota. A recent study from the Western Institute for Study of the Environment found that, to offset to greenhouse gas emissions from wildfires in California from 2001 to 2007, you’d have to lock up all 14 million of the state’s cars for 3.5 years. Federal scientists and foresters have asked to be able to use the bipartisan HFRA tools in the areas away from communities where forest health is assessed as poor and catastrophic fires begin. Again, without waiving any environmental laws, this legislation would give federal scientists and foresters the tools to manage our forests to reduce catastrophic fire from choked, diseased, and beetle-infested forests. Attract renewable energy investments and jobs to rural America – The renewable biomass energy industry that holds such great potential for jobs in rural America would transform waste from forest health projects described above into clean renewable energy. But a glitch in federal law puts this exciting new industry at a disadvantage when competing for critical private investments and holding its rightful place in America’s smarter energy future. This legislation would give renewable biomass energy the same incentives available to other renewable energy technologies, and put rural America on an equal playing field with the rest of the country when it comes to attracting the clean energy jobs that will play such an important role in America’s smarter energy future. Jumpstart the clean biomass energy market – This part of the legislation would help the renewable biomass energy industry plant firm roots by encouraging public schools and hospitals to install or convert to clean biomass energy, heating or cooling systems. It would also encourage U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management office facilities to be heated, cooled, or electrified from the clean energy produced using the waste from the healthy forest projects promoted in the bill. Doing so will produce more jobs and improve forest health too.###
07.31.2009	July 31, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - The National Rural Health Association (NRHA) is calling it “a huge step for rural America.” Congressman Walden’s amendment, adopted unanimously earlier today, ensures proportional representation for rural America on the committee that advises on Medicare policy, and on a new committee in the House healthcare bill that would determine minimum benefits in a government plan. NRHA’s brief on the news is below:House E&C Amends HR 3200 to Ensure Rural Represenation -- July 31, 2009 Rural champion Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR-2), representing Oregon's second Congressional district, successfully added an amendment to HR 3200, America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, during today’s markup of the bill in the Energy and Commerce Committee. The amendment, which received a unanimous vote, ensures proportional rural representation on the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) or on the proposed federal Medicare advisory committee that is likely to be created as a result of the bill's final passage. This amendment is a huge step for rural America, which has traditionally been underrepresented in MedPAC despite statutory requirements that a “balance” of its commissioners have rural expertise. Currently only two of the 17 MedPAC commissioners have significant rural experience, despite the fact that rural America is home to over 25 percent of Medicare beneficiaries. Please join NRHA in thanking Congressman Walden and every member of the Energy and Commerce Committee for their support for rural health. https://www.ruralhealthweb.org/go/left/policy-and-advocacy/health-reform/health-reform-news
07.29.2009	July 29, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - {Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) co-sponsored the Troops’ Soft Landing, Employment, and Rural Transportation Act (H.R. 3358), which would assist National Guard troops returning home from service abroad and to improve access to health care services for veterans. Similar legislation was introduced earlier this year by Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), and the House effort has the support of the entire Oregon delegation, including bill sponsor Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.). Earlier this year, 2,700 National Guard troops deployed from Oregon, the largest deployment of National Guard troops from Oregon since World War II. This legislation will help reintegrate these brave Oregonians into civilian life when they come home. “With Oregon National Guard troops just having deployed again to Iraq, the support system created by this legislation would greatly assist their transition home and back into civilian life,” Walden said. “While progress has been made with the opening of new veterans’ health clinics in central, southern and eastern Oregon, the establishment of a grant program to assist in providing transportation for rural veterans will help ensure that we provide our veterans the best health care as close to home as possible.” “During a summer of intense partisan debate in the nation’s capital, it’s heartening to know that the entire Oregon delegation can come together to stand behind a worthy effort like improving benefits for our National Guard troops when they return home,” Walden said. The legislation includes three important initiatives: 1. Soft Landing for National Guard and Reserve Members: Currently Guard and Reserve troops have only a few days to readjust before their active duty benefits expire and they are expected to return to civilian life. The legislation allows them to remain on active duty for up to 90 days, collect pay, and access reintegration services. The bill also provides counseling for those 90 days. 2. Expansion of Work Opportunity Tax Credit for Veterans: Under current law, employers can receive a tax credit worth up to $2,400 for hiring a veteran who works at least 10 weeks full time. This legislation expands the tax credit to $5,000 if the veteran is from a county with 12 percent or greater unemployment in the last six months and works 20 weeks full time. Oregon is currently struggling from the third worst unemployment rate in the nation and this tax credit will benefit both veterans and small businesses. Counties in the Second District with unemployment rates above 12 percent include: Crook, Harney, Deschutes, Jefferson, Klamath, Josephine, Grant, Jackson, Wallowa, Union, and Lake. 3. Rural Transportation Grants for Veterans: In rural communities across the nation, veterans rely on the generosity of family, friends, and veterans service organizations to transport them to VA facilities for their appointments. The bill authorizes the VA to establish a grant program to help provide transportation for rural veterans. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
07.21.2009	Walden: Project is good for farmers, good for fish Date - WASHINGTON, DC - A bill sponsored by Rep. Greg Walden to help Hermiston develop an important wastewater reuse program received a hearing this morning in the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power. Hermiston City Manager Ed Brookshier was in the nation’s capital to testify in support of the bill (H.R. 2741). “This project is good for farmers and good for fish,” Walden said. “The bill would allow the city of Hermiston to participate in a wastewater reuse program that will help the city comply with federal pollution standards for over the next 20 years, allow the water supply to keep up with the growing population, and return water into the Umatilla River to benefit threatened salmon species.” The bill is also supported by the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation. Walden’s full statement is below: “Chairwoman Napolitano and Ranking Member McClintock, thank you for holding a hearing on HR 2741, legislation I wrote to authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to participate in the building of a new water recycling and reuse facility for the City of Hermiston in northeast Oregon. “Before I get into the specifics of the bill before us now, I first want to say thank you for allowing me the opportunity to participate in the hearing. “Second, I would like to welcome Hermiston City Manager Ed Brookshier to the hearing. Ed and his team have done a wonderful job of demonstrating to me the need for this project and why it is a worthwhile federal project. He has made the long trip out from the west coast to testify on the bill today. Madam Chairwoman and Congressman McClintock, as I do, I know you understand the effort well. “The construction of the Hermiston Recycled Water Plant Improvement project, as it is commonly known, will enable the city to reliably meet numerous key goals including complying with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit levels for the next 20-plus years. The existing facilities were constructed in 1979, and after 30 years, are in need of modernization that will help meet new pollution reduction requirements, add capacity and help put water in stream for salmon. “This project will increase waste water treatment capacity to match the population and economic growth for a community that “refuses to be in recession” - a statement made by the Hermiston Chamber of Commerce executive director, Debbie Pedro, to me and others during a community meeting in Hermiston awhile back. “The project has been designed to produce the highest quality, class A, recycled water that will add additional protections for the Umatilla River’s threatened salmon species. This was one of the key reasons that the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation is supporting this legislation and project. I thank them for their support. “The final component of the project will be the drought-resistant water delivery of recycled water to the West Extension Irrigation District. These deliveries will help the irrigation district serve their diverse agriculture community. This water will supplement current allocations, but as we all know, a little extra water in a dry climate can make or break our farmers. “The proposed project must comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations, and the city has completed the required supporting documentation. This included preparation of an environmental assessment for potential impacts from the proposed project, such as a cultural resources survey, wetland delineation, and an Endangered Species Act biological assessment. The federal cost share in this bill—25 percent federal and 75 percent local—will be of enormous assistance as the project moves from drawing board to construction. “However, the federal cost share only exists if this bill becomes law. I ask that this subcommittee make a “do pass” recommendation to the full committee, and the full committee to take action soon so the House has an opportunity to pass the bill. “You can see that this legislation is of great importance to the City of Hermiston and surrounding areas. I thank you for holding this hearing today and please contact me if you have any questions.” Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. ###
07.17.2009	July 17, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco) this morning blocked a move by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) to give the Broadcaster Freedom Amendment an up-or-down vote under special House rules. It’s the second time this week that Speaker Pelosi blocked the Broadcaster Freedom Amendment, offered by Walden and Rep. Mike Pence (R-Ind.), which would bar funding for the so-called Fairness Doctrine and proposed FCC rules that subject political and faith-based radio and TV stations to strict government oversight. Two years ago, 309 members—including 113 Democrats—voted to pass a similar amendment, which has since expired. Speaker Pelosi is one of many Democratic leaders in Congress who has expressed support for a return of government censorship of the airwaves. “We have the votes to pass this amendment on the floor, yet Speaker Pelosi shuts us down at every turn,” said Walden, who operated small market radio stations with his wife for over 21 years. “All we want is the opportunity to give broadcaster freedom a vote on the House floor. Make no mistake, there are leaders in Congress who have made it clear they support government censorship. I take them at their word, and won’t let up this fight until we get it in writing that the government won’t launch a takeover of the airwaves.”
07.16.2009	On promises not to interfere with talk radio, Walden wants it in writing July 16, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) introduced a resolution today that would provide a floor vote on the Walden-Pence Broadcaster Freedom Amendment, which would bar funding for the so-called Fairness Doctrine and proposed FCC rules that subject political and faith-based radio and TV stations to strict government oversight. It is not clear when a vote will be held on Walden’s resolution. The Democratic Majority can set the time for consideration at any point within two business days of the intent being provided. On Tuesday, Walden and Congressman Mike Pence (Ind.) were blocked by Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s leadership from offering their amendment for a full up-or-down vote on the House floor. Walden’s effort this morning could give the House an opportunity to override the block. “The assurances from Democrats in power in Washington, D.C. to just ‘trust’ them that they won’t launch a government takeover of the airwaves is not good enough,” Walden said. “I’ve learned that in Washington, D.C., you better get it in writing. That’s why I want to give the full House the opportunity to vote for free speech. Time and again, Speaker Pelosi’s leadership won’t give us the opportunity to even hold a vote. What is the harm in taking a vote?” Many prominent Democrats in Washington, D.C. have expressed support new controls on talk radio, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Senator John Kerry, Senator Jeff Bingaman, Senator Debbie Stabenow, Senator Tom Harkin, Congressman Dennis Kucinich, and Congressman Maurice Hinchey. Two years ago, a similar amendment passed the House with the support of 309 members, including 115 Democrats. A summary of the Walden-Pence Broadcaster Freedom Amendment and the resolution Walden used to try to bring the amendment up for a vote today are both attached. Quotes on the record from Democrats in support of government censorship: Speaker Pelosi Reporter (at a Christian Science Monitor-hosted event): “Do you personally support revival of the ‘Fairness Doctrine?’” Speaker Pelosi: “Yes.” June 25, 2008, Human Events Senator Bingaman VILLANUCCI: You would want this radio station to have to change? BINGAMAN: I would. I would want this station and all stations to have to present a balanced perspective and different points of view instead of hammering on one side… All I’m saying is for many, many years were operated under a Fairness Doctrine in this country. I think the country was well-served. I think the public discussion was at a higher level and more intelligent in those days that it has become since. Oct. 23, 2008, newsbusters.com Senator Stabenow BILL PRESS: So, is it time to bring back the Fairness Doctrine? STABENOW: I think it’s absolutely time to pass a standard. Now, whether it’s called the Fairness Standard, whether it’s called something else — I absolutely think it’s time to be bringing accountability to the airwaves. I mean, our new president has talked rightly about accountability and transparency. You know, that we all have to step up and be responsible. And, I think in this case, there needs to be some accountability and standards put in place. PRESS: Can we count on you to push for some hearings in the United States Senate this year, to bring these owners in and hold them accountable? STABENOW: I have already had some discussions with colleagues and, you know, I feel like that’s gonna happen. Yep. Feb. 5, 2009, Bill Press radio show President Clinton “Well, you either ought to have the Fairness Doctrine or we ought to have more balance on the other side, because essentially there's always been a lot of big money to support the right wing talk shows and let face it, you know, Rush Limbaugh is fairly entertaining even when he is saying things that I think are ridiculous...." Feb. 12, 2009, politico.com Senator Durbin “It’s time to reinstitute the Fairness Doctrine,” said Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.). “I have this old-fashioned attitude that when Americans hear both sides of the story, they’re in a better position to make a decision.” June 27, 2007 The Hill Senator Feinstein Feinstein says she is “looking at” reviving the Fairness Doctrine. She wants to bring it back because she thinks “one-sided programming” pushes the American people into “extreme views. June 27, 2007 The Hill Sen. Dianne Feinstein told "FOX News Sunday" that she was reviewing the Fairness Doctrine because "talk radio is overwhelmingly one way." June 24, 2007 Fox News Senator Kerry “I think the Fairness Doctrine ought to be there and I also think equal time doctrine ought to come back. I mean these are the people who wiped out one of the most profound changes in the balance of the media is when the conservatives got rid of the equal time requirements. And the result is that, you know, they’ve been able to squeeze down and squeeze out opinion of opposing views and I think it’s been an important transition in the imbalance of our public…” June 26, 2007 Bryan Lehrer radio show Congressman Hinchey Rep. Maurice Hinchey tells The Washington Times that the Democrat is planning to reintroduce a bill that calls for a return to the doctrine, saying "The American people should have a wide array of news sources available to them." June 22, 2007, NPR Congressman Kucinich In January, Democrat presidential candidate Rep. Dennis Kucinich announced that he was going to pursue the Fairness Doctrine through his Government Reform Subcommittee. That announcement was greeted with silence. But now, Pelosi has moved things to the front burner.May 14, 2007 American Spectator Senator Harkin “By the way, I read your Op-Ed in the Washington Post the other day. I ripped it out, I took it into my office and said 'there you go, we gotta get the Fairness Doctrine back in law again. … Exactly, and that's why we need the fair -- that's why we need the Fairness Doctrine back.” Feb. 11, 2009, Bill Press radio show
07.15.2009	July 15, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), after completing his 374th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., will be again working in eastern Oregon’s Malheur, Baker, Grant, and Harney counties on Saturday, July 18. The schedule for the busy day of public meetings and events is below. SATURDAY, JULY 18, 2009 MALHEUR COUNTY NYSSA When: 7:30 a.m. MDT What: Invitation to speak to the Nyssa Chamber of Commerce Where: Heppner Senior Center Dining Room, 182 N. Main St. Details: Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update, and will then engage the audience in a question and answer session. BAKER COUNTY BAKER CITY When: 9:15 a.m. What: Miner’s Jubilee parade and community celebration. Where: Downtown Baker City Details: Rep Walden will attend the Lion Breakfast in the Geiser Pollman Park followed by participation in the Miner’s Jubilee Parade. GRANT COUNTY JOHN DAY When: 12:30 p.m. What: Lunch with Grant County community leaders Where: Old West Federal Credit Union, 650 W Main St Details: Rep. Walden has organized a lunch with community leaders from across Grant County to deliver a congressional update and also hear about current issues in Grant County. HARNEY COUNTY BURNS When: 3 p.m. What: Meeting with Harney County community leaders Where: Harney County Courthouse—basement meeting room Details: Rep. Walden has organized an afternoon meeting with community leaders to update the community on pressing matters before Congress, and to also hear about current issues in Harney County. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
07.14.2009	So-called ‘Fairness Doctrine,’ or government censorship of political and religious talk radio, is target of effort July 14, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Mike Pence (R-Ind.) introduced the Broadcaster Freedom Amendment to block regulations that would result in government censorship of political and religious talk radio. “Congressman Pence and I are continuing our longstanding fight against the government takeover of free speech on the airwaves,” Walden said. “The Walden-Pence Broadcaster Freedom Amendment would defend both the front and back door assaults on the First Amendment rights of broadcasters. Two years ago, Congress voted in overwhelming bipartisan fashion in favor of the First Amendment on the airwaves. It’s time that Speaker Pelosi gives broadcaster freedom another up-or-down vote this week.” “The federal government is intruding on various sectors of American life. The last thing we want is a government takeover of the airwaves,” Walden said. The front door assault The Walden-Pence Broadcaster Freedom Amendment would bar the re-implementation of the so-called Fairness Doctrine, a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulation scrapped in the 1980s that would eliminate most political and religious oriented talk on the radio today. Prominent congressional Democrats—including Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco), Majority Senate Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), and Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.)—have indicated their desire to see the FCC once again enforce the Fairness Doctrine to silence conservative talk radio. The “stealth censorship” of the back door approach Walden and Pence also plan to guard against a back door attempt to regulate free speech through new “localism” broadcast standards. Last year, the FCC floated new rules that would add layers of redundant and restrictive oversight to radio programming, likely resulting in the decline of radio formats that have flourished since the repeal of the Fairness Doctrine in the 1980s—political and religious talk. “As a radio station operator of over 21 years, I can say from experience that there’s only one group qualified to judge a station’s performance: the listeners,” Walden said. “If they’re tuning in, you’re doing something right. If they’re not, it’s time to reconsider. Sounds simple enough, but some here in the nation’s capital want the government to intrude on that basic principle.” A committee stacked heavily with members of the majority party will meet tomorrow afternoon to consider whether the Walden-Pence Broadcaster Freedom Amendment will receive an up-or-down vote on the floor of the House on Friday. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
07.10.2009	July 10, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), after completing his 373rd round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. tonight, will announce tomorrow at Columbia Gorge Community College a major step in securing a federal investment in an important renewable energy job training program. SATURDAY, July 11, 2009 Who: Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), CGCC President Dr. Frank Toda, and others What: Announcement of potential federal investment for green energy job training at Columbia Gorge Community College Where: Columbia Gorge Community College renewable energy building at The Dalles campus When: 8:15 a.m. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
07.08.2009	Date - WASHINGTON, DC - Congressmen Kurt Schrader (D-OR) and Greg Walden (R-OR) joined together today to form the bipartisan Congressional Healthy Forests Caucus. The caucus is designed to advocate for the implementation of forest policies that recognize the important role America’s federal, state and private forestlands can and should play in our economic recovery and sustainability as well as providing solutions to environmental problems. The caucus will be co-chaired by Schrader and Walden, who have invited Democrats and Republicans from across the country to join them in advocating for healthy forest policies. “Many communities in Oregon and across this nation have been struggling for decades because of forest policies that don’t make sense in today’s times,” Rep. Schrader said. “Our forests can be managed in an environmentally-friendly way while also producing jobs and creating opportunities for renewable energy sources such as biomass and reducing carbon emissions through sequestration. Too often these potential benefits are overlooked when drafting forest policy; our caucus aims to educate our Congressional colleagues on the economic and environmental benefits of smart forest policy.” “Flawed federal forest policies have exacted too steep a price on Oregonians in terms of degraded environmental quality, lost jobs, and decreased economic opportunity,” Rep. Walden said. “Congress should expand the strongly bipartisan and successful Healthy Forests Restoration Act, and fix broken policies that prevent the professional foresters from doing the prevention and post-fire rehabilitation work that the forests and rural communities so badly need done. This caucus will serve as an educational resource for members from both parties who want to do the right thing for the environment and America’s rural forested communities.” Schrader and Walden listed the following as goals for the Healthy Forests Caucus:• Maintaining healthy forests and healthy communities • Creating green jobs in rural America • Advocating for a clear and inclusive definition of renewable biomass and for equal treatment of biomass with other renewable energy sources through production tax credits • Enabling on-site renewable biomass energy production to count towards renewable energy objectives • Sustaining healthy forests, watersheds, and wildlife habitat not by lawsuit but by recognizing and encouraging forestry management practices • Obtaining tax credits for actively managed forest activities that result in additional sequestration of carbon dioxide • Reducing the potential for catastrophic wildfires through active forest management • Increasing opportunities for green timber sales • Supporting the efforts to secure adequate funding for the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management • Highlighting the compatibility of our nation’s forest solitude opportunities with healthy forest management###
06.29.2009	GREG WALDEN TO FOCUS ON ECONOMY, LOCAL JOBS, WATER IN EASTERN OREGON Meetings and public events to take Walden through Morrow, Umatilla, Union, and Wallowa counties June 29, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), after completing his 372nd round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., will be busy working in eastern Oregon’s Morrow, Umatilla, Union, and Wallowa counties on Tuesday, June 30 and Wednesday, July 1. The schedule of public events and meetings is below. TUESDAY, JUNE 30, 2009 MORROW COUNTY HEPPNER When: Noon What: Invitation to speak to the Heppner Chamber of Commerce Where: Heppner Senior Center Dining Room, 182 N. Main St. Details: Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update and will engage the audience in a question and answer session. UMATILLA COUNTY HERMISTON When: 2:30 p.m. What: Meeting and tour of the Hermiston Waste Water Project Where: Hermiston City Hall Conference Room, 180 NE 2nd St. Street, Madras Details: Rep. Walden will meet with Mayor Bob Severson, City Manager Ed Brookshier, Wastewater Superintendent Darrell Shiffner and others to discuss the Hermiston Wastewater Project before departing for a tour of the location. HERMISTON When: 5 p.m. What: Celebration of OSU extension centennial Where: 2121 S. First St. Details: Rep. Walden has been invited to attend the celebration of the 100th birthday of the OSU extension in Hermiston. Rep. Walden will present the school with an official Congressional Record statement he submitted in Congress on Friday. WEDNESDAY, JULY 1, 2009 UNION COUNTY LA GRANDE When: 7:30 a.m. What: Meeting with Union County business leaders Where: Flying J Restaurant, Interstate 84 Exit 265 Details: Rep. Walden has organized a breakfast with business leaders from all across Union County to listen to how the national economy is affecting the local economy in eastern Oregon.WALLOWA COUNTY ENTERPRISE When: Noon What: Invitation to speak to the Wallowa County Rotary Where: St. Katherine Parish Hall, 301 E Garfield Details: Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update to the Wallowa County Rotary. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
06.26.2009	Kristen Eisenbraun chosen as Oregon’s Second District winner in “An Artistic Discovery” competition; painting to be displayed in U.S. Capitol June 26, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that Kristen Eisenbraun of Long Creek has been selected as the overall winner for Oregon’s Second Congressional District in the 2009 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Kristen, a homeschooled student, will have her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Kristen’s oil on canvas piece is titled, Watching. “I want to congratulate Kristen on this accomplishment. The artwork she submitted is a testament to her talent, and I look forward to seeing it featured in the U.S. Capitol. Her work will be displayed among the best artistic talent from high schools throughout the nation,” Walden said. “This competition is a tremendous opportunity for young people interested in art and I want to thank all those who participated, including a dedicated and fantastic team of judges from college art programs throughout the Second District. We had many wonderful pieces submitted for this year’s competition, and all of the students should be proud.” The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide program for students to showcase their artistic abilities and to highlight the importance of art education. In order to enter the competition, high school students had to submit two-dimensional artwork that was original in concept, design and execution. A panel of college art professors judged the submitted pieces to determine the overall winner and four runners-up, whose art will hang in Congressman Walden’s D.C., Medford, La Grande and Bend offices for one year. If you have trouble opening the attached picture of Kristen and Congressman Walden taken in the Cannon Tunnel in front of Kristen’s piece, please contact Andrew Whelan at Andrew.whelan@mail.house.gov or (202) 226-7338. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
06.26.2009	Students from Long Creek, Klamath Falls, Mount Vernon, The Dalles honored in “An Artistic Discovery;” art to be displayed in U.S. Capitol, Walden’s Congressional offices June 26, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced the Second Congressional District winner and runners-up for the 2009 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. The overall winner will have her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year and the four runners-up will have theirs displayed in Walden’s D.C., Medford, La Grande, and Bend offices. “I want to congratulate these young adults on their accomplishment. The artwork they submitted is a testament to their talent, and I look forward to seeing them on display in the U.S. Capitol and as I work in my offices. The many individuals who pass through the halls of the Capitol and my offices in D.C., Medford, La Grande, and Bend will also be able to enjoy these wonderful pieces,” Walden said. “An Artistic Discovery is a tremendous opportunity for young people interested in art and I want to thank all those who participated, including a dedicated and fantastic team of judges from college art programs throughout the Second District. We had many fantastic works submitted for this year’s competition, and all of the students should be proud.” Kristen Eisenbraun, a homeschooled student from Long Creek, has been selected as the overall winner for the district. Kristen submitted an oil on canvas piece titled Watching. Her work will be hung in the U.S. Capitol’s Congressional Art Competition display for one year. Tianna Hyde, a senior at Henley High School, was selected as runner-up for the district. Tianna’s charcoal and graphite piece titled Binding will hang for one year in Walden’s La Grande district office. Brynn Hughes, a sophomore at Grant Union High School, was selected as second runner-up. Brynn’s colored pencil piece titled Summer Maiko will be displayed for one year in Walden’s Bend district office. Chloe Goodwin, a senior at The Dalles Wahtonka High School, was selected as third runner-up for the district. Chloe’s colored pencil piece titled Breaking Free will be displayed for one year in Walden’s Washington, D.C. office. Jessica Linman, a sophomore at Henley High School, was selected as fourth runner-up for the district. Jessica’s oil pastels piece titled Penny will be displayed for one year in Walden’s Medford district office. The Congressional Art Competition is a nationwide program for students to showcase their artistic abilities and to highlight the importance of art education. In order to enter the competition, high school students had to submit two-dimensional artwork that was original in concept, design and execution. A panel of college art professors judged the submitted pieces to determine the overall winner and four runners-up, whose art will hang in Congressman Walden’s D.C., Medford, La Grande and Bend offices for one year. For electronic copies of the students’ art, please contact Andrew Whelan at Andrew.whelan@mail.house.gov or (202) 226-7338. Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
06.24.2009	Meetings and public events to take Walden through Jefferson and Crook counties June 24, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), after completing his 372nd round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. on Friday, will be busy working in central Oregon’s Jefferson and Crook counties this Saturday. The schedule of public events and meetings is below. SATURDAY, JUNE 27, 2009 JEFFERSON COUNTY WARM SPRINGS When: 10 a.m. What: Visit to the Pi Ume Sha celebration to visit with Tribal and community leaders Where: Warm Springs MADRAS When: 11:45 a.m. What: Lunch with Madras business leaders to deliver a congressional update and discussion of the current economic climate. Where: Harriman Building Conference Room (3rd Floor), 212 SW 4th Street, Madras MADRAS When: 1:15 p.m. What: Mid Oregon Credit Union grand opening Where: 395 SE 5th Street, Madras CROOK COUNTY PRINEVILLE When: 7 p.m. What: Visit to the 64th Annual Crooked River Round-Up and “Tough Enough to Wear Pink” night Where: 1280 South Main St., Prineville Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
06.17.2009	‘Jake’s Law’ awaits vote on House floor June 17, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - When three-year old Wilsonville native Jake Hurley visited Washington, D.C. in February, he energetically waved and beamed at the cameras and members of Congress who gathered to listen to his father, Peter, describe Jake’s harrowing bought with salmonella just one month earlier. In January, Jake began battling diarrhea and an upset stomach. His doctors suggested that he eat his favorite food—Austin brand peanut butter cookies—which we now know carried a salmonella strain linked to the Peanut Corporation of America (PCA) in Georgia. Each cracker Jake ate to feel better prolonged his sickness. Luckily, Jake recovered and was well enough to travel to the nation’s capital in February, where Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and the other members of the House investigative panel who listened to Jake’s story vowed to quickly pass legislation to protect families like the Hurleys in the future from negligent food producers. In that same hearing, Walden challenged the executives at PCA to consume their own products, which they distributed despite knowing they could contain salmonella. Now, just months later, legislation to safeguard the nation’s food supply took a major step, passing the House Committee on Energy and Commerce unanimously, clearing a major hurdle before a vote on the House floor. “This really should be called ‘Jake’s Law.’ If PCA had in place a fully functioning food safety plan, as this bill would mandate, there is a good chance that the salmonella outbreak could have been avoided and Jake and hundreds of others never would have been poisoned,” Walden said. “The bill also would require FDA to inspect high-risk facilities as often as every six months. Currently, there is no mandate for those inspections to take place, and there is no legal requirement for producers to draw up food safety plans to safeguard their facilities from an outbreak.” Fifteen confirmed cases of salmonella poisoning in Oregon have been linked to PCA by the state epidemiologist’s office. For every confirmed case, about 20 go unreported. “This gives FDA the authority to quickly recall foods and establish a system to trace foods back through the entire food chain to its source so we can tackle and isolate problems more quickly and make the nation’s food supply safer,” Walden said. “Once the House passes this bill, it’s imperative that the Senate take action as soon as possible so these important safeguards can be put in place quickly.” Representative Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
06.10.2009	June 10, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Federal legislation to reduce global warming by putting a price on carbon emissions from power plants will result in an 18 percent rate increase for PacifiCorp customers in Oregon during the bill’s first year of implementation, according to data released yesterday at a congressional hearing in Washington, D.C. “The 553,000 Oregon ratepayers of PacifiCorp will pay $163 million more for their electricity in 2012 alone as a result of the Waxman-Markey national energy tax,” said U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s panel that heard testimony from various witnesses, including the head of PacifiCorp’s holding Company, Mid-American Energy. You can read the testimony from David Sokol, the chairman of the board of Mid-American Energy, by clicking here. “Think of the harm that a whopping increase in power costs will do to family budgets, small businesses and jobs. Moreover, we just learned that the bill generates $846 billion in new revenue to the federal government through what amounts to a national energy tax, according to the Congressional Budget Office. If you’re concerned about the government takeover of the auto industry, I’m afraid it is a precursor to what this legislation will do to put the federal government in the driver’s seat of the energy sector of our economy,” Walden said. The Waxman-Markey bill passed the Energy and Commerce Committee in May with four Democrats voting against the proposal. Speaker Nancy Pelosi has expressed her strong desire to pass the bill out of the House. “This is the same legislation that says woody biomass off most of our federal forest lands isn’t a renewable energy source,” Walden said. “It says most hydroelectricity is not renewable energy. And it sets up a risky carbon trading scheme that allows Wall Street traders and hedge funds to compete for carbon credits with power providers driving up the cost of electricity for all of us,” Walden said. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
05.21.2009	DateWHO: U.S. Rep Greg Walden, Chairman of the House Republican Leadership Oregon Senate Republican Leader Ted Ferrioli Oregon House Republican Leader Bruce Hanna And other Oregon Republican leaders WHAT: Press conference to introduce southern Oregon to the “YouCut” program, an innovative online initiative that invites the American people to vote on which wasteful federal spending programs should be cut. Each week, the American people can vote between five wasteful spending projects—the spending project with the most votes at each week’s end will be offered by House Republicans for an up-or-down vote to terminate the project. Check out the YouCut website here. WHEN: Saturday, May 22, 2010 Please be set up and ready by 9:45 a.m. WHERE: Veranda Park (Courtyard Hall) 1641 Veranda Park Drive Medford, OR
05.18.2009	Monday, May 18, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - {Rep. Greg Walden (Ore.-2) said the latest draft of a bill to regulate carbon dioxide by creating a costly new emissions trading scheme is written in a way that will hurt development of biomass energy and new hydropower. The House Energy and Commerce Committee, of which Walden is a member, began considering the 946 page bill today less than two hours after it was first made available to the committee members or the public. “Within the first 30 pages of the bill it became clear that woody biomass from federal land gets shortchanged by some tricky wording that would effectively prevent brush and debris from most of our forests from counting as renewable energy. I’ll offer amendments tomorrow in committee to fix this flaw,” said Walden, who is former chairman of the Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee of the House Resources Committee. “In addition, the climate change legislation also says new hydropower counts as renewable as long as the addition of the turbines doesn’t change the water levels at any time or location behind a dam. One of the sustainable energy ideas is to use hydropower to balance the intermittent wind power output by storing water behind a dam when the wind blows and releasing it to make hydropower when it doesn’t. The language of this proposal would disqualify that water power as a renewable energy source. It makes no sense to me, and I’ll offer amendments to fix this problem,” said Walden. In opening comments today, Walden expressed frustration that the committee has refused to hold public hearings on the 946 page legislation and only made a copy of it available hours before the committee convened Monday afternoon. “This legislation is sweeping in the change it will bring about for generations to come and the Congress should take time to at least read the bill to make sure we understand the impact of these changes,” said Walden. “If passed as is, it will dramatically increase energy costs to consumers and businesses and cost millions of jobs.” House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-Hollywood) told the press he plans to wrap up work on the measure before the end of the week. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
05.14.2009	May 14, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Below is the list of transportation projects requested in the Surface Transportation Authorization on behalf of local governments and non-profit entities to benefit Oregonians.**** NOTE: Generally, very few requests are actually funded.North Main Street/Wimer Street/Hersey Street Intersection Reconstruction in Ashland, Oregon $2,000,000 US 97 South Bend Parkway (Murphy Road Interchange) in Bend, Oregon $25,000,000The Dalles Riverfront Access in The Dalles, Oregon $3,630,000 US 197/Fremont Overpass in The Dalles, Oregon $11,000,000 US Highway 97 and J Street Intersection Project in Madras, Oregon $11,990,000 New Access Point from Port of Morrow’s East Beach Industrial Park to Highway 730 and Interstate 84, in Boardman, Oregon $8,900,000 I-84 Spring Creek Truck Climbing Lane (west of La Grande, Oregon) $5,100,000 US 97-Cooley Road Intersection Improvements in Bend, Oregon $6,400,000 19th Street Extension in Deschutes County, Oregon $5,630,000 Small Town and Rural Public Transportation Vehicle Purchase $2,000,000 Redwood Avenue Improvements (from Dowell Road to Hubbard Lane in Grants Pass, Oregon) $3,666,800 Jackson Road to N. Laurel Street Multi-Use Path in Ashland, Oregon $1,900,000 Bend Area Transit- Bus Replacement (Bend, Oregon) $2,490,000 Bear Creek Greenway Crossing at Barnett Road in Medford, Oregon $2,800,000 Oregon Highway 97 Wildlife Passage Strategy and Demonstration Project (south of Bend, Oregon) $1,890,000 Historic Columbia River Highway State Trail $4,000,000 Highway 140 Improvements (Bly Mountain/Beatty Curve- Klamath County) $4,500,000 I-5 Fern Valley Interchange in Phoenix, Oregon $25,000,000 Marine Park Entrance Project (City of Cascade Locks, Oregon) $2,752,000 Hood River-White Salmon Interstate Bridge in Hood River, Oregon $3,800,000 Authorization for Oregon Transportation Research and Education Consortium (OTREC), a National University Transportation Center$0
04.24.2009	Majority leadership’s energy tax bill threatens to deal serious blow to Oregon’s biomass industry—and hopes for economic growth in rural forested Oregon April 24, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Greg Walden today pressed Vice President Al Gore on the wisdom of not counting biomass from federal lands as a renewable energy in the major energy tax bill being pushed through Congress this spring. The majority leadership’s draft of the bill mandates that 25 percent of the country’s energy must come from renewable sources by 2025. Obviously, those energy sources defined as “renewable” by the legislation will receive a major economic boost. For a reason that will not be explained by the majority leadership, biomass from federal forests is specifically omitted from the bill and will not be counted as renewable, unless the bill is amended. “This legislation on page eight says woody biomass is not renewable if it comes off federal ground, period,” Walden told Vice President Gore. “On the Fremont-Winema National Forests, we have more than 200,000 acres of bug infested federal forestland. When that material comes out, why in the devil do we say it’s not renewable and can’t be turned into energy to reduce carbon emissions from coal?” Not one panelist during four marathon hearing sessions on the bill has been able to answer Walden’s basic question: “What’s the science behind this decision to say biomass from federal lands is not a renewable energy source?” Walden plans to offer amendments next week to improve many renewable energy provisions in the bill, but he will need bipartisan support to get it done. In short, the majority leadership’s bill would undercut one of the remaining economic hopes in rural Oregon (Oregon is second only to Michigan in unemployment). The biomass energy industry in Oregon has investors on the sidelines waiting for a signal from the federal government that biomass energy—specifically from the enormous supplies on federal land—and the communities that would produce it in rural Oregon are a worthy investment. This bill, if passed as currently written, would very likely have the effect of causing biomass projects to lose those potential investors. In the Malheur National Forest there is a 28-year maintenance backlog on forest work, setting the table for an inevitable catastrophic wildfire. Meanwhile, the unemployment rates in the counties it covers, Grant and Harney counties, are a staggering 17.1 percent and 13.9 percent, respectively. A 2005 Forest Service/Department of Energy report, commonly known as the “Billion Ton Report,” projects that there are over 1.3 billion dry tons per year of biomass potential—enough to produce biofuels sufficient to meet more than one-third of the nation’s current demand for transportation fuels by 2030. Beyond the energy potential, there is the benefit biomass energy products present for the atmosphere. Wildfire in the United States annually spews into the atmosphere the equivalent of four to six percent of the country’s carbon dioxide emissions. “Biomass energy production in our federal forests has the potential to prevent catastrophic wildfire, reduce global warming gasses released into the atmosphere, and put rural Oregonians back to work in areas where about one in five are currently in search of a job,” Walden said. “It needs to be a part of America’s smarter energy future.” FACTS ABOUT THE ENERGY TAX BILL (“Cap and Tax”): (source: House Republican Conference) • Higher Energy Prices: The bill imposes a national cap-and-tax regime that will tax every domestic energy producer for their carbon emissions—a tax which will inevitably be passed onto consumers. Independent researchers, CBO, and the President all agree that this cost will be passed to consumers. Furthermore, other provisions in the bill also increase the cost of energy, such as a new federal renewable electricity standard that will likely cause electricity prices to spike. The energy plan amounts to a $646 billion tax that will hit every American family, small business, and family farm. Estimates are that family energy costs will rise on average by more than $3,100 a year. Those hardest hit by this massive tax will be the poor – who experts agree spend a greater portion of their income on energy consumption. • Fewer Jobs: The bill does little to address the enormous loss of jobs that will ensue when U.S. industries absorb the cost of the cap-and-tax plan and other provisions, likely sending millions of American jobs overseas. The bill would be especially damaging in Oregon, which already has the second-highest unemployment rate in the country, by excluding federal biomass from the country’s renewable energy portfolio and dealing a severe blow to a very promising new industry in rural Oregon. • More Government Intrusion: The bill creates a host of new federal mandates on everything from outdoor light bulbs and table lamps to water dispensers, commercial hot food cabinets, and Jacuzzis. The bill would also increase the demand for electricity (to fuel vehicles via new transportation mandates) at the same time as the other portions of the bill cause consumer electricity costs to spike. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
04.20.2009	Date - Vancourve, Wash. - The forests of the Northwest have enormous potential to produce clean, green energy, according to experts who participated today in a field briefing of the House Science and Technology Committee’s Energy and Environment Subcommittee led by Congressman Brian Baird (D-WA-03). Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR-02) and Congressman Jay Inslee (D-WA-01) also participated. “One of the answers to our nation’s energy problems could literally be in our own backyard,” said Congressman Baird. “Our timber economy has been hit particularly hard by this recession. These technologies could help put thousands of people back to work, while generating clean, green energy that can power a 21st century economy, help end our addiction to foreign oil and combat global overheating.” Today, experts discussed how forest management planning can include the use of low-value materials from forests for energy production. Many of these technologies already exist, while others are still in the development stage. If properly utilized, these technologies could potentially make use of forest biomass that would otherwise be deemed unusable or low-value under current forest practices. Instead of being discarded, these materials could be repurposed to create renewable energy that could power cars, heat thousands of homes or create new renewable materials that can replace petroleum based chemicals. “Washington state is the perfect place for a field hearing on how smart, sustainable and balanced forestry practices can contribute to alternative, low-carbon energy solutions and stimulate the American economy,” said Congressman Jay Inslee (D-WA-01). This previously unusable forest biomass can be potentially dangerous if left alone, because it can build up, and eventually act as kindling for a catastrophic wildfire. With many parts of the Northwest experiencing double digit unemployment, experts agree that better forest management practices could not only produce renewable energy, but also provide better fire protection, and create thousands of jobs in these tough economic times. “In Oregon, we’re bracing yet again for another summer of catastrophic wildfire that will significantly pollute the environment and continue to destroy our forests, which used to be one of the state’s most powerful economic engines,” said Congressman Walden. “We also have the dubious distinction of being second only to Michigan in highest unemployment. This is simply unacceptable. Oregon and the Pacific Northwest should be the biomass capital of the world. Substantial financial resources waiting to be invested have been sidelined by a lack of certainty for a long-term biomass supply from our federal forests. It is high time to take decisive action and ensure a steady biomass supply from our overstocked forests. Our environment and our rural economies will greatly benefit, and badly need it.” “We need to take a new approach to forest management in America,” concluded Congressman Baird. “Every year, we see the overwhelming majority of the Forest Service’s budget literally go up in smoke. By researching these new practices and technologies, we could potentially better protect our forests from fire, and create thousands of jobs, and provide homes all across the Northwest with green, environmentally friendly energy in the process.”###
04.09.2009	Meetings and public events to take Walden through Crook and Deschutes counties April 9, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) on Tuesday will continue his extensive work in the Second District during the Spring District Work Period with meetings and events in central Oregon’s Crook and Deschutes counties. After completing his 366th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., Walden is spending the two-week district work period holding meetings and events in central, eastern, and southern Oregon throughout the expansive Second District. On Monday he will be holding public events in Sherman, Gilliam, and Wheeler counties. The schedule for Tuesday’s events is below. TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2009 CROOK COUNTY When: 7:30 a.m. What: Economy discussion with Prineville Chamber of Commerce and area business leaders Where: Brothers Family Diner, 1053 N Madras Highway, Prineville, OR Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update to the Prineville Chamber of Commerce. He will also take questions and answers from members of the audience. Last week, Rep. Walden appealed to the Obama administration to perform forest health restoration work to put Oregonians back to work in the woods and help curtail the conditions that lead to catastrophic wildfire. He personally delivered a letter to President Obama at the White House on March 30 and also delivered another letter to U.S. Forest Service Chief Gail Kimball in a meeting on April 2. DESCHUTES COUNTY When: 9:30 a.m. What: Meeting with Redmond city leaders Where: Conference Room, Redmond Airport Rep. Walden has organized a meeting with Redmond city leaders to receive an update on the latest developments in the city and deliver an update on happenings in Congress. Redmond Mayor George Endicott and Airport Manager Carrie Novick are among those who will be in attendance. ------ When: Noon What: Invitation to speak to the Greater Bend Rotary Where: The Riverhouse Convention Center, 2850 NW Rippling River Ct, Bend Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update to the Greater Bend Rotary Club. He will also take questions and answers from members of the audience. ------ When: 1:30 pm What: Invitation to speak to the Government Contract Assistance Program (GCAP) in Bend Where: Riverhouse Convention Center, 2850 NW Rippling River Court, Bend Rep. Walden has been invited to speak at the Government Contract Assistance Program (GCAP) presentation in Bend. GCAP has provided procurement technical assistance in Oregon since 1986. CAP services include counseling in basic procurement, marketing of goods and services and development of electronic commerce. GCAP provides technical assistance in each step of the contract process, from finding opportunities and submitting bids to administering contracts and getting paid. The forum will run from 1:30 to 5:00 pm and is designed to provide basic steps for businesses to understand and access the government contracting process. To register, go to GCAP’s website at www.gcap.org. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
04.07.2009	April 7, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will continue next Monday his extensive work in the Second District during the Spring District Work Period with meetings and events in Gilliam, Sherman, and Wheeler counties. After completing his 366th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., Walden is spending this week holding meetings and events in northeastern Oregon and southern Oregon.The schedule for Monday’s events is below. MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2009 SHERMAN COUNTY When: 9 a.m. What: Sherman County farm, energy, and economy discussion Where: Moro Senior Center, 300 Dewey Street, Moro, OR Rep. Walden is holding this event as an opportunity to discuss with area farmers and businesses how general agriculture and economic issues are impacting their operations. Rep. Walden will also offer a brief congressional update and conduct a question and answer session with those in attendance. GILLIAM COUNTY When: 11:30 a.m. What: Discussion with Gilliam County wheat growers Where: Country Flowers, Condon, OR Rep. Walden is holding this lunch meetings as an opportunity to discuss with Gilliam County wheat growers how general agriculture and economic issues are impacting their operations. Rep. Walden will also offer a brief congressional update and conduct a question and answer session with those in attendance. WHEELER COUNTY When: 2 p.m. What: Local employment meeting at the One-Stop Center Where: 401 Fourth Street, Fossil, OR Rep. Walden has been pressing the Obama administration through the last week to help put Oregonians back to work in the natural resources industry. This meeting will be an opportunity for Rep. Walden to learn more about what the workforce training facility is doing in Wheeler County. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
04.06.2009	Meetings with chamber of commerce, county commissioners, Rotary, and Brammo to take Walden through Jackson, Klamath, Lake counties April 6, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - After completing his 366th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. on Friday Rep. Greg Walden is busy holding public meetings and events throughout the Second District during the Easter Congressional district work period. Thursday, he will be in Jackson, Klamath, and Lake counties. Today and tomorrow he is in northeast Oregon holding events and public meetings that focus on the rural forest economy, clean energy, and veterans issues. For more information on those meetings, click here. The schedule for Thursday’s schedule in southern Oregon is below. THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2009 LAKE COUNTY When: 7:30 a.m. What: Meeting with the Lakeview Chamber of Commerce Where: Lakeview Elk’s Lodge, 323 N. F St., Lakeview Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update to chamber members, and then will conduct a question and answer session with members in attendance. -------- When: 9 a.m. What: Meeting with Lake County Board of Commissioners Where: Lake County Courthouse, 513 Center Street, Lakeview Rep. Walden has organized a meeting with the Lake County Board of Commissioners to receive an update on the latest developments in Lake County and deliver an update on happenings in Congress. Last week, Rep. Walden personally delivered separate letters to President Obama and to U.S. Forest Service Chief Gail Kimbell asking for their help putting Oregonians back in the woods to restore forest health and help spur local job creation. In the letter to Chief Kimbell, he specifically cited the bug kill in the Fremont-Winema National Forests as an area of specific concern. “As you likely understand, the health of the forests and the health of rural Oregon are, and will always be, inextricably linked. I invite you to the following areas of my district as soon as you are able to take stock of the emergency condition of the forests and economy in rural forested Oregon: Fremont-Winema National Forests: A mountain pine beetle epidemic has devastated an area over 200,000 acres, or 317 square miles, while the Forest Service has completed only 600 acres of stand treatments with 35,000 acres of prescribed fire. The forest staff and local community members call this area “the red zone.” This overstocked and overstressed area is a catastrophic fire waiting to happen. Meanwhile, unemployment in Klamath and Lake counties is 16.7 and 17.5 percent, respectively.” For the full letter, click here. KLAMATH COUNTY When: Noon What: Meeting with the Rotary Club of Klamath County Where: Reames Golf and Country Club, 4201 Highway 97 South, Klamath Falls Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update to the Rotary Club of Klamath County. He will also take questions and answers from members of the audience. Last week, Rep. Walden appealed to the Obama administration to perform forest health restoration work to put Oregonians back to work in the woods and help curtail the conditions that lead to catastrophic wildfire. He personally delivered a letter to President Obama at the White House and also delivered another letter to U.S. Forest Service Chief Gail Kimball in a meeting on Thursday. In the letter to Chief Kimbell, he specifically cited the bug kill in the Fremont-Winema National Forests as an area of specific concern. “As you likely understand, the health of the forests and the health of rural Oregon are, and will always be, inextricably linked. I invite you to the following areas of my district as soon as you are able to take stock of the emergency condition of the forests and economy in rural forested Oregon: Fremont-Winema National Forests: A mountain pine beetle epidemic has devastated an area over 200,000 acres, or 317 square miles, while the Forest Service has completed only 600 acres of stand treatments with 35,000 acres of prescribed fire. The forest staff and local community members call this area “the red zone.” This overstocked and overstressed area is a catastrophic fire waiting to happen. Meanwhile, unemployment in Klamath and Lake counties is 16.7 and 17.5 percent, respectively.” For the full letter, click here. JACKSON COUNTY When: 3 p.m. What: Tour of Brammo, Inc. Where: 550 Clover Lane, Ashland, OR Rep. Walden, the vice chair of the House Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus, will visit Brammo, Inc. in Ashland to tour their facility and hear from the company’s CEO, Craig Bramscher, about their operations. The Ashland company has grown from 12 employees to 32 since September, and current plans are to grow to 1,500 employees in five years. According to the company, for $50 worth of energy, you can travel 7,500 miles with one of Brammo’s vehicles. For more on Brammo, visit their website here. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
04.02.2009	Public meetings and events to take Walden through Umatilla, Wallowa, Union, Baker counties April 02, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - After completing his 366th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., Rep. Greg Walden will begin the Easter Congressional district work period by conducting numerous meetings and public events across northeast Oregon on Monday and Tuesday in Umatilla, Wallowa, Union, and Baker counties. MONDAY, APRIL 6, 2009 UMATILLA COUNTY When: 9 a.m. What: Local economy discussion with Hermiston Chamber of Commerce Where: Hermiston Chamber of Commerce, 415 S Highway 395, Hermiston Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update to chamber members, and then will conduct a question and answer session with members in attendance. ----- When: Noon What: Meeting with the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation Where: Tamastslikt Cultural Institute, 72789 Highway 331 Rep. Walden has been invited to receive updates from various Tribe departments before taking a walking tour of the “Nine Tribes” exhibit that has been traveling around the state is currently located at the Tamastslikt Cultural Institute. Walden will also be provided an overview of the various construction projects the Tribe is undertaking. WALLOWA COUNTY When: 4 p.m. What: Wallowa County Biomass MOU signing Where: Tomas Restaurant conference room, 309 S. River Street, Enterprise Rep. Walden, the vice chair of the House Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus, has been invited to speak at the signing of the Wallowa County biomass Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). The MOU states reducing fuel accumulations on federal lands and facilitating generation of renewable and sustainable energy that will lead to new economic opportunities as among its goals. Walden has worked across the aisle with Rep. Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) to change federal laws that prohibit biomass from federal lands from being counted toward the country’s renewable fuels standard and this week urged President Obama and the Forest Service to use emergency authorities to put people to work in the woods. When: 5:30 p.m. What: Wallowa County Community Dinner Where: Lears Restaurant, 111 West Main Street, Enterprise Rep. Walden has organized a no-host community dinner in Enterprise where he will deliver a congressional update and then hold a question and answer session with the community members in attendance. TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2009 UNION COUNTY When: 8:30 a.m. What: Tour of the La Grande VA Clinic Where: 202 12th Street, La Grande Rep. Walden will tour the La Grande VA Community Based Outpatient Clinic after a meeting with clinic staff. Recently, Walden joined a letter urging President Obama to reverse course on a consideration to bill veterans’ private medical insurance for treatment of war-related injuries. Thanks to pressure from grassroots veterans organizations and members of Congress, the administration backed off the proposal. BAKER COUNTY When: Noon What: Roundtable forum with the Baker City Chamber of Commerce Where: Sunridge Inn Restaurant 1 Sunridge Lane, Baker City Rep. Walden has been invited to deliver a congressional update to chamber members, and then will conduct a question and answer session with members in attendance. On Monday, he personally delivered a letter to President Obama urging him to help put folks back to work in the woods across rural Oregon. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
04.02.2009	April 02, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Following up on a request made at the White House to President Obama on Monday to help put Oregonians back to work in the woods, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) asked U.S. Forest Service Chief Gail Kimbell yesterday to develop a set of emergency measures to speed forest management action, consequently improving the health of our forests and economies in rural forested communities. “Never have we needed your leadership more,” Walden wrote in a letter he handed personally to Chief Kimbell yesterday in a meeting on Capitol Hill. “Because the Forest Service is such a pervasive land owner in my district, your management action or inaction in these troubled economic times may make or break countless communities in rural forested Oregon.” In the letter, Walden details the high unemployment in the Second District he represents — in many areas in the high teens and even over 20 percent in Crook and Harney counties — and the dire state of the health of the national forests. The Winema-Fremont National Forests, for example, is the location of a massive 200,000-acre bug kill that is ripe for catastrophic fire if action is not taken—locals call the 316-square mile area “the red zone.” The Malheur National Forest has a 28-year backlog of forest management work. And growth rates in eastern Oregon’s national forests are nearly ten-times the current harvest rates; nearly 50 percent of “harvest” in these national forests are post, poles, and firewood. All lead to conditions ripe for catastrophic wildfire that destroy the forests that once provided the sustainable economic lifeblood for rural Oregon communities. “Something needs to change,” Walden said in the letter. “People in Oregon are resilient, have learned to adapt, but at this point are just holding on. I urge you to develop a set of emergency measures before fire season begins which will direct and empower your forest supervisors to take quick forest management action, consequently improving the health of the forests and economies of our rural forested communities.” “As chief of the Forest Service with an open line of communication with the President, you sit at the unique intersection of politics and policy and are the key player in delivering the emergency expedited help so badly needed in rural forested Oregon,” Walden wrote to Kimbell. The text of the letter to Kimbell (which he delivered along with the letter to Obama) can be viewed here: April 01, 2009 Ms. Gail Kimbell Chief U.S. Forest Service 1400 Independence Ave., SW Washington, D.C., 20250 Dear Chief Kimbell, Never have we needed your leadership more. Because the Forest Service is such a pervasive land owner in my district, your management action or inaction in these troubled economic times may make or break countless communities in rural forested Oregon. Your roots run deep in eastern Oregon and you stay in touch with people in the area. So you may already be aware that without definitive and prompt action from the Forest Service, we risk losing what little forest management infrastructure remains in the region. On Monday, I personally delivered a letter to President Obama, which I’ve enclosed for you, where I asked for his help in putting Oregonians back to work in the woods. Highlights of that letter include: • In some areas of Oregon, one in five people are out of work and living next to federal forests with decades of backlogged forest health maintenance work. • As a result, catastrophic wildfire spews incredible amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere every year, equivalent to four to six percent of the country's carbon dioxide output from fossil fuel burning. • About 200 jobs lost from mill closures in eastern Oregon has the same economic impact as 26,400 jobs lost in the Portland metro area, according to the Oregon Employment Department. That means one job lost in eastern Oregon has the same impact as the loss of 125 jobs in the Portland metro area. As you likely understand, the health of the forests and the health of rural Oregon are, and will always be, inextricably linked. I invite you to the following areas of my district as soon as you are able to take stock of the emergency condition of the forests and economy in rural forested Oregon: Fremont-Winema National Forests: A mountain pine beetle epidemic has devastated an area over 200,000 acres, or 317 square miles, while the Forest Service has completed only 600 acres of stand treatments with 35,000 acres of prescribed fire. The forest staff and local community members call this area “the red zone.” This overstocked and overstressed area is a catastrophic fire waiting to happen. Meanwhile, unemployment in Klamath and Lake counties is 16.7 and 17.5 percent, respectively. Malheur National Forest: This forest alone has over 450,000 acres of Class II and III lands (those are lands most susceptible to catastrophic wildfire) and a staggering 28-year maintenance backlog. Unemployment in Grant County is 18 percent. Wallowa-Whitman/Umatilla/Malheur National Forests: The average annual growth rate on the Malheur, Umatilla, and Wallowa-Whitman National Forests is 775 million board feet per year. Mortality equals about 400 million board feet per year and harvest is right at 80 million board feet per year. Nearly 50 percent of the harvest is firewood, post/polls, and chips. Unemployment in the counties covered by these forests are in the high teens; Harney County stands at 20.5 percent, the highest unemployment rate in Oregon. According to the Oregon Employment Department, when timber was being produced, Harney County recorded more than 1,000 manufacturing workers. The industry’s estimated employment is a mere 20 people today. Russell Hoeflich, the vice president and Oregon director for The Nature Conservancy, testified before a Senate panel on December 13, 2007 that, “In 2007, the Forest Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, and Bureau of Land Management treated about 188,000 acres in Oregon and 44,000 in Washington. Based on our analysis, over the next 25 years we will need to treat at least 550,000 acres annually in Oregon – more than three times previous levels of treatments.” Something needs to change. People in Oregon are resilient, have learned to adapt, but at this point are just holding on. I urge you to develop a set of emergency measures before fire season begins which will direct and empower your forest supervisors to take quick forest management action, consequently improving the health of the forests and economies of our rural forested communities. As chief of the Forest Service with an open line of communication with the President, you sit at the unique intersection of politics and policy and are the key player in delivering the emergency expedited help so badly needed in rural forested Oregon. Thank you for your dedication to our nation’s forests and rural communities. I stand ready to assist you. Regards, Greg Walden Member of Congress
03.30.2009	In some counties, one in five Oregonians are out of work--walden calls for abandoning broken model of outsourcing wood products industry to countries that 'don't care one bit about NEPA and other environmental reviews' March 30, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - At the signing ceremony for the omnibus public lands bill that passed last week, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) delivered a letter to President Obama that details the economic hardships facing rural Oregon and asks his administration to take swift steps to reduce the threat of wildfire and put Oregonians back to work. “I would call on your administration to make full use of the expedited treatment authority within the Healthy Forest Restoration Act (HFRA) as another way to both promptly reduce the threat of wildfire in our forests and put our people back to work. Please encourage the Forest Service to take full advantage whenever feasible of the HFRA authority,” Walden said in the letter. The Healthy Forest Restoration Act (HFRA) is a bipartisan law that gives federal forest managers the tools they need to perform expedited forest management while still following applicable environmental safeguards. It is up to the Forest Service to choose whether or not to use HFRA when planning thinning projects. The most recent unemployment numbers show the areas hardest hit in the state are in rural Oregon; Crook County unemployment is at 20.7 percent, Harney County is at 20.2 percent, and Grant County is at 18.0 percent (full list here). “I commend you for the statements you've made about the needs in our forests and rural communities and I urge you to utilize all the power of your office to get the appropriate agencies to rapidly supply timber for our remaining wood products mills and provide an abundance of forest biomass for renewable energy production,” Walden said in the letter. “Time is of the essence as wildfire season is just around the corner. It's a very sad commentary that many communities consider the influx of firefighters during the summer months as the only economic stimulus they can rely on.” According to a 2007 study by the Oregon Employment Department, 200 jobs lost due to mill closures in eastern Oregon has the equivalent economic impact of 26,400 jobs lost in the Portland metro area. Walden pointed out to Obama that instead of producing domestic timber in an environmentally responsible way, we’ve outsourced our wood products industry to countries like China that “don’t care one bit about NEPA and other environmental reviews.” “Why does American policy encourage this when we could sustainably manage and utilize our forest resources under the protections of our environmental laws to ensure the survivability of our rural communities and lessen the outsourced wood trade’s impact on the atmosphere? American federal forest policy is not working for the ultimate benefit of forest health, the environment, or our rural communities” Walden said in the letter. Last week, the House passed the bipartisan FLAME Act, which is cosponsored by Walden. Walden asks Obama in the letter to support funding the law, which sets up a separate account within the Forest Service to pay for the cost of fighting larger fires. He also encourages Obama “to strengthen the green and salvage sale programs so that our mills and the people who work for them can count on a sustainable supply of logs in the Northwest.” The complete text of the letter is pasted below. March 30, 2009 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, While the entire country is reeling from the drastic downturn in the economy, few communities have been as hard hit as those in rural Oregon. As an example, in Oregon’s Crook, Grant and Harney counties, unemployment rates stand at 20.7 percent (the highest in the state), 18.0 percent and 20.5 percent (the second highest in the state), respectively. These communities are surrounded by vast federal timber lands, where little work is allowed in the forests. The Oregon Employment Department conducted a study in 2007 following several mill closures in eastern Oregon and found that 200 jobs lost in eastern Oregon would have the same economic impact as 26,400 jobs lost in the Portland, Oregon area. When you lose your job in a rural, forested eastern Oregon community like Burns, Oregon, the next closest city is 130 miles away. That’s the same distance as between Washington, D.C. and Philadelphia. There is no place to go. We need to put Oregonians back to work on the vast tracts of federal lands they neighbor. While the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided needed funding for forest thinning work, know that in one forest alone, the Malheur National Forest, at the current rate of treatment it will take about 25 years to deal with today’s excess biomass build up. As a result, we can expect more summers with catastrophic and costly fires. Enclosed please find a copy of a letter from Harney County Judge Steve Grasty to me and my colleagues that details that county’s plight and his call for specific help. Today, 47 percent of the U.S. Forest Service budget is spent fighting fire. Wildfires in the United States release an average of 290 million metric tons of carbon dioxide each year, which is equivalent to four to six percent of the nation’s carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel burning. Last week, the House approved the FLAME Act, which sets up a separate account within the Forest Service to pay for the cost of fighting larger fires. This week, the House Appropriations Committee will consider funding for the Forest Service. It is my hope that your administration will support separate funding for the FLAME Act, or grant emergency spending status to catastrophic fire fighting costs so that the Forest Service does not have to rob from its other accounts to pay for fire fighting. I would also call on your administration to make full use of the expedited treatment authority within the Healthy Forest Restoration Act (HFRA) as another way to both promptly reduce the threat of wildfire in our forests and put our people back to work. Please encourage the Forest Service to take full advantage whenever feasible of the HFRA authority. Within the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act is legislation (the Forest Landscape Restoration Act) that grants the Forest Service the authority to identify landscape size treatment projects up to 50,000 acres. Given the vast federal forest lands in Oregon, I would encourage your administration to identify two such areas within my state. Our forests are in desperate need of attention, and this legislation is a good starting point. Mr. President, right now the United States is the largest per-capita consumer of wood in the world, importing nearly 40 percent of our wood products from other countries that don’t care one bit about NEPA and other environmental reviews. In a April 1, 2007 story titled, “Corruption stains timber trade,” the Washington Post reported that, "at the current pace of cutting, natural forests in Indonesia and Burma—which send more than half their exported logs to China—will be exhausted within a decade…" China's manufacturers then process this wood using coal-fired power plants that have no emissions controls. Afterwards, the manufactured wood products are shipped to the United States on diesel-powered ships. Why does American policy encourage this when we could sustainably manage and utilize our forest resources under the protections of our environmental laws to ensure the survivability of our rural communities and lessen the outsourced wood trade’s impact on the atmosphere? American federal forest policy is not working for the ultimate benefit of forest health, the environment, or our rural communities. I would encourage your administration to strengthen the green and salvage sale programs so that our mills and the people who work for them can count on a sustainable supply of logs in the Northwest. I commend you for the statements you've made about the needs in our forests and rural communities and I urge you to utilize all the power of your office to get the appropriate agencies to rapidly supply timber for our remaining wood products mills and provide an abundance of forest biomass for renewable energy production. Time is of the essence as wildfire season is just around the corner. It's a very sad commentary that many communities consider the influx of firefighters during the summer months as the only economic stimulus they can rely on. I look forward to working with you and your team to bring long-term economic stability to America’s forested communities. Best regards, Greg Walden Member of Congress Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is composed of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
03.10.2009	March 10, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is once again helping lead a bipartisan effort in the House of Representatives to create a separate catastrophic wildfire fund so federal forest managers no longer have to rob other forest management budgets to pay for fighting fire. The bipartisan Federal Land Assistance, Management and Enhancement Act (H.R. 1404) was reintroduced today in both the House and the Senate. Last year, the House passed the bipartisan FLAME Act by voice vote, but it received no action in the Senate. Co-sponsors of the House measure include Walden, Resources Committee Chairman Nick Rahall (D-W.V.), and Reps. Norm Dicks (D-Wash.) and Mike Simpson (R-Idaho). Co-sponsors of the Senate measure include Sens. Ron Wyden, (D-Ore.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Tim Johnson (D-S.D.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), and Tom Udall (D-N.M.). “Nearly every year when catastrophic wildfire hits, the U.S. Forest Service breaks its bank to pay the firefighting costs. That means they end up canceling contracts to do thinning work and fuels reduction work, and maybe even shut down recreation facilities because they need to rob from every account they have to pay for the immediate firefighting costs. That doesn’t make sense. We never get ahead of the curve to make our forests healthier and less prone to wildfire.” “Today, 47 percent of the U.S. Forest Service budget is spent fighting fire. Wildfires in the United States release an average of 290 million metric tons of carbon dioxide each year which is equivalent to 4 to 6 percent of the nation’s carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel burning,” Walden said. “Enough is enough. Not another summer should pass without this commonsense law. Hopefully we can get over the hump this year with consideration in both the House and the Senate,” Walden said. “The FLAME Act would give federal forest managers the resources to more actively manage our forests to reduce catastrophic fire, improve forest health, and help Oregon’s rural economy all at the same time,” Walden said. The FLAME fund established by this legislation will be separate from budgeted and appropriated agency wildfire suppression funding for the Forest Service and the Interior Department, and is to be used only for the suppression of catastrophic, emergency wildfires. The annual agency budgets will continue to fund anticipated and predicted wildfire suppressions activities. Monies for the fund will be appropriated based on the average costs incurred by these agencies to suppress catastrophic, emergency wildfires over the preceding five years. In the 110th Congress, the FLAME Act received the support of the five living former chiefs of the U.S. Forest Service, the Western Governors Association, the Wilderness Society, the American Forest and Paper Association, the National Association of State Foresters, the National Association of Counties, members of the Rural Voices for Conservation Coalition, the National Federation of Federal Employees, and numerous other organizations. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.u# # #For audio from Rep. Walden on the FLAME Act, click her
02.26.2009	But Durbin amendment opens up a backdoor to the Fairness Doctrine February 26, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today congratulated Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) for successfully attaching a prohibition of the so-called Fairness Doctrine to legislation moving in the Senate. But the free speech victory was blunted by the acceptance of Sen. Dick Durbin’s (D-Ill.) proposal mandating that the federal government promote a greater diversity in “communication media ownership” and ensure that the “public interest” is served on the airwaves. That would once again give faceless federal bureaucrats the right to dictate what gets heard on the airwaves—and just do it under a different name than the Fairness Doctrine. “Today, the Senate slammed the front door on the Fairness Doctrine, but the back door got opened up,” Walden said. “Now it’s up to the House to do the right thing next week and make sure that the First Amendment applies to broadcast media, just as it does to other forms of media.” The Fairness Doctrine is a 1940’s-era censorship policy that mandates competing viewpoints be offered on the airwaves on controversial topics. Not until its repeal in the 1980s did popular radio personalities like Rush Limbaugh, Al Franken, and religious broadcasters have the freedom from the federal government to practice their First Amendment rights on the airwaves. This week, the House majority leadership refused to consider an amendment co-sponsored by Walden that would have prohibited FCC funds from being used to implement the Fairness Doctrine—language that garnered over 300 votes in the House last Congress. Legislation similar to that considered by the Senate is currently planned to be considered in the House next week. The DeMint amendment banning the Fairness Doctrine passed by a 87-11 vote. The Durbin amendment opening a backdoor to the Fairness Doctrine passed by a 51-41 vote, with no Republicans in support. Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
02.25.2009	Bipartisan Legislation to Promote Development and Use of Cellulosic Ethanol Derived from Wood Waste on Federal Lands February 25, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Rep. Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) reintroduced the Renewable Biofuels Facilitation Act, legislation that would allow the development and use of cellulosic ethanol derived from woody biomass on federal lands and from private forests as well. The bill would significantly broaden the definition of cellulosic ethanol within the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) to include biomass gathered from federal lands.The Walden-Herseth Sandlin bill addresses a flaw included in The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which included an historic 36 billion gallon renewable fuels standard (RFS), of which 21 billion gallons are required to be derived from “advanced biofuels” by 2022. Unfortunately, the legislation’s definition of renewable biomass prevents almost all federal land biomass, such as trees, wood, brush, thinnings, chips, and slash, from counting toward the mandate if it is used to manufacture biofuels.This provision not only discourages the use of such biomass, but in doing so could result in a decrease in responsible forest management by denying land managers an important outlet for the excessive biomass loads that often accumulate on public lands. The Walden-Herseth Sandlin bill would promote the use of energy from waste products gathered on federal lands, including those that are byproducts of preventive treatments and are removed to reduce hazardous fuels, to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation, or to restore ecosystem health. “Our bipartisan legislation would give the country a better chance of reaching its goal of producing 21 billion gallons of advanced biofuels a year by 2022—enough to reduce U.S. greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 20 coal-fired electricity plants,” Walden said. “There’s technology out there to turn woody biomass from forest health treatments in our choked forests into clean fuel, a process that would create good paying jobs and a healthier environment at the same time. A major roadblock standing in the way of that progress is this flawed federal energy policy we’re trying to correct.”“As we seek to strengthen and diversity our nation’s energy portfolio, it’s critical that we keep all sources of renewable fuels on the table to aid us in that effort,” Herseth Sandlin said. “While the energy bill took tremendous strides to decrease our dependence on foreign sources of energy, not allowing biofuels made from certain types of biomass to count toward the RFS hinders the potential benefits of the landmark legislation. I will continue my advocacy for this critical improvement in the definition of the RFS as it not only benefits our country’s energy security but keeps forests healthy and promotes economic development in the surrounding communities.”The Renewable Biofuels Facilitation Act currently has a geographically diverse and bipartisan group of original cosponsors: Representatives Greg Walden (R-OR), Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD), Bart Stupak (D-MI), Jo Ann Emerson (R-VA), Mike Ross (D-AR), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), and Peter DeFazio (D-OR).The Renewable Biomass Facilitation Act would change the definition to clarify that federally sourced biomass is eligible for consideration under the renewable fuels standard. Additionally, the bill would allow RFS credit for broad categories of biomass from non-federal and tribal lands including agricultural commodities, plants and trees, algae, crop residue, waste material (including wood waste and wood residues), animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and manure), construction waste, and food and yard waste.Biomass projects that would be conducted under the authority of the Walden-Herseth Sandlin bill on federal lands would still have to comply with federal and state law and applicable land management plans. There is an additional requirement for old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management on federal lands as defined in the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003.Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
02.24.2009	February 24, 2009 - WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement on President Obama’s speech to the Joint Session of Congress.“I welcome President Obama’s message of cooperation and partnership and I stand ready to work with him to tackle the difficult economic problems facing this country. We will have our differences, however. As a small business owner in Oregon for over 21 years, I never found that you could borrow your way into prosperity. Raising taxes on small businesses during a recession will cost jobs, especially in Oregon.“For bipartisanship to work, Speaker Pelosi needs to reconsider the closed process she’s used and give members of both parties, the press, and the public a reasonable opportunity to participate in the process. It was irresponsible when Republican leaders rushed certain bills to the floor as the majority party, and it’s still irresponsible when Democrats do it today. Americans have rightly rejected the old ways of Washington, D.C., and have made clear their desire to have us work together to solve the country’s problems.”Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
02.20.2009	February 20, 2009 - BEND, OR -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) issued the following statement on the placement of Kingsley air base on a list of potential military facility closures in Oregon. Walden attended a briefing at Kingsley with Col. Jim Miller on Monday."Kingsley employs 1,000 and has a $69.3 million direct impact on the local economy, with a 7-time multiplier on top of that. Kingsley is the finest F-15 training center in the country. Someone show me a model where the closure of Kingsley makes any sense economically or with respect to homeland security. Especially at a time when our National Guard is relied on more heavily for service overseas than ever before, our servicemen and servicewomen shouldn't have to come home to a shuttered base. I hope by even having this on the state's list to potentially cut, it won't send the wrong signal to Washington and hurt our efforts to expand the national security mission and improve the facility on the base."Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.# # #
02.18.2009	Funds available in stimulus should be used to hire commercial contractors to tackle Condition Class II and III lands - those lands most at risk of producing catastrophic wildfire February 18, 2009 - MEDFORD, Ore. -- Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today told the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) that they should use taxpayer funds in the economic stimulus package to hire commercial contractors to treat forest lands most susceptible to catastrophic wildfire and further target the resources to where the highest unemployment rates are in rural Oregon.Walden convened a videoconference today with USFS Region 6 Supervisor Mary Wagner and BLM State Director Ed Shepard, who between them oversee all USFS and BLM forests in Oregon and Washington, to find out how they plan to spend their portion of the $250 million in the economic stimulus for hazardous fuels reduction, forest health protection, rehabilitation and hazard mitigation."I voted against the so-called stimulus because it never occurred to me in over 21 years of running a small business that you could borrow your way into prosperity," Walden said. "But now that the money has been borrowed, it's my job to make sure the Second District of Oregon gets its unfair share. We should use those funds to hire commercial contractors to get into the forest and do the environmentally responsible work necessary on the most at-risk lands to reduce the catastrophic fire we see every summer."At the meeting today, Walden laid out the following principles for Supervisor Wagner and Director Shepard to follow:Prioritize hazardous fuels reduction projects in Condition Class II and III lands -- the areas where catastrophic wildfire is most likely to originate.Use commercial contractors to put Oregonians back to work in the woods.Use the authorities available in the strongly bipartisan Healthy Forests Restoration Act to do the work in an environmentally responsible way, but also in a way that saves time and precious funding.Undertake essential forest health projects in areas most desperate for work in the woods. According to the regional economist for the Oregon Employment Division, the loss of 200 jobs from mill closures in eastern Oregon during 2007 had an economic impact comparable to the loss of 26,400 jobs in the Portland metropolitan area.Walden is in the middle of a nine-county, 36-meeting, 1,600-mile trip through the Second District this week. He is in Medford and Grants Pass today. Thursday he will be in Pendleton, La Grande, and Milton-Freewater, and Friday he will visit Bend, Madras, and Prineville.Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
02.12.2009	Meeting with top regional Forest Service and BLM officials on new stimulus funds highlights slate of public meetings and events February 12, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - After completing his 361st round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., Rep. Greg Walden will begin a weeklong visit through the vast Second District with meetings and public events in southern Oregon.Highlighting the schedule is a meeting at 8:30 a.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 18 with Region 6 Forest Service Supervisor Mary Wagner (who oversees forest service land in Oregon and Washington) and state BLM Director Ed Sheppard to learn the agencies’ plans to begin forest health projects with the funds they are expected to receive in the federal stimulus package that the House expects to vote on tomorrow. Any stimulus package should aim to create jobs quickly, so Rep. Walden is interested to hear about how they plan to get Oregonians back working in the woods quickly with the new funds.But the stimulus package—taken as a whole—spends more than is needed to achieve the goal of creating jobs; Rep. Walden supports a plan that creates twice as many jobs nationwide at half the cost. For Oregon, that would mean 78,000 new jobs, as opposed to only 46,000 expected from the pending plan crafted in secret behind closed doors. The plan supported by Rep. Walden would have delivered meaningful tax relief to small businesses so they could afford to higher new employees, and it would put more money back in the pockets of American families.Unfortunately, the version expected to pass tomorrow goes the wrong direction in terms of job creation and tax relief by spending too much of the taxpayers’ hard-earned money on projects that have little to do with economic growth. For example, the latest news reports indicate that $6 billion was added at the last minute of the closed-door negotiations for a high-speed train from Los Angeles to Las Vegas. Talk about railroading the taxpayer. There’s $1 billion for the census. How is that economic stimulus?Despite Rep. Walden’s opposition to a plan that includes so much non-stimulative spending, as a longtime support of increased restoration of Oregon’s forests, he will want to know what kind of “shovel ready” projects the Forest Service and BLM plan to pursue with taxpayers’ hard-earned money.The meeting will be held at the Medford BLM/USFS office at 3040 Biddle Road in Medford. Supervisor Wagner will appear via videoconference from Portland; Director Sheppard will appear via videoconference from Burns.The meeting will be open to press only.After his trip through southern Oregon on Tuesday and Wednesday, Rep. Walden will be in Umatilla and Union counties on Thursday, and Deschutes, Jefferson, and Crook counties on Friday.In the nation’s capital, Rep. Walden is working numerous fronts to get Oregonians back to work in the woods and improve forest health at the same time.Rep. Walden has joined North Dakota Democrat Rep. Stephanie Herseth Sandlin to lead an effort to allow biofuels generated from federal lands—from sources like small trees and brush—to count towards the renewable fuels requirements.Rep. Walden is working on legislation to guarantee local biomass producers a long-term supply from federal forests. This helps the fledgling industry obtain investment, but also helps the forest out too. The more work Oregonians can do in the forest, the more jobs are created, and the less catastrophic wildfire occurs.These efforts, coupled with Rep. Walden’s bipartisan Healthy Forest Restoration Act II (HFRA II), will provide the necessary tools to proper stewardship of our federal forests and put people back to work in the woods. HFRA II would give federal forest managers the tools they need to actively manage our forests to reduce catastrophic fire and improve forest health.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2009KLAMATH COUNTY7 a.m.Klamath Basin Sunrise RotaryElmer’s Restaurant, 3030 S. 6th St., Klamath FallsRep. Walden will deliver a congressional update focused on the economy and the bipartisan projects he is pursuing in the nation’s capital. Following the update he will also conduct a question and answer session.------9 a.m.Meeting with Klamath County commissionersKlamath County Government Center, Room 213Rep. Walden will be updated on concerns to the county and also deliver an update on federal developments that might affect the county.------10:30 a.m.Meeting with Col. Jim MillerKinglsey Field, 222 Arnold, Suite 11Rep. Walden will meet with Col. Miller to receive an update on the 173rd Fighter Wing and Kingsley Field.------NoonMeeting with Team KlamathOIT Student Union, 3210 Campus Dr.Rep. Walden will meet with county, city, university, and business leaders to discuss the unique economic challenges facing the local community. Rep. Walden will also offer a brief congressional update.JACKSON COUNTY3:30 p.m.Visit to Knife River Corp.3959 Hamrick Road, Central PointFollowing a tour of the facility, Rep. Walden will participate in an informal roundtable discussion with company managers and department heads to discuss the current state of their company, which employs 600 people in Jackson County. Knife River is one of the leading sand and gravel mining companies in southern Oregon.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2009JACKSON COUNTY7 a.m.North Medford RotaryRogue Regency, 2300 Biddle Road, MedfordRep. Walden will deliver a congressional update focused on the economy and the bipartisan projects he is pursuing in the nation’s capital. Following the update he will also conduct a question and answer session.------8:30 a.m.Meeting to discuss forest stimulus projectsMedford BLM/USFS office, 3040 Biddle Road, MedfordRep. Walden will meet with USFS Region 6 Supervisor Mary Wagner and state BLM Director Ed Sheppard to hear their plans for creating jobs in the woods in southern Oregon with money that is expected to be in the stimulus package for forest restoration projects. Supervisor Wagner will appear via videoconference from Portland; Director Sheppard will appear via videoconference from Burns.JOSEPHINE COUNTYNoonGrants Pass RotaryWild River Pub533 NE F St., Grants PassRep. Walden will deliver a congressional update focused on the economy and the bipartisan projects he is pursuing in the nation’s capital. Following the update he will also conduct a question and answer session.Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.###
02.09.2009	Department of Homeland Security firefighter investment to assist Redmond Fire and Rescue in purchase of needed equipmentFebruary 9, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced a $170,537 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) for the City of Redmond Fire and Rescue Department. The investment, which is awarded by the Department of Homeland Security, will help the department to replace its five-inch hose, purchase new protective equipment, and acquire power gurneys.“I’m always pleased to see responsible federal investments being made for public services in our communities,” said Walden. “Redmond Fire and Rescue provides a critical service to the people of Redmond, so it’s especially fulfilling for an investment to be directed toward such a valuable institution.”Redmond Fire Chief Tim Moor said, "I want to thank the Congressman Walden for all he does for Oregon's first responders. We are quite fortunate to have this tremendous source of funding available for such critical improvements to our operations, particularly during this period of financial difficulty."The AFG program is designed to help local firefighting and emergency response personnel obtain equipment, vehicles, training, and other resources needed to provide communities with protection against fire and other hazards. For more information about the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program, click here: https://www.firegrantsupport.com/afg/.Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
02.06.2009	Large group of House members from across the country press new president to uphold strongly bipartisan agreement to lift ban on domestic energy production February 6, 2009 - WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) was joined this week by 69 of his colleagues on a letter to President Obama urging him to allow environmentally sound deep ocean domestic energy production while his administration reviews a five-year plan to increase American energy independence.“Last summer, gas in Oregon hit an average of $4.30 for regular, and Americans were literally paying the price for a failed national energy policy that relied on an addiction to foreign oil,” Walden said. “Even though prices have receded for the time being, we’re still not producing any more energy in America and have tremendous proven reserves that can be accessed with very safe and effective modern technology. When the economy recovers and energy prices surge again, hard-working American families will get hit very hard in the pocket once again. Now is when we should be enacting an energy strategy that will increase American energy independence, create jobs, and build a bridge to the country’s smarter energy future.”“We can’t afford to stall these efforts now. We need to start laying the groundwork today to develop American energy from American resources that would create American jobs and generate revenue for the federal government. So rather than borrow money we could actually be generating revenue, creating jobs, and creating a more energy independent sector for the United States for our future economy.”House Republicans successfully led the effort last year to lift a moratorium on accessing America's energy on the Outer Continental Shelf, which is estimated to contain 420 trillion cubic feet of natural gas (the U.S. consumes 23 trillion cubic feet per year) and 86 billion barrels of oil (the U.S. imports 4.5 billion per year).The letter Walden and 69 of his colleagues sent to President Obama yesterday urges him to keep areas on the Outer Continental Shelf open to energy exploration and development as his administration reviews the country’s new five-year offshore oil and gas leasing proposal.The full text of that letter is below.Last year, Walden authored the Security and Energy for America Act (SEA Act), which would have taken an “all-of-the-above” approach to producing domestic energy for Americans to reduce the price of energy and begun transitioning the country to a smarter and cleaner energy future. By producing energy in an environmentally responsible way from America’s vast deep water reserves, the SEA Act would have created a ten-year revenue stream for the production of wind energy, solar energy, geothermal energy, biomass energy, hydropower, and cellulosic energy.February 3, 2009President Barack Obama1600 Pennsylvania AvenueWashington, D.C.Dear Mr. President:We are writing today to urge you to allow areas in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to remain open for oil and gas exploration and development as your Administration reviews the five-year offshore drilling plan. As you know, at the height of our nation’s energy crisis last year, the American people spoke with one voice to express their outrage when they saw that not only were we dependent upon foreign oil, but furthermore, that energy resources located within American territory were locked away and could not be developed. Our national vulnerability was on plain display for the American public last summer because we lacked a coherent energy policy to allow for responsible energy exploration and development. Especially in these times of economic crisis, policy changes that would further eliminate or stifle American jobs should be off-limits. A recent ICF International study on energy concluded that developing these currently untapped energy resources would create more than 160,000 jobs by the year 2030. Additionally, it is estimated that $1.7 trillion of government revenue would be raised from tapping the billions of barrels of oil and trillions of cubic feet of natural gas under the deep oceans off our coast. Our country needs to remain on the path to American energy independence, and we believe this is a critical and achievable goal. Energy exploration means more jobs and stronger national security, nothing less is at stake. We respectfully urge that you allow the five-year offshore drilling plan to continue because it is vital to our economy. Moreover, energy exploration can be achieved responsibly with the needs of our environment in mind. Thank you for your consideration of our request.Sincerely,/s
01.30.2009	Department of Homeland Security firefighter investment to assist Boardman Rural Fire Protection District in hiring four new positions January 30, 2009 - WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced a $670,220 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) for the Boardman Rural Fire Protection District. The investment, which is awarded by the Department of Homeland Security, will provide four new paid firefighter positions.“I’m always pleased to see responsible federal investments being made for public services in our communities,” said Walden. “The Boardman Rural Fire Protection District provides a critical service to the people of Boardman, so it’s especially fulfilling to see such a valuable institution have the opportunity to grow with four new firefighting positions.”Boardman Rural Fire Protection District Chief Marc Rogelstad said, “We are really appreciative of Representative Walden’s longstanding work for first responders. The four new positions are extremely important to the community and the Boardman Rural Fire Protection District as it increases the daytime capabilities of the volunteer-based district when volunteer numbers are typically at their lowest.” The AFG program is designed to help local firefighting and emergency response personnel obtain equipment, vehicles, training, and other resources needed to provide communities with protection against fire and other hazards. For more information about the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program, click here: https://www.firegrantsupport.com/afg/.Congressman Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
01.27.2009	January 27, 2009 - WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today welcomed former Union County Commissioner Colleen MacLeod on staff in his eastern Oregon office based in La Grande. MacLeod, a fourth generation eastern Oregonian, has extensive experience in a variety of issues important to rural Oregon.“Colleen’s extensive record of public service to eastern Oregon and her abundant experience and knowledge of the region will be a significant resource for the people of the Second District,” Walden said. “I’ve known Colleen as a passionate, energetic and effective leader for rural Oregon, and I have confidence she will deliver the same as she helps me serve the residents of eastern Oregon. She will hit the ground running in our effort to help people receive positive results from the federal government.”"There are only a few elected people I would want to work for and I am honored to be working for Representative Greg Walden,” MacLeod said. “I have long respected Greg for his effective and dedicated representation of Oregon’s east side and I feel fortunate to have this opportunity to continue working for and with the people of eastern Oregon."Along with her 12 years of service as a Union County commissioner, MacLeod assumed a number of key leadership positions within organizations that strive to benefit rural eastern Oregon: the Eastern Oregon Rural Alliance, the Oregon Rural Congress, the Association of Oregon Counties, and the National Association of Counties, to name a few. MacLeod will continue to remain involved in many of her related public service roles to maximize the coordination between local, state and federal government.MacLeod will serve as a field representative alongside Walden’s Eastern Oregon Regional Director, Colby Marshall. Marshall is a Harney County native and member of a fourth-generation eastern Oregon ranching family who has been with Walden for seven years, including three years in Walden’s Washington, D.C. office as senior policy advisor on natural resource issues.The eastern Oregon office is located at 1211 Washington Avenue in downtown La Grande. Anyone with questions or concerns regarding Congress or the federal government should feel free to stop by during regular business hours or contact the office at (541) 624-2400.Representative Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
01.22.2009	Bill Would Guarantee that Veterans Not be Turned Away January 22, 2009 - Washington, D.C. – Eliminating bureaucratic barriers that made it harder for rural residents and veterans to receive health care, Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) introduced legislation today that would improve access to nearly 1,300 hospitals in rural, under-served areas of the nation. Twenty-five of the hospitals are in Oregon.The Critical Access Hospital Flexibility Act of 2009 would give small, rural hospitals greater flexibility in complying with federal regulations in order to better meet the needs of local residents and avoid the high cost of transporting patients to other facilities.“Rural residents depend on Critical Access Hospitals for their health care,” said Walden. “No one, especially our veterans, should ever be turned away from access to quality health care when they are in need. I look forward to building upon the good work that’s been done in the House and Senate to get this solution across the finish line.”“Right now, when the 26th patient walks in the door, critical access hospitals are being asked to choose between their financial viability or their patient’s health. That just doesn’t make sense,” said Wyden. “Folks in rural areas shouldn’t have to jump through hoops to see a doctor any more than doctors should be pressured into turning patients away. This bill will help hospitals in rural, under-served areas -- including some in my home state of Oregon -- to serve their communities during public health emergencies.” “Critical access hospitals are among the most important health care providers in rural communities around the country, many of which are in my home state of Idaho,” said Crapo. “This bill will give those hospitals the flexibility they need to provide high quality care and eliminate unnecessary and often costly hospital transfers. This bill also honors those who have served our country by guaranteeing care to veterans in these hospitals.”Medicare’s Critical Access Hospital program ensures that rural communities have access to acute care and emergency services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In order to obtain this designation, hospitals must meet certain requirements, including one that there be no more than 25beds occupied by patients on a given day. Hospitals that exceed that amount have had to transport patients to other hospitals further from their homes and families.The Critical Access Hospital Flexibility Act of 2009 would allow rural hospitals to avoid high, unnecessary transportation costs by giving them more flexibility in how they account for the 25-patient bed requirement. It would also exempt beds occupied by military veterans from the count. The legislation has been endorsed by the National Rural Health Association, Providence Health & Services, Catholic Health Initiative, Oregon Association of Hospital and Health Systems (OAHHS), the American Hospital Association, the Federation of American Hospitals and Veterans of Foreign Wars."The Critical Access Hospital designation has been a success for the 25 Oregon hospitals currently taking part in this program. Under the proposal from Senator Wyden and Congressman Walden, CAH’s will be provided flexibility in how they measure patient census,” said OAHHS President and CEO Andy Davidson. “This flexibility in measurement of patient bed days or through VA status reassures our rural communities that access to primary and emergency health care services will be available when they need it most, in their own backyard. At the same time it honors the original principles of the CAH program by limiting this designation to very small and rural hospitals."Critical Access Hospitals in Oregon include:Cottage Grove Community Hospital in Cottage GroveSamaritan North Lincoln Hospital in Lincoln CityProvidence Seaside Hospital in SeasideBlue Mountain Hospital in John DayCurry General Hospital in Gold BeachPioneer Memorial Hospital in HeppnerWallowa Memorial Hospital in EnterpriseLower Umpqua Hospital in ReedsportSouthern Coos Hospital and Health Center in BandonCoquille Valley Hospital in CoquilleColumbia Memorial Hospital in AstoriaGood Shepherd Medical Center in HermistonGrande Ronde Hospital in La GrandeHarney District Hospital in BurnsProvidence Hood River Memorial Hospital in Hood RiverLake District Hospital in LakeviewMountain View Hospital District in MadrasSamaritan Pacific Communities Hospital in NewportPeace Harbor Hospital in FlorenceSt. Anthony Hospital in PendletonSt. Elizabeth Health Services in Baker CityTillamook County General Hospital in TillamookWest Valley Community Hospital in DallasPioneer Memorial Hospital in PrinevilleSamaritan Lebanon Community Hospital in LebanonWyden is a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Medicare program and over the implementation of this legislation. Walden is a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare.
01.15.2009	January 15, 2009 - WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has been named the Ranking Member (or top Republican member) of a high-profile oversight and investigations panel with wide-ranging jurisdiction over federal programs. As Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee (O&I), Walden will lead a select group of six fellow House Republicans in working with 11 House Democrats in conducting oversight of federal agencies to ensure they are, among other things, using hard-earned taxpayer money in a responsible way and following the intent of the law.“If ever there was a time when taxpayers were crying out for thorough oversight of spending by government agencies and programs, this is it,” Walden said. “I look forward to aggressively conducting oversight from the position of Ranking Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee.”“It’s no secret around these parts that Greg Walden is one of the hardest working and most thoroughly prepared members on Capitol Hill,” said Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Joe Barton (R-Texas), who appointed Walden to the top spot. “He has long been a valuable asset to the Energy and Commerce Committee, and I am confident he will provide strong leadership for the important work Republicans will be doing on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee.In the past two years alone, O&I conducted oversight a wide range of issues, including the following:Investigations on the skyrocketing price of energyMissing and unaccounted-for equipment at federal agenciesFood and Drug Administration efforts to ensure drug safetySalmonella and unsafe food and efforts to ensure a healthy food supplySecurity concerns at top-secret Los Alamos National LaboratoryCombating nuclear proliferationThe Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee (O&I) is one of five subcommittees connected to the Committee on Energy and Commerce. Along with leading O&I and beginning his ninth year of service on the full Committee on Energy and Commerce, Walden will also retain his membership on the energy and environment subcommittee and the telecommunications subcommittee.The Committee on Energy and Commerce has jurisdiction over a sprawling issue set, including energy, trade, health care, and communications, all of which will have their oversight conducted by O&I. The Committee on Energy and Commerce also receives the highest volume of legislation of any committee in the House of Representatives. The official names of the full committee and subcommittee are listed below:Committee on Energy and CommerceSubcommittee on Oversight and InvestigationsSubcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer ProtectionSubcommittee on Energy and EnvironmentSubcommittee on HealthSubcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the InternetCongressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
01.07.2009	Walden, a longtime radio station owner and operator, wants to preserve First Amendment rights for broadcast media January 7, 2009 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Rep. Mike Pence (R-Ind.) today reintroduced the Broadcaster Freedom Act, a bill that would block government censorship of political, religious, and other speech on the radio and public airwaves. “The founders would spin in their graves at the thought of the government censoring speech on many of today’s radio and television stations,” said Walden, who owned and operated radio stations for more than 21 years and is part of a small town broadcast family that dates back to the 1930s. “Yet that’s just what some Democratic leaders seem to be after. Whether as a throwback to the old Fairness Doctrine or under a less controversial guise, any effort to exert government control over speech on the airwaves is an insult to the principles behind the First Amendment.” In 1985, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) repealed the so-called Fairness Doctrine, an archaic government regulation from the 1940’s that required public broadcasters to present contrasting viewpoints on controversial topics due to a scarcity of media outlets. The guideline was so vague that most broadcasters avoided controversial topics altogether. In 1949, only 2,881 radio stations existed. Today, that number is just under 14,000. Likewise, the number of television and Internet outlets available to the consumer has grown exponentially. The scarcity argument has never been weaker. Since its repeal, public discourse and debate on the public airwaves has flourished, leading to the rise of conservative personalities like Rush Limbaugh, 24-hour liberal enterprises like Air America, and specialized programming like religious broadcasting. If the federal government begins meddling again with the First Amendment rights of those on the radio under the guise of “fairness,” it would usher in another dark age of radio programming. Even the founding president of Air America, Jon Sinton, says government rule over the airwaves would be a big mistake. In a December 22 op-ed in The Wall Street Journal, he writes, “The Fairness Doctrine is an anachronistic policy that, with the abundance of choices on radio today, is entirely unnecessary.” The Broadcaster Freedom Act would prevent the Federal Communications Commission from reinstating the requirement that broadcasters present opposing viewpoints on controversial issues of public importance. The same legislation was introduced last Congress as H.R. 2085 and had 208 cosponsors. Supporters of government censorship Still, some prominent Democrats in Washington have publicly voiced their support for a reinstatement of government control over radio speech: Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin: “It’s time to reinstitute the Fairness Doctrine. I have this old-fashioned attitude that when Americans hear both sides of the story, they’re in a better position to make a decision.” (The Hill, June 27, 2007) Senator John Kerry: “I think the Fairness Doctrine ought to be there and I also think equal time doctrine ought to come back.” (Brian Lehrer Radio Show, June 26, 2007) Senator Dianne Feinstein told FOX News Sunday that she was reviewing the Fairness Doctrine because "talk radio is overwhelmingly one way." (June 24, 2007) Senator Jeff Bingaman: “I would want this station and all stations to have to present a balanced perspective and different points of view instead of always hammering away at one side of the political — … Well I guess my thought is that talk radio and media generally should have a higher calling than just reflect a particular point of view. I think they should use their authority to try to – their broadcast power to present an informed discussion of public issues. KKOB used to be a, used to live under the Fairness Doctrine… All I’m saying is that for many, many years we operated under a Fairness Doctrine in this country, and I think the country was well-served. I think the public discussion was at a higher level and more intelligent in those days than it has become since.” (On 770 AM KKOB, October 21, 2008) And while President-Elect Barack Obama has yet to endorse government censorship of talk radio, he may not have to in order to facilitate its return. All that’s needed is an FCC regulation – FCC Commissioner Michael Copps said they could try a new angle to achieve the same ends as the Fairness Doctrine: “What we do need is to make sure our airwaves are open and covering a lot of local events, covering local political races, making sure viewers and listeners both can benefit from a clash of antagonistic ideas and issues being covered. Even though the Fairness Doctrine is gone, that’s still in the Telecommunications Act. Do you go back to a controversial doctrine that was really the product of a previous age when media was different, or do you try to go forward and say, ‘How do we do that now with modern communications and a different media environment?’ We need to have debate about how you keep these airwaves serving the public interest and nourishing the public dialogue our democracy depends on. We still want to be sure we have that kind of free-flowing debate and cover the issues people need covered to make intelligent decisions.” (R&R, October 28, 2008) Walden said: “Under any name, government intervention in the speech on the airwaves is nothing more than censorship. There has never been a more diverse range of opinions on the public airwaves than there is today. There’s no need to fix what isn’t broken.”
10.15.2008	Walden: California beach vacation an ‘egregious breach of public trust’ October 15, 2008 - THE DALLES, Ore. - U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today demanded an investigation into whether taxpayer funds were used to bankroll a lavish $440,000 retreat for company executives less than a week after the Treasury Department used $85 billion in taxpayer money to bail out the struggling insurance company.An ABC news report on the retreat can be found here. The retreat for company executives at the St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, California, cost a total of $440,000 — $200,000 for rooms, $150,000 for meals and $23,000 in spa charges. “This insane conduct is inexcusable and represents an egregious breach of public trust,” said Walden, who made the announcement today while visiting with The Dalles Rotary. “These are exactly the kinds of abuses that drive me up a wall and are infuriating to taxpayers across the country. The Treasury Department needs to get to the bottom of this quickly to find out if taxpayers were taken for a ride. After accepting $85 billion in taxpayer money to keep their company afloat, the AIG executive brain trust was so fatigued they took a luxurious spa vacation on the company dime. With judgment like that, no wonder they needed taxpayers to bail them out. If public funds were used to bankroll this preposterous getaway, taxpayers must be repaid every cent.” Walden and a group of 49 bipartisan members have signed onto a letter to the Treasury Department, to be sent Friday, that asks the Treasury Department look into whether taxpayer funds from the bailout were used, and if so that AIG repay the Treasury in full. Walden’s stop in The Dalles is part of a district work schedule that includes over 60 meetings and public events over 3,600 miles of travel around the Second Congressional District. The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Henry J. Paulson, Jr. Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20220 The Honorable Ben S. BernankeChairman, Federal Reserve Board of GovernorsTwentieth Street & Constitution Avenue NWWashington, DC 20551 Dear Secretary Paulson and Chairman Bernanke: We write to express strong concerns about AIG’s possible misuse of federal taxpayer funds. It has come to our attention that, after the Federal Government provided a loan of $85 billion to AIG, the AIG executives hosted a lavish $440,000 retreat at the St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, California. Even more troubling, the day after this was revealed to the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, the New York branch of the Federal Reserve announced it will borrow $37.8 billion in investment-grade securities from AIG in exchange for cash. At a time when many of our constituents have serious concerns about their own financial security, we demand that you ensure that no taxpayer funds were used by AIG to host this retreat. If taxpayer funds were used, we demand that AIG repay the American people in full. It is crucial that the American people be able to trust the actions of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. Sincerely,/s Congressman Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
10.10.2008	October 10, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will start another leg of his extensive district work schedule when heads down to central Oregon from Hood River to on Monday talk about the economy, job creation, forest health, renewable energy, among other issues.Walden’s district work schedule includes over 60 meetings and public events over 3,600 miles of visits with residents around the Second Congressional District. Walden completed his 353rd round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. last week. MONDAY, OCT. 13 LA PINE - 8 a.m.La Pine Middle School Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Snack Event16360 First Street, La Pine Rep. Walden will visit La Pine to observe and celebrate the new Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Snack Program (FFVP) underway at the La Pine Middle and Grade Schools as a result of FFVP grants. Walden hill help prepare the snack trays that will later be distributed to classrooms throughout the school. The FFVP was expanded nationally and funded in the 2008 Farm Bill. Walden cosponsored H.R. 1600, the EAT Healthy America Act, which provided the necessary pressure to include nationwide FFVP expansion in the 2008 Farm Bill. NEWBERRY GEOTHERMAL PROJECT TOUR – 9:15 a.m.Newberry National Volcanic MonumentJunction of Highway 97 and Forest Rd. 9735 Rep. Walden will tour the Newberry geothermal renewable energy project at the Newberry National Volcanic Monument. Davenport Power, on behalf of the Northwest Geothermal Company, signed a 20-year power sales agreement with PG&E in July 2006. The agreement involves selling between 60 and 120 MW of electricity from a proposed geothermal power project on the western side of the Newberry Volcano. Walden, the vice chair of the House Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus, called earlier this week for longer production tax credit extensions for renewable energy, and also authored legislation to provide stable, long-term revenue for renewable energy production like geothermal power. OFIC ANNUAL CONFERENCE KEYNOTE – 11:30 a.m.Sunriver Resort17600 Center Drive, Sunriver Walden, the former chair of the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health and author of legislation to update the popular and bipartisan Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA), will deliver the keynote address at the Oregon Forest Industries Council annual conference. Walden’s new bill would allow federal forest managers to use the successful tools in HFRA to treat the land most susceptible to catastrophic wildfire.BEND CHAMBER OF COMMERCE – 2 p.m.Mid Columbia Credit Union1386 NE Cushing Drive, Bend Walden will meet with the Bend Chamber of Commerce to talk to members and also deliver a congressional update. TUESDAY, OCT. 14 JEFFERSON COUNTY ROTARY – NoonMazatlan RestaurantHighway 26N, Madras Walden will deliver a congressional update to the Jefferson County Rotary and also take questions from the audience. Congressman Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
10.07.2008	October 7, 2008 - PRINEVILLE, Ore. -Congressman Greg Walden today called for specific changes to federal forest and renewable energy policy as a way to replace county timber payments in the future, and create thousands of family wage jobs in rural communities. In a speech to the Prineville Rotary Club, Walden said, “We can’t wait until county timber payments run out again to start work on a rescue plan. We need to begin today identifying the roadblocks that prevent us from taking better care of our forests and using the wood waste to create renewable energy and jobs.” After the meeting, Walden participated in a renewable energy roundtable with local officials and representatives from Ochoco Power, which is proposing to launch a new $40 million, 20-megawatt renewable biomass energy facility in Prineville that will create about 125 new local green collar jobs. The company says that one of their main obstacles is the inability to secure long-term fuel supply contracts of at least 20 years from surrounding federal lands for their biomass facility. “The new Ochoco Power biomass facility is estimated to cost $40 million. Particularly in turbulent economic times like now, when the Dow can drop 800 points in the middle of a single day, after dropping over 700 points a week before, securing financing is harder than ever. And financing doesn’t come without a Power Sales Agreement, which doesn’t come without a long-term fuel supply contract,” said Walden, who is vice chair of the House Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus. “Enough is enough — it is high time to do what we can and should in our forests. If we do, our forests’ health and air quality will dramatically improve, we’ll save billions in fighting unnecessary fire, and central Oregon can lead the country in development of carbon neutral, firm power from woody biomass.” Walden called for changes in federal forest and tax laws. He said Congress should expand the Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA) to allow federal land managers to solve forest health problems over large landscapes, not just isolated areas and those close to homes. He called for a 10-year extension of the renewable energy production tax credit for woody biomass and said it should be made equal to other renewable energy sources, such as wind, solar and geothermal. Currently, energy production from woody biomass only receives half the credit as other renewables. Walden said work is needed to match long-term energy contracts with an equivalent guarantee of long-term supply of woody biomass from forests so that biomass facilities can generate the capital needed for their construction. He also said federal law that disallows alternative fuels made from woody biomass from federal forests from counting toward the nation’s renewable fuels standard is flawed and should be repealed. This summer, Walden introduced his bipartisan update legislation to the popular and successful HFRA law. Walden’s HFRA II bill would give federal land managers the tools they need to thin those areas of the forest on the verge of combusting into catastrophic wildfire. “Thinned material from the forest could be used to create jobs in the renewable energy industry, lessen our dependence on foreign fuel, and keep the forests healthy for future generations,” Walden said. “It’s not that complicated and it’s not that hard. It just takes the will in Washington, D.C. to make some commonsense reforms that will help rural communities in the West transition to self-sufficient economies.” Walden, a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, said that these revisions to the forest policy would not only benefit local economies and American energy independence, but the environment as well: About 290 million metric tons of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere every year from wildfire in this country, the equivalent of 4 to 6 percent of the nation’s carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel burning.A managed forest will sequester 250 percent more carbon dioxide per acre per year than an unmanaged forest. Biomass energy is carbon neutral, unlike the energy it would likely replace – coal or natural gas.It costs four times as much to fight a forest fire as it does to prevent one by reducing fuel loads. While Congress finally came through with an extension of the county timber payments program last week, most observers believe that it is unlikely the funding will be renewed after it is ramped down over the next four years. What local communities need to start thinking about, he said, is how they will replace the revenue. Projects like the planned Ochoco Power biomass facility can go a long way to helping local economies, but they need cooperation from the federal government to make it a reality. “There is opportunity right now for central Oregon and the rest of rural Oregon,” Walden said. “We need to act thoughtfully and quickly to make the changes necessary before timber payments run out in four years. We’ve bought ourselves time to plan out how we replace that revenue once it has run out. And an essential part of that transition is reforming the out-of-date federal policies that just get in the way of local communities, just like Prineville, that want to create new economies and new employment opportunities.” Yesterday, Walden spoke at the dedication of the Klondike Power Project expansion in Wasco, where he called for the 10-year extension of renewable energy tax credits, so companies invested in renewables like wind and solar can also plan for the long term. On Friday, Walden will speak at the People’s Utility District Association (PUD) annual meeting in The Dalles. Since taking office, he has completed 353 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. During the current district work period, he will log over 3,600 miles while participating in over 60 meetings and events in 15 of the 20 counties in Second Congressional District. Congressman Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
10.06.2008	October 6, 2008 - WASCO, Ore. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today called on the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to develop alternatives to requiring lighting of wind turbine towers, and said the Congress should extend the renewable energy production tax credit for 10 years. Walden spoke at the dedication of the Klondike Power Project expansion in the Sherman County, Oregon town of Wasco.Congress passed a one-year extension of the renewable energy production tax credit (PTC) for wind energy development, along with other renewable energy development tax credits, as part of the economic rescue package that passed the U.S. House and was signed into law on Friday, October 3. Walden voted for the measure, which also extended the county timber payments and Payments in Lieu of Taxes program for four years.“These credits have a dramatic impact on renewable energy development and jobs,” Walden said during the dedication of the Klondike III wind farm. “All too often these tax incentives are saved from expiration at the last minute, or allowed to lapse. It’s time for Congress to get serious about renewable energy development and extend these credits for 10 years so that businesses can make long-term investment decisions, and the country can get on track for a long-term renewable energy plan that will help wean us from foreign oil.”He said each time the production tax credits expired in 1999, 2001, and 2003, installation of wind capacity nationwide dropped dramatically the next year: 93 percent in 2000, 73 percent in 2002, and 77 percent in 2004. Following three years of uninterrupted federal PTC support, the wind industry installed a record 5,249 megawatts (MW) of generation capacity in 2007, providing 35 percent of the nation’s new electrical capacity and enough electricity to serve the equivalent of 1.5 million American households.Walden said jobs in rural communities, like those in Sherman County, are adversely impacted when the PTC is allowed to lapse:Nationwide, studies have shown that failure to extend the PTC places at risk 76,000 wind industry jobs and $11.5 billion in economic investments by the end of 2009.In Oregon, estimates are that without the PTC for wind, 7,297 construction and installation jobs relating to wind installations would be lost.Oregon ranks fourth nationwide among states to realize the most job opportunities lost without the PTC extended: only Texas, Colorado and Illinois rank higher in potential job losses.In addition to advocating a longer-term renewable energy policy, Walden also announced an effort to get the Federal Aviation Administration to develop an alternative warning system for aircraft that would negate the need for hundreds of red, flashing lights in the night skies of eastern Oregon.“I think we’ve all come to realize that with the proliferation of wind energy, many of our friends and neighbors are growing more and more sensitive to where these towers are sprouting up and the blinking red lights that adorn them,” said Walden, who is also a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “Today, I sent a letter to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration asking him to have the FAA develop alternative methods of warning aircraft about these towers. With all of the modern GPS mapping and tracking and warning systems technology has brought us, it’s time to find a safe, workable alternative to hundreds of red flashing lights on every ridge line in eastern Oregon.”“Otherwise, I’m concerned that public opposition will grow and threaten our opportunity to create clean, renewable wind energy, develop good paying jobs in rural communities and enhance local government’s financial stability,” Walden said.Walden is vice chair of the bipartisan Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus. He also serves on the Energy & Commerce Committee, and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.Tuesday, the Second District Representative will participate in a renewable energy roundtable discussion in Prineville that will focus on converting woody biomass into energy. Friday, he will deliver the keynote address to the Oregon Public Utility Districts’ convention in The Dalles.Congressman Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
10.03.2008	Measures passes House 263 to 171; goes to President for signature October 3, 2008 -WASHINGTON, D.C. -“Oregonians are as upset as I am about how the abuses on Wall Street are now inflicting damage on all Americans wherever they live and forcing Congress to take this action to prevent even worse damage to taxpayers. They’re darn mad about being taken advantage of by the predatory tactics and greed. From here, the Congress must focus on new oversight and proper regulation of the financial markets to make sure that Americans never get taken advantage of again. “More and more small businesses in Oregon are seeing their own credit tighten up and their sales fall as consumers begin to feel the effects of this mess, too. Everyone is losing right now, from retirement nest eggs shrinking, to business lines of credit being pulled, to car loans evaporating, our economy is getting hit hard and we’re now seeing record job losses. “While this measure is neither perfect nor politically popular, it is certainly better than what the Bush Administration originally sent to Congress. Gone is a blank check to the Treasury Department. And we stopped those on the other side of the aisle from putting really bad provisions into this measure. Gone are provisions to fund liberal, activist organizations. And we all agreed to stop giant corporate golden parachutes for those who participate in this rescue. This measure now ensures oversight protections for taxpayers. It puts taxpayers first in line to get paid back. It prohibits debt relief to foreign countries for foreign properties. And it has the potential to slow job losses and get people back to work. “For rural Oregonians, we finally succeeded in reauthorizing and funding our county timber payments program for the next four years, and we fully fund Payment in Lieu of Taxes through 2012. This is an enormous victory for our Oregon schools, counties, libraries, road departments and law enforcement agencies. Counties and schools can now restore essential services and real, family wage jobs. “For taxpayers, this measure prevents 21 million Americans in the middle class and 237,000 additional Oregon households from having to pay the onerous Alternative Minimum Tax, which would otherwise cost families $62 billion in higher taxes this year alone. It extends tax relief for qualified college tuition and for teachers who personally pay for classroom needs. It extends the child tax credit, which is essential to growing families. Failure to stop these tax increases on the middle class would make their family economic situation even worse than it already is. “For Oregon’s renewable energy sector, this measure extends tax incentives that are creating green collar jobs right here in Oregon through the development of wind, solar and fuel cells while providing research incentives for clean coal, plug-in hybrid vehicles and other conservation initiatives that will help make America more energy independent. “And yet, even with this rescue package in place, the damage already done to the credit markets and those who create jobs, even in our small towns, is not going to be undone anytime soon. Much more work remains to turn this economy around and get people back their jobs, their homes and their savings. While this vote is not popular, nor easily made, I believe in my heart that it is better than ignoring the worse problem that will severely afflict families — through no fault of their own — if we fail to act. Congressman Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
10.01.2008	October 1, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The county timber payments program once again has hope today as the Senate plans to vote to extend the program by four years as part of a comprehensive financial security measure. The House is schedule to take up the legislation tomorrow or Friday. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), who has doggedly urged the House leadership to bring the Senate tax reduction and county payments reauthorization measure up for a house vote, released the following statement this morning before returning to the nation’s capital: “This legislation addresses some of the most serious issues our country and every part of Oregon has faced in many years. While I’m as upset as anyone that Wall Street greed got us into this mess, it’s clear that if we don’t act soon every American faces financial harm. The wrongdoings of others stand to take all taxpayers down and we cannot let that happen. The cost of inaction for the taxpayer is simply greater than the cost of action.” “Our Senators deserve praise for their successful efforts to get the county timber payments program renewed and funded in this legislation. The bill establishes strong taxpayer protections and is our best hope to bring stability to our credit markets. Moreover, this legislation continues the tax credits for development of renewable energy, which means real jobs all across Oregon. And it gives middle class taxpayers relief from the Alternative Minimum Tax. “Most importantly for rural Oregon, this package delivers the four-year County Payments and Payments in Lieu of Taxes extension. This is the moment we’ve been working toward for several years: a real, long-term county payments bill that the President will sign into law renewing hope for our schools, libraries, and local law enforcement, while creating jobs in our rural towns. This is the last lifeline available to our communities.” In an op-ed published in The Oregonian yesterday, Oregon State Treasurer Randall Edwards (D) reacted to the Monday failure of the rescue package in the House, and warned against the Congress again failing to pass bill so it can be signed into law: “This package would have insulated Main Street from the meltdown on Wall Street. It would have also paid back taxpayers and reformed how business is done on Wall Street. Failure to pass the rescue plan is a great disappointment for Oregon, and Monday brought the single-greatest point drop in the Dow Jones industrials index. Without a bill, the ability for Oregonians to be able to get credit for buying a home or a car, or for small businesses to get loans for operations, will dry up. What's more, stock market returns this year have already been tough on families. With the market dropping, their savings and nest eggs are shrinking even more and could take years to grow again.” Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
09.26.2008	Focus shifts to inserting county payments into an economic stimulus package without payment means being proposed by Democratic leadership September 26, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden’s (R-Ore.) latest attempts today to reinsert a four-year extension of the county timber payments program (approved 93-2 by the Senate earlier this week) was blocked by the Democratic leadership on the House floor. The leadership used a procedural motion to block Walden’s attempt to offer the Senate version of the energy tax legislation, which included the four-year extension. The only Democrats to vote to consider the county payments legislation were Congressmen Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), Nick Lampson (D-Texas), Bruce Braley (D-Iowa), Travis Childers (D-Mo.), David Loebsack (D-Iowa), and Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.). Walden, using every tactic available to him in the House rules, will now focus on attempting to insert the next bill expected to come to the House floor, a $50 billion-plus economic stimulus package that has no payment means. “I have tried every angle, every option, every tactic available to me and my leadership to get the Senate’s strongly bipartisan county payments extension through the House of Representatives,” Walden said. “I’ve been blocked at every turn by a Democratic leadership that is pushing rural counties off a cliff, but I will continue these efforts until we’re successful. The Senate is on board, the President is on board, and my Republican leadership is on board. I hope the majority Democratic leadership, who control the operations of the House, will get on board soon too.” Walden had this to say during floor debate earlier this morning: “For those of us from the West that are home to the rural timbered counties where federal land may equate to over half of our states and our districts, you want to talk about loss of jobs? Come to my district where we have three counties of the 20 that have over eight percent unemployment. The mills have been closed. These are blue collar jobs that have gone away because this Congress has failed to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools act. It’s in the Senate version of this legislation. The President has said he will sign that legislation. It can become law and then our counties don’t have to gut their Sheriffs Departments, their fire departments, and their search and rescue departments. The libraries are closing. The teachers have been fired. It doesn’t have to happen that way. The Senate has risen to the challenge and come forward with a way to do this. Every time we have asked for help to reauthorize and fund this, this majority has figured out a way to deny this, with the exception of one emergency extension. We need your help on this.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
09.25.2008	September 25, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has confirmed that the House Republican leadership has agreed to his request to use the powers granted to the minority to force two separate votes on county payments today as the House debates its version of the energy tax legislation. Yesterday, the Democratic House leadership revealed it would strip the four-year county payments extension from the bill it would put forward, and earlier today on a party-line vote the Democrats on the House Rules Committee defeated an amendment offered by Congressman Doc Hastings (R-Wash.) which would have put county payments funding back into the bill. First opportunity today to revive county payments fundingIf the “Previous Question” on the rule for the House energy tax bill is defeated, the Republican leadership will attach the Walden Amendment to the legislation, which would add into the bill the county payments funding as approved by the Senate on a 92-3 vote on Tuesday. For this to happen, a majority of members must vote against the Previous Question. Second opportunity today to revive county payments funding If the Previous Question is not defeated, the Republican leadership has agreed to Walden’s request to offer as the Republican alternative the Senate version of the energy tax bill (which included the four-year extension, passed with 92 votes in the Senate, and would be signed into law by the President). This vote on the Republican alternative is known as the “Motion to Recommit” and occurs just before the vote on final passage of the legislation. For the Senate version of the energy tax bill, which includes county payments funding, to succeed in the House a majority of members must vote yes on the Motion to Recommit. Both votes represent a significant opportunity for supporters of county payments to overrule the Democratic leadership’s decision to strip county payments from the Senate energy tax legislation. Tune in to C-SPAN to follow the votes. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
09.24.2008	Urges House leadership to reconsider and keep Senate bill intact September 24, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement after learning that House majority leadership decided to drop the four-year extension of county payments from an energy tax package passed overwhelmingly by a vote of 93-2 in the Senate last night. “The Senate worked very hard and in a model, bipartisan way to produce legislation with a long-term extension of county payments that the President said he would sign into law. That’s why I’m bitterly disappointed that the House Democratic leadership has decided to break that package up into three bills and kill the Senate’s multi-year county payments success. They’ve broken what was fixed, and are pushing rural counties and schools off the cliff in the process. I urge Speaker Pelosi and her leadership team to reconsider their decision and bring up the complete Senate bill with county payments intact for an up-or-down vote in the House.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
09.22.2008	Group of Republicans and Democrats, including an influential committee chairman, urge majority leadership for emergency extension September 22, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has enlisted bipartisan support for a one-year emergency extension of the county timber payments program to once again reiterate to congressional leaders the importance of the program to hundreds of forested counties and thousands of school districts across the country. With just five days remaining before Congress is scheduled to adjourn until after the November election, the fate of the program is uncertain. Walden and his colleagues wanted to ensure that congressional leaders don’t conclude business without being reminded of how high the stakes are for essential rural county and school district services. In a letter drafted by Greg Walden, a bipartisan group of 28 lawmakers from across the United States (including Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman James Oberstar) today urged Speaker Nancy Pelosi, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey to include a one-year extension of county payments in a continuing resolution (CR) funding bill expected to be passed this week. “Renewing the federal government’s commitment to rural America is not a partisan issue, and the funding cliff forested counties and school districts are being pushed off has produced a real emergency,” Walden said. “This Congress cannot leave our counties out to dry. I’m very hopeful that the majority leadership responds to the emergency and upholds the government’s commitment before it’s too late.” The fate of a longer-term extension of county payments in a pending Senate tax package is still uncertain. In the meantime, a one-year extension would give counties a lifeline until the Congress reconvenes after the November election. Greg Walden has introduced his own long-term proposal, which would pay for a five-year extension of county payments and Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) through royalties and fees on new energy production. The legislation, called the Security and Energy for America Act (SEA Act), would also provide a major ten-year revenue stream for the production of renewable energies like wind, solar, geothermal, wave, hydro, and biomass. “Please know that this not a partisan issue and should never be treated as such,” the letter states. “Too much is at stake in our rural counties, and we come to you in bipartisan spirit hoping you will help as you graciously have in the past. The full letter is pasted below: September 22, 2008 The Honorable Nancy PelosiSpeaker of the HouseH-232 CapitolWashington, DC 20515 The Honorable Steny HoyerHouse Democrat Majority LeaderH-107 CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable David ObeyChairman, House Appropriations Committee2314 Rayburn House Office Bldg.Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Madam Speaker, Majority Leader Hoyer, and Chairman Obey: We write to you today to ask for your support for inclusion of a one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program (county payments program) in any upcoming Continuing Resolution (CR) that can be signed into law. A year ago, Congress authorized, and the President supported, a short term extension of the Secure Rural Schools legislation in the emergency supplemental appropriations bill. Please know that this not a partisan issue and should never be treated as such. Too much is at stake in our rural counties, and we come to you in bipartisan spirit hoping you will help as you graciously have in the past. The Secure Rural Schools program aids over 600 rural counties and 4,400 school districts in 42 states. Most of these counties have fiscal years that begin in July. The expiration and loss of federal Secure Rural Schools funds has resulted in layoffs of critical county personnel and the cessation of a number of county services. These counties have closed libraries, curtailed sheriff's patrols, released prisoners from jails, ceased search and rescue operations, eliminated mental health care services, and several are considering declaring bankruptcy and giving up their county status. Until Congress enacts legislation which allows forested communities to properly manage federal forests to generate revenue locally and rebuild rural economies, they need our help. As the timeline and fate of the long-term county payments provision currently under consideration in the Senate as part of a tax extenders package is still uncertain, we urge you to at least ensure a one-year emergency extension is included in a CR that can be signed into law. Thank you again for your assistance and support in reauthorizing the critically important Secure Rural Schools program in the past, and we look forward to continuing to work with you in the very near future to bring this process to a close. Best regards, Greg Walden (R-Ore.)James Oberstar (D-Minn.) – Chairman, Committee on Transportation and InfrastructureRaul Grijalva (D-Ariz.) – Chairman, Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public LandsHeath Shuler (D-NC)Ruben Hinojosa (D-Texas)Bob Etheridge (D-NC)Joe Barton (R-Texas) – Ranking Member, Committee on Energy and CommerceMike Simpson (R-Idaho)Barbara Cubin (R-Wy.)Chris Cannon (R-Utah)John Doolittle (R-Calif.)John E. Peterson (R-Penn.)Rick Renzi (R-Ariz.)Bill Sali (R-Idaho)Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.)John Boozman (R-Ark.)David Reichert (R-Wash.)Rob Bishop (R-Utah)Wally Herger (R-Calif.)Ted Poe (R-Texas)Denny Rehberg (R-Mont.)Doc Hastings (R-Wash.)George Radanovich (R-Calif.)Dan Lungren (R-Calif.)Jo Ann Emerson (R-Mo.)Don Young (R-Alaska)Kevin Brady (R-Texas)Zach Wamp (R-Tenn.) Cc: The Honorable John Boehner, Republican Leader, U.S. House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Jerry Lewis, Ranking Member, House Appropriations Committee Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
09.19.2008	September 19, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) yesterday appealed to the leaders of the State Emergency Board (E-Board) to reverse a state decision that would end a partnership with the federal government that provides important protection for Oregon farms and forests from crippling invasive species infestations. “While eastern Oregon is under the threat of being overrun by invasive grasshoppers and other invasive species that harm agricultural production and lands throughout Oregon, the failure of the state to continue cooperative funding of one of the most important tools to fighting infestation is unacceptable,” Congressman Walden said. “Supporting a program that has proven to be very successful at diagnosing and controlling these problems before they threaten the region’s economy is a no-brainer, and I just cannot understand why the state has failed to continue its support.” Specifically, Congressman Walden urged in a letter to E-Board leaders Senate President Peter Courtney and House Speaker Jeff Merkley that they reconsider decisions made by the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and the Governor’s office and fund the Oregon Department of Agriculture’s (ODA) request for emergency funding of the program. The consequences could have long-lasting and likely irreversible impacts on nearly every sector of eastern, central and southern Oregon’s agriculture and forest economies as well as the environment. “Experts predict next year will be one of the worst invasive grasshopper seasons in parts of eastern Oregon, so the need to fund the eastern Oregon entomologist position is particularly pressing,” Congressman Walden wrote in the letter. “The position is also critical to many other invasive species surveillance and control projects throughout Oregon's agriculture- and forest-dependent counties. Whether it is work on the gypsy moth in central Oregon, the onion maggot in Ontario, the apple maggot in Milton-Freewater, the Asian long horn beetle and emerald ash borer in nearly all of the forested areas throughout eastern, central and southern Oregon, or the Japanese beetle around the Portland International Airport, the eastern Oregon entomologist position has been instrumental in conducting invasive species surveillance and control projects throughout the region.” The Baker City Herald reported on the problem earlier this summer (emphasis added): In addition to calls from Jan Kerns, a Haines-area rancher and member of the Oregon Board of Agriculture, urging legislators to restore a cost-share program to help pay for grasshopper spraying, [Eastern Oregon Entomologist Helmuth Rogg] pointed out the need to restore funding for an ODA entomologist position in Eastern Oregon.Rogg was working out of La Grande, but as of March 1, after funding for the Eastern Oregon entomologist was cut, he accepted a position in Salem and has been traveling back and forth trying to help landowners and staff at the OSU Extension Service in Baker County monitor and map grasshopper populations for spraying."My position is now vacant, but we can not fill it until we can secure funding again," Rogg said. "Presently I do both jobs and help out as much as I can, but we do need the position back."An Eastern Oregon entomologist position needs to be restored to better assist farmers and ranchers with the grasshopper situation and other insect problems, which Rogg said are increasing as global warming drives more insects into this part of the world. For over a decade, the state-federal partnership has allowed the state to receive approximately $120,000 in federal funds annually to help maintain the full-time entomologist position, its support staff and activities in eastern Oregon for seven months of the year. The remaining five months of the year have been funded with around $82,000 per year by the state, a commitment that the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and the Governor’s office recently chose not to support on the E-Board’s agenda. The E-Board, however, still has time to formally place ODA’s request on the priority agenda before they officially meet next week and subsequently fund the request at the meeting. Without the state honoring its end of the bargain to help maintain an eastern Oregon entomologist, the federal funding will likely be terminated and the program will be lost. “With the Governor's emphasis this year on controlling invasive species, which continue to severely impact our state in both economic and ecological terms, I hope you agree that it would be extremely harmful to allow the state's commitments to this cooperative agreement to lapse,” Congressman Walden wrote. “The negative impact of losing the entomologist position in Oregon would be far reaching and potentially irreversible.” The full letter from the Congressman is below, along with news accounts from the Baker City Herald, La Grande Observer, and AP (via USA TODAY) on the grasshopper infestation and the loss of the entomologist position. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #September 18, 2008 The Honorable Peter Courtney, Co-ChairThe Honorable Jeff Merkley, Co-ChairState Emergency Board900 Court Street NEH-178 State CapitolSalem, OR 97301-4048 Dear Senator Courtney and Speaker Merkley: In the past week I have received numerous calls from concerned farmers, ranchers and agriculture associations in Oregon regarding an August 28 Oregon Department of Agriculture (ODA) request to the State Emergency Board (E-Board) to provide emergency funds to allow ODA to sustain the eastern Oregon entomologist position located in La Grande. I understand that, unfortunately, both the Oregon Department of Administrative Services and the Governor's office chose to not formally support ODA’s request to be placed on the E-Board’s agenda for consideration. Considering the extremely important work performed statewide by the eastern Oregon entomologist position, I strongly urge you and your colleagues on the E-Board to formally consider ODA's request and fund it based on its strong merits. As you likely know, the eastern Oregon entomologist position and the Federal Grasshopper Survey Program it oversees has been made possible through a decade-long cooperative funding agreement between ODA and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal Plant Health Inspection Service. This important agreement allows the state to receive federal funds of around $120,000 per year to maintain for seven months of the year the position, its support staff and its budget. It is my understanding that until this summer, the remaining five months of the year have been funded by the state and that without the state resources of approximately $82,000 per year and the cooperative commitment, the federal funding is likely to be terminated. Failure of the state to continue this financial partnership would create significant hardships for the agriculture economy in so many areas of our state and the health of the land. As has been noted in a number of regional and national media reports in recent months (examples attached), experts predict next year will be one of the worst invasive grasshopper seasons in parts of eastern Oregon, so the need to fund the eastern Oregon entomologist position is particularly pressing. The position is also critical to many other invasive species surveillance and control projects throughout Oregon's agriculture-dependent counties. Whether it is work on the gypsy moth in central Oregon, the onion maggot in Ontario, the apple maggot in Milton-Freewater, the Asian long horn beetle and emerald ash borer in nearly all of the forested areas throughout eastern, central and southern Oregon, or the Japanese beetle around the Portland International Airport, the eastern Oregon entomologist position has been instrumental in conducting invasive species surveillance and control projects throughout the region. It is important to note that the position also supports the export of many of Oregon's top agriculture products including onions, potatoes, and temperate fruit. With the Governor's emphasis this year on controlling invasive species, which continue to severely impact our state in both economic and ecological terms, I hope you agree that it would be extremely harmful to allow the state's commitments to this cooperative agreement to lapse. The negative impact of losing the entomologist position in Oregon would be far reaching and potentially irreversible. I appreciate your assistance in seeing that ODA's request is formally placed on the E-Board’s agenda before next week's meeting, and urge you to fund this essential position. Best regards, GREG WALDENMember of Congress Enclosure Cc: The Honorable Katy Coba, Director, Oregon Department of AgricultureThe Honorable Alan Bates, E-Board Member, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable Margaret Carter, E-Board Member, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable Betsy Johnson, E-Board Member, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable Frank Morse, E-Board Member, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable David Nelson, E-Board Member, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable Kurt Schrader, E-Board Member, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable Ben Westlund, E-Board Member, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable Doug Whitsett, E-Board Member, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable Jackie Winters, E-Board Member, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable David Edwards, E-Board Member, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Larry Galizio, E-Board Member, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable George Gilman, E-Board Member, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Bob Jenson, E-Board Member, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Susan Morgan, E-Board Member, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Nancy Nathanson, E-Board Member, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Mary Nolan, E-Board Member, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Chip Shields, E-Board Member, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Patti Smith, E-Board Member, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Ted Ferrioli, Republican Leader, Oregon State SenateThe Honorable Jason Atkinson, Oregon State Senate The Honorable Rick Metsger, Oregon State Senate The Honorable Cliff Bentz, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Greg Smith, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Bob Jenson, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable John E. Huffman, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Patti Smith, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Gene Whisnant, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Chuck Burley, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable George Gilman, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Bill Garrard, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Dennis Richardson, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Peter Buckley, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Sal Esquivel, Oregon House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Ron Maurer, Oregon House of Representatives Hoppers go through growth spurtAugust 15, 2008By ED MERRIMAN Baker City HeraldA big problem with little grasshoppers has evolved into a big problem with big grasshoppers in Baker and Union counties."We still have high numbers of grasshoppers," said Darrin Walenta, field crop specialist with the Oregon State University Extension Service based in La Grande.Walenta said he and Cory Parsons, Baker County Extension agent, are working with an Oregon Department of Agriculture survey team that's mapping grasshopper hot spots in the region.The survey follows a massive ground and aerial campaign earlier this summer targeting an exploding population of grasshopper larvae and nymphs with pesticides and biological control products.In northern Baker County, the grasshopper invasion prompted 60 farmers and ranchers to jointly fund a $46,000 aerial pesticide application earlier this summer covering more than 3,500 acres."In the areas where treatment was done, it did a good job of keeping populations down," Walenta said.However, in areas where growers chose not to spray, Walenta said the wingless larvae and tiny nymph grasshoppers have now evolved into mature adults 2 inches and longer that devour crops and lay eggs which could hatch into another infestation next spring."The Keating area is getting hit pretty hard, around Keating and Sparta," Walenta said. "I saw some big grasshoppers do some things I didn't know grasshoppers could do, like fly around like a bird," Walenta said.When the grasshopper survey is completed, Walenta said OSU Extension agents in Baker and Union counties will schedule informational meetings to discuss the survey results with growers and plan grasshopper control efforts for 2009.Parsons said this summer's grasshopper infestation was widespread, rather than the typical situation where the pests invade small sections of land around Baker County."We're finding grasshoppers from the north end of the Baker Valley off Ladd Canyon all the way to Huntington, and from Medical Springs, Sparta and Keating to the Burnt River, Unity and Hereford," Parsons said."Eagle and Pine Valley, around Halfway and Richland, the Sumpter Valley and Whitney Valley are the only places we have no grasshopper populations," Parsons said.When grasshoppers are small they typically remain in the drier rangeland areas where they hatch from eggs, but once they mature and sprout wings, Parsons said the hoppers move into wheat, alfalfa and potato fields, damaging those high-value crops.While the biological growth regulator Dimilin 2L used to kill young larvae and nymph grasshoppers is very effective and highly selective, killing only the insect group that includes things like grasshoppers, Mormon crickets and the praying mantis, Parsons said use of broad spectrum pesticides like Mustang MX are the only viable option for killing winged adult grasshoppers.The downside of applying broad spectrum pesticides is that they can also kill beneficial insects ranging from lady bugs to honeybees, Parsons said.So, the preferred option is to use the more biologically friendly sprays to kill off grasshopper larvae and nymphs before they reach the adult stage. Parsons said getting a head start on the grasshopper control for next year will require earlier grower participation in spraying programs and other treatments.To put the 2008 grasshopper infestation in perspective, Parsons pointed out that the USDA trigger for economic damage payments is eight grasshoppers per square yard. This year in some areas of Baker County, grasshopper counts were 100 to 120 per square yard.Helmuth Rogg, an entomologist and pest program manager with the Oregon Department of Agriculture who helped set up the grasshopper monitoring and survey program in Baker and Union counties, said the 2008 grasshopper infestation is the worst in 22 years.Rogg said one female grasshopper can lay 200-plus eggs per season, so the key to preventing an even worse grasshopper infestation next year is knocking down the grasshopper populations before they reach the egg-laying stage.Without treatment, Rogg said grasshopper infestations typically continue to grow over a four-year cycle before crashing due to lack of food and the prevalence of diseases and predators. Aerial assault on grasshoppers continuesJuly 20, 2008By ED MERRIMAN Baker City HeraldPesticide applications on the ground and in the air continued over the weekend in the fight to control Baker County's worst grasshopper infestation in more than two decades."The last big recorded outbreak in Baker County dates back 22 years," said Helmuth Rogg, an entomologist and pest program manager with the Oregon Department of Agriculture who spent more than two weeks in the Baker City/Haines area helping set up a grasshopper monitoring and control program.He said the 2007 grasshopper survey conducted by the ODA foretold of a large grasshopper infestation this year, and prompted the ODA staff to alert local landowners and officials with the Oregon State University Extension Service and Bureau of Land Management offices in Baker County.Today, Rogg said, the ODA begins its 2008 survey of adult grasshopper populations following more than a week of aerial and ground pesticide applications, which will provide information on how well the treatments knocked down the adult populations, and give landowners an idea what to expect next year."If the spraying kills enough this year, will that take care of it, or will this be a problem again next year or for years to come?" is the question the 2008 grasshopper survey will answer, Rogg said.In addition to calls from Jan Kerns, a Haines-area rancher and member of the Oregon Board of Agriculture, urging legislators to restore a cost-share program to help pay for grasshopper spraying, Rogg pointed out the need to restore funding for an ODA entomologist position in Eastern Oregon.Rogg was working out of La Grande, but as of March 1, after funding for the Eastern Oregon entomologist was cut, he accepted a position in Salem and has been traveling back and forth trying to help landowners and staff at the OSU Extension Service in Baker County monitor and map grasshopper populations for spraying."My position is now vacant, but we can not fill it until we can secure funding again," Rogg said. "Presently I do both jobs and help out as much as I can, but we do need the position back."An Eastern Oregon entomologist position needs to be restored to better assist farmers and ranchers with the grasshopper situation and other insect problems, which Rogg said are increasing as global warming drives more insects into this part of the world.Most everyone has heard historical accounts or seen television shows or movies about swarms of locusts that consume virtually every crop and blade of grass in their path."In 1850 or so, the biggest ever recorded grasshopper swarm was twice the size of the state of Colorado, composed of flying Rocky Mountain locusts," Rogg said.In those days, prior to the invention of synthetic pesticides, Rogg said farmers and ranchers tried everything from burning to poisoning to fight the locust swarms. Ultimately, it was the conversion of dry prairies to irrigated farm land and the paving over of the locusts' breeding grounds that ended the historical swarms."While locusts are grasshoppers, not all grasshoppers are locusts," Rogg said.There's more than 100 species of grasshoppers native to Oregon, mostly east of the Cascade Range, where grasshoppers thrive in the warm, dry climate. Rogg said the most common species of grasshoppers in Baker County is the melanoplus species, which unlike Rocky Mountain locusts don't generally form migratory swarms.However, the species that has infested Baker County this summer is the Camnula, a variety that does swarm. Camnula grasshoppers will readily devour wheat, alfalfa, potatoes and other crops, Rogg said.He said Northeastern Oregon is "ground zero" for grasshoppers due to the low precipitation and sandy soils that are ideal egg-laying grounds for the insects.Two consecutive years of drought across Baker County and much of Northeastern Oregon provided ideal conditions for grasshoppers to lay eggs and multiply."One female can lay 200-plus eggs per season," Rogue said.To put the threat of an uncontrolled grasshopper infestation in perspective, Rogg said grasshoppers are the largest consumers of prairie and rangeland in the United States — "way ahead of cattle, bison, deer or anything else,"Normally, grasshoppers are present every year in low numbers in Baker County and other areas of Northeastern Oregon, and are an important part of the environment, "providing organic material when they chew up the grass, digest it and return it to the soil," Rogg said.Grasshoppers are also an important source of food for birds, coyotes and rodents. Rogg said grasshoppers are considered important economic indicator species studied by entomologists because they are sensitive to environmental changes.Although the recent drought likely played a factor in the current grasshopper problem, Rogg said the population explosion is still something of a mystery, considering Baker County has endured similar droughts since the last big hopper invasion 22 years ago."We do not know if anything has changed in agricultural practices — less rangeland, less irrigation — that directly influences grasshopper populations," Rogg said.One thing's for sure, though: Without treatment, the grasshopper problem would continue to grow worse for years to come, Rogg said."Generally, grasshopper populations keep building over a period of up to four years before they crash again, due to lack of food resources, predators and diseases," Rogg said.To cut that cycle short, area farmers and ranchers paid out thousands of dollars for aerial pesticide applications last week, Kerns said.She compared grasshoppers to salmon — as adults they return to the place they hatched to lay their eggs."We all know this spraying (last week) will not end the problem this summer," Kerns said. "Those that were missed will go back to lay their eggs where they hatched."She said last week's pesticide applications did, though, kill grasshoppers that were invading high-value cropland."All the grasshoppers that were here on all these treated acres will not come back to lay eggs," Kerns said, adding that more pesticide applications may be necessary before summer's end, depending the initial results of the 2008 grasshopper survey that ODA initiated today.Kerns and Rogg are calling on landowners across the county to help gather information for the grasshopper count that begins this week, and to also participate in fall planning for future grasshopper control efforts, based on the count. Grasshoppers - They’re back in force, toting voracious appetitesJune 20, 2008By Ethan Schowalter-HayLa Grande ObserverThe grasshoppers are back.Despite a winter longer and wetter than in recent years, the hopping insects — mostly clearwinged grasshoppers, the species predominantly observed in the infestations of 2007 — are already being noted in alarmingly high numbers in Union and Baker counties.Helmuth Rogg, an entomologist with the Oregon Department of Agriculture, said that up to 100 grasshoppers per square yard have been observed in particular sites, mainly between Baker City and North Powder.These densities most likely relate to egg beds, Rogg said, where last year’s adult females sought out areas of sparse ground cover and loose soil, often in great aerial swarms, to deposit their broods.“Each female deposits up to 200 eggs in the soil,” Rogg reported in a press release. “In early spring, myriads of the clearwinged grasshopper nymphs hatch in egg beds that may contain as many as 3,000 to 100,000 eggs per square foot.”Clearwinged grasshoppers, Camnula pellucida, are most economically destructive as nymphs. Voracious feeders, they often target small grains like barley and wheat, as well as grasses — wheatgrasses, fescues, bluegrasses and bromes. During the spring hatches, entire wheat fields are vulnerable.Later in the year, adult grasshoppers sometimes descend on vegetable crops.In 2007, almost 600,000 acres were affected from Elgin to Baker City, with densities of up to 50 grasshoppers per square yard.Rogg said that outbreaks, which are usually tied to weather conditions and are unpredictable, typically last one to four years.Last year’s grasshopper numbers, coupled with the hatch being observed so far, lead Rogg to think Northeast Oregon is on the cusp of another outbreak cycle.The duration and nature of this past winter and early spring has delayed the grasshoppers’ emergence, Rogg said.“If we wouldn’t have had that cold winter and late spring, we would have been up to our eyeballs in grasshoppers,” he said.Early detection of the egg beds are crucial for mitigation efforts.“Control options include flood irrigation of rangeland (where possible) and chemical control,” Rogg stated. “Insect growth inhibitor regulators, such as Dimilin, have a high success rate for controlling immature grasshopper populations while significantly reducing the risk to other non-target species, such as honey bees and native pollinators, and applicators.”Dimilin is only effective, however, when applied to molting grasshoppers. The insects undergo a number of molts in their transition to adulthood, and the development of a new outer skin is essential to the process.Dimilin suppresses the development of the new exoskeleton, preventing maturation.“So (the grasshoppers) die in their old skin,” Rogg said.But adult grasshoppers, fully molted, are not affected.“Therefore, we encourage concerned landowners to check their property now for signs of young grasshoppers,” Rogg said. “In the event of an outbreak of grasshoppers, early detection increases the options available for control and their effectiveness.”Cooperation between producers in areas affected by grasshopper swarms is essential, Rogg said, to avoid re-infestation from untreated areas.Rogg estimated that producers in the affected area had about a two-week window in which spraying would be effective.While Dimilin is safe around humans and bees, it shouldn’t be applied near water, as it can kill aquatic shrimp.ODA and the USDA can only offer technical assistance to landowners for outbreaks on private property. The groups are compiling information on current grasshopper distribution and control options for local farmers and ranchers.This information will be shared at a meeting for interested parties on Tuesday, June 24, from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Baker County Fairgrounds Event Center.For further information about the outbreak or control options, contact Darrin Walenta, Union County Extension agent, at 963-1010; Cory Parsons, Baker County Extension agent, at 541- 403-0042; or ODA at 503-986-4662. Drought conditions lead to Oregon grasshopper infestationJuly 20, 2008BAKER CITY, Ore. (AP) — Grasshoppers, grasshoppers, everywhere.Baker County is in the midst of its worst grasshopper infestation in more than two decades. As a result, officials have been staging an all-out assault from the ground and the air.Helmuth Rogg, an entomologist and pest program manager with the Oregon Department of Agriculture, says the last big grasshopper outbreak dates back 22 years.A 2007 survey conducted by the ODA predicted the potential for a problem this year and prompted the department to alert local landowners and local officials, he said.This past week the ODA began its 2008 survey after a series of aerial and ground pesticide applications."If the spraying kills enough this year, will that take care of it, or will this be a problem again next year or for years to come?" is the question the 2008 grasshopper survey will answer, Rogg told the Baker City Herald.The species that has infested Baker County this summer is the Camnula, which devour wheat, alfalfa, potatoes and other crops, Rogg said. Northeastern Oregon has the low precipitation and sandy soils that are ideal egg-laying grounds for the insects.Two consecutive years of drought have made those conditions optimal."One female can lay 200-plus eggs per season," Rogg said.While normally grasshoppers are an important part of the ecosystem — they are a source of food for birds and other animals — they are also the largest consumers of prairie and rangeland in the United States, "way ahead of cattle, bison, deer or anything else," Rogg said.Without treatment, the grasshopper invasion could get worse, he predicted."Generally, grasshopper populations keep building over a period of up to four years before they crash again, due to lack of food resources, predators and diseases," Rogg said.Rogg was working out of La Grande, but when funding for the Eastern Oregon entomologist was cut in March, he accepted a position in Salem and has been commuting to help landowners and staff at the OSU Extension Service in Baker County address the grasshoppers.Rogg says his old position should be restored to help farmers and ranchers with insect problems, which he maintains will increase with global warming.The recent pesticide applications have cost farmers and ranchers thousands and is not likely to solve the problem this summer, said Jan Kerns, a Haines-area rancher and member of the Oregon Board of Agriculture who is urging legislators to restore a cost-share program to help pay for the spraying."Those that were missed will go back to lay their eggs where they hatched," she said.Kerns and Rogg are calling on landowners to help with the grasshopper count that began this past week, and to also participate in fall planning for future grasshopper control efforts, based on the count.
09.18.2008	September 18, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today launched an effort to convince House leadership to include a one-year extension of the county timber payments program in the continuing resolution (CR) that Congress must pass before October 1 to keep the federal government running.“A year ago, Congress authorized, and the President supported, a short term extension of the Secure Rural Schools legislation in the emergency supplemental appropriations bill,” states the letter authored by Congressman Walden that he circulated to colleagues today. “Please know that this not a partisan issue and should never be treated as such. Too much is at stake in our rural counties, and we come to you in bipartisan spirit hoping you will help as you graciously have in the past.”Once signatures are collected from members of the House, it will be sent to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey, who are leading the development of the funding bill.“Until Congress enacts legislation which allows forested communities to properly manage federal forests to generate revenue locally and rebuild rural economies, they need our help,” the letter continues. “As the timeline and fate of the long-term county payments provision currently under consideration in the Senate as part of a tax extenders package is still uncertain, we urge you to at least ensure a one-year emergency extension is included in a CR that can be signed into law.The full text of the letter is pasted below.Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon . He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.# # # The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker of the House H-232 Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Steny Hoyer House Democrat Majority Leader H-107 Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515The Honorable David ObeyChairman, House Appropriations Committee 2314 Rayburn House Office Bldg. Washington, D.C. 20515Dear Madam Speaker, Majority Leader Hoyer, and Chairman Obey:We write to you today to ask for your support for inclusion of a one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program (county payments program) in any upcoming Continuing Resolution (CR) that can be signed into law. A year ago, Congress authorized, and the President supported, a short term extension of the Secure Rural Schools legislation in the emergency supplemental appropriations bill. Please know that this not a partisan issue and should never be treated as such. Too much is at stake in our rural counties, and we come to you in bipartisan spirit hoping you will help as you graciously have in the past. The Secure Rural Schools program aids over 600 rural counties and 4,400 school districts in 42 states. Most of these counties have fiscal years that begin in July. The expiration and loss of federal Secure Rural Schools funds has resulted in layoffs of critical county personnel and the cessation of a number of county services. These counties have closed libraries, curtailed sheriff's patrols, released prisoners from jails, ceased search and rescue operations, eliminated mental health care services, and several are considering declaring bankruptcy and giving up their county status. Until Congress enacts legislation which allows forested communities to properly manage federal forests to generate revenue locally and rebuild rural economies, they need our help. As the timeline and fate of the long-term county payments provision currently under consideration in the Senate as part of a tax extenders package is still uncertain, we urge you to at least ensure a one-year emergency extension is included in a CR that can be signed into law.Thank you again for your assistance and support in reauthorizing the critically important Secure Rural Schools program in the past, and we look forward to continuing to work with you in the very near future to bring this process to a close.Best regards,/s GREG WALDEN Member of CongressCc: The Honorable John Boehner, Republican Leader, U.S. House of RepresentativesThe Honorable Jerry Lewis, Ranking Member, House Appropriations Committee
09.17.2008	After completing 351st round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., Congressman Walden to participate in train centennial, hospital benefit September 17, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will visit Wallowa County on Saturday to speak at the Eagle Cap Excursion Train celebration and attend the annual benefit dinner for the Wallowa Memorial Hospital. Details are below: WALLOWA COUNTY Eagle Cap Excursion Train Centennial Celebration11:30 a.m.Tamkaliks Grounds, Whiskey Creek Troy Road, Wallowa On Saturday, September 20, the Friends of the Joseph Branch will celebrate the 100th anniversary of rail service between Elgin and Joseph, Oregon. Celebration activities include food and refreshments, entertainment, and a special celebration program. Arts & crafts vendors, historical society exhibits and a variety of car clubs and antique clubs will also be on display. Congressman Walden, who has helped secure $475,000 in federal investments for the line, has been invited to deliver remarks at the celebration. Wallowa Memorial Hospital benefit dinner5:30 p.m.Cloverleaf Hall, Enterprise This is the thirteenth year that the Wallowa Valley Healthcare Foundation has conducted a dinner and live auction event to benefit the Wallowa Memorial Hospital. This year, the dinner and auction theme is a “Pink Tie Affair” to raise funds for a new digital mammography machine. Congressman Walden will donate a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol to be auctioned off during the dinner. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
09.05.2008	September 5, 2008 -WHAT: Dedication of Odell Sanitary District’s new water pollution control plant WHEN: Saturday, September 6 9:30 a.m. WHERE: 3700 Dethman Ridge Rd Odell, OR DETAILS: The Odell Sanitary District is having an open house on Saturday, September 6 to dedicate the new $5.5 million water pollution control plant. Along with Congressman Walden, State Representative Patti Smith will be on hand to deliver remarks. Following the ribbon cutting, tours and refreshments will be available to the general public. Staff will also be available to answer questions on the new process that is protecting water quality in Odell Creek. Congressman Walden has completed 349 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. and last week alone traveled 1,100 miles to visit eight counties in the Second District. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
09.04.2008	September 4, 2008 - HOOD RIVER, Ore. -WHAT: Celebrating the opening of two new buildings for Columbia Gorge Community College WHEN: Thursday, September 4 5 p.m. WHERE: Indian Creek Campus 1730 College Way Hood River, OR DETAILS: The new building at the Hood River campus is a 24,000-square-foot facility with 13 classrooms, two computer labs, a science lab – and plenty of parking. On September 11, CGCC will celebrate a new Health & Sciences Building in The Dalles, which will have nine classrooms, four science labs, two computer labs, healthcare occupations offices and consolidated Student Services area. The Health & Sciences Building is the “gateway” structure to the main campus, opening onto the college’s new outdoor amphitheatre, with its 2,000-person capacity for college graduation, musical performances and other public events. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
08.26.2008	Focus in Jackson, Josephine counties will be on energy, county payments August 26, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -After last week leading in Washington, D.C. the House Republicans’ protest on the House Floor regarding the majority leadership’s inaction on the high cost of energy, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will be in Jackson and Josephine counties Wednesday to talk about energy, the effect of high fuel prices on local economies, county payments, Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), and other federal issues effecting southern Oregonians. The House majority leadership to date has not allowed a vote on any legislation to produce meaningful, new, and domestic energy, like Walden’s Security and Energy for America Act (SEA Act) that funds five years of county payments and PILT, produces new domestic offshore energy, and provides a long-term funding stream for renewable energy production and green collar jobs. Walden’s return to Oregon last week completed his 349th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. He began his swing through the Second District today in northeastern Oregon and eventually will cover eight counties and 1,100 miles. His itinerary is below: WEDNESDAY, August 27 EAGLE POINT, Noon – 1 p.m.Location: Rogue Disposal Dry Creek Landfill, 6260 Dry Creek Rd.Congressman Walden will visit the Rogue Disposal landfill to tour their gas-to-energy plant. The landfill uses state-of-the-art technology to safely generate sustainable electric power in the Rogue Valley by converting the methane gas that is a natural byproduct of waste decomposing in the landfill process and generating enough power to provide electricity for up to 3,000 homes per year. If methane is released directly into the atmosphere, it is a potent greenhouse gas with a global-warming potential 21 times greater than that of carbon dioxide. Using it to generate energy encourages more efficient collection and thereby reduces emissions into the atmosphere. Formerly, the landfill, burned off the methane to prevent it going into the atmosphere. GRANTS PASS, 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m.Location: Bear Hotel, 2164 NE SpaldingCongressman Walden has organized and will host a roundtable discussion with local government and business leaders to share details about the impacts of high fuel costs and examples of resulting measures that have affected their operations and audiences. Representative Ron Maurer, Josephine County Commissioner Dwight Ellis, along with representatives from the Grants Pass School District, Oregon Department of Transportation, and local businesses are expected to attend. PHOENIX, 5 p.m.Location: Next to the Home Depot, 3345 N Phoenix Rd.Congressman Walden has been invited to be a featured speaker at the Phoenix stop of the “High Cost of Hot Air” balloon tour sponsored by Americans for Prosperity. He will discuss the SEA Act and how it invests federal resources into renewable energy production, increases domestic energy production, and increases conservation while solving the county timber payments crisis for rural Oregon. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
08.22.2008	Focus will be on local priorities, forest health, and new legislative initiative to expand domestic energy production, fund county payments/PILT and renewable energy production August 22, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -After leading this week in Washington, D.C. the House Republicans’ protest on the House Floor regarding the majority leadership’s inaction on the high cost of energy, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will be in Umatilla, Union and Baker counties on Monday to talk about energy, county payments, Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), forest health and other federal issues effecting eastern Oregonians. The House majority leadership to date has not allowed a vote on any legislation to produce meaningful, new, and domestic energy, like Walden’s Security and Energy for America Act (SEA Act) that funds five years of county payments and PILT, produces new domestic offshore energy, and provides a long-term funding stream for renewable energy production and green collar jobs. Walden’s return to Oregon this week completes his 349th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. The schedule on Monday will begin a four day trek for Walden in the Second District covering eight counties and 1,100 miles. His itinerary is below: MONDAY, August 25 PENDLETON, 9:15-10:15 a.m.Location: Round-Up & Happy Canyon Hall of Fame, 1114 SW Court Ave.Congressman Walden will meet with Round-Up and Happy Canyon Board members to discuss the Round-Up Centennial Project-Happy Canyon Facilities Renovation. Walden led in the Congress the initial request for federal investment in the project in the FY 05 appropriations cycle, which qualified the project for federal investment. He has requested federal investment in each subsequent appropriations cycle, and has been working to assist the boards with foundation and grant funding opportunities. PENDLETON, NOON-1:15 p.m.Location: Pendleton Elk’s Lodge, 14 SE 3rd StreetCongressman Walden was invited to deliver a congressional update to the Pendleton Rotary, and touch on issues such as domestic energy production, green collar jobs, forest health, and rural health care before taking questions. Walden is a long-time Rotarian. LA GRANDE, 2:30-3:30 p.m.Location: Union County Courthouse, 1106 K Ave.Congressman Walden will meet with the Union County Commissioners to discuss a number of key local issues, including the priorities coming out of this week’s Oregon Rural Congress, forest health, county payments/PILT, and the high cost of energy and how Walden’s new Security and Energy for America Act (SEA Act) would assist these local needs. The Union County Commission, as well as many other commissioners across Oregon, have endorsed the SEA Act. BAKER CITY, 5:00-5:30 p.m.Location: Thomas Angus Ranch, 42734 Old Trail RoadCongressman Walden has been invited to address attendees of the local chapter of Americans for Prosperity to discuss the high cost of energy and Walden’s new Security and Energy for America Act (SEA Act) that funds five years of county payments and PILT, produces new domestic offshore energy, and provides a long-term funding stream for renewable energy production and green collar jobs. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
08.01.2008	Measure would pay for county payments, PILT, substantial renewable energy production, conservation initiatives August 1, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today led a group of 35 lawmakers to introduce a bill to provide a stable and legal long-term funding source for county payments and significantly invest in renewable energy production over the next decade. The bill, the Security and Energy for America Act (SEA Act, H.R. 6779), has been endorsed by a bipartisan group of 64 commissioners from 26 Oregon counties. The bill, which would fund county payments and Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) for five years, has also been endorsed by the Western Counties Alliance. “The SEA Act provides the first real long-term funding solution to pay for the county payments program,” Congressman Walden said. “If passed into law this year, the counties and schools could expect to receive their much-needed funding as soon as this fall. But this is much more than just a county payments bill. The SEA Act would finally put some walk behind all the talk about energy independence by committing a 10-year funding stream to the kind of renewable energy production that will comprise America’s smarter energy future.” The SEA Act also will allow access to America’s great energy reserves beyond 75 miles from the coastline in the deep ocean to address the staggeringly high cost of oil and natural gas. The United States imports over 60 percent of its oil, sending over $1.6 billion out of the country every day (about $160 million every day goes to Hugo Chavez and Venezuela alone). More energy resources are available in the areas of America’s Outer Continental Shelf that are closed off than all the energy that’s been produced domestically offshore, including the Gulf of Mexico, during the last 60 years combined. “Everywhere I go in the Second District, Oregonians tell me how fed up they are with the cost of fuel and the fact that we are dependant on foreign oil,” Congressman Walden said. “America’s Outer Continental Shelf contains enough oil to power 60 million cars for the next 60 years, yet more than 85 percent of the area off the continental United States cannot be accessed because of federal law. The SEA Act will finally allow American companies to access American energy so we can stop writing billion dollar checks to foreign cartels and governments that don’t like us very much.” What’s in the bill Five-year commitment to county payments and PILT, starting this coming fall10-year revenue stream for production of geothermal, wave, wind, solar, biomass, hydropower, and cellulosic energy productionHeating assistance for low-income AmericansProgram to convert three million gas guzzlers to efficient natural gas or gas-electric hybrid vehiclesInvestments in high schools, career technology programs, community colleges, universities, and job training programsOn- and offshore fish and wildlife habitat enhancement\Unconventional energy production researchReduction of the national budget deficitExpanding state control over the coastline The SEA Act would also expand coastal state authority over ocean resources. Currently, most states control all the resources out to just three miles off their shoreline — the SEA Act would extend that control to 12 miles to include complete control over sand, wave energy, and viewshed resources. Additionally, states would control all decisions over energy production on the first 75 miles off their coastlines. The SEA Act would share significant portions of the federal revenue from new offshore leases — up to 50 percent — with states (and their coastal county governments) that decide to allow production. For example, if Oregon decided to produce energy off its coast, it could expect to receive half of the royalties — worth millions of dollars — and then share significant portions with counties like Josephine and Jackson counties. Beyond 75 miles, the federal government would sell leases for new energy production. All offshore energy production must adhere to all nine applicable environmental laws: 1. National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)2. Clean Water Act3. Clean Air Act4. Coastal Zone Management Act5. Endangered Species Act6. Marine Mammal Protection Act7. Fishery Conservation & Management Act8. National Historic Preservation Act9. Oil Pollution Act Congressman Greg Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
07.25.2008	Legislation backed by veterans, health care groups July 25, 2008 - WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) this week introduced bipartisan legislation that would ensure veterans — especially those needing emergency care — will not be turned away from critical access hospitals that are so integral to providing care in rural parts of the country. The idea for the law was brought to Congressman Walden by Steve Donnell, a veteran from La Grande. Currently, Medicare imposes a 25-bed limit on critical access hospitals, which are facilities located in rural areas no closer than 15 miles to another hospital. Under federal law, patients seeking treatment can actually be turned away from a critical access hospital if they’ve reached their 25-bed limit, forcing the patient to be transported many miles down the road to the next nearest hospital. The Veterans Critical Access Act (H.R. 6557), authored by Congressman Walden, would specifically carve out beds for veterans whose care is paid for or coordinated by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) from counting against the 25-bed limit, giving critical access hospitals the flexibility they need to treat America’s military veterans. “Brave veterans like Mr. Donnell deserve the very best we can possibly give them,” Congressman Walden said. “Rural Americans depend upon Critical Access Hospitals for their hospital care. Exempting veterans from the inflexible 25-bed limit imposed by Medicare would be a good first step toward addressing the health care needs of rural communities. No one who needs care, especially our country’s veterans, should be turned away from a health care facility and forced to drive many miles down the road simply because of a arbitrary bureaucratic rule.” Congressman Walden introduced in 2007 a separate bipartisan bill (H.R. 2860) that would modify the critical access hospital bed limit to deal with seasonal fluctuations so no one is turned away from their local hospital. "Under current federal law, veterans that require urgent medical care might not be able to receive it from their local rural hospitals,” said Jim Mattes, the president/CEO of Grande Ronde Hospital in La Grande. “That makes no sense. Veterans deserve the best treatment we can possibly give them and I thank Congressman Walden for leading the effort to make sure veterans are treated like people and not numbers that can be literally shuffled around the state to balance a bureaucratic spreadsheet.” The following organizations have expressed their support for Congressman Walden’s Veterans Critical Access Act: National Rural Health Association “The National Rural Health Association greatly appreciates Congressman Walden’s ongoing leadership in rural health,” said National Rural Health Association President Paul Moore. “Critical Access Hospitals provide comprehensive and essential services to rural communities and are specific to rural states. In order to provide these needed services to our veterans, a Critical Access Hospital must be granted flexibility in its bed count. It is important to note that granting bed flexibility to a CAH is critical for not only to our rural veteran population, but also for our rural Medicare population. Congress should act swiftly to address both of these problems.” Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems “Congressman Walden’s continued leadership on behalf of Oregon’s hospitals and the communities and patients we serve is invaluable,” said Andy Davidson, the president and CEO of the Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems. “Under the Veterans Critical Access Hospital Act, CAHs would now be allowed to omit veterans from the hospital’s daily census, ensuring that veterans would never be transferred unnecessarily. We also believe your bill would elevate Congressional awareness to the need for CAH census definitions that reflect annual average census, rather than the current daily census approach.” American Hospital Association “We applaud Congressman Walden’s efforts and are pleased to support the Veterans Critical Access Hospital Act,” said Rick Pollack, the executive vice president of the American Hospital Association. “This legislation will give hospitals the ability to continue to care for their current patients, while also being able to provide critical care to veterans who need immediate services in their own communities.” Veterans of Foreign Wars “This bill would better serve veterans, and we are pleased to support it,” said Dennis Cullinan, the director of the national legislative service of the VFW. “One of the larger problems facing the VA health care system is that of access by rural veterans. VA has a wide network of large medical centers and many community outpatient clinics, but they cannot reach every veteran. For veterans in areas farther away from cities or veterans residing in areas without a large veterans population, access is difficult, requiring them to sometimes travel many hundreds of miles for basic care. Congressman Walden’s legislation would ease this burden by exempting veterans receiving care in Critical Access Hospitals from counting toward the 25-bed limit.” Congressmen John Tanner (D-Tenn.), Wally Herger (R-Calif.), Michael Michaud (D-Maine), and Jerry Moran (R-Kans.) are original cosponsors of the legislation. The bill has been referred to the Committee on Ways and Means. Congressman Tanner, the lead Democratic co-sponsor, and Congressman Herger are senior members of the committee. Congressman Michaud is the chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee’s health subcommittee; Congressman Moran serves on the same subcommittee. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.# # #
07.16.2008	July 16, 2008 - WASHINGTON, DC -A bill cosponsored by Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) to protect severely ill college students took a significant step forward in Congress today. The legislation, dubbed “Michelle’s Law,” would ensure that college students do not get kicked off their parents’ medical insurance if they fall severely ill and must take a leave of absence from school. Currently, most health insurance plans only permit students to remain on their parents’ insurance if they are in school full-time. Students who cannot maintain full-time status because of medical reasons are at risk of losing their medical coverage. “Common sense suggests that if you get sick to the point that you can’t maintain a full class schedule due to medical treatment, then your insurance should cover your medical costs,” Congressman Walden said. “Insurance companies should not use the change in a dependant child’s student status as a reason to drop health insurance all together. Yet right now insurers can drop students who are so ill that they can’t maintain full-time status in college. That’s a double-whammy that’s just plain unfair. I hope the House leadership quickly brings this legislation up for a full vote so we can fix this loophole as soon as possible.” The legislation, H.R. 2851, would allow full-time students over the age of 18 who fall severely ill to take a certified medical leave of absence from college for up to one year while maintaining their parents’ health insurance. It would require group health plans and insurance plans in the individual market to continue coverage of students who are on a certified medical leave of absence from school for up to one year. The bill is modeled after a New Hampshire law. Michelle Morse was a full-time student at Plymouth State University when she was diagnosed with colon cancer in late 2003. After Michelle’s doctors recommended that she reduce her course load to accommodate chemotherapy treatments, the Morse family discovered that doing so would cause Michelle to lose her health insurance or require her to make COBRA payments of about $550 per month (not including co-payments) in addition to family coverage – more than the family could afford. To keep her health insurance, Michelle remained a full-time student. She died on November 10, 2005. The legislation, H.R. 2851, is supported by the following organizations: American Cancer Society Cancer Action NetworkAmerica’s Health Insurance PlansAmerican Heart AssociationAmerican Diabetes AssociationNational Education AssociationNational Health CouncilNational Collegiate Athletic AssociationColorectal Cancer CoalitionLeukemia and Lymphoma SocietyAmerican College Health AssociationNational Patient Advocate FoundationNational Association of Social WorkersNational Kidney FoundationAmerican Hospital Association Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
07.16.2008	July 16, 2008 - WASHINGTON, DC -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Ed Shafer in support of the agency’s efforts to defeat a challenge to a program vital to Second District ranchers and farmers struggling with record-high feed and forage prices. In response to a National Wildlife Federation lawsuit, a U.S. District Judge out of the Western District of Washington on July 8 placed a restraining order on a Critical Feed Use (CFU) program approved in May by the USDA. On Thursday, July 17, the USDA will appear in district court in Seattle to defend the program. The program would have allowed qualifying Conservation Resource Program (CRP) participants to hay or graze a portion of their land enrolled in the conservation program only after the primary nesting season in their respective areas had elapsed. In Oregon, the primary nesting season as established by USDA’s Farm Service Agency is set to end today. “This lawsuit is yet another assault on rural Americans who have followed the government’s directions while trying to make an honest living and being outstanding voluntary stewards of the land,” Congressman Walden said. “The restraining order comes on top of all-time high feed prices and threatens to undermine the good-faith investments ranchers and farmers have already made in a much-needed conservation and feed source program. This decision represents an unwarranted hardship levied on hardworking ranching and farming families, and I strongly back the USDA’s efforts to see that this decision is overturned.” “The Oregon Cattleman’s Association applauds Congressman Walden’s efforts to bolster the USDA attempt to overturn a federal judge order stopping a vital feed program many Oregon livestock producers were relying on,” Oregon Cattleman’s Association Executive Director Kay Teisl said. “Greg is a true friend of ranchers and understands that with high feed and fuel prices, now is not the time to strangle management flexibility.”The USDA program made eligible nationwide more than 24 million acres of land for CFU, which would make available up to 18 million tons of forage worth $1.2 billion. This action was intended to provide much needed feed and forage while maintaining the conservation benefits from the nation's premier conservation program. Prices for most field crops have advanced to record or near record levels in recent months, reflecting strong demand, tight supplies and competition for acres. The full text of the letter that Congressman Walden sent is below: July 16, 2008 The Honorable Ed SchaferSecretary of AgricultureU.S. Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Ave., S.W.Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Schafer: I write to express my support for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's efforts to overturn the July 8 decision by United States District Judge John C. Coughenour to put a Temporary Restraining Order (TRO) on the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) Critical Feed Use (CFU) program. This ruling will have a tremendous negative impact on farmers and ranchers in Oregon as they try to feed their livestock and also responsibly manage the land from which they make their living. As you are well aware, your announcement of the CFU voluntary program on May 27, 2008 provided farmers and ranchers throughout the country the ability to modify their CRP contracts to allow for either controlled haying or grazing on portions of land enrolled in CRP, but this could take place only after the primary nesting season had elapsed. Since that time, producers have been making production decisions, investing in fencing and watering equipment, and preparing their operations for this program. At a time when feed and forage is scarce and also very costly, this program provided a bright light for some producers. Of the nearly 100 CFU applications that have already been granted to producers in Oregon, 95 percent of them are located in Oregon's Second District, which I represent. I have already heard from many ranchers and farmers that this court decision will put a very tight financial and production burden on their operation. In a year of extremely high energy and input costs, this is not the time to further diminish management flexibility. If not overturned, the TRO may severely disrupt the production of livestock across the country, forcing many producers to make the decision of whether or not to sell their livestock because they cannot bear the financial burden. I commend the USDA for offering this program, and I offer my complete support in your efforts to reverse the Judge’s ruling at this Thursday's hearing. Best regards,GREG WALDENMember of Congress Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming # # #
07.14.2008	July 14, 2008 - WASHINGTON, DC -The White House today announced President Bush’s intention to lift the executive moratorium on offshore energy production. But because Congress has its own, separate moratorium in place, the move will not lead to production of oil or natural gas unless Congress acts as well. Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has for the past month been developing legislation to do just that and plans to introduce it this month and use the billions of dollars in federal revenue it would generate to pay for five years of county payments, five years of Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), a significant investment in renewable energy production grants, and approximately $1 billion for low-income heating assistance. On July 10, he signed onto a letter urging the President to lift the offshore energy production moratorium. “It’s high time to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by producing more American-made energy and jobs. The executive branch today took a decisive step toward progressing from America’s outdated and economically destructive energy lock-up policy,” Congressman Walden said. “Congress should follow suit as soon as possible. More than 85 percent of the oil and gas resources off the continental United States are off limits because of dated federal laws. I have a bipartisan plan to produce American energy, pay for county payments, and significantly invest in renewable energy at the same time.” “My plan would give states increased control over their coastline and allow additional energy supply for the American economy, produced in the deep ocean waters beyond 75 miles from the coast,” Congressman Walden said. “Meanwhile, we would invest billions in renewable energies so America can start transitioning to its smarter energy portfolio of the future. But that renewable portfolio won’t appear overnight and won’t come out of thin air. It will take time and billions of dollars, and my plan makes that happen while also reducing the national deficit.” Information about offshore energy and the federal moratoria: According to a June 13, 2008 Rasmussen Reports poll, 67 percent of Americans support increased offshore oil and gas production.America imports 60 percent of its oil, sending over $1.6 billion out of the country every day to countries like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. Just two and a half days’ worth of that money would fund county payments and PILT for five years.America’s Outer Continental Shelf contains an estimated 86 billion barrels of oil.The Departments of Energy and Interior say there is enough oil and natural gas under federal lands to power 60 million cars and 160 million households over the next 60 years.The executive moratorium on offshore energy was instituted in 1990 and is set to expire in 2012, but can be eliminated by the president at any time.The Congressional moratorium comes in the form of an annual appropriations rider in Congress. It expires every year and must be renewed annually by a vote in the Congress. “Rural counties are heading off a cliff now that their new budget years have begun without a partnership from the federal government,” Congressman Walden said. “Skyrocketing energy prices are making it extremely difficult for American families to make ends meet, and many employers are cutting jobs and trimming essential benefits to be able to pay their energy bills. And the status quo energy policy is making other countries rich, many of which don’t like us much. It’s time for the majority leadership to start exercising common sense and let the will of the people be done.” Here’s what Congressman Walden’s plan, called the Security and Energy for America Act (SEA Act), would pay for through opening production of offshore oil and gas more than 75 miles offshore:$4 billion for five years of county payments and PILT$600 million for geothermal energy production grants$500 million for Wave energy production grants$500 million for Wind and solar energy production grants$500 million for Biomass energy production grants$500 million for Hydropower production grants$500 million for Cellulosic energy production grantsProvide approximately $1 billion in heating assistance to low-income AmericansHundreds of millions of dollars for on- and offshore fish and wildlife habitat enhancementHundreds of millions of dollars for education and job training programsOn top of all of that, there would be enough money left over to help pay for the reduction of the national budget deficit. Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
07.11.2008	If measure is vetoed, Walden will vote to override the President July 11, 2008 - HOOD RIVER, Ore. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), the co-chair of the bipartisan House Rural Healthcare Coalition, today released the following statement on this week’s passage of a Medicare bill (H.R. 6331) that delays what would be a crippling payment cut to physicians that treat Medicare patients. President Bush has indicated that he will veto the measure, which passed the House with a 355-59 vote and a voice vote in the Senate. Congressman Walden voted for the measure and will vote to override the President’s veto. “Perhaps the best news about the bill’s passage is that large enough margins in the House and the Senate voted for the bill to ensure that Congress can override the veto from President Bush,” Congressman Walden said. “Congress dragged its heels long enough. If this bill becomes law, it suspends physician payment cuts for 18 months, which hopefully gives us enough time to craft a system that overhauls the Medicare physician payment formula once and for all. It’s hard enough to access health care services in the vast spaces of rural Oregon — physicians and rural patients deserve better than to be left behind as Washington, D.C. grapples with politics as usual. Without this relief, many physicians would be left with a choice between losing money on the care they deliver, or turning patients away. Both are intolerable scenarios.” Along with suspending the physician payment cuts for 18 months, H.R. 6331 tackles a host of other issues, including some that Congressman Walden has been pushing for in his H-CARE Act, H.R. 2860: · Require Medicare prescription drug plans to promptly pay pharmacies · Provide a 3 percent adjustment payment to ambulance providers serving rural areas, such as Mercy Flights in Medford · Increase payments to community health centers, which will benefit centers in Bend, Medford, Madras, Prineville, Redmond, Fossil, and Boardman, among others · Extend Special Diabetes Program research at the National Institutes of Health · Increase kidney disease education to delay the onset of kidney failure and dialysis · Extend outpatient hold harmless treatment for sole community hospitals, like St. Charles Medical Center and Mid-Columbia Medical Center · Extend the Medicare Rural Hospital Flexibility Program, which provides technical assistance to 25 critical access hospitals throughout Oregon, including Grande Ronde Hospital in La Grande, St. Anthony Hospital in Pendleton, Harney District Hospital in Burns, and Lake District Hospital in Lakeview. The following organizations endorsed the legislation: Alliance for Retired Americans, Alzheimer’s AssociationAmerican Academy of AudiologyAmerican Academy of DermatologyAmerican Academy of OtolaryngologyAmerican Academy of OphthalmologyAmerican Association for Geriatric PsychiatryAmerican Association for HomecareAmerican Association of Nurse AnesthetistsAmerican College of CardiologyAmerican College of PhysiciansAmerican College of RadiologyAmerican College of Osteopathic InternistsAmerican College of SurgeonsAmerican Counseling AssociationAmerican Clinical Laboratory AssociationAmerican Federation of State, County and Municipal EmployeesAmerican Heart Association/American Stroke AssociationAmerican Hospital AssociationAmerican Medical AssociationAmerican Mental Health Counselors AssociationAmerican Optometric AssociationAmerican Pharmacists AssociationAmerican Physical Therapy AssociationAmerican Psychiatric AssociationAmerican Psychological AssociationAmerican Society of AnesthesiologistsAmerican Society of Plastic SurgeonsAssociation of American Medical CollegesAssociation for Community Affiliated PlansAmerican Osteopathic AssociationCalifornia Medical AssociationCenter for Medicare AdvocacyClinical Laboratory CoalitionClinical Social Work AssociationDiabetes Access to Care CoalitionEaster SealsFamilies USAFederation of American HospitalsFood Marketing InstituteKidney Care CouncilKidney Care PartnersLeadership Council of Aging OrganizationsLutheran Services in AmericaMedical Group Management AssociationMedicare Rights CenterMental Health AmericaNational Alliance on Mental IllnessNational Association for the Support of Long Term CareNational Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated DisordersNational Association of Chain Drug StoresNational Association of State Mental Health Program DirectorsNational Committee to Preserve Social Security and MedicareNational Community Pharmacists AssociationNational Council on AgingNational Rural Health AssociationSociety of Gynecologic OncologistsSociety of Hospital MedicineSociety of Thoracic SurgeonsSuicide Prevention Action Network USA (SPAN USA) Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
07.11.2008	July 11, 2008 - WASHINGTON, DC -Today Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), Darlene Hooley (D-Ore), Peter DeFazio (D-Ore), and David Wu (D-Ore) introduced a resolution, H.Res.1321, honoring the Oregon National Guard Youth Leadership Challenge Program. For almost 15 years, this program has worked to promote self-confidence and fellowship among at-risk youth. It has been awarded the United Service Organizations’ award for “Best Overall Program” three times in the past six years. "I am truly impressed with the efforts of the Oregon Youth Challenge Program in providing our state's at-risk youth with the discipline, skills and opportunities they need to lead positive, healthy lives,” Rep. Walden said. “Since 2001, the program has received numerous national awards for the outstanding work of its cadre and staff. Although it serves all of Oregon, I'm proud to honor a program that calls the high desert of the Second District home." More than 3,500 Oregon teens likely to drop out of high school or engage in destructive behavior have entered the Oregon National Guard Youth Leadership Challenge Program, which is both free and voluntary. “I am proud to honor this outstanding organization,” Rep. Blumenauer said. “Since 1994 it has impacted the lives of thousands of Oregonians who were likely to drop out of high school. Most of these kids went on to earn a high school degree or its equivalent. This is another example of Oregon leading the way with a program that truly makes a difference in the lives of our youth.” "Oregon Youth Challenge is the best in the nation, period,” Rep. Hooley said. “For the past decade, OYC has set the pace for the national programming, leading the nation each year in awards that are a tribute to the fine young men and women who participate. And no mention of Oregon Youth Challenge should go without echoing the name of Brigadier General Michael Caldwell: Oregon Youth Challenge would not be there if not for him. His tenacity helped overcome the many challenges in building a program that nobody had heard of or understood. Budgetary threats nearly closed it several times, but Mike always found ways and means to keep it alive."“I am proud that the Oregon National Guard Youth Leadership Challenge Program is being recognized for its tremendous success in helping at-risk kids,” Rep. DeFazio said. “For the last 15 years they have been proving that kids who struggle in school or act out are not a lost cause. They have a remarkable record of helping young Oregonians get back on track. I have been inspired by the stories of participants about the impact the program has had on their lives and I hope the example they have set will be emulated around the nation.” “This program provides new hope to young people who were struggling to complete high school,” Rep. Wu said. “I have met some of the bright kids who are turning their lives around thanks to this innovative program. I am confident that, with the skills that they learned from the National Guard, they and the other program graduates will create bright futures for themselves.”
07.09.2008	Walden Calls for Expanded Treatment Authority July 9, 2008 - WASHINGTON, DC -The House of Representatives today passed legislation that will create a separate fund for catastrophic, emergency wildfire costs. The measure would allow the agency to better fulfill their other forest-related missions. The bill, called the FLAME Act (H.R. 5541), was cosponsored by Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and passed by voice vote. Following the vote, Congressman Walden released the following statement. “Too often during fire season the Forest Service has to stop work on fuel reduction projects and take funds from other efforts because it needs the money to pay for fire fighting. That means too often we fall behind in efforts to bring the forests back into balance with nature and reduce the overgrown stands. Setting up a separate fire fighting account will solve this problem. Our federal forests are going up in smoke at historic levels each summer. Today, 47 percent of the U.S. Forest Service budget is spent fighting fire. Fires in the United States release an average of 290 million metric tons of carbon dioxide each year, which is equivalent to 4 to 6 percent of the nation’s carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel burning. This bill is a step toward addressing the serious budget issues resulting form battling huge catastrophic wildfires every summer. “That said, this bill treats only the symptom, not the cause, of catastrophic wildfire. Congress still needs to address the main issue leading to catastrophic wildfire every summer — the egregious amount of fuel built up on our federal lands. That’s why I am leading a legislative effort that would allow federal forest managers to use the tools given to them in the bipartisan and successful Healthy Forest Restoration Act (HFRA) on a wider, landscape scale. We know how well the collaborative HFRA process has worked to reduce fuel loads and wildfire around our communities, now we need to let our professional foresters use these same tools out where most of the fires originate. “Forest managers tell me that where they’ve been able to utilize HFRA, it has been effective in reducing fuel and protecting homes and habitat. But since HFRA passed, 40 million acres of federal land have burned. That’s an area larger than the state of North Dakota. Simply put, we have a lot of work left to do and it’s time for Congress to take meaningful action, again.” The FLAME Act would establish a fire-fighting account that would be funded based on the average costs incurred fighting fires over the last 10 years. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
07.03.2008	July 3, 2008 - WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that the Department of Education has awarded the Klamath County Safe Schools/Healthy Students Initiative with a $1,373,070 investment to promote healthy childhood development and prevent violence and alcohol and other drug abuse. In March, Congressman Walden wrote to the Department of Education in support of the Klamath Falls application. “This federal investment will allow the outstanding local leadership in Klamath Falls to safeguard childrens’ well-being and provide them many tools they’ll benefit from throughout their life,” Congressman Walden said. “Ensuring the safety of our youth is one of our most important responsibilities, and I was glad to lend a helping hand to assist the great work of the Klamath County Safe Schools/Healthy Students Initiative. The Initiative benefits from the tireless dedication of local school leaders, law enforcement, businesses and the community-at-large, and I look forward to continuing to work closely with them to develop and provide key resources to keep kids safe and healthy.” “We are truly grateful for Congressman Walden’s invaluable support of our work,” said Debbie Vought, the executive director of Citizens for Safe Schools in Klamath County. “Since 1999, our community has worked tirelessly putting together partnerships and designing strategies to keep our children safe and support their positive development. It is both rewarding and exciting to have this kind of federal support as we continue our important and heart-felt work.” “The level of communication and collaboration in our county in support of child and school safety is second to none,” said Klamath County Sheriff Tim Evinger. “We have accomplished a great deal through relationships, however as we continue our mission, we have lacked the fiscal component. This grant award certainly helps fill that void.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
06.30.2008	June 30, 2008 - WASHINGTON, DC -SCHEDULE 10 AM – Ribbon cutting at the new VA Community Based Outpatient ClinicLocation: 2115 NE Wyatt Court, Bend NOON – Project Wildfire Recognition Awards / Press conference update on healthy forest planLocation: Board Room, Boyle Education Center, COCC, 2600 NW College Way, Bend 3:30 PM – Meeting with Family Access NetworkLocation: 131 NW Hawthorne, Suite 201, Bend Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
06.30.2008	June 30, 2008 - Washington, D.C. -WHO: Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) WHAT: Rally and press conference to support a new legislative plan to pay for county payments, PILT, and renewable energy expansion, and produce new American energy. WHERE: Pilot Travel Center1600 E Pine St.Central Point, OR WHEN: Tuesday, July 1 2 p.m. Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
06.19.2008	June 19, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement following the announcement that the one-year extension of county payments passed by the Senate in the emergency supplemental bill has been stripped by House majority leadership. “I am extremely disappointed that the emergency one-year extension of county payments provided in the Senate was stripped by the House in the final bill. The Democratic leadership’s decision leaves over 600 rural counties and 4,400 schools across America wondering how they’ll make ends meet to provide basic services. This was a real rescue in the form of real funds in a bill the president has indicated he will sign into law. “The predicament facing these counties and schools is an emergency. Just look at Josephine County where the overnight sheriff patrol for the 1,640 square mile county is split among just six deputies, or Crook County where the road department has been cut in half. Today’s emergency bill was meant to deliver rescue services and the leadership failed to respond to the alarm. “It’s been a rough patch for county payments advocates the last few weeks, but now is not the time to surrender. Today’s setback only makes more urgent the need to find additional bipartisan partners who are willing to work on a viable long-term extension that can become law. We cannot let today’s most disappointing turn of events serve as the final chapter in the fight to keep the federal government’s commitment to America’s rural counties and schools. Real solutions that can be signed into law exist if the leadership will provide us the chance for a vote, and we must keep advocating for this chance.” Congressman Walden has proposed a plan to fund county payments and the payment in lieu of taxes program (PILT) with revenue produced from new, environmentally responsible energy production on the Outer Continental Shelf while providing unprecedented control of boundary waters to the states. Similar, strongly bipartisan language passed the House in 2006 when oil was $70 a barrel – today, the cost is near $140 a barrel. A recent Rasmussen Reports poll showed that 67 percent of Americans favor energy production on the Outer Continental Shelf. The plan being put forward by Congressman Walden:Legally funds county paymentsLegally funds PILTIncreases American energy independence through safe deep ocean energy productionCreates American jobsGives states greatly expanded protection over their coastlinesHas potential to garner strong bipartisan majority that has backed county payments historically Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
06.19.2008	June 19, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement following the announcement that the one-year extension of county payments passed by the Senate in the emergency supplemental bill has been stripped by House majority leadership. “I am extremely disappointed that the emergency one-year extension of county payments provided in the Senate was stripped by the House in the final bill. The Democratic leadership’s decision leaves over 600 rural counties and 4,400 schools across America wondering how they’ll make ends meet to provide basic services. This was a real rescue in the form of real funds in a bill the president has indicated he will sign into law. “The predicament facing these counties and schools is an emergency. Just look at Josephine County where the overnight sheriff patrol for the 1,640 square mile county is split among just six deputies, or Crook County where the road department has been cut in half. Today’s emergency bill was meant to deliver rescue services and the leadership failed to respond to the alarm. “It’s been a rough patch for county payments advocates the last few weeks, but now is not the time to surrender. Today’s setback only makes more urgent the need to find additional bipartisan partners who are willing to work on a viable long-term extension that can become law. We cannot let today’s most disappointing turn of events serve as the final chapter in the fight to keep the federal government’s commitment to America’s rural counties and schools. Real solutions that can be signed into law exist if the leadership will provide us the chance for a vote, and we must keep advocating for this chance.” Congressman Walden has proposed a plan to fund county payments and the payment in lieu of taxes program (PILT) with revenue produced from new, environmentally responsible energy production on the Outer Continental Shelf while providing unprecedented control of boundary waters to the states. Similar, strongly bipartisan language passed the House in 2006 when oil was $70 a barrel – today, the cost is near $140 a barrel. A recent Rasmussen Reports poll showed that 67 percent of Americans favor energy production on the Outer Continental Shelf. The plan being put forward by Congressman Walden:Legally funds county paymentsLegally funds PILTIncreases American energy independence through safe deep ocean energy productionCreates American jobsGives states greatly expanded protection over their coastlinesHas potential to garner strong bipartisan majority that has backed county payments historically Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
06.09.2008	June 9, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) yesterday urged House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to include in the new emergency supplemental bill a one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and County Self-Determination Act (county payments), which could come to the House floor for a vote as soon as this week. The Senate version of the legislation contains the vital provision for America’s rural counties and schools. Below the letter to Speaker Pelosi, you can also find a pair of editorials that ran in the Baker City Herald and The Bulletin in Bend regarding Congressman Walden’s long-term plan to reauthorize and fund county payments as well as PILT and provide relief for Americans extremely frustrated with the high price of our dependence on foreign oil. June 8, 2008 The Honorable Nancy PelosiSpeaker of the HouseH232 Capitol Bldg.Washington, DC 20515 Dear Madam Speaker:I write to you today to emphasize my support for including in the new supplemental one year of emergency funding for the Secure Rural Schools and County Self-Determination Act (county payments program). As you well know, the Senate version includes a one-year extension of funding. Your support last year ensured that local communities and approximately 4,400 schools in over 600 rural counties across America could continue to provide the essential services in these counties where as much as 80 percent of the land base is federally owned and thus off the local tax rolls. We all appreciate your help in that effort and encourage your support once again this year in the new supplemental. While last week brought about a division on the House Floor among advocates for reauthorizing the county payments program for an additional four years, I want to make sure that you know our differences over how to pay for the renewal of the program should in no way be interpreted as a lack of support for the goal of reauthorizing and funding the program, or as a lack of support for the one-year extension of emergency funding in the new supplemental. I know that many of my colleagues on your side of the aisle have written, as I am, to urge your support of this additional year of emergency funding. I hope you will support us in this bipartisan effort to help thousands of local schools in over 600 of our rural counties across America. Sincerely,/sGreg WaldenMember of Oregon BAKER CITY HERALD Politics vs. Counties Published: June 6, 2008 The eight-year-old federal payments program that's vital to Baker County's Road Department seemed doomed just a couple weeks ago. The program, known as "timber payments" or "county payments," was recently revived, but now a partisan squabble between two Oregon congressmen and their parties threatens to cancel the payments for good. The adversaries are Republican Greg Walden, who represents Baker County and the rest of Eastern Oregon, and his Democratic colleague, Peter DeFazio, whose district is in Western and Southwestern Oregon. What really galls us about this dispute is that it has nothing to do with the county payments program itself. Of course both Walden and DeFazio want to continue that program — it supplies tens of millions of dollars to their districts each year. The obstacle that imperils the payments is the puerile partisan fight over what Congress should do about Big Oil. That's a fascinating debate, to be sure. But that debate won't plow the snow from Baker County's roads next winter. Both Walden and DeFazio have proposed ways to raise money to continue county payments for the next four years. Walden wants to allow oil companies to drill in the outer continental shelf, dozens of miles offshore, and collect royalties from the companies. His plan does not include drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, an idea that's popular with the oil industry but the very mention of which causes many environmentalists to gesticulate wildly. DeFazio, meanwhile, thinks the government should get the money for county payments by forcing oil companies to pay royalties for current offshore oil and gas leases. Although those companies have been exempt from paying such royalties, DeFazio contends the government has a legal right to collect the money. Walden and other Republicans disagree. They also claim that if the government had those royalties it can't legally dole the dollars out to counties. This is nothing but posturing and guessing. We care about reality. And the reality is that the bill the Democratic leadership brought to the floor of the House this week — the bill that includes DeFazio's proposal to charge royalties on the existing oil and gas leases — has essentially no chance to become law. In a Thursday afternoon vote on the bill in the House, the tally was 218 for and 193 against — 56 votes short of the two-thirds in favor required to pass the legislation (a simple majority was not sufficient because the bill was presented under what's known as a "suspension of the rules," meaning alternatives, such as Walden's, could not be proposed). More Democrats voted no on the DeFazio proposal (19) than Republicans voted yes (16) — more evidence that the Democrats' effort is futile. The Senate has considered DeFazio's proposal three times and rejected it every time. And even if enough senators changed their minds, President Bush has threatened to veto the bill. Walden's proposal, by contrast, could clear Congress and gain the president's signature. Even DeFazio voted yes on the matter last year. The House leadership should put that proposal to a vote as soon as possible. County payments must not be left in limbo any longer — especially not when the only possible reason we can discern is the desire of some lawmakers to show their constituents, who no doubt are angry about escalating fuel prices, that Congress will punish the greedy oil companies by extracting from them those royalties. That might satisfy someone's lust for revenge, but it won't send any money to Baker County. We prefer Walden's idea — Make Big Oil pay up, all right, but in doing so let the companies tap new sources that will boost the world's supply and, just maybe, push prices down. That way, Baker County can afford not only to pay people to drive the snowplows — it can keep the plows fueled, too. THE BULLETIN Fund payments with new leases Published: June 07, 2008 It’s a good thing words, unlike sticks and stones, can’t break bones. If they could, Reps. Peter DeFazio and Greg Walden would be in traction. And fellow Beaver State Rep. David Wu would be under arrest for wielding a dangerous weapon in a completely wackadoo manner. Amid the carnage, we suppose it would be some solace for Walden to know he’s in the right. The three launched their verbal battle last week during a debate over a bill that would accomplish something that all of them want, and in a manner that all of them support. They’re split largely on the method of payment. The bill, H.R. 3058, would extend so-called timber payments made to rural counties. The program began several years ago as a way to mitigate the miserliness of the federal government, which doesn’t pay property taxes on its forestland. Neither does it permit much in the way of logging anymore, which at least would allow rural communities to generate a little resource-extraction revenue. Though these payments have helped rural counties immensely, renewing them has become an increasingly difficult task for Oregon’s congressional delegation. H.R. 3058 would likely be the final extension. Assistance payments would decrease steadily over its four-year duration, sending rural counties a clear message that the program was phasing out. But phasing in H.R. 3058 will be a challenge. On Wednesday, most of Oregon’s congressional delegation took a class trip to the verbal woodshed and armed themselves from the hyperbole stack. DeFazio accused opponents of his version of the bill, including Walden, of favoring oil companies over “hundreds of teachers, hundreds of deputy sheriffs, road workers and public health.” Walden accused DeFazio of leaving a “trail of broken promises and broken process.” And Wu, straining to make a biblical analogy, proclaimed that “rural Western Republicans sacrificed their kids because Big Oil asked them to. They need to learn that Big Oil isn’t God.” On Walden’s behalf, we’d like to thank Rep. Parable for the clarification. Oil companies, you may have guessed, would foot the bill for timber payments under the terms of DeFazio’s bill. They’d also foot the bill under the alternative Walden favors, which you may not have guessed. The DeFazio bill targets some of the oil companies that took advantage of 1995 legislation (the Outer Continental Shelf Deep Water Royalty Relief Act) that provided incentives for risky, deep-water oil exploration. For leases issued between 1996 and 2000, the legislation allows oil companies to extract a certain amount of oil and gas before paying royalties. For oil and gas extracted beyond those thresh olds, however, royalties are just fine. Nobody’s debating that. What is under debate is the way the Department of Interior, which issued the leases, applied the law. For most leases, the department imposed additional “price thresholds” that affect oil companies’ supposedly royalty-free oil and gas. These leases require the payment of royalties on “royalty-free” fuel when market prices reach a certain level. But for other leases — those issued in 1998 and 1999 — the department left out the price triggers. This omission, many argue, was a big mistake that will cost Uncle Sam billions of dollars in fossil fuel revenue. Naturally, lots of the oil companies who hold those leases say they should be honored, potential flaws notwithstanding. Neither DeFazio nor Walden shares the oil industry’s view. DeFazio wants to fund county payments by slapping a so-called “conservation of resources” fee on each barrel of oil extracted under the terms of a trigger-free lease. Walden’s just fine with the application of such fees. But he argues that it’s illegal to spend the money raised in this way on something totally unrelated. “Conservation of resources” fees, he says, should be used on, well, conservation. He’d like to raise money for timber payments, rather, from new leases issued for offshore exploration. We haven’t sacrificed our children to Big Oil, but it seems to us that Congress is a little too eager to slap around oil companies that took full advantage of an incentive Congress gave them. Congressional wisdom these days holds that the Department of Interior goofed in failing to impose “price triggers” in 1998 and 1999. But that’s not what a U.S. district court in Louisiana said last year. According to the court’s opinion, quoted by a June 5 Government Accountability Office report, “The Interior has no discretion to enact a price threshold requirement that applies to volumes below the minimum volume of royalty-free production.” Royalty-free means royalty-free, period. Uncle Sam, naturally, has appealed the ruling, and we suppose it will be years before we know who’s right. But this uncertainty bolsters Walden’s argument that timber payments should be tied to new leases. The subtext of Walden’s proposal, of course, gives many left-leaning congresspeople the willies: There have to be new leases in order to collect the money. Some people would rather stop oil exploration in domestic waters completely. But given the rising cost of fuel these days and the almost universal desire for energy independence, we suspect they’re a minority — and a shrinking minority at that. Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
06.09.2008	June 9, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) yesterday urged House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to include in the new emergency supplemental bill a one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and County Self-Determination Act (county payments), which could come to the House floor for a vote as soon as this week. The Senate version of the legislation contains the vital provision for America’s rural counties and schools. Below the letter to Speaker Pelosi, you can also find a pair of editorials that ran in the Baker City Herald and The Bulletin in Bend regarding Congressman Walden’s long-term plan to reauthorize and fund county payments as well as PILT and provide relief for Americans extremely frustrated with the high price of our dependence on foreign oil. June 8, 2008 The Honorable Nancy PelosiSpeaker of the HouseH232 Capitol Bldg.Washington, DC 20515 Dear Madam Speaker:I write to you today to emphasize my support for including in the new supplemental one year of emergency funding for the Secure Rural Schools and County Self-Determination Act (county payments program). As you well know, the Senate version includes a one-year extension of funding. Your support last year ensured that local communities and approximately 4,400 schools in over 600 rural counties across America could continue to provide the essential services in these counties where as much as 80 percent of the land base is federally owned and thus off the local tax rolls. We all appreciate your help in that effort and encourage your support once again this year in the new supplemental. While last week brought about a division on the House Floor among advocates for reauthorizing the county payments program for an additional four years, I want to make sure that you know our differences over how to pay for the renewal of the program should in no way be interpreted as a lack of support for the goal of reauthorizing and funding the program, or as a lack of support for the one-year extension of emergency funding in the new supplemental. I know that many of my colleagues on your side of the aisle have written, as I am, to urge your support of this additional year of emergency funding. I hope you will support us in this bipartisan effort to help thousands of local schools in over 600 of our rural counties across America. Sincerely,/sGreg WaldenMember of Oregon BAKER CITY HERALD Politics vs. Counties Published: June 6, 2008 The eight-year-old federal payments program that's vital to Baker County's Road Department seemed doomed just a couple weeks ago. The program, known as "timber payments" or "county payments," was recently revived, but now a partisan squabble between two Oregon congressmen and their parties threatens to cancel the payments for good. The adversaries are Republican Greg Walden, who represents Baker County and the rest of Eastern Oregon, and his Democratic colleague, Peter DeFazio, whose district is in Western and Southwestern Oregon. What really galls us about this dispute is that it has nothing to do with the county payments program itself. Of course both Walden and DeFazio want to continue that program — it supplies tens of millions of dollars to their districts each year. The obstacle that imperils the payments is the puerile partisan fight over what Congress should do about Big Oil. That's a fascinating debate, to be sure. But that debate won't plow the snow from Baker County's roads next winter. Both Walden and DeFazio have proposed ways to raise money to continue county payments for the next four years. Walden wants to allow oil companies to drill in the outer continental shelf, dozens of miles offshore, and collect royalties from the companies. His plan does not include drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, an idea that's popular with the oil industry but the very mention of which causes many environmentalists to gesticulate wildly. DeFazio, meanwhile, thinks the government should get the money for county payments by forcing oil companies to pay royalties for current offshore oil and gas leases. Although those companies have been exempt from paying such royalties, DeFazio contends the government has a legal right to collect the money. Walden and other Republicans disagree. They also claim that if the government had those royalties it can't legally dole the dollars out to counties. This is nothing but posturing and guessing. We care about reality. And the reality is that the bill the Democratic leadership brought to the floor of the House this week — the bill that includes DeFazio's proposal to charge royalties on the existing oil and gas leases — has essentially no chance to become law. In a Thursday afternoon vote on the bill in the House, the tally was 218 for and 193 against — 56 votes short of the two-thirds in favor required to pass the legislation (a simple majority was not sufficient because the bill was presented under what's known as a "suspension of the rules," meaning alternatives, such as Walden's, could not be proposed). More Democrats voted no on the DeFazio proposal (19) than Republicans voted yes (16) — more evidence that the Democrats' effort is futile. The Senate has considered DeFazio's proposal three times and rejected it every time. And even if enough senators changed their minds, President Bush has threatened to veto the bill. Walden's proposal, by contrast, could clear Congress and gain the president's signature. Even DeFazio voted yes on the matter last year. The House leadership should put that proposal to a vote as soon as possible. County payments must not be left in limbo any longer — especially not when the only possible reason we can discern is the desire of some lawmakers to show their constituents, who no doubt are angry about escalating fuel prices, that Congress will punish the greedy oil companies by extracting from them those royalties. That might satisfy someone's lust for revenge, but it won't send any money to Baker County. We prefer Walden's idea — Make Big Oil pay up, all right, but in doing so let the companies tap new sources that will boost the world's supply and, just maybe, push prices down. That way, Baker County can afford not only to pay people to drive the snowplows — it can keep the plows fueled, too. THE BULLETIN Fund payments with new leases Published: June 07, 2008 It’s a good thing words, unlike sticks and stones, can’t break bones. If they could, Reps. Peter DeFazio and Greg Walden would be in traction. And fellow Beaver State Rep. David Wu would be under arrest for wielding a dangerous weapon in a completely wackadoo manner. Amid the carnage, we suppose it would be some solace for Walden to know he’s in the right. The three launched their verbal battle last week during a debate over a bill that would accomplish something that all of them want, and in a manner that all of them support. They’re split largely on the method of payment. The bill, H.R. 3058, would extend so-called timber payments made to rural counties. The program began several years ago as a way to mitigate the miserliness of the federal government, which doesn’t pay property taxes on its forestland. Neither does it permit much in the way of logging anymore, which at least would allow rural communities to generate a little resource-extraction revenue. Though these payments have helped rural counties immensely, renewing them has become an increasingly difficult task for Oregon’s congressional delegation. H.R. 3058 would likely be the final extension. Assistance payments would decrease steadily over its four-year duration, sending rural counties a clear message that the program was phasing out. But phasing in H.R. 3058 will be a challenge. On Wednesday, most of Oregon’s congressional delegation took a class trip to the verbal woodshed and armed themselves from the hyperbole stack. DeFazio accused opponents of his version of the bill, including Walden, of favoring oil companies over “hundreds of teachers, hundreds of deputy sheriffs, road workers and public health.” Walden accused DeFazio of leaving a “trail of broken promises and broken process.” And Wu, straining to make a biblical analogy, proclaimed that “rural Western Republicans sacrificed their kids because Big Oil asked them to. They need to learn that Big Oil isn’t God.” On Walden’s behalf, we’d like to thank Rep. Parable for the clarification. Oil companies, you may have guessed, would foot the bill for timber payments under the terms of DeFazio’s bill. They’d also foot the bill under the alternative Walden favors, which you may not have guessed. The DeFazio bill targets some of the oil companies that took advantage of 1995 legislation (the Outer Continental Shelf Deep Water Royalty Relief Act) that provided incentives for risky, deep-water oil exploration. For leases issued between 1996 and 2000, the legislation allows oil companies to extract a certain amount of oil and gas before paying royalties. For oil and gas extracted beyond those thresh olds, however, royalties are just fine. Nobody’s debating that. What is under debate is the way the Department of Interior, which issued the leases, applied the law. For most leases, the department imposed additional “price thresholds” that affect oil companies’ supposedly royalty-free oil and gas. These leases require the payment of royalties on “royalty-free” fuel when market prices reach a certain level. But for other leases — those issued in 1998 and 1999 — the department left out the price triggers. This omission, many argue, was a big mistake that will cost Uncle Sam billions of dollars in fossil fuel revenue. Naturally, lots of the oil companies who hold those leases say they should be honored, potential flaws notwithstanding. Neither DeFazio nor Walden shares the oil industry’s view. DeFazio wants to fund county payments by slapping a so-called “conservation of resources” fee on each barrel of oil extracted under the terms of a trigger-free lease. Walden’s just fine with the application of such fees. But he argues that it’s illegal to spend the money raised in this way on something totally unrelated. “Conservation of resources” fees, he says, should be used on, well, conservation. He’d like to raise money for timber payments, rather, from new leases issued for offshore exploration. We haven’t sacrificed our children to Big Oil, but it seems to us that Congress is a little too eager to slap around oil companies that took full advantage of an incentive Congress gave them. Congressional wisdom these days holds that the Department of Interior goofed in failing to impose “price triggers” in 1998 and 1999. But that’s not what a U.S. district court in Louisiana said last year. According to the court’s opinion, quoted by a June 5 Government Accountability Office report, “The Interior has no discretion to enact a price threshold requirement that applies to volumes below the minimum volume of royalty-free production.” Royalty-free means royalty-free, period. Uncle Sam, naturally, has appealed the ruling, and we suppose it will be years before we know who’s right. But this uncertainty bolsters Walden’s argument that timber payments should be tied to new leases. The subtext of Walden’s proposal, of course, gives many left-leaning congresspeople the willies: There have to be new leases in order to collect the money. Some people would rather stop oil exploration in domestic waters completely. But given the rising cost of fuel these days and the almost universal desire for energy independence, we suspect they’re a minority — and a shrinking minority at that. Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
06.05.2008	June 5, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -After the House today came 56 votes short of passing a flawed version of the county payments bill, Congressman Walden released the following statement: “We repeatedly warned the sponsor of the bill and Democratic leadership that their strategy of stripping PILT (payment in lieu of taxes) and paying for this bill by illegally breaking federal contracts would fail. We repeatedly warned that breaking the promise to find a legal and sustainable offset would doom the bill’s chances on the floor. And we repeatedly warned that they would create a significant hardship for the national coalition supporting both county payments and PILT. “Today’s outcome was as predictable as it was unnecessary. I will continue to work on an alternative funding mechanism — which the bill’s sponsor voted for last Congress — that would fund county payments and PILT and produce more American energy and jobs. The coalition supports my alternative because it could actually become law. I’m confident a bipartisan majority in the House would too if we’re given the opportunity to vote on it. It’s time to get this issue back on a positive track and adopt real solutions for our rural counties. “In the very short term, we must focus on keeping the one-year extension of county payments in the emergency supplemental bill. I hope that the majority leadership will give rural counties some breathing room by keeping the one-year extension intact in a bill that can be signed into law.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
06.05.2008	June 5, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -After the House today came 56 votes short of passing a flawed version of the county payments bill, Congressman Walden released the following statement: “We repeatedly warned the sponsor of the bill and Democratic leadership that their strategy of stripping PILT (payment in lieu of taxes) and paying for this bill by illegally breaking federal contracts would fail. We repeatedly warned that breaking the promise to find a legal and sustainable offset would doom the bill’s chances on the floor. And we repeatedly warned that they would create a significant hardship for the national coalition supporting both county payments and PILT. “Today’s outcome was as predictable as it was unnecessary. I will continue to work on an alternative funding mechanism — which the bill’s sponsor voted for last Congress — that would fund county payments and PILT and produce more American energy and jobs. The coalition supports my alternative because it could actually become law. I’m confident a bipartisan majority in the House would too if we’re given the opportunity to vote on it. It’s time to get this issue back on a positive track and adopt real solutions for our rural counties. “In the very short term, we must focus on keeping the one-year extension of county payments in the emergency supplemental bill. I hope that the majority leadership will give rural counties some breathing room by keeping the one-year extension intact in a bill that can be signed into law.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
06.04.2008	June 4, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Walden released the following statement on the rushed and controversial process used to consider county payments reauthorization — H.R. 3058 — today. “This is a sad day. The effort to renew county timber payments has been turned into a partisan pyrotechnics show. The high-risk decision to bring county payments for a vote paid for through funds raised by illegally breaking government contracts has split the diverse and bipartisan coalition backing the effort. I am committed to putting the pieces back together and working with anyone and everyone who is more interested in legislation rather than pontification to figure out a way to get this deal done. In the last 36 hours I have identified offsets that would fund county payments and PILT and produce American-made energy and American jobs. The coalition supports it. Congress needs to put solutions first and get it done right, finally, for our rural communities.” Watch Congressman Walden's speech on the floor by clicking here. The full text of a letter sent from Congressman Walden to county commissioners in Oregon explaining the recent events is below: June 4, 2008 Dear County Commissioner, Over the last several years I can think of no issue I have put more time and energy into solving than reauthorization of the county timber payments program and funding for PILT. Along the way I have voted against my party and voted against my president in support of funding and reauthorizing county timber payments While in the majority in Congress, I made sure to keep this issue bipartisan, rejected ideas that would split the coalition or that were merely designed to embarrass one side or the other. Too much was--and is--at stake. When I learned that HR 3058 would, after many months, finally come up for a vote in the House, I was at first elated. But then I learned the unfortunate truth that the promise had been broken to fund the program with something other than the offset in the committee-passed bill. Moreover, with PILT stripped from the bill at the last minute too, the coalition we have all spent enormous time constructing began to unravel. In a letter dated Friday, May 30, 2008, Rep. DeFazio wrote to me asking “If you have other suggestions for offsets that won’t raise the ire of oil patch or mineral-dependent members, I would welcome the input.” On Monday, June 2, I asked Rep. DeFazio in a phone call to give us time to come up with an alternative offset that could pay for this program—not one that is merely a “placeholder,” which is most likely in violation of contract law. He agreed to postpone consideration of the new version HR 3058 that was finally made available last week when the Congress was in recess. All day yesterday (Tuesday), I worked with legal, budget and technical experts to come up with an alternative offset that does three things: It was approved by the House last Congress (and supported by Rep. DeFazio and other Democrats); it will fund County Timber Payments and PILT; and it creates American-made energy and jobs. I proposed this offset plan to the Secure Rural Schools/County Payments Coalition late yesterday afternoon and they fully embraced it, realizing that this was a real offset that could work not only in the House, but also in the Senate. They eagerly agreed to contact Rep. DeFazio to inform him of their support of this alternative and to ask for time for it to be fully considered in an open discussion process—the way it should be. They provided his office with a copy of the outline of the legislation and alternative offset. Unfortunately, the bill has been rushed back on to the House calendar today to be considered under suspension of the rules. A bill considered under suspension of the rules requires a two-thirds vote for approval. Considering the explosive nature of the offset being used and the process to route the bill, I doubt it will receive that level of support. If it fails under suspension of the rules, it can be brought back up for a vote on the floor under a rule. This procedure is not unique and occurs frequently. If it comes up under a rule, we could have the opportunity to offer the offset I’ve proposed as an alternative. If HR 3058 fails today, I can only hope Rep. DeFazio and the majority leadership will give us the chance to bring our new offset solution up under a rule. After all of the years of work, I regret that it has come to this. This is our last and best hope to reauthorize and actually fund County Timber Payments (and PILT). Our proposal, if given a chance, would likely even add a partial fifth year payment. The version of HR 3058 being considered under suspension of the rules today is a known failure in the Senate (it has been rejected each of the three times this Congress it has been sent over from the House), creates a bitter, partisan divide in the House and most likely violates contract law. I’m willing to vote against my party—as I have. I am willing to vote against my President—as I have. But I am not willing to abrogate contracts as a way to grab money to solve the federal government’s breach of agreement. I was raised to right wrongs, to keep my word and to obey the law. I was taught that two wrongs don’t make a right. These are fundamental principles by which I operated my business for over 21 years and have conducted myself in public life. And they are principles I intend to keep in the course of solving this problem. Best regards, Greg WaldenMember of Congress Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
05.15.2008	May 15, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The House of Representatives yesterday passed the seven-month overdue Farm Bill by a 318-106 vote. Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), who voted for the bill, released the following statement:“The bill establishes a new Agriculture Water Enhancement Program to help producers achieve water quality goals and address water quantity concerns. The legislation builds on previous efforts to recognize some of the finest stewards of the land – Oregon’s farmers and ranchers. The bill reauthorizes the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), increases funding for the Conservation Security Program (CSP), and increases funding for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) by $3.4 billion while streamlining the evaluation process for EQIP applications.”“The legislation the House passed provides a much-needed shift in focus from corn-based ethanol to cellulosic ethanol. Cellulosic ethanol holds tremendous potential not only for a smarter, more independent American energy future, but also for the health of our forests as well. The Farm Bill creates a new program to help agriculture producers and rural small businesses purchase renewable energy systems and make energy efficiency improvements.“Oregon is known for its wide variety of specialty crops, yet past Farm Bills have done little to address the issues these fruit and produce growers face. For the first time in any national farm policy, this Farm Bill provides a significant commitment to specialty crops by making a serious investment in important research, pest and disease management, trade assistance and nutrition programs.“This legislation expands focuses on improving the diets of our school children by expanding the school fruit and vegetable snack program nationwide. It’s good for farmers and good for encouraging healthy eating habits for millions of children.“This measure beefs up our research programs which are so important to overcoming the threats of disease and pests. It seems like in every meeting with farmers and ranchers, I hear about new challenges to American farmers from insects, disease and invasive species taking over natural habitat. Our best hope of overcoming these threats is to make this serious investment in our research scientists."“Farmers across the state continue to tell me that although prices for their commodities are high, there’s more risk and volatility involved in farming than we’ve ever seen before as the cost of farm inputs continue to rise. The price of a bushel may be high, but so is everything else that is required to produce that same bushel, from the machinery to the fuel to the fertilizer.“That meant it was even more important for Northwest growers that we readjusted the target prices and loan rates used to calculate programs such as the Counter Cyclical Payment for wheat and barley so that the programs will work in the future for farmers in the Pacific Northwest, like similar programs have worked for growers of corn and cotton.“Because the trigger prices were set too low in the prior Farm Bill, Oregon’s wheat producers only benefited from one of the three commodity support programs, the Direct Payment. The adjustments made in this bill will hopefully give our growers equity among commodities grown throughout the country and provide Oregon’s grain producers with a true safety net when prices fall.”Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
05.09.2008	WALDEN ANNOUNCES PLAN TO UPDATE HEALTHY FOREST LAWWalden: It's time to treat the land most susceptible to catastrophic fire to protect forests, wildlife, and our communitiesMay 9, 2008 - REDMOND, Ore. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) this morning announced his plans to introduce legislation to give federal foresters and local communities the necessary tools to address areas identified by federal agencies as at the highest risk of catastrophic wildfire. “I’ve heard from enough frustrated federal foresters and community leaders at this point to know that Congress needs to give them the tools to reduce the threat of wildfire on federal lands in our most at-risk areas, just as the strongly bipartisan Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA) initially intended,” Walden said. “Where HFRA authority has been used, it’s reduced the incidence and severity of fire. However, nearly 40 million acres have burned in this country since HFRA was signed into law. Enough is enough. It’s time to act and provide federal foresters the additional tools they need to maintain healthy forests.” The Healthy Forests Restoration Act, which was passed into law with very strong bipartisan support in 2003, allows foresters to act with communities to implement hazardous fuel reduction within the Wildland-Urban Interface (WUI), a 1.5-mile-wide donut-shaped strip of land surrounding communities. On the 213,000 acres where it’s been implemented, it’s been an effective law. In the Northwest last year, 1,468 fires started on Forest Service and BLM lands, yet only 17 fires burned within or adjacent to WUI lands. However, the most destructive wildfire to habitat, water sources, and communities typically originates outside the WUI, where the effective and environmentally-responsible tools of HFRA need to be implemented. According to the National Center for Atmospheric Research at the University of Colorado at Boulder, fires in the contiguous United States and Alaska release on average about 290 million metric tons of carbon dioxide a year, which is the equivalent of 4 to 6 percent of the nation’s carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel burning. “We know HFRA works for wildlife and people where it’s been implemented,” Walden said. “It’s time to put it to use where the most destructive wildfires originate. It is senseless to stand by as our forests burn up every year, emitting massive amounts of carbon, destroying watersheds and wildlife, and threatening our homes.” The plan would provide the federal agencies clarified authority to use the expedited tools in HFRA to address areas of hishest risk of catastrophic fire (Condition Class 3). All current environmental laws and regulations would still apply, and the agencies would still need to perform thorough site analyses already prescribed in the strongly bipartisan HFRA. The plan would also provide the federal agencies clarified authorities to address threats outside the 1.5-mile-wide WUI but still inside the Community Wildfire Protection Plan (CWPP) areas. HFRA gave local communities the authority to establish CWPPs through consensus. However, agency professionals indicate the need to have the authority clarified to reduce the fire threat outside the limited donut-shaped WUI. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
05.07.2008	Walden bill would restore fair compensation in Cascade-Siskiyou wilderness planMay 7, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced he will introduce as soon as next week legislation to set aside 24,100 acres in the Cascade-Siskiyou National Monument as protected wilderness. The bill will closely mirror legislation introduced by Senator Gordon Smith (R-Ore.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), but will restore a cornerstone provision that is now conspicuously missing from the Senate bill after it was amended today. That missing language includes the deal reached between environmentalists and ranchers to fully compensate ranchers for giving up their grazing leases before wilderness is established. Congressman Walden’s bill would put that agreement, which was reached at the beginning of this process, back in legislative writing. “Where I grew up, a handshake is as good as a contract. In Washington, D.C., I’ve learned that you better get it in writing,” Walden said. “I’ve found out the hard way that if you don’t have a guarantee in writing, it likely won’t happen. By including a guarantee for full compensation, we will ensure that the wilderness and the buyouts reach the finish line at the same time.” “I don’t want a pivotal party to this agreement to fall prey to a bait and switch. I want a square deal,” Walden said.The language providing federal funds to compensate ranchers for voluntarily giving up their rights to grazing leases that was originally included in the Smith/Wyden bill (S. 2379) was stripped during a Senate markup today. Walden’s bill will also make clear a deal between the conservation community and ranchers that private funds will help pay for the grazing buyouts. “Unfortunately, a deal is not always a deal in the nation’s capital,” Walden said. “That’s why I’m willing to go it alone to get it done right. It’s important to me that everyone gets a fair shake, that promises are put in writing, and that we produce a solid law that creates a wonderful piece of wilderness for generations of Oregonians to come.” Attached to this release is a side-by-side comparison of the Senate bill and Congressman Walden’s bill. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
05.07.2008	Forest health legislative announcement set for Friday; meth forum on MondayMay 7, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -After finishing his 338th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. late Thursday night, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will be in central Oregon for a series of events on Friday, May 9 and Monday, May 12. FRIDAY, MAY 9 SISTERS – 8:30 a.m.: Congressman Walden will tour the Fremont Canyon Stewardship Project in advance of a legislative announcement on forest health at the Redmond Air Center. In 2007, Deschutes County partnered with Central Oregon Community College (COCC) to create a unique opportunity in Fremont Canyon between Redmond and Sisters. After researching the area and completing site visits, students in the COCC Forestry program created a land management plan to reduce the amount of juniper and bitterbrush, as well as promote the growth of a more natural stand of ponderosa pine. As a result, the county was able to reduce fuels on 400 acres, while students at COCC got an exceptional chance to gain experience. The land is covered in the locally established Greater Sisters Community Wildfire Protection Plan, whose establishment was made possible by the passage of the strongly bipartisan Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA). Congressman Walden co-authored HFRA. Directions (from Redmond):ü West on Hwy 126 - 16 miü Turn Right onto Camp Polk Rd. - 3.6 miü Turn Right onto Wilt Rd. - 6 miü Just before you hit the 6 mile mark, on your left there will be a hand-painted sign with an orange flag marked “Blazer Lane” This is a dirt road.ü Turn Left onto Blazer Lane - .25 miü The first stewardship project site is about a quarter mile in and is marked. Media can meet the group there. REDMOND – 10:30 a.m.: Congressman Walden will attend the dedication ceremony of a new U.S. Forest Service building at the Redmond Air Center. The completion of the new facility is an example of excellent collaboration between city and federal government agencies to deliver better service to the public. In addition, Congressman Walden will make a legislative announcement at the dedication ceremony. Location: Redmond Air Center, 1740 SE Ochoco Way, Redmond BEND – Noon: Congressman Walden has been invited to participate in a roundtable with a group of business leaders representing over ten central Oregon businesses. The congressman is going to deliver a congressional update on issues affecting small business, and he will hear from the local business leaders on their concerns and ideas for the central Oregon economy. Location: 780 NW York Drive, Suite 202, Bend BEND – 1:45 p.m.: Congressman Walden will meet with the leaders of Cessna before touring the facility. There will be no press availability at this meeting due to proprietary technology issues. Location: 22550 Nelson Rd., Bend MONDAY, MAY 12 REDMOND – 8:30 a.m.: Congressman Walden will host a Central Oregon Meth Forum to allow community organizers from 15 counties around the Second Congressional District to share their success stories and struggles with each other and with representatives from federal agencies committed to fighting drugs and drug abuse. Congressman Walden asked several community drug coalition representatives if a forum with others doing similar work throughout the state would be beneficial. They indicated it would, so Congressman Walden invited the federal government’s top drug fighting agencies to send representatives to Oregon to meet with the local networks on the ground. The federal officials will be on hand to offer tools and examples of successful collaboration, as well as to take notes on the innovative local strategies that are working in Oregon. Congressman Walden will hold a similar forum with southern Oregon counties later in the day. Who is going to be there:Congressman Greg WaldenJames Whitfield, Regional Director, U.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesKarin Immergut, U.S. AttorneyArnie Moorin, Special Agent in Charge, DEA Seattle Field OfficeJudy Cushing, President and CEO, Oregon Partnership Organizations that will be represented:Meth Action CoalitionCrook County Meth Prevention ProjectJefferson County Meth Task ForceHood River Alcohol, Tobacco, and Other Drug Prevention CoalitionVarious anti-drug groups from the following counties:Baker CountyGilliam CountyGrant CountyHarney CountyMalheur CountyMorrow CountyUmatilla CountyUnion CountyWallowa CountyWasco CountyWheeler County Location: Redmond Downtown Fire Station, 341 Northwest Dogwood Avenue, Redmond Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
05.01.2008	Walden in midst of second round of speeches bringing attention to impact county payments lossMay 1, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -At the request of Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), U.S. House of Representatives Republican Whip Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) asked Democratic Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) directly on the House floor today about the prospects for a vote on county payments in the House of Representatives and encouraged the Democratic leadership to schedule a vote. Majority Leader Hoyer is responsible for setting the agenda for bills that get scheduled for a vote on the House floor. For the past two weeks, Congressman Walden has been on the House floor delivering speeches to once again bring attention to the impact of the lapse of the program on counties in the Second Congressional District. He delivered a similar series of speeches during January and February of 2007. During the most recent speeches, the latest which was today and focused on the impacts to Josephine County, he has repeatedly called on the Democratic leadership to schedule a vote on H.R. 3058, which provides for a fully offset four-year extension of the program, or to include county payments in a vehicle that is already moving, like the Farm Bill or the emergency supplemental. H.R. 3058, a bipartisan bill sponsored by Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and cosponsored by Walden, has been eligible for a vote on the House floor since January 15, 2008. On January 18, 2008, DeFazio and Walden wrote Majority Leader Hoyer urging a prompt vote on H.R. 3058. Yet no vote has been scheduled. “It’s been 44 legislative days and over three months since a strongly bipartisan bill to extend county payments has been ready for a vote on the House floor. With many vital public services already coming to a halt due to significant layoffs of county employees in our forested counties, and the siren call blaring for months, I simply do not understand why the Democratic leadership has not scheduled a vote” Walden said. “It’s terribly disappointing to see the Congress continue the broken pledge to our rural counties, but I will continue to do everything I can to draw the attention of the leadership to the struggles of Oregon’s counties due to Congress’ inaction.” A schedule of Congressman Walden’s one-minute speeches is immediately below. Click on the links to view the speeches he has already delivered. April 23: Jackson CountyApril 24: Deschutes CountyApril 30: Klamath CountyMay 1: Josephine CountyMay 6: Grant CountyMay 8: Lake CountyMay 14: Harney CountyMay 15: Crook CountyMay 20: Wasco CountyMay 21: Hood River CountyMay 22: Wallowa CountyJune 4: Baker CountyJune 5: Wheeler CountyJune 6: Union CountyJune 10: Umatilla CountyJune 11: Jefferson CountyJune 12: Morrow CountyJune 18: Malheur County Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
04.09.2008	Other Jackson & Josephine County public events include forums at elementary school, business development conference, address at Medford Police banquetApril 9, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Walden is advising seniors to be wary of frauds and scams this tax filing season, and will host a series of informational meetings on Friday, April 11 in southern Oregon to advise them on what they need to do to receive their economic stimulus check from the federal government. A representative from the IRS will be on hand to inform seniors about free filing opportunities and answer questions they may have. Walden will complete his 334th round-trip home to Oregon from Washington, D.C. late Thursday night. “I know that there has been some confusion about what folks need to do to receive the stimulus check that Congress approved in February,” Walden said. “That’s why I’m putting together informational sessions that I hope will help folks take the steps necessary to receive their rebate. Of course, this time of year is also prime season for scams and frauds. Folks should be especially on guard to protect their financial information right now.” Congressman Walden held similar sessions last weekend in Hood River and The Dalles, where attendance was high. He’ll be attending a number of other public events during his day in southern Oregon. Along with a schedule for April 11, you can find below instructions on how to receive the rebate check, advice for guarding against tax scams and fraud, and resources for free tax help. Friday, April 11 8 A.M.Informational stimulus check sessionLarson Creek Retirement Center1025 Ellendale DriveMedford, OR 9 A.M.Flag presentation and meeting at H.P. Jewett Elementary SchoolH.P. Jewett Elementary School1001 ManzanitaCentral Point, OR In December 2007, the 4th and 5th grade class of H.P. Jewett Elementary School teacher Kim Elmer sent a letter and scroll with a petition and signatures to Congressman Walden seeking his assistance in getting a new American flag and Oregon flag. Congressman Walden will visit the school to present the flags to the students in a ceremony by the school flag pole before the whole school. Parents have also been invited to attend. Following the flag presentation, Congressman Walden will meet with district administrators and board members to discuss education issues. NOON2nd Annual Global Conference on Business and CultureSouthern Oregon UniversityStevenson Union, Rogue River RoomAshland, OR After Congressman Walden visited the Forensics Lab in Ashland on August 16, Ashland Chamber Executive Director Sandra Slattery invited him to speak at the annual global trade forum. The event is likely to have over 250 local business people, students, and faculty from throughout the Rogue Valley in attendance. The focus for this summit will be on Japan, and the keynote address will be delivered by the Consul General of Japan, Akio Egawa. 3 P.M.Informational stimulus check sessionSpring Meadow Retirement Center1357 Redwood CircleGrants Pass, OR 7 P.M.Medford Police Department 2008 Awards BanquetRogue Valley Country Club2660 Hillcrest RoadMedford, OR Congressman Walden was invited to speak at the annual awards banquet for the Medford Police Department. Joining Congressman Walden to speak will be Officer Ken Hammond of the Ogden Police Department, who single-handedly subdued an 18-year old gunman who killed five people in a Salt Lake City shopping mall on Valentine’s Day in 2007. The banquet is an annual ceremony held to honor Medford officers and citizens who have performed tasks that have bettered the community. HOW SENIORS CAN RECEIVE THEIR STIMULUS CHECK In early February, Congress passed a stimulus package to boost the economy and provide a helping hand to those folks who need it most—Oregon’s working families, seniors and other receiving benefits from Social Security, and disabled veterans. Individuals who have already filed a tax return do not need to take any further steps to receive their rebate. However, seniors on a limited income who normally do not file a tax return must fill out the two-page 1040A form to receive their check from the IRS. The steps are simple: Write the words “Stimulus Payment” across the top of a 1040A form.Fill out the label section with your name, address, and Social Security number.Just below, check the appropriate box for filing status (single, married, etc.).In box 14a, fill out your actual or estimated Social Security income for 2007.To have the rebate directly deposited in your bank account, fill out lines 22 b, c, and d.Sign and return and mail to: Department of the TreasuryInternal Revenue ServiceFresno, CA 93888-0099 The IRS strongly recommends that seniors file no later than April 15, 2008; however, the final deadline for filing is October 15, 2008. Additional information regarding your stimulus check may be obtained through the IRS website at https://www.irs.gov, by contacting the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program at 1-800-906-9887. The American Association of Retired Persons has also established a toll-free hotline at 1-888-227-7669. BEWARE OF FRAUD AND SCAMS Congressman Walden wants folks to be aware that there exists a potential for scams and fraud with the upcoming stimulus payments. There have been reports of individuals posing as IRS agents asking for personal and financial information. By following a few simple steps, you can protect yourself from fraud. As noted above, THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN RECEIVE A REBATE IS BY FILING A TAX RETURN. If you are not required to file a tax return – which is the case for many low income individuals and Social Security recipients – you MUST file one for the 2007 tax year to get your payment. Form 1040A is the simplest form to claim your rebate. There are only two manners in which the IRS will disburse the rebate: via direct deposit or check in the mail. YOU will determine how you want to receive your check from the IRS by filling out the 1040A or other applicable tax form. NO ONE from the IRS will be calling you or e-mailing you for information. The only way to receive your money is by filing the 1040A or other applicable tax form. BEWARE of scams via the phone or Internet. DO NOT give out any personal or financial information over the phone or e-mail if someone inquires about your IRS check. REMEMBER, the IRS will only disburse checks to those folks who have filled out the 1040A or other applicable tax form. FREE TAX HELP A volunteer program administered through the AARP Foundation in cooperation with IRS and the Oregon Department of Revenue has been set up to help elderly, low-income, limited English proficiency and disabled taxpayers with the preparation of their basic tax returns. Locations that have been set up in Jackson County and Josephine County include: JACKSON COUNTY Ashland Pioneer Hall59 Winburn WayAshland, ORMondays and Fridays, 9 a.m. - NoonWednesdays, 9 a.m. 5 p.m. Jacksonville Branch Library340 W C St.Jacksonville, ORTuesdays and Wednesdays, Noon – 4 p.m. Southern Oregon Lions Sight and Hearing228 N Holly StreetMedford, ORMondays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, Noon – 4 p.m.(541) 973-3297 Medford Senior Center510 E Main St.Medford, ORMondays and Thursdays, 9 a.m. – 1 p.m. (appointment)(541) 772-2273 Santo CenterLanguage: Spanish701 N ColumbusMedford, ORTuesdays and Wednesdays 9 a.m. – 1 p.m.Saturdays, 9 a.m. – 2 p.m. Medford Congregational United Church1801 E Jackson St.Medford, ORMonday through Thursday, 9 a.m. – 1 p.m. Phoenix Library510 W First St.Phoenix, ORTuesdays, 1 p.m. – 5 p.m. Rogue River Multi-Service Center132 Broadway StreetRogue River, ORThursdays, 9 a.m. – 1 p.m. (appointment)(541) 582-0609 Talent Library101 Holmes StreetTalent, ORThursdays, 1 p.m. – 5 p.m. Rogue Family Center3131 Avenue CWhite City, ORTuesday through Thursday, 9 a.m. – Noon JOSEPHINE COUNTY Illinois Valley Family Coalition535 East River StreetCave Junction, ORTuesdays, 10 a.m. – 2 p.m.(541) 592-6139 Retired Senior Volunteer Program1505 NW Washington Blvd.Grants Pass, ORMonday through Friday, 9:30 a.m. – 2 p.m.Wednesdays, 4:30 p.m. – 8 p.m. (appointment)Saturdays, 8:30 a.m. – Noon(541) 955-5541 Wilderville Methodist Church7970 Redwood HighwayWilderville, ORBy Appointment Only(541) 471-3605 Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
04.03.2008	Congressman will also visit Columbia Gorge Community College to talk renewable energy with education and civic leadersApril 3, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Walden is advising seniors to be wary of frauds and scams this tax filing season, and will host a series of informational meetings on Friday, April 4 in the Columbia Gorge to advise them on what they need to do to receive their economic stimulus check from the federal government. A representative from the IRS will be on hand to inform seniors about free filing opportunities and answer questions they may have. “I know that there has been some confusion about what folks need to do to receive the stimulus check that Congress approved in February,” Walden said. “That’s why I’m putting together informational sessions that I hope will help folks take the steps necessary to receive their rebate. Of course, this time of year is also prime season for scams and frauds. Folks should be especially on guard to protect their financial information right now.” Following the informational sessions in Hood River and The Dalles, Congressman Walden will visit Columbia Gorge Community College to meet with CGCC President Frank Toda and The Dalles Mayor Robb Van Cleave to update them on renewable energy efforts at the federal level. Last week, Congressman Walden, the co-chair of the House Northwest Energy Caucus and the vice chair of the House Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus, submitted to the Appropriations Committee two requests for federal funding on behalf of CGCC: 1) $1 million for the CGCC Wind Energy Workforce Training Nacelle2) $1.8 million for the CGCC Renewable Energy Technology training program Congressman Walden is scheduled to complete his 333rd round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. following the completion of votes on Thursday evening. Below is information on the Friday events, instructions on how to receive the rebate check, advice for guarding against tax scams and fraud, and resources for free tax help. Friday, April 4 11:30 a.m.-NoonInformation stimulus check sessionHawk’s Ridge Assisted Living Community1795 8th St.Hood River, OR 12:30 p.m. – 1 p.m.Informational stimulus check sessionMid-Columbia Senior Center1112 W. 9th St.The Dalles, OR 1:30 p.m.Renewable energy discussionColumbia Gorge Community CollegeThe Dalles, OR HOW SENIORS CAN RECEIVE THEIR STIMULUS CHECK In early February, Congress passed a stimulus package to boost the economy and provide a helping hand to those folks who need it most—Oregon’s working families, seniors and other receiving benefits from Social Security, and disabled veterans. Individuals who have already filed a tax return do not need to take any further steps to receive their rebate. However, seniors on a limited income who normally do not file a tax return must fill out the two-page 1040A form to receive their check from the IRS. The steps are simple:Write the words “Stimulus Payment” across the top of a 1040A form.Fill out the label section with your name, address, and Social Security number.Just below, check the appropriate box for filing status (single, married, etc.).In box 14a, fill out your actual or estimated Social Security income for 2007.To have the rebate directly deposited in your bank account, fill out lines 22 b, c, and d.Sign and return and mail to: Department of the TreasuryInternal Revenue ServiceFresno, CA 93888-0099 The IRS strongly recommends that seniors file no later than April 15, 2008; however, the final deadline for filing is October 15, 2008. Additional information regarding your stimulus check may be obtained through the IRS website at https://www.irs.gov, by contacting the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program at 1-800-906-9887. The American Association of Retired Persons has also established a toll-free hotline at 1-888-227-7669. BEWARE OF FRAUD AND SCAMS Congressman Walden wants folks to be aware that there exists a potential for scams and fraud with the upcoming stimulus payments. There have been reports of individuals posing as IRS agents asking for personal and financial information. By following a few simple steps, you can protect yourself from fraud. As noted above, THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN RECEIVE A REBATE IS BY FILING A TAX RETURN. If you are not required to file a tax return – which is the case for many low income individuals and Social Security recipients – you MUST file one for the 2007 tax year to get your payment. Form 1040A is the simplest form to claim your rebate.There are only two manners in which the IRS will disburse the rebate: via direct deposit or check in the mail.YOU will determine how you want to receive your check from the IRS by filling out the 1040A or other applicable tax form.NO ONE from the IRS will be calling you or e-mailing you for information. The only way to receive your money is by filing the 1040A or other applicable tax form.BEWARE of scams via the phone or Internet.DO NOT give out any personal or financial information over the phone or e-mail if someone inquires about your IRS check.REMEMBER, the IRS will only disburse checks to those folks who have filled out the 1040A or other applicable tax form.FREE TAX HELPA volunteer program administered through the AARP Foundation in cooperation with IRS and the Oregon Department of Revenue has been set up to help elderly, low-income, limited English proficiency and disabled taxpayers with the preparation of their basic tax returns. Locations that have been set up in Hood River County and Wasco County include: HOOD RIVER COUNTY Hood River Library502 State St.Hood River, ORMonday and Tuesday, 5 p.m. – 8 p.m. (Walk-in)(541) 386-4624 Down Manor1950 Sterling PlaceHood River, ORThursday, 10 a.m. – 1 p.m. (Walk-in) Parkdale Community Center7300 Clear Creed Rd.Parkdale, OR2nd and 4TH Wednesdays, 5 p.m. – 8 p.m. (Walk-in)(541) 386-4624 WASCO COUNTY Canyon Rim Manor1701 George Jackson RoadMaupin, OR1st & 3rd Mondays, 10 a.m. – 1 p.m. (Walk-in) Mid-Columbia Senior Center1112 W. 9th St.The Dalles, ORFridays, 4 p.m. – 6:30 p.m. (Walk-in)Saturdays 9 a.m. – 2 p.m. (Walk-in)(541) 298-5131 Tygh Valley Community Center57594 Tygh Valley RoadTygh Valley, ORThursdays, 8 a.m. – Noon (Walk-in)(541) 395-2466 Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
04.01.2008	April 1, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. - Due to his commitment to the profession of physical therapy, the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA) on Monday, March 31, presented Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) with the 2008 APTA Public Service Award. The award was presented during APTA's Federal Advocacy Forum on Capitol Hill, an annual event educating members of Congress about physical therapy issues."As the co-chair of the bipartisan Rural Health Care Caucus, I've worked closely with physical therapists and others to help remove barriers to health care services and expand access for those in medically underserved areas," said Congressman Greg Walden, of Oregon's Second District. "It is an honor to be recognized by such an active group of dedicated health professionals, and I look forward to the hard work that needs to be done to provide better access to quality health care."Walden is a strong supporter and cosponsor of three of APTA's most critical legislative issues: repealing arbitrary financial caps on the amount of outpatient rehabilitation beneficiaries may receive under Medicare (HR 748/S 450), removing burdensome Medicare requirements that drive up patient costs to receive physical therapy (HR 1552/S 932), and making eligible for student-loan repayment physical therapists who choose to practice in underserved areas (HR 1134/S 2485)."Congressman Walden has worked hard to reduce patient costs and expand access to physical therapist services," said APTA President R Scott Ward, PT, PhD. "We are happy to recognize these efforts by presenting him with the 2008 Public Service Award."Since 1991 APTA has requested nominations from its members for individuals who have demonstrated a high level of dedication to advancing physical therapist education, research, and practice. Past winners of the APTA Public Service Award include US Senators Bob Dole and Blanche Lincoln and the late actor Christopher Reeve.Physical therapists are health care professionals who diagnose and manage individuals of all ages, from newborns to elders, who have medical problems or other health-related conditions that limit their abilities to move and perform functional activities in their daily lives. Physical therapists examine each individual and develop a plan of care using treatment techniques to promote the ability to move, reduce pain, restore function, and prevent disability. Physical therapists also work with individuals to prevent the loss of mobility by developing fitness- and wellness-oriented programs for healthier and more active lifestyles.The American Physical Therapy Association (www.apta.org) is a national organization representing physical therapists, physical therapist assistants, and students nationwide. Its goal is to foster advancements in physical therapist education, practice, and research. Consumers can visit www.findapt.us to find a physical therapist in their area, as well as www.apta.org/consumer for physical therapy news and information.
03.27.2008	Taxpayer watchdog group: 'Disclosing earmark requests is a good thing and the people who do it voluntarily deserve our thanks'March 27, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -For the second year in a row, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) yesterday posted his earmark requests on his website, making him one of the few members of Congress to uphold a policy of full transparency in the earmarks process. He only submits requests on behalf of local, county, state, and federal government and non-profit groups, but does not submit requests on behalf of for-profit entities. “Taxpayers have a right to know what projects their local representatives and non-profit organizations are pursuing with their hard-earned dollars,” Walden said. “As a federal representative, I am the liaison for local groups in the Second District to secure federal investment, and making sure those projects get the chance to be assessed is an important responsibility. It’s the public’s money, and we ought to be transparent about it. That’s why I post these requests online for all to see.” Ryan Alexander, the president of the Washington, D.C.-based watchdog group Taxpayers for Common Sense, told the Bend Bulletin that only a handful of legislators nationwide make earmark requests public. “We definitely think that disclosing earmark requests is a good thing, and the people who do it voluntarily deserve our thanks,” Alexander told the Bend Bulletin. Along with making his own requests public, Congressman Walden has advocated making the overall process more transparent. For example, he supported the proposal to make public the earmarks in appropriations bills well in advance of votes on the measures and to disclose the name of the member requesting the funding. It will not be known for months which projects the committee decides to fund, and at what levels they will receive funding. Congressman Walden feels strongly that acting as the formal liaison to the committee on behalf of Oregonians is an important responsibility. Because the committee works with a set budget cap, generally only a small number of requests receive federal investment. But without a request from a member of Congress submitting a request, these Oregon projects would not receive consideration for investment, and what limited funding might be available would be allocated elsewhere in the country. For the full list of requests, visit https://walden.house.gov/_files/earmarkrequests.doc. Other government transparency efforts that Congressman Walden is helping lead: Congressman Walden is a cosponsor of H. Res. 504, which would require legislation and conference reports be available on the Internet for 72 hours before consideration by the House. The goal is to enhance public participation and openness in American democracy by allowing the opportunity for its review by State and local government officials, small business owners, large business leaders, journalists, scientists, academics, labor leaders, nonprofit organizations leaders, authors of weblogs, and interested citizens. The bill is sponsored by Congressman Brian Baird (D-Wash.). Congressman Walden is cosponsor of H. Res. 231, which would to require that all committees post their recorded votes on their respective websites within 48 hours of such votes. American citizens should easily and consistently be able to see how their representatives are voting in committee. Congressman Walden was an original cosponsor of H.R. 2102, the Free Flow of Information Act, which would create a federal shield law so journalists can protect their confidential sources and continue to contribute to a vibrant and free press. The bill, sponsored by Congressman Rick Boucher (D-Virg.), passed the House in October 2007 despite a veto threat from President Bush. The legislation has received no action in the Senate. Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
03.18.2008	Announcement comes during swing through Umatilla, Morrow, Crook, Deschutes, Jackson, Josephine counties to focus on economic development, renewable energyMarch 18, 2008 - PRINEVILLE, Ore. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will announce at today’s Crook County Rotary lunch that he’s helping lead an effort in the nation’s capital to expand G.I. Bill benefits to more closely mirror the policy’s benefits for the World War II generation. “Our men and women in uniform who volunteer to serve and put everything on the line to protect this country deserve everything we can possibly give back to them,” Walden said. “One of the best benefits we can offer is the means to get a higher education. It’s time for a new G.I. Bill that gives our veterans all the support they need to go to college and springboard their future careers.” The bipartisan Post 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007 (H.R. 2702) is designed to provide veterans with similar educational benefits as those given to World War II veterans. Currently, veterans receive a maximum benefit of $1,100 a month, or $39,600 over a traditional four-year course of study of 36 months, under the Montgomery G.I. Bill. According to the College Board, the average estimated budget for four-year public undergraduate study is $69,344. This bill would reform the G.I. Bill to provide tuition, books, fees, plus a monthly stipend of $1,000. The bill will also allow payments for tutorial assistance as well as licensure and certification tests. A veteran qualifying for full benefits and attending full-time would receive approximately $65,916 over four years. The bill is sponsored by Congressman Bobby Scott (D-Virg.), and similar legislation has also been introduced in the Senate by Senator Jim Webb (D-Virg.). The Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the Military Officers Association of America, the American Legion, and the Vietnam Veterans of America, among other VSO groups, support the bill. Major Provisions of the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007 (H.R. 2702)Like previous G.I. Bills, veterans would receive educational assistance for up to a total of 36 months, which equals four academic years.Currently, veterans receive a maximum benefit of $1,100 a month, or $39,600 over 36 months. According to the College Board, the average estimated budget for four-year public undergraduate study is $69,344.The bill would provide veterans pursuing an approved program of education with benefits to cover their tuition, books, fees, and a monthly stipend of $1,000. The bill will also allow payments for tutorial assistance as well as licensure and certification tests. A veteran qualifying for full benefits and attending full-time would receive approximately $65,916.This bill would increase educational benefits to members of the military who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001. To qualify, veterans must have served as least two years of active duty, with at least some period of active duty time served beginning on or after September 11, 2001. This includes members of the Reserve and National Guard who have served an aggregate of two years of active duty service on or after September 11, 2001.The House version of the bill would limit benefit payments to the cost of in-state tuition at the most expensive public institution in the state in which the veteran is enrolled. If the veteran were to decide to attend a private institution, the veteran would have to pay the difference between the cost of the private institution and the in-State tuition of the most expensive public institution of the State in which the veteran is enrolled.Veterans would have up to fifteen years to exercise their educational assistance benefits. Currently, veterans have ten years. Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
03.17.2008	March 17, 2008 - HOOD RIVER, Ore. -Congressman Walden is in the midst of a 1,600-mile swing through eastern, central and southern Oregon as part of his regular visits to the 20 counties of the Second District. Just four weeks ago he completed another extensive, 1,100-mile, nine-county swing across the Second District. Monday, March 17 UMATILLA COUNTY Hermiston – 9:45 a.m. – 10:45 a.m.Location: 950 SE Columbia Drive, HermistonCongressman Walden will hear about local economic development efforts when he visited the Hermiston One-Stop Center. On February 26, he met with Oregon Consortium and Oregon Workforce Alliance representatives, and expressed an interest in visiting the center in Hermiston. He recently visited Blue Mountain Community College to tour the Diesel Technologies Program, which is training tomorrow’s workforce with the skills needed to attain good-paying jobs. Pendleton – Noon – 1 p.m.Location: Pendleton Elk’s Lodge, 14 SE 3rd StreetCongressman Walden was invited to deliver a congressional update to the Pendleton Rotary, and touch on issues such as local job and economic development, renewable energy development, forest health, the farm bill, and fighting meth before taking questions. MORROW COUNTY Boardman – 2 p.m. – 3 p.m.Location: Collins Companies Boardman Mill Site – Pacific Albus FarmCongressman Walden will visit the Collins Mill in Boardman to discuss their pro-green approach to farming high-yield and fast-growing Pacific Albus under the management of GreenWood Resources. The facility is certified as sustainable by the Forest Stewardship Council. The new plant, which is scheduled to be completed in April 2008, is a $175 million project that will create 80 new jobs. Tuesday, March 18 CROOK COUNTY Prineville – Noon – 1:30 p.m.Location: Barney Prine's Steakhouse and Saloon, 380 N Main St, PrinevilleCongressman Walden was invited to deliver a congressional update to the Crook County Rotary. Along with making an announcement about a new veterans policy initiative he’s getting set to lead, Congressman Walden will touch on issues such as local job and economic development, rural health care, renewable energy development, and forest health before taking questions from the audience. DESCHUTES COUNTY Bend – 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m.Location: Microsemi Power Products, 405 SW Columbia St., BendThe Power Products Group (PPG) of Microsemi Corporation, headquartered in Bend, was awarded a $1.6 million contract in October 2007 by the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory to develop components for lighter, more efficient avionics, radar, and communication systems. Congressman Walden will take a first-hand look at what the federal investment is producing and how it’s helping develop the local economy. The project’s results will be used on planes such as the F-15E, F/A-18, F-22, and F-35. Microsemi invited Congressman Walden to tour the facility and discuss the project’s local economic impact. The facility currently employs about 160 people. Thursday, March 20 JACKSON COUNTY Medford – 9 a.m. – 10:30 a.m.315 Boardman Street, MedfordCongressman Walden, co-chair of the House Northwest Energy Caucus and vice-chair of the House Renewable Energy Caucus, will meet with RHT Energy Solutions, a company which advises businesses on how to cut energy costs. RHT Solutions will show Congressman Walden their new solar installation, where the meter is running backward and selling power to the grid. The overall concept is that smart energy efficiency and conservation can boost production. RHT employs six highly-trained and experienced engineers and technicians. As a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, Congressman Walden is actively highlighting efforts in Oregon that curb energy use and promote sustainable energy products. JOSEPHINE COUNTY Grants Pass – Noon – 1:20 p.m.JJ North's Grand Buffet, 1150 NE E St., Grants PassCongressman Walden has been invited to give a congressional update to the Grants Pass Zonta Club. Among other topics, he’ll discuss forest health, local economic development, and renewable energy development before taking questions from the audience. Grants Pass – 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m.1462 NE Elizabeth Place, Grants PassCongressman Walden will meet with Evergreen Federal Bank President/CEO Brady Adams and others to visit the site of a home that was built and sold through Homeward Dreams, a workforce housing program. During the visit, Congressman Walden will be introduced to a selection of Evergreen’s key program partners, be provided an overview of Homeward Dreams mechanics, go on a tour of the home with its owners, and see how he can further help those efforts. Last year, Congressman Walden voted for the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act (H.R. 2895), which would improve or help build 1.5 million affordable housing units.
03.14.2008	Federal grant will boost college's construction technology programMarch 14, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Oregon Senators Gordon Smith and Ron Wyden announced $1.18 million is on its way to Rogue Community College. The funding will support the college’s community-based construction technology training program. The region is currently experiencing a workforce shortfall that is hampering the completion of construction projects and overall growth.“During my visits to Rogue River Community College I’ve seen first hand how they are well-situated for the challenge of hosting a job training grant program to build and meet the job demand of the region’s construction industry.” Walden said. “This investment will help ensure a well-trained workforce that’s ready to help grow the economy of the Rogue Valley.” “Rogue Community College is poised to play a critical role in keeping the region on an upward path,” Smith said. “This funding will help fill a void in a critical workforce and keep workers on the competitive cutting edge.” “This funding will help expand Oregon's economy,” said Wyden. “By training new workers, the college will be an important force in ending the region's shortfall in construction jobs.”“We are delighted to receive this important funding. It will allow us to give a huge boost to training and job opportunities in the Rogue Valley,” said Peter Angstadt, President of Rogue Community College. “We appreciate the support of our federal officials, including Senators Smith and Wyden and Congressman Walden, in helping make this happen."
02.18.2008	February 18, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will travel over 1,000 miles during a four-day swing through eastern Oregon to attend 28 events and meetings in eight counties, including Baker, Grant, Harney, Klamath, Lake, Malheur, Umatilla, and Union counties. Of the many highlights of the swing, Congressman Walden will open his brand new eastern Oregon district office in La Grande at Noon on February 20. All meetings and events are open to the press. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20 UMATILLA COUNTY PENDLETON, 9:15 a.m. – 10:15 a.m.Location: Blue Mountain Community College, Umatilla Hall, OSU Conference Room Congressman Walden will visit Blue Mountain Community College to meet with educators and students to discuss the Diesel Technologies Program before going on a tour of the diesel labs. The program is into the second year of a three year Department of Labor Employment Training Administration Community Based Job Training Grant of $1.2 million which not only funds the Diesel Technology program but a commercial driver license and welding training program. In 2007, the diesel students received $5,000 in scholarships from the BMCC Foundation and a private donor provided a little over $300 in scholarships. Students in the Diesel Technologies Program will graduate with an Associates of Applied Science degree in Diesel Technology. The first class through the program is expected to graduate in the spring of 2009. With the support of Walden, the House passed on February 7 the College Opportunity and Affordability Act (H.R. 4137), which more than doubles Pell Grant authorization levels from $4,310 to $9,000 and increases Perkins loan limits from $4,000 to $5,500. Students in Oregon received $165 million in Pell Grants in Fiscal Year 2007, and are estimated to receive $187.9 million in FY 2008. Compared to FY 2001, that’s a 61 percent increase. This is his 43rd official visit to Umatilla County since taking office. UNION COUNTY LA GRANDE, Noon – 1:30 p.m.Location: 1211 Washington Avenue, La Grande Congressman Walden will officially open his brand new eastern Oregon district office in La Grande with a ceremonial ribbon cutting and lunch celebration with scores of community and business leaders. This will be his third full-time office in the vast Second District and first-ever full-time eastern Oregon office for the district, joining his offices in Medford and Bend. Elected officials and dignitaries from all across eastern Oregon are attending the ribbon cutting ceremony. The office will be staffed by Colby Marshall, a Harney County native who has worked for Walden for over six years. Until December, Marshall worked in Congressman Walden’s capital office on natural resource and energy issues. This is his 27th official visit to Union County since taking office. LA GRANDE, 1:30 p.m. – 2:00 p.m.Location: 1211 Washington Avenue, La Grande Immediately following the office opening, Congressman Walden will hold his first meeting there, discussing Eastern Oregon University’s Repositioning Plan with interim president Dixie Lund. The Congressman’s senior staff in Washington, D.C. will participate in the meeting via the video conferencing technology available in the La Grande office. BAKER COUNTY BAKER CITY, 4 p.m. – 5 p.m.Location: Geiser Grand Hotel–Library, 1996 Main Street, Baker City Congressman Walden will meet with members of the Baker County Farm Bureau, local President Peggy Browne and Oregon Farm Bureau President and American Farm Bureau Vice President Barry Bushue to give an update on the current state of play in Washington, D.C. on the formation of the next farm bill. Congress and the President have until March 15 to extend the farm bill. However, if March 15 comes and goes without an extension, then a permanent 1949 law takes effect that would require the Agriculture Department to dramatically change price supports for several commodities, including milk, corn and wheat. Congressman Walden led an effort in the House and gathered support from 43 bipartisan members to extend the cut-off date for drought disaster assistance which is enabling farmers and ranchers in eastern Oregon to qualify for federal assistance. This is his 26th official visit to Baker County since taking office. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21 MALHEUR COUNTY VALE, 10 a.m. – 11 a.m. MSTLocation: Vale Elementary School, 403 E Street West, Vale In the fall of 2006, the Oregon Department of Education (ODE) selected the Malheur Education Service District as one of three districts to pilot a laptop computer initiative. The pilot provided 45 laptops to sixth grade students at Vale Elementary. Teachers were provided training and every sixth grader received a laptop, orientation, and training. Congressman Walden will visit Vale Elementary School to observe the pilot program and also talk to the sixth graders. Vale School District Superintendent Matt Hawley and Vale Elementary School Principal Darlene McConnell will briefly meet with Congressman Walden before the tour at 10 a.m. Along with the school visit and talk to sixth graders, Congressman Walden will congratulate and present flags flown over the Capitol to several local students who recently received the rank of Eagle Scout. Congressman Walden is one of 15 Eagle Scouts in the U.S. House of Representatives.This is his 23rd official visit to Malheur County since taking office. GRANT COUNTY PRAIRIE CITY, Noon – 2 p.m.Location: Prairie City School, 740 Overholt Street, Prairie City Congressman Walden will hold a major roundtable discussion with Grant County commissioners, civic leaders, and educators before visiting the classroom of Prairie City School eighth grade social studies teacher Andy Demko to talk about his job as a member of the United States Congress, and the challenges of representing one of the largest congressional districts in the nation. Expected attendees at the round table include: Prairie City Schools: David Kerr, SuperintendentAnna Bass, Board ChairAndy Demko, Teacher Grant School District: Newell Cleaver, SuperintendentMark Witty, Grant High School Principal Long Creek School District: Brian Gander, SuperintendentLisa Swanton, Board ChairAndy Wilburn, Board Vice-Chair Dayville School District: Debra Gillespie, Superintendent Monument School District: Michael Reule, SuperintendentGary Adams, Board Chair Grant County ESD: Robert Waltenburg, Superintendent County Commissioners: Mark Webb, Grant County JudgeScott Myers, Commissioner Boyd Britton, Commissioner Prairie City Council: Stan Horrell, MayorPam Woodward, Councilmember This is his 17th official visit to Grant County since taking office. HARNEY COUNTY BURNS, 6:45 p.m. – 7:45 p.m.Location: The Meat Hook Restaurant, 673 W Monroe Street, Burns Congressman Walden will meet with the Harney County Board of Commissioners to give a brief legislative update and then discuss federal priorities and concerns in Harney County. This is his 16th official visit to Harney County since taking office. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22 HARNEY COUNTY BURNS, 8 a.m. – 9:30 a.m.Location: Harney County Senior Center, 17 S. Alder Ave., Burns Congressman Walden has organized a major meeting between federal agencies, local municipal leadership, ranching and farming groups, and law enforcement to discuss what is being done in the aftermath of the 2007 Egley Complex Fire in Harney County. Each federal agency in attendance — including the U.S. Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Farm Service Agency, and the Natural Resources Conservation Service — will recap their respective actions to address fire, action afterwards to address community concerns, and current status of restoration and rehabilitation activities. Harney County Commissioners, Sheriff, and regional mayors will be invited to provide their perspective, and association representatives will provide background and outlook on the current situation. Ultimately, the discussion will focus on what should be done going forward to ensure effective communication takes place between all agencies and jurisdictions during the next wildfire or emergency situation. Following a meeting July 2007 meeting in Burns, Walden sent a letter to federal agency officials stating that once the weather and fire risk cooled down, he would convene this type of a meeting. BURNS, 9:45 a.m. – 10:30 a.m.Location: Best Western, Rory & Ryan Inn, 534 Highway 20 N, Burns Congressman Walden will meet with the High Desert Partnership (HDP) board, federal agency officials, and local elected leaders to discuss the organization’s ongoing efforts to work cooperatively to head off potential federal land management conflicts at the local level. The HDP formed approximately six years ago by ranchers, agency employees, local government and environmental groups to develop a “landscape level stewardship strategy in the Harney Basin to address natural resource issues in a manner that ensures the ecological, economic and social components of issues are balanced in a sustainable manner.” In recent years, the HDP has been focused on many projects, including those to improve forest health, deal with invasive species, and the health of the Silvies River Floodplain. LAKE COUNTY CHRISTMAS VALLEY, 12:30 p.m. – 1:45 p.m.Location: 87480 Spruce Lane, Christmas Valley Congressman Walden, the co-chair of the bipartisan House Rural Health Care Coalition, will also visit the North Lake Medical Center in Christmas Valley. The clinic’s completion in October 2007 was the culmination of over 20 years of work to develop a new clinic in this rural, medically-underserved community. As a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, which has jurisdiction over health care policy, Congressman Walden continues to hold quality access to rural health care as one of his top priorities. Congressman Walden will also be briefed on the current status of the Backscatter facility in Christmas Valley, which was a Cold War-era sonar detection facility that went obsolete before it was even completed. It was mothballed for 13 years until 2004, when the Air Force decided they would demolish the facility and turn the land back over to the BLM. However, in 2005, Congressman Walden urged the Air Force to keep the infrastructure so options for producing alternative energy for the high-wattage transmission lines built for the facility could be explored. He has spent much time since then advocating and working with local leaders to pursue the project. Those expected to attend the meeting include: Commissioner Brad WintersCommissioner Ken KestnerCommissioner Dan ShounPat Widenoja, LPNCarl Shumway, Clinic Board PresidentAlan Parks, Clinic BoardLindy Simmons, Christmas Valley Chamber This is his 16th official visit to Lake County since taking office. SARTURDAY, FEBRUARY 23 KLAMATH COUNTY KLAMATH FALLS, 8 a.m. – 9:30 a.m.Location: OIT Congressman Walden will visit Liskey Farms to tour their new biodiesel plant, and then meet with Oregon Renewal Center (OREC) Director Tom Chester to receive an update on the exciting ongoing projects at OREC. As a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, Walden has been a leader in Congress in promoting the development and use of alternative and renewable energies. Last year, Walden helped secure $500,000 for the Oregon Institute of Technology’s Geo-Heat Center, and he secured another $500,000 for OIT’s Renewable Energy Center in 2006. Last week, Walden joined Congressman Brian Baird and 16 colleagues to introduce a resolution, H. Res. 987, encouraging Americans to spend their stimulus checks on renewable energy or energy-efficient products. This is his 51st official visit to Klamath County since taking office. GILCHRIST, 12:45 p.m. – 3 p.m.Location: Interfor Pacific Mill Interfor Pacific Mill is one of the last remaining mills in the Second District capable of being fully operational. For years, Congressman Walden has been the leading advocate in the Congress for responsible timber production that promotes forest health and a sustainable forest economy. He co-authored the Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA), which was signed into law in 2003 and gives forest managers the tools they need to treat choked forests and prevent catastrophic wildfire. Congressman Walden’s Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act (FERRA) passed with bipartisan support in the House before receiving no action in the Senate in 2006. FERRA would have allowed removal of burned dead trees on forestland to hasten recovery when supported by science. Walden will take part in a roundtable discussion, touching on infrastructure, supply, funding, and policy before embarking on a mill tour and meeting some of the crew. Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
02.15.2008	February 15, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -When Americans begin receiving tax rebate checks from the recently passed economic stimulus package, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Congressman Brian Baird (D-Wash.) and a bipartisan group of 17 legislators hope consumers will invest it in energy conservation and renewable energy products.A resolution introduced yesterday by Congressman Baird in the House of Representatives calls on Americans to use their tax rebate checks to purchase renewable energy and energy-efficiency products and services. The resolution, H. Res. 987, also urges retailers and service providers to offer promotions that will encourage Americans to purchase products and services that will help conserve energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.“Consumers in the Pacific Northwest have long made a commitment toward renewable energy, recycling and conservation. Here’s a chance to do even more by investing the rebate check into more efficient energy uses, such as replacing incandescent light bulbs with fluorescent bulbs, or further weatherizing around doors and windows. Reducing energy consumption saves money and helps the environment, too,” said Walden, who serves on the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. “When it comes to innovative renewable energy generation, Saturday, I’ll help dedicate a new biomass, co-gen facility in Cave Junction that turns forest waste and mill ends into steam to dry lumber and to make electricity at the Rough and Ready mill. The biomass that the facility will use is forest debris that would otherwise be left on the forest floor adding to dangerous fuel loads that contribute to catastrophic wildfires as we’ve seen over the years in southern Oregon. Instead, this new facility will decrease the amount of other energy needed to dry lumber, produce new jobs, and put electricity into the northwest power grid. America’s energy independence will occur one step at a time, and this is another step in the right direction,” Walden said.“When the Administration and Congress first proposed the stimulus package, I urged them to take this opportunity to address the link between our current economic situation and our energy crisis by investing immediately in conservation and renewable energy initiatives,” said Congressman Baird. “With the cost of gasoline, electricity, and home heating oil rising dramatically in recent years, it’s time for Americans to think outside of the box and reduce their energy use. If consumers choose to invest in energy conservation, they’ll experience a win-win-win situation by saving on energy bills, helping to lower energy costs, and joining in the effort to help our country reduce greenhouse gas emissions.”“I hope Americans make their rebate checks go green by investing in energy-efficiency upgrades or clean-energy technologies that will help them save on energy costs in the long run,” added a co-sponsor of the resolution, U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.), who serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.Additional cosponsors of the resolution include Co-chairs of the House Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus, Reps. Mark Udall (CO-02) and Zach Wamp (TN-03), along with Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Adam Smith (WA-09), Bart Gordon (TN-06), Patrick Murphy (PA-08), Diane DeGette (CO-01), Chris Murphy (CT-05), Vernon Ehlers (MI-03), Chris Van Hollen (MD-08), Joe Crowley (NY-07), Bob Etheridge (NC-2), Carolyn Maloney (NY-14), Allyson Schwartz (PA- 13), Fred Upton (MI-6). The full text of the resolution is below: RESOLUTION Encouraging Americans to join others across the country in using their rebate checks to invest in renewable energy and energy-efficient products and services in order to save money, stimulate the economy, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Whereas economists have concluded that the economy of the United States may be entering a recession; Whereas Congress passed a stimulus package that will provide rebate checks to American families in an effort to provide a short-term stimulus to the economy; Whereas the slowing economy is due in large part to the Nation’s heavy reliance on limited energy resources and skyrocketing energy prices; Whereas the cost of gasoline, electricity, and home heating oil has risen dramatically in recent years; Whereas energy prices are expected to continue to increase; Whereas the use of traditional energy sources results in greenhouse gas emissions which cause global warming and ocean acidification; Whereas the United States, along with China, leads the world in greenhouse gas emissions and is responsible for approximately 20 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions; Whereas the United States’ dependence on foreign oil is a national security issue; Whereas investment in renewable energy and energy-efficient products and services drives research and technological advances, generating job resources and opportunities; Whereas reducing energy consumption and increasing the use of renewable energy will lower energy prices, reduce greenhouse gases, lessen our dependence on foreign oil, and create jobs; Whereas reducing energy use will save consumers money over the longrun by lowering electricity, home heating oil, and gasoline costs; and Whereas our Nation faces an unpredictable future if we do not make significant investments in renewable energy and energy-efficient products and services: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the United States House of Representatives— (1) encourages Americans to join others across the country in using their rebate checks to invest in renewable energy and energy-efficient products and services in order to save money, stimulate the economy, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions; and (2) urges retailers and service providers to offer promotions to encourage Americans to use their rebate checks to invest in renewable energy and energy-efficient products and services. ###
02.14.2008	Walden will also speak to military officers organization in Grants PassFebruary 14, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. - After completing his 329th round trip between Oregon and the nation’s capital, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will be in Grants Pass on Saturday to meet with a military officers group (Noon) and attend the ribbon cutting ceremony for Rough and Ready’s new Cogeneration Facility in Cave Junction (2:30 p.m.). This is Walden’s first official visit to Josephine County this year and his 30th since taking office. The schedule of events is below: GRANTS PASS, Noon - 2 p.m.Location: Wild River Pub, 533 NE F Street, Grants Pass: Congressman Walden has been invited to give a legislative update at the Southern Oregon Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) luncheon. See below for a snapshot on what Congress is doing on Veterans’ issues. The southern Oregon MOAA is one of two chapters in the state; the other is located in Bend. Founded in 1929, MOAA is an independent, nonprofit, nonpartisan association of about 360,000 active duty, retired, National Guard, reserve and former officers of the seven uniformed services (Navy, Marine Corps, Army, Air Force, Coast Guard, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and US Public Health Service). CAVE JUNCTION, 2:30 p.m. – 4 p.m.Location: 30365 Redwood Highway, Cave Junction: In his ongoing effort to promote the importance of fuel produced from woody biomass, Congressman Walden will participate in the ribbon-cutting ceremonies of Rough and Ready’s new cogeneration facility. Last week, Walden and Congresswoman Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD) introduced H.R. 5236, a bill that would include woody biomass from public and private lands in the country’s new mandate to annually produce 36 billion gallons of biofuels. As a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, Walden has been leading the effort in Congress to promote forest health projects on public lands, not only to create woody biomass for energy, but also reduce the heavy fuels in our forests that lead to catastrophic wildfire. That very concept of promoting energy independence and forest health simultaneously is at the core of the inspiration for Rough and Ready’s new cogeneration plant. When 500,000 acres went up in smoke in the Biscuit Fire, it was more evident than ever to Rough and Ready’s operators that the neighboring forests were choked with fuel. The mill is well-situated to help treat forest lands and also take advantage of biomass opportunities. Fifty percent of the fuel for the new plant will come from sawmill waste; the other half will be from logging refuse and fuel reduction. The plant will create two new jobs at Rough and Ready and seven to ten jobs in the woods. SNAPSHOT OF CONGRESSIONAL ACTION ON VETERANS’ ISSUES: ü In the past seven years, funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has increased by over 80 percent, including record increases last year, yet more remains to be done to care for the men and women who put everything on the line for our freedom. ü The VA’s approved 2008 budget allows them to hire more than 1,000 new employees to help reduce the backlog of claims and appeals. An approved claim is the gateway to our veterans’ healthcare services. This includes healthcare services to rural veterans, an issue of tremendous importance to Oregon’s veterans, especially those living in the Second District. ü Congressman Walden is a cosponsor of the Retired Pay Restoration Act (H.R. 303), which would allow veterans who receive over 50 percent service-connected disability pay to receive their retirement pay at the same time. Currently, those veterans must wait for one of those payments to be phased in at 10 percent each year until they receive full benefits. ü The House last year approved with Congressman Walden’s support a bill directing the VA to establish an Advisory Committee on Rural Veterans. ü The VA has increased the rate of reimbursement for veterans traveling to and from treatment from 11 cents per mile to 28.5 cents per mile. Congressman Walden has joined with others in the House to support the Wounded Warriors Act, which increases the reimbursement to 48.5 cents per mile, which matches the current reimbursement rate for federal employees. ü The Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics (SORCC) in White City (formerly known as the White City Dom) recently opened a small clinic in Lakeview. In 2004, Congressman Walden joined hundreds of veterans to rally to keep the SORCC open and continued to lobby to keep treatment available to the 13,100 outpatients and over 500 inpatients it serves. In July 2006, the decision to close the facility was reversed and a long-term funding commitment made, keeping the roughly 500 full-time staff jobs in southern Oregon. It remains the leader in comprehensive bio-psycho-social rehabilitation in the VA system. ü Last year, Congress provided major funding increases for research into Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic Brain Injury. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
01.31.2008	January 31, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. - After completing his 327th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. earlier in the week, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will visit the 5th grade classroom of Colonel Wright Elementary School teacher Steve Chance.Mr. Chance introduced a program to his classroom several years ago where his students are divided into three parties (the lions, elephants, and gorillas) and must campaign to elect the “King of Beasts.” They research each animal and try to persuade other students to support their animal. However, each party receives a different war chest budget, and is challenged to come up with creative ways to campaign for their respective candidates. Before voting, Mr. Chance has the League of Women Voters register the students from each class and give them a voter registration card. Currently, Mr. Chance is explaining the structure of the federal government and the separation of powers to his class. He has invited Congressman Walden to discuss the process of how a bill becomes a law, and his personal experiences doing so in the U.S. Congress. Congressman Walden visited Mr. Chance’s classroom once before in 2006. WHO: Congressman Greg Walden WHAT: Visit to 5th grade classroom of Mr. Steve Chance WHERE: Colonel Wright Elementary School 610 W. 14th Street The Dalles, OR WHEN: 10 am – 10:45 a.m.Friday, February 1, 2008 Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
01.29.2008	January 29, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today applauded the Department of Energy’s announcement to award Pacific Ethanol with a $24.3 million federal investment to build the first cellulosic ethanol demonstration plant in the Northwest. Walden is the vice-chair of the House Renewable Energy Caucus and the co-chair of the House Northwest Energy Caucus. “This is incredibly positive news for Pacific Ethanol, the Pacific Northwest, and the continuing pursuit of American energy independence,” Walden said. “This investment will allow Pacific Ethanol to do the necessary research that will one day bring cellulosic ethanol to the market as an efficient fuel for our vehicles and develop a woody biomass industry with good forest jobs for Oregon. Corn ethanol certainly has its place in our energy portfolio, but right now the balance is so out of whack that food prices are being driven through the roof. Cellulosic ethanol can help restore that balance. I am excited to watch Pacific Ethanol’s vitally important pursuit of this exciting technology.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
01.28.2008	CONGRESSMAN WALDEN'S REACTION TO PRESIDENT'S ADDRESSJanuary 28, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -After an early morning flight that marked the beginning of his 327th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., Congressman Walden released this statement following his attendance at President Bush’s State of the Union address: “I appreciate the comments of the President regarding the need to stimulate the economy nationally, but I hope that along the way he and the leadership in Congress will support extending and funding the county payments program for rural counties. While stimulus checks will go out to Americans in May, we in the rural areas will see layoff notices and reductions in basic services long before that if the federal government fails to uphold its commitment to America’s forested counties.” “The President was right on the mark in his call to improve the system of care and benefits for veterans and their families. America’s fighting men and women put everything on the line for our freedom. We must do everything we can to support them not only when they are abroad, but when they come home too.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
01.24.2008	January 24, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHAT: Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), one of 15 Eagle Scouts in the U.S. House of Representatives, will be in Medford on Saturday for the Eagle Scout Court of Honor for four area young men receiving the rank of Eagle Scout. He will deliver remarks at the ceremony and present the new Eagle Scouts with American flags that have been flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their achievement. WHO: Congressman Walden (R-Ore.) and Medford Mayor Gary Wheeler will be among those in attendance to honor the achievements of Elliot Vincent Anderson, William Kenneth Dibb, Joseph Earnest Naumes, and Sean Michael Naumes. WHERE: St. Mary’s School, Callaway Library, 816 Black Oak Drive, Medford WHEN: 3:30 pm Saturday, January 26 Congressman Walden has completed 326 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. This is his first official visit to Jackson County this year and his 85th since taking office. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
01.18.2008	WALDEN TO HOLD ROUNDTABLE WITH MAYORS IN CENTRAL OREGON VISIT ON MONDAYJanuary 18, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -SCHEDULE FOR MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 2008 BEND – 2:15 p.m. – 3:15 pm: Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will hold a regional mayor roundtable at his Bend District Office to hear various concerns that the local communities have on a variety of subjects. Those expected at the meeting include: Congressman WaldenLa Pine Mayor Stu Martinez Bend Mayor Bruce AbernethyRedmond Mayor Alan UngerSisters Mayor Brad Boyd Location: Congressman Walden’s Bend District Office is located in the Jamison Building at 131 NW Hawthorne, Suite 201, Bend, OR. BEND – 3:15 p.m. – 4:15 p.m.: Following his meeting with the regional mayors, Congressman Walden will meet with Deschutes County Commissioners Dennis Luke and Mike Daly at his district office. They will discuss, among other congressional priorities, the county’s appropriations requests. Location: Jamison Building, 131 NW Hawthorne, Suite 201, Bend, OR. REDMOND – 6 p.m. – 6:30 p.m.: Congressman Walden will deliver remarks at the Deschutes County Fair Association’s meeting and annual dinner. It is a well-attended event and organizers expect about 250 local business and community leaders to attend. Location: South Sisters Conference Center, Deschutes County Fairgrounds, 3800 SW Airport Way, Redmond, OR BEND – 7 p.m.: Congressman Walden attend and give brief remarks at the Central Oregon Visitors Association’s annual gala. Location: Riverhouse, 3075 N. Business 97, Bend, OR Congressman Walden has completed 325 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
01.17.2008	January 17, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Following a first busy week of congressional work in the nation’s capital that focused on a possible economic stimulus package and the continuing efforts to renew county payments, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will visit Madras on Monday for a lunch meeting with the Madras-Jefferson County Chamber of Commerce. Talk over the past week in Washington, D.C. has been dominated by a potential stimulus package for the economy. Congressman Walden will also hear concerns and ideas from local business leaders, which he can take back to Congress in the nation’s capital. WHO: Congressman Greg Walden WHAT: Meeting with Madras-Jefferson County Chamber of Commerce WHERE: Black Bear Diner, 237 SW 4th., Madras, OR WHEN: 11:30 am – 1 p.m., Monday, January 21, 2008 Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
01.15.2008	Congressman releases statement on settlement processJanuary 15, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement on the release of details surrounding the Klamath Basin water settlement talks:“The settlement process is certainly no small undertaking. The groups that have stuck with these difficult negotiations deserve a medal. They are clearly credible in their desire to build a practical, sensible solution for fish, farmers, and tribes. I've always felt the best and longest-lasting solution would come from the various parties in the Basin working out a plan that made sense for all concerned. While the process is not completed and hurdles remain, I stand ready to work with my colleagues in Congress to do our part. Meanwhile, I urge those involved in the hydro-negotiations to complete their process soon, enabling this historic effort to move forward." Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
01.10.2008	January 10, 2008 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) on Saturday will continue his series of town hall meetings across the Oregon’s vast Second District with a forum in The Dalles. Later that evening, Walden will speak at the The Dalles Area Chamber of Commerce’s Annual Meeting. This is his first official visit to Wasco County this year, and his seventh since the beginning of the 110th Congress in January 2007.THE DALLES TOWN HALL MEETING WHEN: Saturday, January 12, 2008, 3:30 p.m.WHERE: Mid-Columbia Senior Center, 1112 West 9th Street, The DallesWHAT: A town hall meeting with Congressman Greg Walden. The Congressman will provide an update on the latest happenings in Washington, D.C. and take questions and comments from the audience. THE DALLES AREA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE ANNUAL MEETING WHEN: Saturday, January 12, 2008, 5:30 p.m.WHERE: Civic Auditorium, 323 E 4th St., The DallesWHAT: Congressman Walden will speak at the annual meeting, the theme of which is “My Future’s So Bright, I’ve Got to Wear Shades.” The event will honor Gary Grossman, who is stepping down as Chamber president. The chamber will name the Community Member of the Year, Youth of the Year, and Agriculture Person of the Year. Congressman Walden has completed 324 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
01.07.2008	January 7, 2008 - HOOD RIVER -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) attended the Eagle Scout Court of Honor ceremonies for three young men in Hood River on Sunday, January 6 — Sam Kirby, David Girard, and Erik Nelson. Walden, one of just 25 Eagle Scouts in Congress, presented each with a U.S. flag flown over the Capitol. “We are here today to do more than celebrate an achievement,” Walden said in prepared remarks for the event. “We are here to celebrate the continuing journey of responsibility and service that these young men are about to undertake based on the principles and values they’ve learned in scouting. These are outstanding young men who have developed tools to change our world for the better.” Only two of 100 boys who join scouts makes Eagle. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
11.28.2007	November 28, 2007 - PORTLAND, Ore. -House Speaker Nancy Pelosi “all but brushed off” yesterday the question of funding the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (county payments), according to today’s Oregonian. The full excerpt: ‘Pelosi all but brushed off the question on timber payments. Oregon's congressional delegation has been pushing to keep federal payments to counties that used to receive millions of dollars from logging on national forests. ‘That program expired, although Congress passed a one-year extension this year. ‘"Where we go from here is to see how to phase this system out" over the next few years, Pelosi said Tuesday.’ Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) released the following statement in response: “In two weeks, the final checks will be sent to America’s rural counties, and after that the pink slips will be sent to county employees, law enforcement, and teachers. I am disappointed that the Speaker came to Oregon not with a solution for honoring the federal government’s commitment to forested communities, but with the notion that it is time for the program to end. This is just another example of this Congress’ dysfunctional nature, and it is time that the Congress, led by Speaker Pelosi, find a way to support rural America. Time has run out.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
11.20.2007	November 20, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -MADRAS – Noon – 1:30 pm: Walden will attend a ceremonial signing of the new Jefferson County Alcohol, Tobacco and Other Drug (ATOD) Protocol. The protocol represents a countywide agreement between 25 local agencies to collaboratively address and respond to the use, abuse, and illegal manufacturing and selling of alcohol, tobacco and other drugs in Jefferson County. The Jefferson County Prevention Task Force has spent over a year working on the document. This will be Walden’s third official visit to Jefferson County this year. Location: Madras High School Choir Room, 390 SE 10th Street, MadrasBEND – 2:30 pm – 3:15 pm: Walden will meet with the Tumalo Irrigation District (TID) Board of Directors to discuss the Tumalo Water Conservation Project Act (H.R. 496) and the introduction of steelhead into the Deschutes River. On October 24, the House Subcommittee on Water and Power held a legislative hearing on the bill, which Walden authored and would allow TID to begin the project this spring. Location: 64697 Cook Avenue, Bend BEND – 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm: Walden will sit down with the the Central Oregon Health Care Collaborative (CHOC) to receive an update on local needs and the impact of their efforts and how they relate to the federal level. This will be Walden’s 14th official visit to Deschutes County this year. Location: St. Charles Medical Center (Upstairs board room), 2500 NE Neff Road, Bend Walden has completed 320 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
11.19.2007	Full funding and completion in 2009 would save costs, allow region to reap economic benefits soonerNovember 19, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) led a bipartisan group of nine Northwest lawmakers to yesterday send a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Jim Nussle expressing their “strong support for funding of the Columbia River Channel Deepening Project” in the President’s fiscal year 2009 budget. By fully funding the project at $29 million in the next budget, the lawmakers are hopeful the project could be completed during that year, thus ensuring the transport of goods up and down the Columbia River which is so important to the economy of the region. “The sooner we complete this project, the sooner we can allow the region to take full advantage of the waterway’s economic potential,” Walden said. “For example, each ship in a deepened channel can carry an additional $1 million of wheat, which would reduce costs to growers and expand the U.S. export of wheat. A deeper channel means more jobs, more trade, and more energy efficiency for the Pacific Northwest. Completing the project in 2009, rather than 2010, will save significant construction costs and allow the deeper ships to begin carrying goods.” Walden, who organized the letter, also voted last week to override the President’s veto of the Water Resources Development Act, which includes a provision to speed channel deepening on the river by removing arbitrary restrictions on the dredges involved in the project. Full funding for the project this year would be the final step in the administration's consistent commitment to the project. In an August 2004 visit to the Port of Portland, President Bush called it “a vital project." The full letter is attached. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
11.16.2007	'Protocol' signing ceremony represents unique countywide effort to curb drug abuseNovember 16, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHAT: A ceremonial signing of the new Jefferson County Alcohol, Tobacco and Other Drug (ATOD) Protocol. The protocol represents a countywide agreement between 25 local agencies to collaboratively address and respond to the use, abuse, and illegal manufacturing and selling of alcohol, tobacco and other drugs in Jefferson County. The Jefferson County Prevention Task Force has spent over a year working on the document. Congressman Walden, who is scheduled to speak at the ceremony, recently invited national Drug Czar John Walters to participate in anti-drug summits he will be holding in the second district this spring. He has held many such extensive town halls focused on the effects of drug abuse on communities. This year, Congressman Walden has supported legislation in Congress to protect drug-endangered children, expand a grant program for residential substance abuse treatment, ensure Indian tribes are eligible to receive grants to fight methamphetamines, and set standards for the remediation of former meth labs. WHEN: Monday, November 26, 2007Noon – 1:00 p.m. WHERE: Madras High School Choir Room390 SE 10th StreetMadras, OR This will be Congressman Walden’s third official visit to Jefferson County this year. He has completed 321 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
11.15.2007	November 15, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHO: Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development State Director Mark Simmons WHAT: Congressman Walden and Director Simmons will be on hand to present federal investments from USDA Rural Development to both Froerer Farms and the City of Nyssa to enable new economic and community development projects. The presentations will be made during separate events. The event at Froerer Farms will include a tour of the packaging facility. WHEN: Monday, November 19, 2007 WHERE: 8 am – 9 amFroerer Farms Packaging Plant 1445 North Third StreetNyssa, OR 9:30 am – 10:30 amCity Council Chambers14 South 3rd StreetNyssa, OR This will be Congressman Walden’s third official visit to Malheur County this year. He has completed 320 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
11.10.2007	Walden cosponors bill to provide critical health care and benefits to America's veterans, projects for Second DistrictNovember 10, 2007 - THE DALLES, Ore. -Speaking before a community potluck organized by the Ladies Auxiliary VFW in The Dalles, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today expressed disappointment that Congress has yet to pass a funding bill for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and called on House and Senate leaders to send a bill to the President that funds veterans’ health care and benefits. Earlier in the morning, Congressman Walden participated in the Mid-Columbia Veterans Day Parade, also in The Dalles. Congressman Walden released the following statement on the need for Congress to pass a Military Construction and VA appropriations bill as soon as possible. “Every day Congress fails to send a VA bill to the President, the veterans health care system is shortchanged by approximately $18.5 million in additional resources. There is overwhelming support in both chambers for a standalone VA bill that supports our veterans. Why Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Reid refuse to take action and send a bill to the President is beyond me. Their inaction, especially so late in the year, is unacceptable. Our veterans deserve better from Congress. “Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Reid should immediately bring up the bill that I cosponsored, H.R. 4014, which provides record funding for VA hospitals and clinics and includes increases in funding for research of conditions like Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. This bill funds important projects across our district, like the Oregon National Guard Readiness Center in Ontario, renovations at the outpatient clinic in La Grande, and the design for an Armed Forces Reserve Center in Klamath Falls and a Readiness Center here in The Dalles. It provides the needed resources to hire 1,800 new claims processors to address the 400,000 benefit-claims backlog. And it would increase the reimbursement rate to 28.5 cents per mile from 11 cents per mile for veterans traveling to and from appointments for medical care. “The men and women in uniform put everything on the line for us and deserve the very best care when they return home. They must know that no matter what, the American people will support them and will never forget the debt we owe them. Congress should show its support for America’s veterans as soon as we return to work on Tuesday.” The House initially passed a VA bill on June 15 and the Senate passed a similar version on September 6. Yet the leaders of the House and Senate have still refused to organize a conference to send a final, clean and standalone version of the bill to the President. Instead, the Democratic House leadership combined it with legislation this week that funds other federal departments. That bill was immediately killed in the Senate because it combined two unrelated pieces of legislation. Walden has already sent letters to Speaker Pelosi and Leader Reid, which are attached, that urge them to take final and decisive action on behalf of America’s veterans. The bill cosponsored by Congressman Walden, H.R. 4014, is clean, standalone bill that funds the VA and provides the following: Second District projects $11,000,000 for the Oregon National Guard Readiness Center in Ontario $1,452,000 for the design of an Armed Forces Reserve Center at Kingsley Air Base in Klamath Falls $960,000 for the design of a Readiness Center for the Oregon National Guard in The Dalles Access to quality health care · $37.2 billion ($2.6 billion over the President’s budget request for VA hospitals and clinics), which would increase funding for research into conditions such as Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), which are among the most common problems facing Iraq and Afghanistan veterans.· $4.1 billion to renovate existing facilities and construct new facilities like the planned community-based outpatient clinic in La Grande. Travel reimbursement· $1.25 million to increase the beneficiary travel reimbursement rate to 28.5 cents per mile for veterans traveling to and from appointments for medical care. The current level is 11 cents per mile.Addressing the significant backlog of VA disability claimsEssential funding to hire 1,800 new claims processors to address the 400,000 benefit claims backlog veterans face and work-down the backlog of benefits claims and to reduce the time to process new claims. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
11.09.2007	November 9, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHAT: Mid-Columbia Veterans Day Parade and VFW Ladies Auxiliary Potluck WHEN: Saturday, November 10, 2007 Parade begins at 11 am Potluck begins at 1 pm WHERE: Parade: Downtown The Dalles Potluck: National Guard Armory, 713 Webber St. DETAILS: The theme for this year’s parade, organized by Pat Lucas of the Ladies Auxiliary, is “Honoring Marines.” November 10 marks the 232nd birthday of the United States Marine Corps, and the Grand Marshall of the parade will be Helen Haslett, a Marine Corps World War II veteran. The Ladies Auxiliary will host the 1 pm potluck, which is open to the public. This will be Congressman Walden’s sixth official visit to Wasco County this year, and he will tonight complete his 320th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. when he returns home to Hood River. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
11.09.2007	Bill becomes law and frees up important channel deepening work on the Columbia RiverNovember 9, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WASHINTON, D.C. — Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) voted to override the President’s veto of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) this week, a bill that will allow channel deepening to continue on the Columbia River and Coos Bay channels. The House overrode the veto on Tuesday by a 361-54 vote, and the Senate overrode the veto yesterday by a 79-14 vote, making the bill law.“This action by Congress means we can remove the arbitrary and costly limitations on the number of days federal dredges can be used to deepen waterways of the Columbia River and Coos Bay channels to a depth that allows the region to take full advantage of these waterways’ economic potential,” Walden said. “For example, each ship in a deepened channel can carry an additional $1 million of wheat, which would reduce costs to growers and expand the U.S. export of wheat. A deeper channel means more jobs, more trade, and more energy efficiency for the Pacific Northwest.” According to the Pacific Northwest Waterways Association: ü The Columbia River Channel Deepening Project deepens the channel from 40 geet to 43 feet and thereby greatly expands the volume and value of commerce traded through the Columbia River system in Oregon, Washington, Montana and Idaho, and reaching into the Midwest. ü The Columbia River handles more than $16 billion annually of traded goods, including serving as the largest gateway in the world for wheat growers and the third largest for grain growers. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
11.05.2007	November 5, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHAT: A town hall meeting with Congressman Greg Walden. The Congressman will provide an update on the latest happenings in Washington, D.C. and take questions and comments from the audience. WHEN: Sunday, November 18, 2007 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm WHERE: Family Services Building Conference Room401 4th Street, Fossil Congressman Greg Walden has completed 319 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
11.05.2007	November 5, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHAT: A town hall meeting with Congressman Greg Walden. The Congressman will provide an update on the latest happenings in Washington, D.C. and take questions and comments from the audience. WHEN: Sunday, November 18, 2007 1 pm – 2:30 pm WHERE: Gilliam County Court Chambers221 South Oregon Street, Condon Congressman Greg Walden has completed 319 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
10.26.2007	October 26, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) joined 35 of his colleagues in sending the following letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Majority Leader Steny Hoyer outlining their priorities for legislation extending and expanding the State Children's Heatlh Insurance Program (SCHIP):Dear Madame Speaker and Majority Leader Hoyer:We appreciate your willingness to be open to changes in legislation to reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). In fact, last week, we sent a letter to the President to thank him for his willingness to compromise and support increased funding for SCHIP. In that letter, we outlined general principles to guide bipartisan discussion that we believe are essential to ensure the strength of this program.Unfortunately, this bill does not reflect the spirit of good-faith negotiations and instead, disrupts a process that had the potential to create a strong, bipartisan bill. True bipartisan discussions have not yet occurred on the House side. You chose to rush to the floor a proposal that was not properly vetted, fails to substantially improve the underlying legislation, and outright ignores many of the concerns we raised. The proposal remains flawed and does not meet the general principles we outlined to the President for the following reasons:SCHIP must serve eligible low-income children first. There is no minimal target in this bill for serving low-income children. Rather than including a hard requirement to be met before the program can be expanded beyond 200 percent of the federal poverty level, this bill expands the program to 300 percent of the poverty level and fails to fully address individual income disregards. This loophole could permit a family earning more than 300 percent of the poverty level to receive benefits.SCHIP should be for children only. We believe SCHIP should serve low-income children first. While we appreciate that childless adults would be phased out within one year, parents are still eligible.SCHIP should not force children out of private health insurance. SCHIP tax dollars should be spent on those people who currently do not have health insurance coverage. Like the bill that the President vetoed, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that 2 million children who already have insurance could be moved onto government SCHIP as a result of this legislation. Clearly more changes need to be made. Premium assistance should be more than an option. Furthermore, the bill prohibits the continuation of Health Opportunity Accounts. As we noted in our letter to the President, we should be expanding the options available to families - both on government programs and in the private marketplace - so that they have more choices, not less.SCHIP should cover low-income American children. This bill opens the door to increased fraud and abuse which will only shortchange the American children it is supposed to serve. The legislation weakens Medicaid citizenship verification standards and includes an "Express Lane" program that has inadequate citizenship verification safeguards in an effort to sign people up faster, no matter their legal or eligibility status.SCHIP funding for low-income children should be stable, efficient, and equitable. We believe that SCHIP legislation should not use budget gimmicks or "slush funds" that put the program in financial jeopardy. Unfortunately, these policies are retained in this bill.SCHIP legislation should focus solely on the SCHIP program. The bill continues to include District-specific earmarks or pork projects.We would like to work with you and our Democratic colleagues on new legislation. We encourage you to consider talking to House Republicans in good faith about changes that can be made to meet these principles instead of advancing legislation at the last minute that few Members, if any, have had appropriate time to review and no opportunity to amend.
10.25.2007	Local district manager testifies; benefits include water conservation, watershed enhancement, protection of listed species, reliable water supplyOctober 25, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Tumalo Irrigation District Manager Elmer McDaniels today testified before the Subcommittee on Water Power on the Walden-authored H.R. 496, the Tumalo Water Conservation Project Act of 2007. H.R. 496 would authorize $4 million in federal funds for the Interior Department to assist in the planning, design, and construction of the Tumalo Irrigation District Water Conservation Project in Deschutes County. The Middle Deschutes River has, in the past, been reduced to seasonal flows as low as 30 cfs, and the goal for this project is to enhance that flow to eventually achieve 250 cfs for the Middle Deschutes basin. The completed project, including other work by the district, will deliver pressurized water to irrigators during drought years, whereas they now receive an inadequate water supply in 8 out of 10 years. Once completed, this project is projected to enhance in-stream flows and improve habitat for listed species. Congressman Walden's full statement follows: “Madam Chairwoman Napolitano, Ranking Member McMorris-Rodgers, and other Members of the Subcommittee, thank you for considering the bill I authored, the Tumalo Water Conservation Project Act (HR 496), and inviting my good friend, Tumalo Irrigation District Manager Elmer McDaniels, to testify today. “Water, something that some might take for granted in certain areas of the country, is a very precious commodity in the High Desert of central Oregon and the arid West in general. Those who labor to help us conserve water and use it wisely deserve our utmost gratitude and sincere praise. It is with that thought in mind that I welcome before the committee Elmer McDaniel, a caring conservationist with a distinguished career in the practice of using, producing, and enhancing the quality of water throughout the West. As manager of the Tumalo Irrigation District for the last 15 years, Elmer has set an example in the Deschutes Basin that other irrigation districts follow. “Elmer is one of those citizens who not only knows what needs to be done, but figures out ways to turn concepts into reality. Through numerous innovations and bold management decisions, Elmer’s efforts have returned over nine miles of Tumalo Creek to its full and natural flow throughout all twelve months of the year. I assure you this was no small task. Elmer understood the need for irrigation districts to partner with the public interests to put water back in streams while providing a more reliable delivery to water users. “His hard work led to Public Law 106-496, the Bend Feed Piping Project, which increased the water flow, lowered the water temperature, and added more water to the middle of the Deschutes River. “I am proud to call Elmer a good friend, proud to share with you his accomplished stewardship over one of our most valuable assets, and welcome him here today to provide testimony on HR 496. “The Tumalo Water Conservation Project Act would authorize the Secretary of the Interior to assist in the planning, design, and construction of the Tumalo Irrigation District Water Conservation Project. “This $14 million project would pipe approximately six miles of open canals and return 20 cubic feet per second of conserved water to in-stream flows of the Deschutes River under the Oregon State Water Conservation Statute. Whereas irrigators now receive an inadequate water supply in eight out of ten years, the completed project, along with other work by the Tumalo Irrigation District, would deliver pressurized water to irrigators during drought years. “If dealing with drought wasn’t difficult enough, reintroduction of listed steelhead into the Crooked and Deschutes River is part of the required mitigation under the Settlement Agreement for the Pelton Round Butte Hydroelectric Project. As of May 8 of this year, steelhead have been reintroduced. The proposed in-stream water to be added, should this legislation be signed into law, will deliver over 10 percent of the 250 cubic feet per second goal for restoring summer flows in the Deschutes River. “HR 496, coupled with authorization for projects in the Oregon Water Resources Management Act (HR 495) that passed the House by voice vote on July 23 of this year, would make tremendous strides toward meeting the ecosystem and habitat standards for listed species, as well as provide flow stability for farmers and people who call the Deschutes River Basin home.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
10.22.2007	As part of campaign to preserve free speech for broadcasters, Walden will tell colleagues of need to sign petition to bring H.R. 2905 to a voteOctober 22, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHO: Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) WHAT: Walden will discuss the campaign to terminate the authority of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to reinstate the so-called Fairness Doctrine. Last week, congressional Republicans led by Walden and Congressman Mike Pence introduced a petition to bring the Broadcaster Freedom Act (H.R. 2905) to an up-or-down vote on the House floor. WHEN: Monday, October 22. We anticipate the speech to begin sometime around 5:30 p.m. Pacific Time. Another advisory will be sent later today with a better idea of when the speech will begin. WATCH: The speech can be watched live on C-SPAN. Live streams of the speech can also be viewed online at www.cspan.org. BACKGROUND: H.R. 2905 would once and for all bar the reinstatement of the Fairness Doctrine. In June, a bipartisan House majority of passed a one-year ban on the Fairness Doctrine. However, without an act of Congress, the FCC maintains the authority to enforce the Fairness Doctrine. The petition to bring H.R. 2905 to the floor requires a simple majority of House members. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
10.18.2007	October 18, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) joined 37 of his colleagues in sending the following letter to the President outlining important principles for the coming discussions on extending and expanding the State Children's Heatlh Insurance Program (SCHIP).October 18, 2007 President George W. BushThe White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: Thank you for your willingness to compromise and support increased funding for the state Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). As Republicans who support reauthorizing this program, we hope the Democratic leaders in Congress will heed your call to come together on true compromise legislation. As such, we believe there are general principles that may help guide bipartisan discussions going forward. SCHIP legislation should ensure that children who currently have health insurance coverage through SCHIP will continue to have access to health insurance.SCHIP must serve eligible low-income children first. The focus of a truly bipartisan bill should be on the original intent of the program. The legislation should demand success from the states in enrolling low-income children first by including that a hard requirement be met before the program can be expanded beyond 200 percent of the federal poverty level. One of our first priorities should be enrolling the more than 500,000 low-income children eligible for SCHIP but not currently covered. SCHIP should be for children only. In order to prioritize low-income children, childless adults who currently receive SCHIP benefits should be phased-put within a year. SCHIP should not force children out of private health insurance. SCHIP tax dollars should be spent on people who currently do not health insurance instead of on those who already have private coverage. Expanded premium assistance is one of many options we should be considering to provide families with greater health care options. SCHIP should cover low-income American children. We believe stronger efforts to prevent fraud and citizenship verification standards are critically important to ensuring that only U.S. citizens and certain legal immigrants are allowed access to taxpayer-funded benefits. SCHIP funding for low-income children should be stable, efficient, and equitable. SCHIP should cover low-income children without using budget gimmicks that put the program in financial jeopardy. Additionally, SCHIP should remain a federal-state partnership. Legislation should not reward states that fail in the specific mission providing health care to low-income children through perverse incentives like ‘slush’ funds. SCHIP legislation should focus solely on the SCHIP program. Any reauthorization bill should not include District-specific earmarks or pork projects.We hope that these principles will help guide negotiations to reauthorize this vitally important program. We look forward to working with you and our Democratic colleagues in the coming days on bipartisan legislation that we all support.###
10.17.2007	Walden, with Congressman Pence, begins petition to bring Broadcaster Freedom Act straight to the floor for a vote to prevent the re-institution of the Fairness DoctrineOctober 17, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today issued the following statement after beginning a petition drive to bring the Broadcaster Freedom Act, H.R. 2905, directly to the floor. The Broadcaster Freedom Act would permanently prevent the Federal Communications Commission from re-instituting the so-called Fairness Doctrine. CLICK HERE FOR VIDEO OF WALDEN DISCUSSING THE BROADCASTER FREEDOM ACT ON THE FLOOR OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES “This morning we began a drive to bring an up-or-down vote on the Broadcaster Freedom Act to the floor of the House. We need 218 signatures to bring the bill to the floor, and fully anticipate each Republican member to sign the petition since they are all cosponsors of the bill. “That means we need just a handful of Democrats to sign on to reach the 218-member threshold. In June, 113 Democrats voted for an amendment to an appropriations bill to prohibit the FCC from enforcing the Fairness Doctrine for one year. “Unfortunately, that bill has yet to reach the President’s desk, as the Democrat-controlled Congress has yet to agree on a single appropriations bill. And with some prominent Democrats suggesting a return to the Fairness Doctrine has merit, the need to preserve the rights of broadcasters to engage in stimulating speech has never been more urgent. Without an act of Congress, a shift in the White House could very well be the first step toward a bureaucratic fiat that banishes the likes of Rush Limbaugh and Al Franken from the airwaves. “The Fairness Doctrine existed in a media landscape much different than the one we inhabit today. When the Fairness Doctrine was first enforced in 1949, only 2,881 radio stations existed. Today, that number is just under 14,000. Likewise, the number of television and Internet outlets available to the consumer has grown exponentially. The scarcity argument has never been weaker. “It is high time that the so-called Fairness Doctrine be put to rest for good. Only an act of Congress can make that happen, and only with 218 signatures can we bring an up-or-down vote on the Broadcaster Freedom Act to the floor.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
10.16.2007	Despite veto threat, Walden backs bill to protect public's right to knowOctober 16, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The House of Representatives today took a major step toward protecting the fourth estate by passing a shield law for journalists in the Free Flow of Information Act, H.R. 2102. Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) was an original co-sponsor of the legislation. “As a graduate of the School of Journalism at the University of Oregon and an owner of radio stations with award-winning journalists, I am a firm believer in the need for journalists to protect their confidential sources in order to have a vibrant and free press,” Walden said. “Jailing reporters to force them to divulge their sources has a chilling effect on whistle-blowers and investigative reporting. It has no place in a free society. A vote for the Free Flow of Information Act is a vote to protect citizens and taxpayers from an ominous and oppressive government that seeks to silence its critics. In America, such government power would threaten our freedom and our informed democracy. I hope the Senate will act quickly to send this important legislation to the President’s desk.” Focus on the lack of a federal shield law sharpened when New York Times reporter Judith Miller was jailed and Time reporter Matthew Cooper was threatened with jail for not revealing their sources to a federal investigator in 2005. Thirty-two states (including Oregon) and the District of Columbia have enacted shield laws for journalists. The Free Flow of Information Act applies to a journalist “who regularly gathers, prepares, collects, photographs, records, writes, edits, reports, or publishes news or information that concerns local, national, or international events or other matters of public interest for dissemination to the public for a substantial portion of the person’s livelihood or for substantial financial gain.” It would not include terrorist organizations or agents of foreign powers. The bill strikes an appropriate balance between law enforcement officials and the public’s right to know. It incorporates measures to safeguard our national security by providing that the disclosure of a leaker’s identity can be compelled whenever the leak has caused “significant and articulable harm to the national security.” The White House today issued a statement indicating that senior advisors to the President would recommend he veto the bill in its current form. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
10.10.2007	October 10, 2007 -BULLETIN PRAISES WALDEN'S 'COURAGE' ON SCHIP VOTEThe Bulletin published the following editorial on Congressman Greg Walden's vote on the massive and financially unsustainable expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Congressman Walden strongly supports reauthorizing SCHIP and has co-sponsored legislation to do so (HR 3584).But a closed and flawed process led to a flawed and controversial piece of legislation. Read on for The Bulletin's take:Walden’s vote took courage September 30, 2007 Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., voted last week against a bill reauthorizing and expanding the State Children’s Heath Insurance Program, also known as SCHIP. Get ready to hear all about Walden’s indifference to the plight of poor kids. After all, who but the most callous lackey of the cigar-and-Mercedes crowd could possibly cast such a vote? A perfectly reasonable person, that’s who. Even one who does care about poor kids. SCHIP funding happens to be a much murkier issue than it might seem at first glance.The SCHIP program was created back in 1997 with the intention of helping families with too much money to qualify for Medicaid but too little to pay easily for health care for their kids. Congress has spent almost $40 billion on the program in the ensuing decade. SCHIP, however, will expire this fall unless Congress reauthorizes it. But reauthorization, which almost everyone supports, isn’t the reason people are fighting over SCHIP. People are fighting, rather, over a proposed expansion of the program. This week’s House bill would boost funding to $60 billion over the next five years, though Walden says the actual cost — hidden by budgeting gimmicks — is likely to top $100 billion. People like Walden and the 158 other House members who voted against the bill are worried mostly about the effect of such spending on a phenomenon called “crowding,” which the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office examined in a May report. The CBO found that SCHIP “has significantly reduced the number of uninsured children in low-income families,” and that’s undeniably a good thing. But that hadn’t been its only effect.The bill has also crowded many kids who had private insurance onto the public insurance rolls. Measuring this shift isn’t particularly easy, but the CBO estimates that for every 100 kids who sign up for SCHIP coverage, between 25 and 50 drop from the private insurance rolls. This is a significant shift, yet the CBO believes that “available estimates probably understate the total extent to which SCHIP has reduced private coverage.” States have tried to discourage this migration by mechanisms like mandatory waiting periods — three months after dropping private insurance, for instance. But these don’t seem to be particularly effective. If this is what SCHIP does now, what would happen if spending were increased by the huge sums the House has approved? Because states would almost certainly respond by expanding eligibility to families making more and more money, the crowding effect would become more pronounced. The bill allows states to enroll families of four making up to $60,000 per year before reducing funding, according to The Wall Street Journal. The Bush administration, meanwhile, says the bill’s terms make it virtually impossible to deny requests from states such as New York, which caps SCHIP eligibility at 400 percent of the federal poverty level, according to The New York Times. That equates to roughly $83,000 for a family of four. Moving the eligibility line in this fashion would enroll more uninsured kids in SCHIP. But the crowding cost would be tremendous, if the CBO’s numbers are to be believed. In 2005, the CBO estimates, 50 percent of kids in families between 100 percent and 200 percent of the poverty level had private coverage. For families making between 200 percent and 300 percent of the poverty level, 77 percent of kids had private insurance. Between 300 percent and 400 percent of the poverty level, 89 percent of kids did. And above 400 percent, 95 percent of kids had private insurance. So the more you expand the SCHIP program, the greater the public cost to help genuinely needy kids. At some point, the program becomes almost entirely an opportunity for middle-class families to dump their private insurance in favor of publicly subsidized insurance. It comes to look surprisingly like universal health care for middle-class families. If you don’t think government should spend billions of dollars doing things it doesn’t need to — and we don’t — this approach doesn’t make much sense. That isn’t to say Uncle Sam should brush side those genuinely needy kids who have no health insurance. This country has a moral obligation to help them, and to that end SCHIP ought to be reauthorized at roughly its current level. To help uninsured kids in wealthier families, however, Congress should find a sensibly targeted mechanism that doesn’t violate its obligation not to abuse or mislead American taxpayers. Last week, 159 House members, including Walden, risked being characterized as ogres for doing the right thing. They deserve credit. Doing the right thing often takes more courage than going along with the crowd.
10.10.2007	October 10, 2007 -WALL STREET JOURNAL CRITICIZES SCHIP 'SLEIGHT-OF-HAND' The Wall Street Journal published the following editorial on the massive and financially unsustainable expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Congressman Walden strongly supports reauthorizing SCHIP and has co-sponsored legislation to do so (HR 3584). But a closed and flawed process led to a flawed and controversial piece of legislation. Read on for The Wall Street Journal's take: SCHIP for EveryoneSeptember 28, 2007 The Beltway political class is shocked that President Bush and his dwindling Republican allies are opposing the Democratic expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. That consensus, as usual, has it backwards. What ought to be shocking is how many Republicans have surrendered or been accomplices in this latest expansion of government health care. The Schip expansion passed the House 265-159 on Tuesday, short of the 290 Members required to override President Bush's imminent veto. Though enough Republicans have joined Democrats for a veto-proof Senate majority, the House vote means Congress will send the President a bill that is dead on arrival. Democrats are already marking this down as a political victory, but it also dismantles the pretense that this fight is all about needy children. The House GOP leadership deserves a great deal of credit for scrounging up enough Members to sustain the veto. Schip was sold in the 1990s as a program to help insure children from low-income families who make too much money to qualify for Medicaid. Hiding under the political cover of "kids," Democrats now want to extend Schip well up the income scale. Meanwhile, many Republicans are going along for the media ride, settling back into their historic minority status as tax collectors for the welfare state. Simply on the basis of fiscal responsibility, opposing Schip is a no-brainer. On paper, the bill expands Schip by $35 billion over the next five years, to a total of $60 billion, well beyond the 20% expansion supported by the Bush Administration. To fill this pot of federal dollars, the Democrats will raise the cigarette excise tax by 61 cents. Naturally, however, there's a budget sleight-of-hand. Known as a "funding cliff," the yearly Schip layout increases to $13.9 billion in 2011, then abruptly cuts spending by 65% below current funding levels. This helps "score" the bill as costing only $35 billion over the five-year budget window, but it also means that come 2012 Congress will either have to pass new spending or kick kids off the rolls. The chances of the latter happening are approximately zero, and GOP Senators Chuck Grassley and Orrin Hatch should be embarrassed for going along with this confidence trick. More broadly, Schip is designed as a ratchet that jacks up the government's share of health-care spending, and every time it grows it steals customers from private insurance. All the more so because states have been raising eligibility levels above the 200% of the federal poverty line that Schip was intended to serve. The Democratic bill raises the effective national level to 300%, and it overrules a sensible Bush Administration directive that states enroll low-income families before subsidizing the middle class. That's because the real Democratic game here is to turn Schip into a new middle-class entitlement. Earlier this year, Hillary Clinton -- who goes out of her way to emphasize Schip as a key mechanism in her new "universal" health-care reform -- introduced Congressional legislation that would raise Schip eligibility to 400%, currently $82,600 for a family of four. That move would qualify no less than 71% of American children for public assistance. This would also lead to the bizarre circumstance in which a family would be entitled to Schip benefits while also paying the Alternative Minimum Tax that is supposed to capture "the rich." According to a Heritage Foundation analysis, if Schip is extended nationally to 400%, about 70,000 families would be rich enough to pay the AMT while also on Schip. So what Democrats take away with higher taxes under the AMT, they would vouchsafe to return in government health care for all. The era of big government is back, and bigger than ever. After President Bush's veto, Democrats intend to keep passing their bill a few more times. Rather than seek a reasonable middle ground with the Administration in order to cover genuinely low-income children, they're going to try to roll the House opposition and perhaps gain the upper hand for the coming fall budget battles. Holding firm is going to be difficult because should-be allies are fleeing the front-lines. Many Republicans are focused on short-term PR, while even groups that ought to know better, like America's Health Insurance Plans (the insurance industry lobby) and PhRMA (the drug makers' lobby), have endorsed the Schip expansion. These big business lobbies are once again selling out taxpayers to appease Democrats, who will go after them next in any case. But most of the blame falls on Senate Republicans, particularly Messrs. Grassley and Hatch. These leaders on the Finance Committee created the facade of "bipartisanship" by signing off on the Democratic plan, whatever its policy results. To adapt Lenin, Republicans are making the rope that will be used to hang them under HillaryCare II.
10.03.2007	Baker, Harney, Malheur, Union, Wallowa counties are 'primary' disaster areas; Walden continues to lead efforts to ensure ranchers and farmers can qualify for additional federal disaster assistance programsOctober 3, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Following weeks of urging from Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), the USDA today confirmed it will make secretarial disaster declarations for Baker, Harney, Malheur, Union, and Wallowa Counties, where a combination of natural disaster conditions have adversely impacted farmers, ranchers, and rural economies. The primary disaster declarations for these counties and the contiguous disaster declarations for Crook, Deschutes, Grant, Lake and Umatilla counties ensure that the counties are eligible to receive federal assistance. “Damaging frost, drought, and catastrophic wildfire pummeled eastern Oregon again this year, placing ranchers and farmers in a very vulnerable economic position,” Walden said. “Disaster declarations for these counties are an important piece of getting the federal assistance to those who need it most. But there is still much work to be done for eastern Oregon.” Baker County: The U.S. Drought Monitor identified the conditions in Baker County as ranging from abnormally dry to moderate and sever drought. It has been the driest year on record since 1944. Harney County: The U.S. Drought Monitor identified the conditions in Harney County as ranging from moderate to severe drought, which increased wildfire intensity. Malheur County: The U.S. Drought Monitor identified the conditions in Malheur County as severe drought. Losses in rangeland grass are estimated at 50 percent, and pasture losses at 80 percent. Union County: Severe frost events in April and May, led to losses in sweet cherries, grain, alfalfa, and seed crops. Ongoing drought conditions that began in the fall of 2006 have led to losses in pasture and rangeland as well as damage to dryland crops. Wallowa County: The U.S. Drought Monitor identified the conditions in Wallowa County as ranging from moderate to sever drought. Stream flow conditions range from below normal to much below normal. Walden is also spearheading a congressional effort to extend the cut-off date for livestock and crop disaster assistance programs established in the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act to December 31, 2007. The current cut-off date is February 28, 2007, which leaves agriculture producers who experienced economic losses after that date without an adequate safety net. With Congressman Mike Simpson (R-Idaho) and Congressman Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia), Walden has enlisted a bipartisan group of more than 40 colleagues from across the country to appeal to the Appropriations Committee to extend the deadline to the end of the year. Walden, through meetings with the Oregon Farm Bureau, Oregon Cattlemen’s Association, and high-ranking USDA officials, is leading the effort to ensure Oregon ranchers and farmers can qualify for additional federal disaster assistance programs:In an August 16 letter to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns, Walden pressed the USDA to release and make available as soon as possible excess funding in the Emergency Conservation Program for those impacted in eastern Oregon by drought and wildfire. ECP funds can be used by ranchers and farmers to rehabilitate lands damaged by wildfire and offset cost of hauling livestock water. Further, Walden also requested that the Secretary authorize emergency grazing of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acreage throughout eastern Oregon, something that was done in 2003 to ensure additional livestock feed.During a Sept. 6 meeting he organized in his office with high-ranking USDA and Farm Service Agency (FSA) officials, Walden urged the USDA to expedite the disaster declaration requests made by the state for Baker, Harney, Union, Klamath, Malheur, and Wallowa counties.On Sept. 7, the USDA announced it would make available $120,000 from the Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) to ranchers affected by drought and wildfire in Baker County and Wallowa County. Walden, who asked for that assistance in his August 16 letter, welcomed the funding but said much more aid is needed.On Sept. 13 and on the heels of Walden’s appeals, the USDA agreed to authorize emergency use of CRP land for livestock producers who lost pastures, BLM grazing land, or fences due to wildfire this summer in Baker, Grant, Harney, Malheur, Morrow, Sherman, Umatilla, and Union Counties. Walden said he would continue to press for further assistance for those affected by drought.Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
09.30.2007	September 30, 2007 - HOOD RIVER, Ore. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement on the passing of Dr. Martha Anne Dow: "My deepest sympathies go out to Gary and her family. Martha Anne was a personal friend and a terrific inspiration. Her enthusiasm and vision accomplished great things for Oregon Institute of Technology and for the people of Klamath County. She gave so much of herself to better OIT and expected nothing in return for herself. Her quiet, effective leadership made a lasting mark on OIT and more importantly on the academic future of the students who have and will study there.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
09.25.2007	September 25, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -CONGRESSMAN WALDEN ON SCHIP Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today issued the following statements following the House passage of H.R. 976, the massive expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). “SCHIP is a successful and worthy program for children across the country in families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid but too little to afford private coverage. I feel strongly that Congress must reauthorize SCHIP and fully fund it, which is why I have cosponsored legislation (HR 3584) to do just that. But what the House voted on today made dramatic and financially unsustainable changes to the current program. “To hide the true cost of the measure, the bill cuts SCHIP funding by approximately 80 percent in FY 2013. It’s logical to presume that the supporters of the bill do not actually intend to cut SCHIP by 80 percent, which would force millions of children off the program. Therefore, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the real cost of the proposal is much more than advertised – likely more than $110 billion, which is more than a doubling of the cost of the current program. Children’s health care should not be predicated on budget gimmicks. “The House Rules Committee did not receive text of the 299-page legislation until 6:30 pm last night, and that was the first time Republicans were allowed to view the proposal we voted on today. The bill came to the House floor without the opportunity to offer amendments or an alternative proposal and without a single hearing. This is no way to legislate. “The President has made it clear that he will veto this measure. So it is frustrating that children’s health care is caught in Washington’s political crosshairs. It’s time for Congress and the White House to sit down in good faith and work out a reauthorization plan for children’s health that can become the law of the land.” ü H.R. 976 shifts the focus of SCHIP away from low-income children Instead of focusing on children who fall in the gap between qualifying for Medicaid and affording private insurance, this bill targets middle class children, many of whom already have health insurance. The result of this “compromise” bill, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), is that 2 million children will be shifted from the private insurance that they currently have to a government-run program. Section 112 of the bill even allows childless adults to continue receiving SCHIP coverage through at least 2011. In fact, CBO also says that 780,000 adults will still be on the program in FY 2012. ü H.R. 976 makes taxpayer-funded healthcare more accessible for illegal aliens A provision in the bill weakens citizenship verification standards. According to the Social Security Administration, the “compromise” bill fails to prevent the following categories of persons from illegally getting healthcare benefits through Medicaid or SCHIP: aliens who are not naturalized citizens; illegal aliens fraudulently using another person’s valid name and Social Security number, and; individuals who have illegally overstayed a valid work permit. ü SMOKERS NEEDED: 22 million new smokers needed to pay for H.R. 976 The bill calls for a $0.61 federal tax increase on packs of cigarettes and taxes on cigars of up to $3 each to generate the billions needed to finance the SCHIP expansion in H.R. 976. The Heritage Foundation estimates that 22.4 million new smokers are needed to generate the revenue required to pay for the expansion voted on today. The cost of H.R. 976 does not figure in the additional medical costs to individuals and society for the 22 million new smokers. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
09.24.2007	Passed tonight: House bill helps protect drug endangered childrenSeptember 24, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) has invited two of the country’s top drug officials to the Second District for a summit next spring with community organizations devoted to fighting drug abuse, and the House of Representatives tonight passed legislation cosponsored by Walden to renew an important grant program that aids innocent children impacted by drug abuse at home. Walden personally extended the invitation to John Walters, the director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (also known as the “drug czar”), and Karen Tandy, the administrator at the Drug Enforcement Agency, during a meeting in the U.S. Capitol with a small group of legislators last week. “Through many extensive town halls I have held throughout the district on the issue of drug abuse, I have seen the alarming effects that drugs like meth can have on individuals, families, and communities,” said Walden, who met with the Central Oregon Drug Enforcement Task Force on Saturday. “A forum where anti-meth and anti-drug coalitions can come together to discuss what is working, what is not working, and what is on the horizon with some of the federal government’s leading authorities on the issue would be extremely beneficial. I want both Director Walters and Administrator Tandy to personally witness the tremendous work and innovative models being developed at the grassroots level in eastern, central, and southern Oregon and to share their valuable expertise with the passionate folks working on the ground to keep our communities clean every day.” The letter that Walden personally delivered to both Walters and Tandy inviting them to attend the meeting can be accessed by clicking here. The date of the forum has yet to be scheduled. House passes the Drug Endangered Children Act The House of Representatives tonight passed legislation cosponsored by Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) that reauthorizes the Drug Endangered Children grant. According to the Drug Enforcement Administration, over 15,000 children were found at methamphetamine labs from 2000 to 2004. This problem is hardly limited to meth. A recent Health and Human Services study found that over 1.6 million children live in a home where at least one parent abuses illicit drugs, including meth, cocaine, heroin, and prescription medicines. “The most vulnerable and innocent victims of meth abuse are the children held hostage in poisonous and harmful homes,” Walden said. “We need to do everything we can to provide local agencies with efficient resources to transition these children to safe residential environments.” The legislation — Drug Endangered Children Act of 2007 (H.R. 1199) — reauthorizes the Drug Endangered Children grant at $20 million for each of the next two years. Money from the grant helps coordinate state and local agencies that provide assistance to drug endangered children and aids the transition of these children to safe residential environments. The legislation now awaits action in the Senate. Other anti-drug bills currently in Congress: Ø Walden cosponsored the Family-Based Meth Treatment Access Act (H.R. 405), which would expand a grant program that provides residential substance abuse treatment to pregnant and postpartum women. The legislation is currently in the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. Ø In February, the House passed the Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act (H.R. 365), which sets federal standards for the remediation of former meth labs. The legislation, co-sponsored by Walden, now awaits action in the Senate. Ø In March, Congress passed the Native American Methamphetamine Enforcement and Treatment Act (H.R. 545), which would ensure that territories and Indian tribes are eligible to receive grants that address the manufacture, sale, and use of methamphetamines. The legislation now awaits action in the Senate. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
09.20.2007	September 20, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Who: Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) What: The congressman will appear with Congressman Brian Baird (D-Wash.) and Tidewater CEO Dennis McVicker at Tidewater’s celebration of 75 years and the christening of its new double-hull petroleum barge, New Vision. Where: Vancouver Landing, Vancouver, Wash.: At the dock west of the Red Lion Hotel at the Quay, 100 Columbia St. When: Friday, Sept. 21, 10:30 am – 11:15 am Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
09.19.2007	September 19, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Coming off his 313th round trip between Oregon and the nation’s capital, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will attend a series of public meetings in Jefferson County and Deschutes County on Saturday. This will be Walden’s second official visit to Jefferson County this year and 17th since taking office, and his 11th official visit to Deschutes County this year and 83rd since taking office. JEFFERSON COUNTY MADRAS – 10 am – 11 am: Congressman Walden will hold a roundtable discussion with the North Unit Irrigation District to discuss the Oregon Water Resources Act, sponsored by Congressman Walden, which the House passed in July. The bill includes the North Unit Irrigation District, which will allow farmers and ranchers on 9,000 acres in the district to receive water conserved on the Deschutes River, reducing diversions from the Crooked River, thus bolstering conservation efforts on that waterway. Location: 2024 NW Beech St., Madras, OR DESCHUTES COUNTY BLACK BUTTE RANCH – 12:30 pm – 1:30 pm: Congressman Walden will meet with regional forest, fire, and emergency services personnel for a briefing on the GW Fire. Following introductions at the Black Butte Ranch Lodge, the group will take a field tour of the fire to see in person the effect of fuels reduction treatment in reducing the severity of the fire. The fire started on August 31 and was contained on Sept. 11. Location: Black Butte Ranch Lodge, 12930 Howksbeard, Black Butte Ranch, OR BEND – 2:30 pm – 3:30 pm: Congressman Walden will meet with the Central Oregon Drug Enforcement (CODE) Task Force to discuss the most recent efforts in Washington, D.C. to help local authorities combat destructive drugs like meth. Walden, who has held seven town halls and many more meetings across the district on the meth epidemic, today met with Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy John Walter and Drug Enforcement Agency Administrator Karen Tandy on Wednesday. At that meeting, Walden hand-delivered a letter to both officials asking them to attend a meth summit he plans to organize for early next spring. That letter is attached. They will also discuss the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant that CODE recently received. Location: Bend P.D., 555 NE 15th Street, Bend, OR Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
09.19.2007	Funding would address critical needs; House members urge funding not 'fall victim to partisan wrangling'September 19, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) joined 43 of his House colleagues to urge Speaker Nancy Pelosi to work quickly to reach a conference agreement with the Senate to pass bipartisan legislation to provide critical funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). On June 15, the House passed the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agency Appropriations Act (H.R. 2642), which funds the VA for FY 2008, by a vote of 409-2. The Senate passed their version of the bill on Sept. 7. “Few issues are more important than adequate funding for our nation’s veterans,” Congressman Walden said in a letter sent to Speaker Pelosi and co-signed by 43 other members of the House (letter attached). “As members of Congress, we have a solemn obligation to fulfill our promises to them. We ask for you to look past the heightened partisanship of our times and unite us on this issue by making it a first priority to quickly bring a stand alone Veterans appropriations bill through congerence so the Congress may present the President with a bill by October 1, 2007.” Recent revelations of substandard conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, coupled with the increase in veterans accessing VA facilities and benefits further illustrates the need for Congress to live up to the promises made to America’s service members and veterans to provide critical funding for military construction projects and vital veterans programs. The House version of the bill increased VA funding by $6 billion over the previous year, one of the largest increases in the history of the VA. Other key provisions of the House bill include: Access to quality health care: Commits $37.1 billion — $2.5 billion over the 2007 amount — for the Veterans Health Administration. Also dedicates $4.1 billion to improve medical services for all veterans, including funds to renovate existing facilities and construct new facilities like the planned community-based outpatient clinic in La Grande. Fairer reimbursement for travel to and from VA hospitals in rural areas: Doubles the reimbursement rate for veterans traveling to and from appointments for medical care. Funding for mental health programs: Provides over $600 million for a new initiative to address mental health and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. Addressing the significant backlog of VA disability claims: Commits $1.6 billion to enable the Department to hire roughly 1,100 additional claims processors to work-down the backlog of benefits claims and to reduce the time to process new claims. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
09.13.2007	Announcement follows urging from Walden for actionSeptember 13, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The USDA announced this week that it has authorized emergency use of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) land for livestock producers who lost pastures, BLM grazing land, or fences due to wildfire this summer in Baker, Grant, Harney, Malheur, Morrow, Sherman, Umatilla, and Union Counties. According to the announcement, producers may apply to their local Farm Services Agency (FSA) office no later than Sept. 30 to temporarily move their livestock to CRP land for no more than 60 days. No payment reduction applies to this authorized exception and no funds are otherwise authorized for water, feed, or other costs. The USDA announcement comes on the heels of an August 16 letter (attached) from Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) to Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns urging that the department authorize emergency use of CRP land for livestock producers affected by both wildfire and drought, and a meeting the congressman convened in his capital office on Sept. 6 with several high-ranking USDA officials, including: · FSA Administrator Teresa Lasseter· FSA Conservation and Environmental Programs Director Robert Stephenson· USDA Congressional Relations Assistant Secretary Linda Strachan “When I called last month for the USDA to do more for the people devastated by extreme drought and catastrophic wildfire in eastern Oregon, this is certainly part of what I requested and I appreciate the Secretary’s willingness to provide much needed resources to these areas,” Walden said. “Unfortunately, this emergency use of CRP land for grazing is limited to people who have been devastated by wildfire and does not include those who have been devastated by drought. They should be included as well. As much work remains to be done, I will continue to urge that all affected livestock producers receive the disaster assistance they deserve from the federal government; after all, agriculture is the backbone of Oregon’s rural economy.” Following a number of meetings Walden held in eastern Oregon this summer with affected ranchers, he sent the August 16 letter asking the USDA to release and make available as soon as possible excess funding in the Emergency Conservation Program for those impacted by drought and wildfire in eastern Oregon. USDA responded by making available $120,000 for those in Baker and Wallowa Counties, but Walden said much more aid would be needed for the region. In a Sept. 6 letter, Walden asked the USDA to expedite the disaster declaration requests made by the state for Baker, Harney, Union, Klamath, Malheur, and Wallowa counties. Walden has also requested a roundtable meeting with regional officials from the FSA, United States Forest Service, BLM, and Natural Resources Conservation Service, along with community leaders and those who make their living off the land early next year to develop a plan to address next year’s wildfires in the hope that streamlined policies and procedures will result in solid communication and quick response to concerns when the emergency hits. The letter requesting that meeting is attached as well. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
09.12.2007	Congressman also announces $6 million grant for Oregon State PoliceSeptember 12, 2007 - MEDFORD, Ore. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced his support of two anti-drug pieces of legislation at a meeting with the Jackson County Meth Task Force. Walden is a member of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, and is in the midst of a swing through southern Oregon following the completion of his 312th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. “Through the many town halls and meetings I have had across the state, I have personally witnessed the total destruction that meth can cause to families and communities,” Walden said. “We must do all we can to control the spread of this scourge and invest in prevention. But we also must find creative ways to help rehabilitate those already affected and protect innocent and vulnerable children who are through no fault of their own caught in the destructive web of meth addiction. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to identify more solutions and funding to fight this terrible epidemic.” Walden also today announced that the Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) will award a $6 million grant to the Oregon State Police to acquire technology that focuses on data information-sharing and/or an enhancement of voice interoperability with regional, state, and federal partners. The funding will support projects aimed at facilitating the sharing of information — either data or voice — across multiple jurisdictions within a region or state, with the ultimate objective of increasing public safety. Walden submitted a letter to the COPS program in support of the Oregon State Police’s application in June. The two bills that Congressman Walden will cosponsor: Family-Based Meth Treatment Access (HR 405): This bill reauthorizes a grant program supporting comprehensive, family-based substance abuse treatment programs, with the goal of creating and expanding 70 more of such programs nationwide over the next five years. When meth abusers are incarcerated and their children placed in the child welfare system, the fiscal costs are astounding and the social costs are immeasurable. There is no doubt that we need tough law enforcement to eradicate meth from our communities. But we should also be willing to lend a helping hand to those who want to stay sober and keep their families together. Drug Endangered Children Act of 2007 (HR 1199): This bill extends funding for a successful program for drug-endangered children at $20 million a year for 2008 and 2009. The Drug Endangered Children grant program provides grants to improve coordination between the state and local agencies that provide assistance to drug endangered children and aid the transition of these children to safe residential environments. According to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), over 15,000 children were found at meth labs from 2000 to 2004. This problem is hardly limited to methamphetamine. A recent Health and Human Services study found that over 1.6 million children live in a home where at least one parent abuses illicit drugs, including meth, cocaine, heroin, and prescription medicines. Congressman Walden is in his fifth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, central and southern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
09.10.2007	Congressman to visit Jackson, Klamath counties to focus on transportation, battling meth, county payments, and the new Center for Health Professions at OITSeptember 10, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will be busy in Jackson and Klamath counties on Wednesday, September 12 following an abbreviated workweek in the nation’s capital. Walden is currently in the midst of his 312th round trip between the Second Congressional District and Washington, D.C. This will be his 84th official visit to Jackson County since taking office and his fifth of 2007. This will be his 48th visit to Klamath County since taking office and his fourth of the year. JACKSON COUNTY MEDFORD – 9 am – 9:45 am: Congressman Walden will meet with the Medford Chamber of Commerce to discuss transportation concerns. MEDFORD – 10 am – 10:45 am: Congressman Walden will attend the regular meeting of the Jackson County Meth Task Force. The congressman helped secure $375,000 in the House version of the FY 2008 Commerce, Justice and State Appropriations Bill for the Oregon Partnership to operate Target Meth Oregon, the Partnership’s statewide strategy to fight meth abuse. He has also held seven town halls across the district and met with many community groups to organize efforts to fight the scourge of meth. United Way of Jackson County, 711 E. Main Street, Medford MEDFORD – 11 am – 11:45 am: Congressman Walden will meet with Association of Oregon and California Counties Executive Director Rocky McVay to discuss congressional efforts to reauthorize and fund the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (county payments). CENTRAL POINT – 11:45 am – 1:15 pm: Congressman Walden will deliver a congressional update to the Central Point Rotary and take questions from the audience. Padgham Pavillion, Jackson County Expo Park, 1 Peninger Road, Central Point KLAMATH COUNTY KLAMATH FALLS – 3:30 PM – 4:30 PM: Congressman Walden will speak at the grand opening of the Center for Health Professions at the Oregon Institute of Technology. Walden is the co-chair of the 172-member bipartisan Rural Health Care Coalition and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, which has jurisdiction over health care issues. 3201 Campus Drive, Klamath FallsCongressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
09.07.2007	Congressman urges additional federal assistance for drought-, wildfire-stricken regionSeptember 7, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The USDA today announced that they would make available $120,000 from the Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) to ranchers affected by drought and wildfire in Baker County and Wallowa County. Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), who through meetings with the Farm Bureau, Oregon Cattlemen’s Association, and high-ranking USDA officials is leading an effort to ensure Oregon ranchers and farmers can qualify for additional federal disaster assistance programs, welcomed the funding but said much more aid is needed. “This year’s drought and wildfire have taken a tremendous toll on Oregon’s ranchers and rural economy,” Walden said. “Tragically, eastern Oregon this year again has been hit hard by drought and catastrophic wildfire, placing ranchers in a very vulnerable economic position. Due to disaster application timelines, legislation and more federal funding will be needed to address impacts in other areas of my district, including Harney, Grant and Malheur counties. That’s why I have been convening meetings with top USDA officials and communicating with the Secretary of Agriculture, and will lead a legislative effort to ensure ranchers and farmers can qualify for critical aid.” In an August 16 letter to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns, Walden pressed the USDA to release and make available as soon as possible excess funding in the Emergency Conservation Program for those impacted in eastern Oregon by drought and wildfire. ECP funds can be used by ranchers and farmers to rehabilitate lands damaged by wildfire and offset cost of hauling livestock water. Further, Walden also requested that the Secretary authorize emergency grazing of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acreage throughout eastern Oregon, something that was done in 2003 to ensure additional livestock feed. This week, Walden again appealed to Secretary Johanns, this time asking for the USDA to expedite the disaster declaration requests made by the state for Baker, Harney, Union, Klamath, Malheur, and Wallowa counties. “Based on the continuing drought conditions with no foreseeable change in the weather patterns, it is imperative that USDA act quickly to ensure livestock producers and farmers in these affected counties would be eligible to receive much needed federal financial assistance,” Walden wrote in the letter, dated September 6. In a meeting Walden organized in his Washington, D.C. office yesterday, he hand-delivered that letter to several high-ranking USDA Farm Service Agency (FSA) officials, including: · USDA Farm Service Agency (FSA) Administrator Teresa Lasseter· FSA Conservation and Environmental Programs Director Robert Stephenson· USDA Congressional Relations Assistant Secretary Linda Strachan During the meeting, Walden told USDA officials that due to statutory and agency application timelines, drought and wildfire affected ranchers in Harney, Grant and Malheur County would not qualify for ECP funds. Walden will work to change the current statutory timelines in order to provide ranchers in other parts of the district with the possibility of qualifying for federal disaster assistance. Both letters, including the disaster declaration requests from the state, are attached to this release. Congressman Walden is in his fifth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, central and southern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
07.31.2007	Cite potential of disrupting work of Klamath Settlement Group, point to thorough IG investigation which found no political interference in Klamath activitiesJuly 31, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -A group of Northwest members of Congress today questioned the timing and motivation of a Natural Resources Committee hearing on political interference in the 2001 Klamath River Basin water crisis. One point of particular concern is the effect the hearing could have on the 26-member Klamath Settlement Group, a forward-looking coalition of stakeholders working toward a November 2007 target date to devise a locally-driven solution to the water conflicts. The delicate discussions have been ongoing between farmers, Indian tribes, fishermen and conservation groups for two years. The lawmakers also cited a 2004 letter from Department of the Interior Inspector General Earl Devaney (appointed by the Clinton administration in 1999), in response to a request from Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.) to investigate allegations of political interference in the Klamath Basin. An excerpt from the full letter is below: “None of the individuals we interviewed – including the Whistleblower – was able to provide any competent evidence that the Department utilized suspect scientific data or suppressed information that was contained in economic and scientific reports related to the Klamath Project…[W]e found no evidence of political influence affecting the decisions pertaining to the water in the Klamath Project… The consistent denial of political influence by government officials was corroborated by the view of the outside scientists and one former DOI official, all of whom denied feeling any pressure – political or otherwise.” Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.): “The work of the Klamath Settlement Group is of paramount importance; only they can produce a long-term and locally-driven resolution for competing constituencies to endorse. But this hearing will contribute zero substance to their work. If anything, it risks renewing old rivalries and heightening tensions among stakeholders. Anyone who is serious about a comprehensive resolution for the Klamath Basin would not have called this hearing, especially at this time.” Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.): “The Endangered Species Act has a huge impact in the Pacific Northwest and dictates how we use our land and water, how we transport our goods to market and even how much our electricity bills cost each month. What happened to the Klamath Project farming community and the wildlife refuge is one further example of why we need to enact common sense reforms to the Endangered Species Act. We need to focus on a collaborative approach that is based on independent peer-reviewed science. In the future, I hope we can concentrate our efforts on the future of the Klamath Project and the positive negotiations and discussions currently taking place.” Congressman Wally Herger (R-Calif.): “Political finger-pointing inside the Beltway will do nothing to address the difficult issues in the Klamath Basin. Instead of trying to score political points and rehashing unproven myths, the Natural Resources Committee should instead be embracing the positive actions that Klamath Basin farmers and others are taking to reach a predictable and stable solution on the river.” Congressman John T. Doolittle (R-Calif.): “I am perplexed by the attempts of my Democratic colleagues to politicize the Klamath issue by calling for a congressional hearing at the worst possible time. The primary stakeholders comprised of a 26-member Klamath Settlement Group are very close to an agreement and have not asked for a congressional hearing of any kind. If the Democrats insist on meddling, they should at least be having the hearings in California instead of Washington, where those most impacted by the situation would have the best chance to be heard.” ###
07.30.2007	July 30, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHAT: A town hall dinner with Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore). The Congressman will provide an update on the latest happenings in Washington, D.C. and take questions and comments from the audience. This is the latest in his summer series of town hall meetings across the district. WHEN: Monday, August 6 6 pm WHERE: Lear’s Main Street Pub and Grill 111 West Main Street Enterprise, OR RSVP: Judy Wortman (541) 426-3742 Attendees will have the option of purchasing dinner directly through the restaurant, but are not required to do so to participate. Congressman Greg Walden has completed 308 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
07.26.2007	House Leaders: "We still need to pass the Broadcaster Freedom Act to prevent any future chairman from restoring The Fairness Doctrine"July 26, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Federal Communications Commission Chairman Kevin J. Martin responded to an inquiry from Congressmen Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Mike Pence (R-Ind.), saying he sees “no compelling reason to reinstate the Fairness Doctrine.” Click here for an AP story that was just filed: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/07/26/AR2007072600794.html. Excerpt from Martin’s letter: In my judgment, the events of the last two decades have confirmed the wisdom of the Commission’s decision to abolish the Fairness Doctrine. Discussion of controversial issues over the airwaves has flourished absent regulatory constraints, and the public now enjoys access to an ever-expanding range of views and opinions. Indeed, with the continued proliferation of additional sources of information and programming, including satellite broadcasting and the Internet, the need for the Fairness Doctrine has lessened ever further since 1987. In short, I see no compelling reason to reinstate the Fairness Doctrine in today’s broadcast environment, and believe that such a step would inhibit the robust discussion of issues of public concern over the nation’s airwaves. Congressmen Walden and Pence issued the following statement following receipt of Chairman Martin’s letter: “We commend the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission for his commitment to free and independent airwaves in America. Chairman Martin’s comments should encourage millions who cherish the vigorous debate of American talk radio. Nevertheless it is imperative that Congress pass the Broadcaster Freedom Act to ensure that no future administration or FCC chairman have the power to reinstate the Fairness Doctrine without an act of Congress. Congress should heed the call of Chairman Martin and permanently reject the Fairness Doctrine by enacting the Broadcast Freedom Act into law.” The Broadcaster Freedom Act, H.R. 2905, has 143 cosponsors. ###
07.26.2007	July 26, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The House Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations bill includes hundreds of millions of dollars to address the methamphetamine epidemic and other drug use, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced today. The bill, which is expected to pass the House later today, still needs to be approved by the Senate and signed into law by the President. “Often during my regular meetings in towns across our district, people come up to me to share their heartbreaking, personal stories of the devastation methamphetamine abuse has inflicted on their family, friends, or entire community,” Congressman Walden said. “Programs like Byrne JAG and COPS give local enforcement important tools to keep our communities safe and drug free. I am proud to join my colleagues in supporting them, and will continue to do so in the future.” Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program (Byrne-JAG) - $600 millionThe Byrne-JAG program facilitates collaboration among law enforcement, prosecution, corrections, treatment and prevention programs. While Congressman Walden requested $1.1 billion for the program, it represents a step up from the President’s proposal to consolidate it with 12 other justice programs and provide $350 million in funding. Community Oriented Policy Services (COPS) - $725 millionThe COPS program helps state and local law enforcement agencies hire more police officers as part of a national effort to reduce all forms of crime and keep communities safe. Included in the funding:· $30,000,000 for the matching grant program for armor vests for law enforcement officers· $85,000,000 for grants to address public safety and methamphetamine manufacturing, sale, and use in hot spots· $128,000,000 for law enforcement technologies and interoperable communications· $15,000,000 for an offender re-entry program;· $12,000,000 for grants to upgrade criminal records, as authorized under the Crime Identification Technology Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 14601);· $175,000,000 for a DNA analysis and capacity enhancement program, and for other local, State, and Federal forensic activities, of which not less than $151,000,000 shall be for reducing and eliminating the backlog of DNA samples and for increasing State and local DNA laboratory capacity;· $18,000,000 for improving tribal law enforcement, including equipment and training;· $80,000,000 for programs to reduce gun crime and gang violence;· $4,000,000 for training and technical assistance;· $49,692,000 for the Office of Weed and Seed Strategies,· $28,308,000 for program management and administration; and· $100,000,000 for grants under section 1701 of title I of the 1968 Act (42 U.S.C. 3796dd) for the hiring and rehiring of additional career law enforcement officers under part Q of such title notwithstanding subsection Drug Court Discretionary Grant - $40 millionCongressman Walden requested $40 million for this program, which provides financial and technical assistance to states, state courts, local courts, units of local government, and Indian tribal governments to develop and implement treatment drug courts that integrate substance abuse treatment, mandatory drug testing, sanctions and incentives, and transitional services in a judicially supervised court setting. Drug Enforcement Agency - $2.1 billionThat funding level is $40 million more than the President’s request and $125 million above the FY 2007 level. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, Central, and southern Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
07.25.2007	July 25, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (OR-2), Congresswoman Darlene Hooley (OR-5), Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), and Congressman David Wu (OR-1) joined together to announce $375,000 in federal funding for the Oregon Partnership to combat methamphetamine abuse in Oregon. The Oregon members secured the federal investment in the FY 2008 Commerce, Justice and State Appropriations Act (H.R. 3093), poised to pass the U.S. House of Representatives this week. Oregon Partnership will use the funds to operate Target Meth Oregon, a statewide multi-pronged strategy that empowers citizen leaders, parents, business and faith leaders, and youth to take back their communities from methamphetamine abuse. Target Meth Oregon will create a community organizing guide, produce localized anti-meth advertisements, and operate a 24/7 Crisis Line accessible from throughout the state. The funds will also be used to produce Youth Voices / Youth Choices, an innovative student-driven film project providing students the opportunity to write and produce their own documentary on methamphetamine abuse. “Across the state, Oregon Partnership educates local leaders on how to identify meth abuse and production in their communities, and provides creative drug prevention programs that speak directly to Oregon’s youth,” Congressman Walden said. “The far-reaching effects of meth on human life and the environment are tremendously devastating, and the federal investment we secured in the House will help Oregon Partnership continue to lead the fight against this terrible scourge. I stand with the rest of the delegation and Oregon Partnership in continuing to make the campaign against meth a top priority for the state.” “Never in my three decades of public service have I seen a problem more pervasive or damaging than the meth epidemic,” said Congresswoman Hooley, a member of the Congressional Caucus to Fight & Control Methamphetamine. “Meth started as a West Coast drug but it’s spreading across the country like wildfire, destroying families and devastating communities in its wake. Identity theft and other crimes associated with meth abuse continue to threaten our economy and it is only with a united front that we will be able to stop this epidemic.” “Local communities are spending millions of dollars to mitigate the consequences of methamphetamine addiction at a time when they can least afford to do so,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Meth use and addiction pose grave problems for every community in Oregon. We’re making great strides in the fight against this serious epidemic. I am pleased the federal government is helping us by funding the Oregon Partnership, which will help further the campaign against methamphetamine abuse.” "Our collective voice needs to be louder than those pushing the methamphetamine that creates havoc in our communities,” Congressman Wu said. “With these funds, Oregon Partnership will have the resources to arm even more community members in the fight against methamphetamine, and for safe communities and healthy kids.” Oregon Partnership is a statewide non-profit that promotes healthy kids and communities through drug and alcohol awareness, prevention programs, and a 24 hour crisis line for treatment referrals. Oregon Partnership works with schools and community coalitions statewide and provides resources to educate on the dangers of substance abuse. # # #
07.24.2007	Program funding helps maintain service to Eastern Oregon Regional Airport in PendletonJuly 24, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -An amendment in the House Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations bill will provide an additional $15 million in funding for Essential Air Service (EAS), which will benefit 109 EAS airports nationwide, including Eastern Oregon Regional Airport in Pendleton. The bill still must be approved by the Senate and signed by the President. “EAS provides critical air service to eastern Oregon,” Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) said. “We will continue to fight for the much-needed assistance in this program that helps maintain the flights to and from Eastern Oregon Regional Airport.” EAS provides direct funding from the Department of Transportation to airlines allowing them to provide air service in communities that otherwise wouldn’t be able to sustain service. In 2006, Congress passed the Deficit Reduction Act which included language authorizing an additional $15 million for EAS in 2007 and 2008. Unfortunately, language included in the 2005 Deficit Reduction Act also contained a trigger that required Congress to fund EAS at no less than $110 million in those years in order for the $15 million to be made available. However, in this year’s bill, EAS was funded $600,000 below the necessary level to release the additional funds. The House Appropriations Committee fixed that with an amendment to increase the funding level of EAS to $110 million, in turn triggering the additional $15 million in funding. EAS dedicates $748,440 to ensure Horizon Air provides services to Pendleton, which includes three one-stop (via Pasco, Washington) or nonstop round trips from to Portland each weekday and four over each weekend. “EAS subsidies provide the necessary funding possible to maintain service in Pendleton and gives us time to grow into a situation where we may no longer need subsidies,” said Larry Dalrymple, the economic development director for the city of Pendleton. “It is far easier to grow an existing service than to start one from scratch.” Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, Central, and southern Oregon. He is co-chair of the House Rural Health Care Coalition. # # #
07.23.2007	Bill benefits the public, water users and environment in Crook, Deschutes, Jefferson, Jackson and Wallowa counties; awaits action in SenateJuly 23, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The House of Representatives today passed with unanimous support the Oregon Water Resources Management Act, sponsored by Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.). The bill, H.R. 495, addresses four separate water conservation and dam safety projects in southern, eastern, and central Oregon. It was also approved by the House last year, but did not receive action in the Senate. “These acts provide important tools to help balance land use, conservation, and public safety. Proper management of water is one of the most serious issues in many parts of Oregon, and the projects included in this bill see to it that water is handled the right way,” Walden said. “Now that the Oregon Water Resources Management Act has received solid bipartisan support for two straight sessions, I will continue to work closely with the Senate to ensure that this legislation gets to the President’s desk as quickly as possible so we can deliver sound results for water users, conservation groups and the public across Oregon." Similar legislation in the Senate has been introduced in the form of individual bills. They have not yet been taken up on the Senate floor. Oregon Water Resources Management Act Ø DESCHUTES, CROOK, JEFFERSON COUNTIES: The Deschutes River Conservancy Reauthorization Act The Deschutes River Conservancy (DRC) Reauthorization Act reauthorizes the DRC and allows for $2 million in annual federal assistance through 2015. Its authorization expired in 2006; without it, the DRC is not eligible for federal investments. The DRC was originally authorized by Congress in 1996 to implement water conservation measures in the Deschutes River Basin. The DRC has brought together landowners, environmentalists, tribes and local governments to find common ground and achieve successes through efforts such as riparian area fencing, the planting of trees, reconstructing stream beds and enhancing stream flows in the Deschutes River Basin. Congressman Walden has worked closely with the DRC since he was first elected and has toured many of their projects over the last eight years. H.R. 495 would also ensure that the agriculture community continues to have a place at the table by devoting two seats on the DRC Board to represent farmers actively irrigating more than 100 acres of land. “The Deschutes River Conservancy is delighted to hear that the Oregon Water Resources Management Act was passed by the House,” said Tod Heisler, executive director of the DRC. “The act will help to restore Oregon’s rivers and streams while providing demonstrable benefits to farmers as well. We are grateful for Congressman Walden’s foresight and leadership on this bill that is so important for the future of all Oregonians.” Ø JEFFERSON COUNTY The North Unit Irrigation District Act The North Unit Irrigation District (NUID) provides farmers and ranchers in a 50,000 acre area in Jefferson County with irrigation water from the Deschutes River. The legislation allows farmers and ranchers on 9,000 acres in the district to receive water conserved on the Deschutes River, reducing diversions from the Crooked River. The proposed changes would strictly adhere to existing Oregon law and directly benefit 900 farmers and ranchers in Deschutes County who grow alfalfa hay, grass seed, garlic seed and carrot seed as well as raise cattle, sheep, horses and other livestock. Congressman Walden has met several times with NUID management to discuss the positive conservation and water delivery aspects of this legislation. “All of the 900 families who farm and ranch in the North Unit Irrigation District greatly appreciate Congressman Walden’s hard work to pass our water conservation legislation in the House of Representatives,” said Richard Macy, chairman of the North Unit Irrigation District Board of Directors. “Once enacted, the legislation will allow our district to work with the State of Oregon and others to conserve water, conserve energy and to return water back to the Deschutes River for salmon and steelhead.” Ø WALLOWA COUNTY The Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act The Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to provide grants or enter into cooperative agreements — with tribes, the state, local governments and the Associated Ditch Companies — to plan, design and repair Wallowa Lake Dam and preserve the valuable water recreation site behind the dam. The bill would authorize $6 million in federal assistance and require an even cost share match between federal and local dollars. Rehabilitation of the Wallowa Lake Dam, which has been identified as a high-hazard structure by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, is very important to both the safety and economy of the local community, and this legislation would help advance local efforts to see such work completed. Congressman Walden has worked with county commissioners and the Associated Ditch Companies and held a number of meetings on the legislation leading up to its final draft. “The Wallowa County Board of Commissioners recognizes the accomplishment of Congressman Greg Walden in the passage of the Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act,” said Wallowa County Commissioner Ben Boswell. “The concerns of all have been considered and addressed as the authorization of federal funds will mitigate the impact of federal regulations without loss of local control.” Ø JACKSON COUNTY The Little Butte/Bear Creek Subbasins Water Feasibility Act The Little Butte/Bear Creek Subbasins Water Feasibility Act would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to conduct a much-needed water management feasibility study at the Little Butte and Bear Creak watersheds as outlined in the agency’s agreement with Medford for the Water for Irrigation, Streams and the Economy (WISE) project. This legislation would help foster collaborative efforts between federal, state and local governments all working together on the WISE project to benefit cities, irrigators, fish and the environment throughout the Rogue Valley. Congressman Walden helped pass this legislation twice previously in the House while it has not passed in the Senate, and he will continue to support locally-based water conservation projects. "The Water for Irrigation, Streams and the Economy (WISE) Project Advisory Committee is very pleased to hear of the passage of H.R. 495 in the House, and wants to thank Congressman Walden for his efforts on this legislation, which has been in the works since late 2003,” said Jim Hill, the Water Reclamation Division administrator for the city of Medford. “Passage of H.R. 495 will allow us to proceed with the WISE Project Feasibility Study and Environmental Impact Statement, the first step in assuring comprehensive water management for the future of the Rogue Valley in southern Oregon." Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
07.20.2007	Visit to Bend wraps up busy two-day, four-county swing around the Second DistrictJuly 20, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will arrive in Central Oregon from Harney County on Saturday evening to attend the annual Sagebrush Classic fundraiser. The 2006 Sagebrush Classic hosted 1,300 guests and helped raise $250,000 for 19 nonprofit organizations serving children and families in Deschutes County and Central Oregon. Congressman Walden completed his 307th round trip between the Second District and Washington, D.C. when he returned to Oregon this morning. Over the weekend he will visit four counties — Jackson, Klamath, Harney and Deschutes — before returning to Washington D.C. Monday morning. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, Central, and southern Oregon. He is co-chair of the House Rural Health Care Coalition. # # #
07.20.2007	Will fight to keep funds in legislation sent to PresidentJuly 20, 2007 - KLAMATH FALLS, Ore. -Congressman Walden (R-Ore.) secured $950,000 in funding for the Oregon Institute of Technology (OIT) in two separate appropriations bills approved by the House this week, he announced during a visit to Klamath Falls to tour OIT. The bills still need to be reconciled with Senate versions that do not include the funding and must be signed by the President. “OIT does incredible work advancing the future of applied technology and professional studies in southern Oregon and the state as a whole and these funds could only bolster those efforts,” Walden said. “I am proud to represent OIT and will continue to do everything I can to support the superb programs, staff, faculty, and students at the institute.” The funding was included in the form of two separate earmarks in House appropriations bills: Ø $350,000 in the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill for the Oregon Center for Health Professions at OIT The House of Representatives approved this appropriations bill with the funding Walden secured on July 19. The Senate version had no funding for OIT, so Walden will be urging our senators to defer to the House version in the conference report. The equipment will be used by students in allied health profession courses for on-campus practice that will allow the next generation of health professionals to immediately enter the area’s medical centers and clinics upon graduation. About 600 students per year would use the machines. OIT is the only university in Oregon that offers bachelor’s degrees in a variety of allied health professions including dental hygiene, respiratory care, ultrasound, echocardiography, and radiological science. "This earmark is an added bonus of federal support for this much-needed Center,” said OIT President Martha Anne Dow. “It will help us equip our allied health programs with state-of-the-industry equipment which is very expensive. We appreciate Congressman Walden's longstanding support of OIT." Ø $600,000 in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill for the Geo-Heat Center at OIT The House of Representatives approved this appropriations bill with the funding Walden secured on July 17. Again, the Senate must agree to include these funds in the version of the bill that goes to the President. This money would help OIT construct a high-temperature geothermal power plant on campus. When the Geothermal Power Generation Project is complete, OIT will be the only campus in the world to satisfy all of its electricity needs from a geothermal energy source. The power plant would use high-temperature water and steam from a 5,000- to 6,000-foot deep geothermal well to generate approximately one megawatt of electricity. Walden is the co-chair of the House Northwest Energy Caucus, the vice-chair of the House Renewable Energy Caucus, and is a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. "OIT is grateful for the support of Congressman Greg Walden and the outstanding work he has done for the university,” Dow said. “I was pleased to hear that Congressman Walden has secured $600,000 for our geothermal power generation facility. The geothermal facility is an exciting, one-of-a-kind project. When the plant comes to fruition, OIT will be the first university in the world to be fully powered by geothermally-produced electricity. This power plant will help teach current and future generations of students about the practical applications of an important renewable energy source. We know how hard Congressman Walden worked to secure this funding, and we appreciate his efforts and commitment to the students at OIT." Congressman Walden has made all his earmark requests public on his website. Click here to view the full list of submitted requests. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, Central, and southern Oregon. He is co-chair of the House Rural Health Care Coalition. # # #
07.19.2007	Congressman to speak to Medford Rogue Rotary, visit Klamath County to make federal funding announcement for OIT, speak at 25th anniversary banquet for Klamath HospiceJuly 19, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden will complete his 307th round trip between the Second District Oregon and Washington, D.C. when he returns to Oregon late Thursday night. Over the weekend he will visit four counties — Jackson, Klamath, Harney and Deschutes — before returning to Washington D.C. on Monday morning. FRIDAY, JULY 20 11:00 AM – 11:55 AMMedford Air Tanker Base, 600 Nebula Way, MedfordCongressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will visit the Medford Air Tanker Base to receive a briefing on current firefighting efforts and participate in a roundtable discussion with BLM, U.S. Forest Service, and Oregon Department of Forestry officials. In 2003, Congressman Walden, along with Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), secured $1.2 million in federal funds to ensure that the Medford Air Tanker Base would remain operational. In 2006, Congressman Walden led with Congressman Brian Baird the effort to pass the Forest Emergency and Recovery Research Act (FERRA), which passed the House with solid bipartisan support but received no consideration in the Senate. FERRA would have given local forest managers the tools they need to more quickly restore the health of federal forests. The two lawmakers are discussing plans to introduce another piece of forest legislation later this year. On Saturday, July 21, Congressman Walden will travel to Burns to meet with fire officials and ranchers who have been battling catastrophic blazes in Harney County. A list of the officials who are expected to attend:Carl Gossard, Bureau of Land Management, State Fire Management OfficerTim Reuwsaat, Bureau of Land Management, Medford District ManagerDan Thorpe, Oregon Department of Forestry, District ForesterM.J. Harvie, Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest, Fire Management OfficerTom Murphy, Bureau of Land Management, Fire Management OfficerMark Glos, Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest, Deputy Fire Management OfficerJim Whittington, Bureau of Land Management, Public AffairsPatty Burel, Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest, Public NOON – 1:30 PMMedford Rogue RotaryRed Lion, 200 N. Riverside Avenue, MedfordCongressman Walden will attend the Medford Rogue Rotary meeting to deliver a congressional update. 3:30 PM – 4:30 PMOIT Snell Hall, 3201 Campus Drive, Klamath FallsCongressman Greg Walden will visit the Oregon Institute of Technology to announce new federal funding he has secured in House legislation for the university’s Geo-Heat Center and its Oregon Center for Health Professions. Following remarks, Congressman Walden, OIT Acting President David Woodall, and other university officials will take a tour the university’s facilities. The Center for Health Professions will allow program capacity to double the number of graduates over 2004 levels in the highly-competitive professional programs offered by OIT. 6 PMBalsiger Building, 1305 Main St, Klamath FallsCongressman Walden will deliver remarks at the anniversary banquet celebrating Klamath Hospice’s 25th anniversary in the community. Klamath Hospice, Inc., serves the greater Klamath area and northern California with end-of-life care for the terminally ill and their families, regardless of individual circumstances. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, Central, and southern Oregon. # # #
07.19.2007	July 19, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden will complete his 307th round trip between the Second District Oregon and Washington, D.C. when he returns to Oregon late Thursday night. Over the weekend he will visit four counties — Jackson, Klamath, Harney and Deschutes — before returning to Washington D.C. on Monday morning. WHO: Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) WHEN: Saturday, July 21, 2007 11:15 am – 12:15 pm:Wildfire briefing with the U.S. Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, and Harney County Sherriff 12:15 pm – 1:15 pm: Discussion, information and legislative update with ranchers WHERE: Harney County Fairgrounds WHAT: Congressman Walden will receive a briefing from the U.S. Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, and Harney County Sherriff on the wildfire fighting efforts in the area. That will be followed by a lunchtime conversation between Congressman Walden and area ranchers to discuss the devastation of the fire, suppression efforts and types of federal programs which may be available to provide assistance to impacted ranches. Many ranchers who have experienced severe wildfire damage have called Congressman Walden’s office to request his assistance on federal relief options. Congressman Walden rearranged his weekend work schedule to charter a plane to Harney County to learn their specific needs so he can work to deliver assistance as effectively as possible. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, Central, and southern Oregon.###
07.18.2007	July 18, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. - Nellie deVries of Medford, Ore. began an internship in the Washington, D.C. office of Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) at the end of June. DeVries’ internship will last three months and she will help out with the day-to-day operations of the office.“Nellie is certainly a bright and motivated young woman,” Walden said. “She will pitch in on the many responsibilities of the office and should get a good idea for the inner-workings of Congress. I hope she finds her time here to be fulfilling.” DeVries, a 22-year-old native of Medford, graduated from Saint Mary’s High School in 2004. She is currently studying political science and speech communication at Oregon State University. For the past year, Nellie worked part time in Salem for state Representative Karen Minnis (R-Wood Village) and Senator Ted Ferrioli (R-John Day). “I am looking forward to making the most of this rewarding opportunity to serve my home district,” deVries said. “In just a couple of weeks, I have seen how busy Congressman Walden’s office works on topics important to the Second District, from county payments to rural health care to veterans’ affairs and many other issues.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in eastern, central, and southern Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Climate Change and Energy Independence. ###
07.17.2007	July 17, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today reiterated to Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings the state’s priorities for the reauthorization of No Child Left Behind (NCLB) law at a bipartisan education forum in the Capitol. “As a parent of a high school student attending public school in Oregon, I know how hard our teachers work to help students reach their potential,” Congressman Walden said. “It’s important to both know where progress is being made, and where more work remains. I told Secretary Spellings that it is a priority for the Oregon delegation to permit the use of growth models to determine student academic growth. We should be able to measure classes as they progress from year to year to recognize the continuous improvement that a group of students makes.” Walden’s discussion with Spellings complemented a letter he sent with the Oregon delegation to the House Education and Labor Committee and the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committee relaying six federal education priorities they wish to see incorporated into NCLB when it is reauthorized. These priorities were identified with Oregon Superintendent of Public Instruction Susan Castillo and include:Enhancing State Accountability Systems — Allow states to use growth modeling in determining individual student academic growth;Reinforcing State Assessment Decisions — Respect each state’s ability to develop federal law-compliant, innovative, accurate and effective assessment tools;Creating Rewards and Differentiate Consequences — Shift from focusing on consequences to supporting proactive state and local solutions, providing incentives and celebrating success;Providing Incentives for Technology-Based Testing — Promote cost-effective, technology-based, adaptive testing assessment systems;Addressing Special Populations — Use alternate assessments for students with disabilities and English language learners (ELL) that more accurately reflect student gains; and,Supporting Teacher Quality — Allow for greater flexibility regarding Highly Qualified Teacher (HQT) requirements to help states retain effective educators.The Tuesday meeting in the Capitol was between a small bipartisan group of lawmakers and Spellings to discuss No Child Left Behind (NCLB) reauthorization, particularly as it relates to accountability for schools that have been categorized as “in need of improvement” for five years. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, Central, and southern Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
07.16.2007	Congressman will deliver address at Klamath Hospice's 25th anniversary banquet and fundraiserJuly 16, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -FRIDAY, JULY 20 3:30 pmOregon Institute of TechnologyOregon Center for Health ProfessionsCongressman Greg Walden will visit the Oregon Institute of Technology to announce new federal funding he has secured in House legislation for the university and its Oregon Center for Health Professions. Following remarks, Congressman Walden, OIT Acting President David Woodall, and other university officials will take a tour of the first wing of the Center. The Center will allow program capacity to double the number of graduates over 2004 levels in the highly-competitive professional programs offered by OIT. 6 pm1305 Main St, Klamath FallsCongressman Walden will appear as a special guest and deliver remarks at the anniversary banquet celebrating Klamath Hospice’s 25th anniversary in the community. Klamath Hospice, Inc., serves the greater Klamath area and northern California with end-of-life care for the terminally ill and their families, regardless of individual circumstances. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, Central, and southern Oregon. He is co-chair of the House Rural Health Care Coalition. # # #
07.13.2007	'Great news' for Umatilla Basin Project, Port of Umatilla, Walla Walla River welcomed by local project managersJuly 13, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Walden (R-Ore.) secured major funding in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill moving through the House for the Umatilla Basin Project, the Port of Umatilla, and an environmental restoration study for the Walla Walla River. “The basin project, the port, and the health of the Walla Walla River are all important projects with strong local support in Umatilla County,” Congressman Walden said. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate to ensure that these funds reach the local projects that deserve them so much.” Details on the projects, plus reaction from project managers, follow: The Port of Umatilla would receive $500,000. The money will contribute toward an incremental expansion of the facility at Pendleton Grain Growers and will assist the Port of Umatilla with the shipping and transportation aspects of the project. “The Port of Umatilla is very pleased with the opportunity this appropriation represents to our local growers,” said Kim Puzey, the general manager of the Port of Umatilla. “We appreciate Congressman Walden for moving our request forward to this point.” The Umatilla Basin Water Supply Project would receive $500,000. The money will allow the Bureau of Reclamation to finish its supply study on time in 2008. The Umatilla Basin Water Supply Study has been requested and is being supported by the tribe, the state, Westland Irrigation District and other parties in the Umatilla Basin. “This is great news,” said Antone Minthorn, chairman of the board of trustees for the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla. “Congressman Walden is to be commended for his leadership and his unyielding commitment to resolve the water supply problems in the Umatilla Basin and for the Confederated Umatilla Tribes. Hearing yesterday that Congressman Walden was successful in getting this congressional appropriation for the Umatilla Basin is just the kind of positive news we need to move forward with speed and resolve to address our most pressing water supply and economic development needs.” “This is great news for Westland Irrigation District and the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation as we partner together seeking long-term water solutions in the Umatilla Basin, and we sincerely appreciate the efforts and leadership of Congressman Walden in this important effort,” said Westland Irrigation District Mike Wick. $200,000 would be dedicated to completing an environmental restoration study on the Walla Walla River. “We are very pleased the House has included planning funds essential for our farms, local communities, and federally listed fish species. Congressman Walden has knows our issues and works hard to make sure we have the tools to address them,” said Walla Walla Basin Watershed Council Director Brian Wolcott. Congressman Walden has made all his earmark requests public on his website. Click here to view the full list of submitted requests. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, Central, and southern Oregon. He is co-chair of the House Rural Health Care Coalition. # # #
07.02.2007	Over 50 Bipartisan Members Support Improvements to the Rural Health Care SystemJuly 2, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -In an effort to further improve rural Americans’ access to quality health care, Congressmen Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Earl Pomeroy (D-N.D.) – co-chairs of the House Rural Health Care Coalition (RHCC) – introduced H.R. 2860, the Health Care Access and Rural Equity Act (H-CARE). This bipartisan legislation, which was introduced with 52 co-sponsors, is a comprehensive bill that makes several improvements to our nation’s health care infrastructure. The improvements will help rural health care providers address the unique challenges associated with delivering quality health care close to home in rural areas like Oregon’s Second Congressional District. “Rural caregivers and rural patients deserve a better partner in the federal government when it comes to the health of rural America,” Walden said. “It is high time that rural America stops being treated like a second-class constituency when it comes to issues like Medicare reimbursement. The H-CARE Act delivers commonsense solutions to obstacles that can inhibit the delivery of quality health care to millions of Americans.” “People living in rural areas face unique challenges to receiving adequate health care, including access to hospitals and shortages of healthcare providers,” Pomeroy said. “The H-CARE Act will ensure that people living in rural states like North Dakota won’t have to drive hours to see a specialist or lose critical time waiting for an ambulance to arrive. H.R. 2860 will: Authorize health information technology grants for rural practitioners.Provide flexibility in the number of beds Critical Access Hospitals are allowed to fill.Require prompt payment to rural pharmacies by Medicare prescription drug plans.Ensure adequate rural representation on the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission.Establish a Rural Heath Quality Advisory Commission.Raise Rural Health Clinic reimbursements to more appropriately cover costs.Extend several expiring Medicare adjustment payments for rural practitioners including physicians practicing in physician-scarce areas, rural ambulance providers, rural home health agencies and specific classes of rural hospitals. “On behalf of millions of rural Americans, I thank Representatives Pomeroy and Walden for their support of rural health,” said George Miller, President of the National Rural Health Association. “The membership of the NRHA is thrilled with the introduction of the H-CARE Act of 2007 that helps the entire landscape of the rural health system strengthen the quality of its care. We will work to make sure this vital message of access to quality care for all Americans is heard in the halls of Congress.” To date, 14 national organizations have endorsed the H-CARE Act including the National Rural Health Association, American Hospital Association, American Osteopathic Association, American Ambulance Association, National Association of Rural Health Clinics, National Association for Home Care and Hospice, College of American Pathologists, Rural Referral Center/Sole Community Hospital Coalition, Federation of American Hospitals, American Counseling Association, American Association for Marriage and Family Therapists, Association of Community Pharmacists, the Section 508 Hospital Coalition and the American Mental Health Counselors Association. Congressman Greg Walden is in his fifth term representing Oregon’s Second District; Congressman Earl Pomeroy is in his eighth term as the at-large representative for North Dakota. Both represent areas where residents are cared for primarily through the rural health care system ###
06.30.2007	Congressman to hold roundtable talks with Meth Action CoalitionJune 30, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will visit Central Oregon for a speaking engagement with the Redmond Rotary and for a roundtable meeting with the Deschutes County Meth Action Coalition (MAC). Congressman Walden will be in the midst of a District swing during the Independence Day District Work Period. On Tuesday, July 3 he will be in southern Oregon to conduct town halls in Medford and Grants Pass. He will also hold town halls on July 14 in Ontario and Prineville. The Prineville town hall will be held at the County Meeting Room from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Congressman Walden has held seven town hall meetings on methamphetamine use in central, southern and eastern Oregon and considers providing federal tools to get control of its use a top priority. He will provide an update of what is happening in Washington, D.C. to help fight this devastating scourge and receive updates from the diverse group of local leaders. Attached is the letter he wrote to participants of the MAC’s Meth Summit on June 18. DETAILS: Redmond Rotary Juniper Golf Club Noon – 1 p.m. Meth Action Coalition Roundtable Meeting Becky Johnson Center 412 SW 8th Street, Redmond, OR 97756 2 p.m. – 3 p.m. Congressman Greg Walden has completed 305 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. This will be his 79th official visit to Deschutes County as a representative for the Second District. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
06.30.2007	June 30, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHAT: A town hall meeting with Congressman Greg Walden. The Congressman will provide an update on the latest happenings in Washington, D.C. and take questions and comments from the audience. WHEN: Saturday, July 14 8:30 a.m. - 9:30 a.m. (MDT) WHERE: Treasure Valley Community College - #10 Weese Building 650 College Blvd. Ontario, OR Congressman Greg Walden has completed 305 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
06.29.2007	June 29, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHO: Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) WHAT: Congressman Greg Walden will deliver the keynote address at the The Dalles’ sesquicentennial celebration. WHEN: The program begins at 10 a.m. on Saturday, June 30. WHERE: 313 Court Street, The Dalles, Oregon Congressman Walden has completed 305 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. This will be his 50th official visit to Wasco County as a representative for the Second District. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, ansd Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
06.28.2007	Speaks on floor in support of amendment that would block funds to implement free-speech-chilling "Fairness Doctrine"June 28, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -As free speech for broadcasters has come under attack from some politicians in Washington, D.C., Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is leading efforts to ward off efforts to reinstall the so-called “Fairness Doctrine” to radio and TV broadcast policy. The Fairness Doctrine requires broadcasters to present contrasting points of view when covering controversial issues of public importance, a policy that effectively stamps out opinionated programming and turns back the clock on free speech rights. “The debate we’re having today is driven by those who want to dampen the vigor of political speech and public debate on the radio airwaves,” Walden said. “They want to silence the voices of the most listened to professionals in the business because they don’t like to hear another viewpoint. Walden has owned and operated radio stations for more than 20 years. He took to the House floor today in support of an amendment to the Financial Services Appropriations Bill to prohibit federal funds in the bill from being used by the Federal Communications Commission to impose the Fairness Doctrine on broadcasters. He is also a lead co-sponsor of the Broadcaster Freedom Act, which will be introduced today with over 100 co-sponsors and would prevent any efforts to reinstate the Fairness Doctrine. His full statement follows: “I am proud to have owned and operated radio stations for more than 20 years and been part of a small town broadcast family that dates back to the 1930s. “And yes, one of our stations is a talk radio station that includes such renowned broadcasters as Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, Bill O’Reilly and Michael Reagan. “The debate we’re having today is driven by those who want to dampen the vigor of political speech and public debate on the radio airwaves. They want to silence the voices of the most listened-to professionals in the business because they don’t like to hear another viewpoint. “In fact, supporters of reinstating the fairness doctrine are so uncomfortable with what’s being said by the likes of Rush Limbaugh, Bill O’Reilly, Sean Hannity and Michael “Reagan that they’re willing to trash the First Amendment and its free speech guarantees and instead put unelected bureaucrats in charge of determining whether or not broadcasters are fair in presenting issues to the public. “This has all the hallmarks that would make Vladimir Putin and Hugo Chavez smile: A Democratic government controlling what’s said on the public’s airwaves. A Democratic government silencing the voices of dissent that make those in power uncomfortable. “Well this is one member of Congress who will do everything possible to uphold the Constitution I swore just months ago to uphold and defend, and that includes every amendment to it. Even when I may disagree with what’s said, I will always agree with their right to say it. And that, my friends, is the issue before us on the floor of the United States House of Representatives today. Are you for free speech, or are you for government-controlled speech?” Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
06.27.2007	Congressman also supports new legislation to increase transparency in legislative processJune 27, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Saying that "open government is good government," Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today posted all the earmarks for Fiscal Year 2008 he requested on behalf of Oregonians on his congressional website. The term “earmark” refers to allocation of federal funds to a specific project or entity. Each year during the federal appropriations process, members of Congress are asked by various local entities to traditionally request federal funding for activities or proposals in their home states. “As a firm believer in open government and a representative of a state that values full disclosure, I believe the public has a right to know what local projects their representatives are pursuing with federal tax dollars,” Walden said. The earmark requests were made on behalf of local governments, public universities, and non-profit organizations who asked Walden to pursue the funding. On each earmark request, per congressional rules, Walden submitted a formal attestation that neither he nor his wife have any direct financial interest in the project. “Letting the sun shine on the federal appropriations process is a very good thing,” Walden said. Other transparency and accountability in government efforts that Congressman Walden is leading:Walden today agreed to support a bill that would require legislation and conference reports be available on the Internet for 72 hours before consideration by the House. The goal is to enhance public participation and openness in American democracy by allowing the opportunity for its review by State and local government officials, small business owners, large business leaders, journalists, scientists, academics, labor leaders, nonprofit organizations leaders, authors of weblogs, and interested citizens.Walden is cosponsoring an effort — H. Res. 231 — to require that all committees post their recorded votes on their respective websites within 48 hours of such votes. American citizens should easily and consistently be able to see how their representatives are voting in committee.Walden also joined Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) in February to introduce the Ethics Reform Act of 2007, a bill aimed at the critical but often overlooked aspect of ethics and lobbying in the Congress: oversight of conduct and rules. The bill, H.R. 1136, would establish an Independent Ethics Commission consisting of eleven former members of Congress. Congressman Greg Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in southern, eastern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
06.27.2007	June 27, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHAT: A town hall meeting with Congressman Greg Walden. The Congressman will provide an update on the latest happenings in Washington, D.C. and take questions and comments from the audience. WHEN: Saturday, July 14 11:30 am to 12:30 pm WHERE: County Meeting Room Courthouse Annex 320 NE Court Street Prineville, OR Congressman Greg Walden has completed 304 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
06.21.2007	Walden wrote letter in support of U.S. history programJune 21, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The Southern Oregon Education Service District in Medford, Ore., has been selected to receive a $984,294 federal grant to improve the quality of American history education, U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings announced today. This year, the Teaching American History program will award 122 new grants worth $116.6 million to school districts in 40 states nationwide. "This is an extraordinary and well-deserved grant for Southern Oregon school teachers, and the students they teach," Congressman Greg Walden, wrote a letter in support of the grant to Southern Oregon ESD, said. "I am grateful that the U.S. Department of Education has teamed up with local districts to ignite the interests of America's youth in our nation's rich history. Giving students a firm understanding of our country's past is an essential part of raising the next generation of civically engaged Americans." "These grants will provide teachers with the resources they need to engage their students and provide them with a better understanding of our nation's history and the principles of our democracy," Secretary Spellings said. "A strong foundation in American history will ensure that our young people grow up to become active and informed citizens." The professional development program titled Legacy of Freedom Liberty Fellowship will provide teachers with a comprehensive knowledge of American history through the use of primary sources; the study of historical events, issues, modern historiographies; and more. Participants in the fellowship also will write historical narratives, create substantive lessons and generate lessons as historical experts do, which will include web-based history activities from the Oregon history standards. The Teaching American History discretionary grant program supports three-year projects to improve teachers' knowledge and understanding of traditional American history through intensive, on-going professional development. Grantees must work in partnership with one or more organizations that have extensive knowledge of American history, including libraries, museums, nonprofit history or humanities organizations and higher education institutions. History is one of the core academic subjects under the landmark No Child Left Behind Act; however, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, or NAEP, which is commonly known as the "Nation's Report Card," shows that less than one-quarter of America's students in grades 4, 8 and 12 are proficient in American history. To improve student achievement, the Teaching American History grant program will immerse history teachers in American history content and researched-based teaching strategies, to help them teach American history in an exciting and engaging way. More information about Teaching American History grants is available at: https://www.ed.gov/programs/teachinghistory/index.html. # # #
06.15.2007	June 15, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -WHAT: A town hall meeting with Congressman Greg Walden. The Congressman will provide an update on the latest happenings in Washington, D.C. and take questions and comments from the audience. WHEN: Tuesday, July 3 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. WHERE: Anne Basker Auditorium 904 NW Sixth Street Grants Pass, OR 97526 Congressman Greg Walden has completed 303 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. This will be his 28th official visit to Josephine County as a representative for the Second District. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
06.15.2007	June 15, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -At the urging of Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), the Economic Development Administration (EDA) has reversed itself, and will now keep an Economic Development Representative (EDR) in Oregon instead of consolidating the position with one in Seattle. “As I’ve heard from economic development leaders from The Dalles to Klamath Falls, there is no substitute for having boots on the ground when it comes to helping jumpstart our local economies,” Congressman Walden said. “The investments and partnerships that come from EDA are absolutely vital to rural Oregon, as is the in-person nature of so much of the work that goes into creating economic opportunities in these areas. The Department of Commerce provides tremendous economic assistance and advice to local communities, and it’s great news that they saw fit to keep the Economic Development Representative post in Oregon.” “I’m particularly grateful to Assistant Secretary Sandy Baruah, an Oregonian and dedicated public servant, for the personal interest he took in our case to maintain this vital position in Oregon,” Congressman Walden said. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Sandy Baruah is a native of Salem, Oregon and currently serves as the Department of Commerce’s Assistant Secretary for Economic Development in Washington, D.C. Following the recent retirement of the previous EDR, Ann Berblinger, the Department of Commerce planned to consolidate the workload out of the EDA’s regional office in Seattle. After working closely with many local economic development leaders in Oregon, Congressman Walden urged the EDA to reverse their planned course and keep the post maintained in Oregon. One example of a recent and major EDA investment in rural Oregon is a $2 million grant for infrastructure development at the Coyote Business Park being developed by the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation. EDA, through its economic development representative, also maintains significant partnerships with various economic development corporations throughout Oregon. The post, according to the EDA, is a competitive civil service position that will be filled this summer. The EDR is responsible for providing technical assistance to businesses seeking EDA grants. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern and Central Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure, a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. # # #
06.15.2007	June 15, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. - WHAT: A town hall meeting with Congressman Greg Walden. The Congressman will provide an update on the latest happenings in Washington, D.C. and take questions and comments from the audience. WHEN: Tuesday, July 3 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. WHERE: County Courthouse Auditorium 10 South Oakdale Medford, OR 97501 Congressman Greg Walden has completed 303 round trips between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. This will be his 81st official visit to Jackson County as a representative for the Second District. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
06.15.2007	Bill provides improved travel reimbursement rate, health care access for Oregon veteransJune 15, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The House of Representatives today passed legislation that provides major funding increases for issues important to Oregon veterans. The military spending and veterans affairs appropriations bill, which passed the House by a 409-2 margin, was supported by Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.). “The men and women in uniform put everything on the line for us and deserve the very best care when they return home,” Congressman Walden said. “They must know that no matter what, the American people will support them and will never forget the debt we owe them.” Last month, two members of Congressman Walden’s staff traveled throughout the vast Second District to meet with veterans and compile a “to-do” list for the Congressman. Among the biggest concerns they heard voiced repeatedly were the following: · Access to quality health care o What this bill does: Commits $37.1 billion — $2.5 billion over the 2007 amount — for the Veterans Health Administration. Also dedicates $4.1 billion to improve medical services for all veterans, including funds to renovate existing facilities and construct new facilities like the planned community-based outpatient clinic in La Grande. · Fairer reimbursement for travel to and from VA hospitals in rural areas o What this bill does: Doubles the reimbursement rate for veterans traveling to and from appointments for medical care. · Funding for mental health programs o What this bill does: Over $600 million for a new initiative to address mental health and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. · Addressing the significant backlog of VA disability claims o What this bill does: Commits $1.6 billion to enable the Department to hire roughly 1,100 additional claims processors to work-down the backlog of benefits claims and to reduce the time to process new claims. Congressman Greg Walden represents the Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern, and Central Oregon. He is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
06.08.2007	Congressman Walden presses State Department to find solution to processing backlogJune 8, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -A significant increase in passport requests following new regulations from the State Department has led to a significant backlog in processing that is causing heartburn for some travelers hoping to receive a passport before their scheduled departure date. The new regulations, which went into effect in January 2007, require all travelers flying between the United States and Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, and Bermuda to present a valid passport. The goal is to create a standard system of identification to better secure our borders and protect the American homeland. But the ensuing flood of passport applications for summer travel caused major delays in all passport applications that have threatened some Americans’ travel plans. The State Department today announced that those who have already applied for passports – but have not necessarily received them due to the longer wait times – will be allowed to travel between the United States and Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda with government-issued photo identification and an official proof of application from the State Department. The temporary reprieve will last through September 30, 2007. "While I strongly support the efforts to strengthen our nation’s security, the backlog in passport processing that has resulted needs to be resolved," said Congressman Walden, who yesterday signed onto a bipartisan letter from House members urging the State Department to address the long delays passport applicants are currently experiencing. "I am encouraged that the State Department has acknowledged the difficulties facing American travelers. Congress stands ready to assist the administration in finding a way to make this process go more smoothly." Congressman Walden’s office can answer your passport questions or monitor the status of your application. Contact Congressman Walden’s constituent services representative, Judy Trego, at (541) 389-4408, or toll free from the Second District at (800) 533-3303. She will need your name, date of birth, Social Security number, locator number, and date of departure to monitor your passport’s progress. While making your plans, check with the State Department at https://travel.state.gov/ to obtain more information about your destination, to locate the nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate, and to check travel warnings issued by the State Department. For more information on the State Department’s new travel requirements for U.S. citizens guidelines, click here. Congressman Walden represents the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, southern and Central Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure, a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
04.26.2007	Health care, economic development, green business among topics for discussion in Madras and Sisters stopsApril 26, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will visit central Oregon on Friday, April 27 to discuss health care in Madras and economic development and green business in Sisters. Walden returns to Oregon tonight, completing his 299th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office. This is his fourth official visit to Deschutes County and his first to Jefferson County this year. JEFFERSON COUNTYMADRAS – 11 am-Noon: Congressman Walden, co-chair of the bipartisan, 172-member House Rural Health Care Coalition, will receive a tour of Mountain View Hospital from Hospital Administrator Jay Henry. In March, Congressman Walden introduced with Rep. Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) a bill to require fair rural representation on the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (HR 1730). The commission advises Congress on Medicare reimbursement issues. Currently just one of its 17 members has bona fide rural health care credentials, despite the fact that 28 percent of Medicare beneficiaries reside in rural areas. Location: Mountain View Hospital, 470 NE A Street, Madras DESCHUTES COUNTYSISTERS – 3:15 pm-4:20 pm: Congressman Walden will visit the Five Pine Lodge and Conference Center for a rountable discussion on local economic development and green business in Sisters. Congressman Walden was recently appointed to the exclusive House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Five Pine Operations Director Jeanne Fairman will discuss green business, YO! Productions Principle Mark Yoakum will discuss sustainable tourism and Sisters Chamber of Commerce Executive Director Cheryl Mills will discuss Sustainable Industry. Location: Five Pine Lodge and Conference Center, 1020 Desperado Trail, Sisters Congressman Walden is in his fifth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, central and southern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of both the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
04.18.2007	Walden stresses role of healthy forests in combating atmospheric carbon at Energy Independence and Global Warming panel hearingApril 18, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -VIDEO AT BOTTOM OF THE PAGECongressman Greg Walden today spoke at a Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming hearing on how Oregon's Second Congressional District is working to make America more energy independent and how Oregon’s forests can combat atmospheric carbon. The hearing topic was "Geopolitical Implications of Rising Oil Dependence and Global Warming." Congressman Walden recently completed a 13-county, 1,500 mile, and 39 event visit which primarily focused on the progress of renewable energy development in the Second District.Congressman Walden serves on both the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming and the Committee on Energy and Commerce. Combined, these two committees are in the lead on the oversight and legislative duties concerning energy independence and climate change issues.“One forest in Oregon that burned in 2003 — the B&B Fire — in a matter of a couple of weeks put twice as much carbon into the atmosphere as the entire state of Oregon emits in a year combined,” Walden said. “And yet there are those who are advocating for us to do everything we can to address this issue of global warming and climate change. And I think there are a lot of things we can do and I am actually excited about some of the opportunities. But they are also the very people who don’t want us to do anything to manage our forests. Overseas, we read in the Washington Post, illegal logging is eliminating the forests in China and Indonesia and other Asian countries so we can import that wood here, at a time that we have forests that are overstocked, overgrown, subject to catastrophic fire, and emitting enormous loads of carbon and other greenhouse gasses into the atmosphere. We refuse to do anything about it.”The Congressman's full statement follows:Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the opportunity to hear from our witnesses today. I spent most of the April break touring around my district meeting with people who are developing alternative energy, a lot of which was prompted by passage and enactment of the 2005 Energy Policy Act, which is spurring development of wind energy.I toured a 100 megawatt wind energy facility out of North Powder, Oregon that is set to go online.I toured a 40 million gallon-a-year ethanol plant that should open this July at the Port of Morrow in Boardman, Oregon.I met with the Pendleton Grain Growers and talked about their ability to produce biodiesel fuels. And I’m a big advocate of alternative energy.But I grow somewhat perplexed by those who say we have become so reliant on foreign oil — and I frankly agree with them, it’s a bad thing for our nation’s security and economy at times — but also do everything to stop us from developing our own sources available here in the United States, whether that’s oil or natural gas.I spent a lot of time in this Congress over the last few years chairing the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. I worked closely with my colleague from South Dakota, Representative Herseth, on legislation to try and clean up her forests.One forest in Oregon that burned in 2003 — the B&B Fire — in a matter of a couple of weeks put twice as much carbon into the atmosphere as the entire state of Oregon emits in a year combined.And yet there are those who are advocating for us to do everything we can to address this issue of global warming and climate change. And I think there are a lot of things we can do and I am actually excited about some of the opportunities. But they are also the very people who don’t want us to do anything to manage our forests. Overseas, we read in the Washington Post, illegal logging is eliminating the forests in China and Indonesia and other Asian countries so we can import that wood here, at a time that we have forests that are overstocked, overgrown, subject to catastrophic fire, and emitting enormous loads of carbon and other greenhouse gasses into the atmosphere. We refuse to do anything about it.So I think there are opportunities here to improve management of our federal forestlands, to encourage and incent development of renewable and low-polluting sources of energy, to encourage conservation efforts and more efficiencies. I look forward to our hearings and the testimony from our witnesses.Thank you, Mr. Chairman.Congressman Walden is in his fifth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, central and southern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of both the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.###
04.17.2007	Oregon lawmaker recognized for support of key business issuesApril 17, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -The United States Chamber of Commerce today presented Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR-2) with its annual “Spirit of Enterprise” award for his strong voting record on critical business issues in the second session of the 109th Congress. “Rep. Walden proved to be a valuable ally to the business community last year, supporting measures to stimulate job creation and spur economic growth,” said Tom Donohue, Chamber president and CEO. “The business community appreciates Greg’s dedication to a pro-growth agenda and we are proud to present him with this award.” The Chamber’s prestigious “Spirit of Enterprise” award is given annually to members of Congress based on rankings it gives for key business votes outlined in its yearly publication, How They Voted. Rep. Walden compiled a 100% score with the Chamber last year and holds a cumulative 97% ranking during his tenure in Congress. The Chamber’s designated “key votes” are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities by the Chamber’s board of directors, on which the Chamber informs Congress of its position prior to the vote. Senators and House members who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of these key votes receive the “Spirit of Enterprise” award. During the second session of the 109th Congress, the Chamber key-voted 12 Senate and 15 House votes, including comprehensive pension reform, extended tax relief, maritime and cargo security enhancements, and the U.S./India nuclear agreement. The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation, representing more than 3 million businesses and organizations of every size, sector and region. A complete listing of key votes and ratings is available online.
04.17.2007	April 17, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today spoke on the House floor on H. Res. 217, legislation expressing the sense of the House of Representatives concerning the 50th anniversary of the flooding of Celilo Falls. On March 10, Rep. Walden attended the ceremony commemorating 50 years since the loss of Celilo Falls. The legislation passed by voice vote. Rep. Walden’s prepared statement for the House floor is below. Click here for video of the speech. Madam Speaker. Colleagues. Today we memorialize and remember the events of more than 50 years ago when the gates closed for the first time on The Dalles Dam, and within six hours another wild and noisy stretch of the mighty Columbia River fell silent and serene in the name of progress. Celilo Falls was also known as Wyam, which means, “Echo of Falling Water,” or, “Sound of Water Upon the Rocks.” And indeed what a sound it must have been to hear the fourth largest river in America as it crashed over basalt rocks and cliffs. Lewis and Clark’s journals refer to the falls as a place where, “the river turned on edge.” And what a river it is. As the Columbia River passed over these falls, the sound could be heard for miles. During periods of high water, nearly a million cubic feet of water per second would pass over these falls. In comparison, the flow of Niagra Falls averages a fifth of that volume. While most of the action occurred at Celilo Falls itself, rapids stretched through the basalt for nearly 11 miles to the west. And it was more than just a roaring falls or an historic and bountiful fishing area. It was, as some historians noted, “The Wall Street of the West.” In his book, The Columbia River Salmon and Steelhead Trout: Their Fight for Survival, author Anthony Netboy described the scene in the following way: “Here came Indians from the interior who had no fishing grounds of their own or whose fishing was poor, to trade for dried salmon, offering peltries from Montana, jade axes from the Fraser River area, horn of mountain sheep, baskets, rabbit or bearskin robes. The Klamath and Modoc peoples from Klamath Lake brought slaves and dentalia shells, their medium of exchange.” Trade connections with The Dalles, says anthropologist Philip Drucker, in Cultures of the North Pacific Coast, “stretched across the Rockies and into the Great Plains.” This was one of the most significant fisheries of the Columbia River system. In Recalling Celilo, author Elizabeth Woody writes: “Historically, the Wyampum lived at Wyam for over 12,000 years. Estimates vary, but Wyam is among the longest continuously inhabited communities in North America. The elders tell us we have been here from time immemorial. Today, we know Celilo Falls as a lost landmark. It was a place as revered as one’s own mother.” Woody goes on to say, “What happened at Wyam was more significant than entertainment. During the day, women cleaned large amounts of finely cut fish and hung the parts to dry in the heat of the arid landscape. So abundant were the fish passing Wyam on their upriver journey that the fish caught there could feed a whole family through the winter. Many families had enough salmon to trade with other tribes or individuals for specialty items. No one would starve if they could work. Even those incapable of physical work could share other talents. It was a dignified existence.” The tribes called themselves “salmon people.” And it’s easy to understand why. In 1805, Lewis and Clark estimated seeing five tons of dried salmon stacked in a single village. The dawn of the 20th century brought change to the area with the construction in 1913 of The Dalles-Celilo Canal, providing the first safe passage around the falls. Then in the 1930s and 1940s, more pressure built as downriver communities suffered from floods, river traffic increased, and a nation at war needed more electricity to power its industry. In 1950, Congress authorized the construction of The Dalles Dam and on March 10, 1957 the gates of this river-blocker closed and within hours silence overtook Celilo Falls and the way of life known for centuries. Plans for construction of the dam were battled by Chief Tommy Thompson, as he and the tribal members knew that the end of the falls would mean the end of life as they had known it. But they could not stop the effort. Their village was relocated. The government paid tribal members in one-time sums of nearly $4,000, and promised sustained fisheries and access to new fishing sites. I’d like to read from Mr. Netboy’s book again, as he eloquently describes the last of the First Salmon rites held in April of 1956. On Sunday, April 20, 1956 when the Dalles Dam was about to be enclosed and the Celilo Fishery dating back to a long forgotten time would be inundated, I witnessed the last of the First Salmon Rites at Celilo Village. The day was warm and sunny and hundreds of tribesman gathered for this sad occasion on the banks of the Columbia. The women wearing multi-colored flowing dresses and scarves, and the men awkward-fitting store clothes. Emissaries of Tommy Thompson, Chief of the host band, the Wyams, said to be over 100 years old, had to seek elsewhere than the Columbia for salmon because an early spring thaw in the mountains made it impossible to use the historic site to catch enough fish for the festival. They bought 400 pounds of Salmon in Portland and members of Warm Springs Reservation who had fishing rights at Celilo helped out with donations of venison and roots for the occasion. The Chief sat at the head table in the longhouse, surrounded by silent and respectful tribesmen squatting on mats on the earthen floor. Outside, slabs of salmon were being smoked over log fires tendered by women just as when Lewis and Clark camped here in 1805 and smoked a pipe of peace with the chiefs. Chief Thompson blessed the first fish caught a few days before and made a speech in his native language that was charged with emotion. Before it was over the vigorous old man was weeping. Although I did not understand the words, I could imagine the words that inspired him as he saw the last bit of land held by the tribe about to go under water and the ancient picturesque fishery disappear. He had seen the white settlers pour into the valley and the baleful impact they made on the Natives’ culture. The churning river where he had fished as a youth from rickety platforms would become a placid lake. There were tears in the eyes of many who listened to him. When the First Salmon Rites were concluded, the Chief permitted newsmen to photograph him with his younger wife, Flora. Usually the festival lasted a few days but this time it was confined to one. There were bone games in the afternoon and dances in the evening. The next morning the Portland Oregonian reported an interview with Henry Thompson, son of the Chief, who said, “When the dam is finished, and there no more fish at Celilo, my father will still live here and will die here. I too will die here. Both of us were born at Celilo and here, pointing to the cemetery on a bluff above the village among the rimrock, we will be buried.” Tommy Thompson died three years later and without him, without the roaring falls, and with salmon caught elsewhere, the first salmon ceremonies held occasionally at the new Celilo Village built by the Corps of Engineers on the bluff, lost their flavor and meaning, and were eventually abandoned. Today, The Dalles Dam employs about 150 people and generates enough electricity to power two cities the size of Portland, Oregon. The power it makes produces no carbon emission and is 90 percent efficient. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is rehabilitating the Celilo Village, spending $13 million to build a new sewer plant, new houses, a playground and update water and electrical systems. A new longhouse was completed last year. Today we memorialize the situation at Celilo, the loss of that great falls, and the work that remains ahead. And I thank you for your time.
04.06.2007	April 6, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will conduct a nine-county district swing from April 10-13 to meet with community leaders and citizens on important renewable energy, health care, and economic development issues. These visits are part of Walden’s 297th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since first taking office. By the end of the two-week district work period, Walden will have driven over 1,500 miles, visited 13 counties, and held 39 meetings and events in the Second Congressional District. The schedule of meetings is as follows: Tuesday, APRIL 10 MORROW COUNTYBOARDMAN – Noon-1:30 pm: Walden, who is co-chair of the bipartisan House Northwest Energy Caucus and vice-chair of the bipartisan House Renewable Energy Caucus, will visit the Pacific Ethanol plant at the Port of Morrow, which is scheduled to be completed in June and produce 40 million gallons of ethanol per year. In addition to discussing what he is working on in Congress to help America meet its energy needs — including his recent appointment to the exclusive new House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming — Walden will tour the facility and talk about the Pacific Northwest’s leadership in the area of renewable fuels. Location: Port of Morrow, Boardman. UMATILLA COUNTYPENDLETON – 3:15 pm-4:15 pm: Walden will then continue to touch on the themes of renewable energy and energy independence when he visits the Pendleton Grain Growers (PGG) biodiesel plant. Walden will review legislation that has helped spur the growth of renewable fuels, such as the $1.00-per-gallon biodiesel tax credit in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. In addition to discussing the efforts in Congress, Walden will tour the plant, which will produce five million gallons of biodiesel per year using 178 tons of canola a day. Location: PGG McKennon Station, Pendleton. PENDLETON – 4:45 pm-6:00 pm: In January of 2007, the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation (CTUIR) was awarded a $2 million federal grant for infrastructure development for its Coyote Business Park. Walden provided letters of support for both the pre-application and the formal application phases for the grant in 2006. The award helped spring construction of a 40,000 square foot building for the park’s first company, Cayuse Technologies, which will employ 250 people when the technology service business is complete. In addition to touring the new Coyote Business Park facilities, Walden will meet with tribal leaders to discuss current federal issues concerning the CTUIR. Location: Tamastslikt Cultural Institute, 72789 Hwy. 331, Pendleton. Wednesday, APRIL 11 WALLOWA COUNTYENTERPRISE – 8:30 am-9:30 am: Walden, co-chair of the bipartisan, 172-member House Rural Health Care Coalition, will visit and tour the new Wallowa Memorial Hospital. The tour will be led by the Assistant CEO and director of nursing for the hospital, Gayle Johnson. In addition to the tour, Walden will also update hospital officials on current federal health care issues, including Walden’s attempts with Rep. Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) to require fair rural representation on the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (HR 1730) AND (something on efforts to address payment cuts, etc). Click here for more information on that bill. Location: Wallowa Memorial Hospital, 601 Medical Parkway, Enterprise UNION COUNTYUNION – 1:30 pm-3:00 pm: Walden will visit with Union and Baker County Commissioners and personnel, tribal leaders and officials leading the Elkhorn Valley Wind Power Project. The project footprint, across ridges near the town of Telocaset in Pyles Canyon, will take up less than 150 acres, most of which will be roads. The turbines themselves will only occupy approximately five acres and is planned to produce 100 megawatts — enough to meet the annual energy needs of over 25,000 Northwest homes. Following an overview discussion of the plan, the group will take a tour of the project site during the second part of the meeting. Location: Union Hotel, 326 N Main St, Union BAKER COUNTYBAKER CITY – 4:00 pm-5:00 pm: Walden will visit the Behlen Manufacturing facility, which produces livestock handling equipment such as fence, gates, corrals, stalls and water tanks. Behlen is currently developing a heat pump system to heat and cool the factory using a geothermal energy source located on-site, which they expect to have up and running in December. Walden will discuss this and other creative renewable energy efforts with a group of community leaders, including: Behlen Plant Manager Clint Morrison, Mayor Jeff Petry, Vice Mayor Andrew Bryan, City Manager Steve Brocato, City Council Members Beverly Calder, Gail Duman, Dennis Dorrah, Sam Bass, and Terry Schumacher, County Commissioners Fred Warner, Tim Kerns, Carl Stiff, among others. Location: Behlen Manufacturing, 4000 23rd St., Baker CityThursday, APRIL 12 MALHEUR COUNTYNyssa – 11:30 am–1:00 pm (MDT): Walden will attend an event hosted by the Malheur County Farm Bureau to discuss energy efficiency programs and the issue of renewable energy, and ways local agriculture can play a leading role in those efforts. The two main presenters will be Ed Peterson of the local Natural Resources Conservation Service office, and John Hamilton, Project Manager for the Treasure Valley Renewable Resources LLC. Walden will discuss the renewable energy and conservation opportunities in the upcoming federal Farm Bill, including the Environmental Quality Incentives Program that Walden has been a strong advocate for in the Congress. Numerous producers from local agriculture groups and representatives from local watershed councils, the Oregon Department of Agriculture and federal agencies will be in attendance. Location: Twilight Restaurant, 212 Main Street, Nyssa. GRANT COUNTYJOHN DAY – 3:00 pm-4:15 pm (PDT): Walden will then travel to a round table discussion, where the Congressman will provide a congressional update followed by comments, questions, and answers from the attendees, who will include a wide section of community leaders, including County Judge Mark Webb, Commissioner Scott Meyers, Dave Traylor, School Superintendent Newel Cleaver, School Board Chair Pat Holliday, Oregon Cattlemen’s Assn. President Sharon Livingston, Forest Supervisor Stan Benes, and others. Location: Outpost, 201 West Main, John Day. Friday, APRIL 13 WHEELER COUNTYMITCHELL – 8:30 am-10:00 am: Walden will attend a town hall coffee session organized by the city of Mitchell, where he will give a congressional update and engage in a question and answer session with city residents. Among local leaders likely to be in attendance, among others, are: Mayor Nancy Fitzgerald, City Councilor Mickey Dodd, City Councilor Vernita Jordan, City Councilor Wayne Walker, City Councilor Kristi Dennis, Commissioner Jeanne Burch, and Commissioner William Wyatt. Location: Little Pine Café, 100 E Main St, Mitchell CROOK COUNTYPRINEVILLE – Noon-1:30 pm: Walden, the co-chair of the bipartisan, 172-member House Rural Health Care Coalition, will be the keynote speaker at the grand opening ceremony for the Ochoco Community Clinic. As a Federal Qualified Health Center, the Ochoco Community Clinic provides guaranteed access to services to low-income, uninsured and underinsured central Oregonians, including medical care, dental care, and mental health care. Walden has helped the clinic secure several federal funding grants, and attended past Ochoco Community Clinic grand openings in Madras and Bend. Location: Ochoco Community Clinic, 375 NW Beaver St., Prineville Congressman Walden is in his fifth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, central and southern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of both the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
04.04.2007	April 4, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement on the passing of Stan Swol: “As a fellow broadcaster, I knew Stan for many years and knew well of his commitment to his community. The people of Harney County could always count on Stan to deliver the information they needed, whether it be by broadcasting the local sports teams, highlighting fundraising drives, or keeping on top of the issues that people were most concerned about. He used his time to make the community a better place, and I know his presence on the airwaves and in the lives of Harney County residents will be missed greatly.” Congressman Walden represents Oregon’s Second Congressional District, comprised of 20 counties on eastern, central, and southern Oregon. ###
04.03.2007	CONGRESSMAN WALDEN TO VISIT KLAMATH COUNTY TO DISCUSS WATER USEApril 3, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will visit Klamath Falls on Tuesday, April 3 to meet with members of the Klamath Water Users Association to engage in a roundtable discussion on federal developments and local water issues. This is Walden’s first visit to Klamath County this year and his 45th since taking office. Walden recently completed his 297th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since his election to Congress in 1998, covering a distance of 1,485,000 miles. That is the equivalent of three round trips to the moon and almost 60 orbits of the earth.Congressman Walden is in his fifth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which is comprised of 20 counties in eastern, central and southern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of both the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
03.30.2007	March 30, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that Malheur Lumber Company of John Day was awarded a $250,000 USDA woody biomass utilization grant. The purpose of the grant is to help stimulate a local market for low-value material removed during forest restoration activities, such as reducing hazardous fuels, handling insect and diseased conditions, or treating forestlands impacted by catastrophic weather. Walden submitted a letter of support to the USDA on behalf of Malheur Lumber Company in November. “I am always happy to see federal investment that encourages local businesses to be creative partners in responsible forest restoration,” Walden said. “This grant will allow Malheur Lumber Company to utilize woody biomass from forest restoration for economic development. The project is a win-win for both forest health and the local economy.” The grant will help Malheur Lumber Company install log-shaving equipment that will use small-diameter and damaged biomass material to produce bedding materials for animals and playgrounds. Malheur Lumber Company President Bruce Daucsavage is looking forward to making use of the grant towards such a viable project. “We're very happy to be one-of-a-kind in the market and we're looking forward to working with the Forest Service to meet the demand for better utilizing the materials in our forest,” Daucsavage said. “Congressman Walden's work on behalf of our forests and his support for this project are greatly appreciated.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
03.30.2007	March 30, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that Sustainable Northwest of Portland was awarded a $249,560 grant from the USDA to promote woody biomass use in Baker, Crook and Deschutes Counties. The purpose of the grant is to help stimulate a local market for low-value material removed during forest restoration activities, such as reducing hazardous fuels, handling insect and diseased conditions, or treating forestlands impacted by catastrophic weather. Walden submitted a letter of support to the USDA on behalf of Sustainable Northwest in November. “I am always happy to see federal investment that encourages local businesses to be creative partners in responsible forest restoration,” Walden said. “This grant will allow Sustainable Northwest to utilize woody biomass from forest restoration for economic development. The project is a win-win for both forest health and the local economy.” The grant will help Sustainable Northwest promote the expansion of small diameter log processing and promote the conversion of heating systems to woody biomass-fueled systems at both the Sisters School District and at Prineville-based Woodgrain Millwork. Sustainable Northwest will also partner with the Baker County Landowners Association to develop a merchandising yard for small diameter materials. Ryan Temple, the director of Sustainable Northwest’s Healthy Forests, Healthy Communities Partnership, cited Congressman Walden’s knowledge and understanding of forest issues and professionals as keys to projects and grant programs. “Sustainable Northwest really appreciates the Congressman's work for Oregon and on behalf of healthy forests,” Temple said. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
03.30.2007	March 30, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will be in Lakeview on Friday, March 30 to attend the Lake County Community Leaders Dinner at the Elk’s Lodge. Organized by the Lake County Chamber of Commerce, Congressman Walden will provide a Congressional update and participate in an informal roundtable discussion of issues. Attendees will include Lake County Commissioners Brad Winters, Ken Kestner, and Dan Shown, Lake County Mayor Rick Watson, and Lake County Town Manager Ray Simms. Walden recently completed his 297th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since his election to Congress in 1998, covering a distance of 1,485,000 miles. That is the equivalent of three round trips to the moon and almost 60 orbits of the earth.
03.30.2007	Congress' 17-member Medicare Payment Advisory Commission currently has just one member representing rural America; MedPAC Rural Representation Act mandates proportional representation for rural Medicare beneficiariesMarch 30, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-N.D.) yesterday introduced the MedPAC Rural Representation Act, HR 1730, a bipartisan bill that would ensure that rural Medicare beneficiaries and rural health care providers are fairly represented on the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC). MedPAC is the nonpartisan commission that advises Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program such as access to care, quality of care and the appropriateness of Medicare payments to health care providers."MedPAC’s recommendations carry significant weight with Congress. Since Congress looks to MedPAC’s analysis when considering modifications to the Medicare program, it is imperative to make sure that the voice of rural Medicare beneficiaries and the health professionals that care for them is not left out in their deliberations," Walden said. "With over one of every four Medicare beneficiaries living in rural America, it’s a no-brainer that they should have more than just one representative on the commission that has first-hand knowledge and substantial understanding of the realities of delivering and accessing health care services in rural and frontier regions.""People living in rural areas face unique challenges to receiving adequate health care, including access to hospitals and shortages of healthcare providers. So it's important for rural America to have a seat at the table when decisions about Medicare are being made," Pomeroy said. "Medicare beneficiaries in rural states like North Dakota deserve to have representatives that have firsthand knowledge of the challenges they face."Currently, just one of MedPAC’s 17 commissioners has solid rural credentials. The MedPAC Rural Representation Act, which has 45 original co-sponsors, would require that the number of MedPAC commissioners representing rural beneficiaries and providers be proportional to the number of rural Medicare beneficiaries in the Medicare program.* Currently, nearly 28 percent of the Medicare population resides in rural areas* Thus, HR 1730 would require that no less than 28 percent of the MedPAC commissioners have a professional background that makes them familiar with the unique nature of rural health care delivery* If HR 1730 were to become law, five of MedPAC’s 17 commissioners would be rural representatives (17 commissioners x 28 percent = 4.76 commissioners)"It is imperative that voices on MedPAC have first hand knowledge and substantial understanding of unique rural challenges in accessing health care," said George Miller, President of the National Rural Healthcare Association (NRHA). "Current statutory language should provide these important voices as it requires a balance between rural and urban Commissioners. Yet despite, nearly 28 percent of Medicare beneficiaries living in rural communities, only one of the 17 appointed MedPAC Commissioners has significant professional experience in rural America. We thank Representatives Walden and Pomeroy for acknowledging this lack of balance and proposing sensible legislation to remedy the situation."Walden and Pomeroy are the co-chairs of the 172-member Rural Health Care Coalition. Last Congress, Walden and Pomeroy introduced H.R. 6030, a comprehensive rural health care bill that included the text of the MedPAC Rural Representation Act as one of its provisions.For more information on MedPAC go to https://www.medpac.gov/.###
03.28.2007	March 28, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Henry O’Keeffe of Adel, Ore. this week began an internship in the Washington, D.C. office of Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.). O’Keeffe’s internship will last 3 months and he will be helping out with the day-to-day operations of the office. “Henry is certainly a bright and motivated young man,” Walden said. “I am excited to have him aboard pitching in on the many responsibilities of the office. He should get a good feel for the inner-workings of Congress, and I hope he finds his time here to be fulfilling.” O’Keeffe, a 20-year-old native of Adel, graduated from Lakeview High School in 2004. He is currently studying political science and sociology at Eastern Oregon University in La Grande. He will receive school credit for the internship as part of his studies. For the last two summers, O’Keeffe has helped fight fires in the Northwest on an inter-agency Helitack crew. O’Keeffe’s mother, Jane, was a former Lake County Commissioner and his father, John, is a leading cattle rancher in Adel. “In just a few busy days I can already tell that I will learn a lot here,” O’Keeffe said. “It should be a challenging and rewarding opportunity to help the people of the Second District and to see how much work goes into the rural issues that are so important to the vast areas Congressman Walden represents.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in eastern, central, and southern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Select Committee on Climate Change and Energy Independence. ###
03.14.2007	Page program offers young Americans opportunity to work in the U.S. Congress, study in nation's capitalMarch 14, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will begin accepting applications this week for the House Page Program’s summer 2007 sessions. The first summer session will last from June 10 to June 29 and the second session will last from July 8 to August 3. Interested applicants must contact Congressman Walden’s office to receive an application form, which must be completed and returned no later than April 13, 2007. Click here for an application. “Serving as a congressional page is a tremendous opportunity for young people,” said Walden. “The program allows energetic young adults interested in the inner workings of federal government to gain firsthand experience in the Congress. It is a wonderful accomplishment for which the page, as well as their family, teachers and friends, can be very proud.” As a page for the House of Representatives, students will be directly involved in various duties as assigned by the Clerk of the House, including assisting members, helping with House Floor operations and ensuring that the overall processes in the House of Representatives are conducted. To qualify for service as a congressional page, applicants must be at least 16 years of age and have a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.0 in the five major subjects. Candidates for the page program are recommended by Congressman Walden based on their academic performance, extracurricular involvement and character. House Majority and Minority leadership make the final selections. While applicants are able to indicate a preference between the two sessions, they are not guaranteed their first choice if selected for the program. “I encourage every young person who has an interest in government and public policy to look into this program,” Walden said. “We have had exceptional students representing central, southern and eastern Oregon in the page program and I look forward to hearing from interested applicants whom I sure will help carry on that tradition.” Oregonians interested in the House Page Program are encouraged to request applications from Congressman Walden via email at blair.larkins@mail.house.gov. Applicants can also call Walden’s Medford office toll-free at 1-800-533-3303 or his Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-6730 for an application and more information. Applications should be submitted by mail to Congressman Walden’s Medford office at 843 E. Main St, Suite 400, Medford, OR 97504. Applications must be received by April 13, 2007. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ###
03.09.2007	March 9, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced that he has accepted an appointment from House Minority Leader John Boehner to serve on the new Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi recently announced the creation of the new panel, and yesterday the House approved its establishment. Nine Democrats and six Republicans will serve on it. “It will be an honor to sit on a panel that will hopefully investigate the many differing points of view and scientific findings on what is exactly affecting climate change,” Walden said. “Global temperatures have risen, no doubt. We have thermometers that can measure these things with accuracy. The challenge we face is to determine exactly the role nature and other countries play, and what we as humans can do about it to positively curtail negative trends. Climate change is a critical and complicated issue with many aspects to it, and I’m eager for this new panel to pursue them in depth.” “Congressman Walden is uniquely qualified given the expertise he’s gained during his service on the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Resources Committee,” Boehner said. “Greg is an intelligent, hard-working legislator who has a strong record of driving bipartisan conservation initiatives.” Walden represents one of the most heavily forested Congressional districts in the country, and understands that healthy forests are an important tool in reducing atmospheric carbon dioxide. According to the Oregon Forest Resources Institute, the 2003 B&B Complex fire near Sisters emitted more than double the amount of carbon into the atmosphere than all other Oregon emission sources that year combined. “Scientific studies are confirming what commonsense tells us; well-managed, healthy forests run a lower risk of burning up in a catastrophic, highly polluting, wildfire. Responsible forest stewardship, both here in the United States and in other nations around the world, naturally lessens the amount of greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere,” Walden said. Walden is also vice chair of the bipartisan House Renewable Energy Caucus and co-chair of the bipartisan House Northwest Energy Caucus. The Pacific Northwest is a leader in the production and use of renewable energy and alternative fuels. Walden has been a leading advocate in the House to further develop alternative energy sources, promote the use of hybrid vehicles and invest in new technological advances. He has consistently voted to extend or increase tax credits to advance wind, solar, geothermal and biomass energy production. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
03.08.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Malheur CountyMarch 8, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Malheur County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. Congressman Walden met with Malheur County Judge Dan Joyce in his Washington, D.C. office earlier in the week, who was also in attendance in the . The speech before the House, the final in a series of 18 that each day focused on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District receiving funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act will have an extensive and extreme impact on over 1,800 local governments receiving Payments in Lieu of Taxes funds, also known as PILT. The loss of the county payments program means counties can apply for the limited PILT fund, thus reducing funds to counties reliant on PILT. Many counties will see a 20 percent reduction. “Malheur County, Oregon is comprised of nearly 10,000 square miles and is 72 percent federally owned. It is larger than the states of Vermont, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Connecticut, Delaware, and Rhode Island. “As we all know, rapid response for emergency services is a life and death issue. In many areas of Malheur County it can take well over an hour to respond to a situation. Loss of critical PILT funds will mean a reduction in vital public services and this is unacceptable. “County Judge Dan Joyce, who is in Washington today, says, ‘Loss of PILT funds will devastate our ability to respond rapidly in emergency situations.’ “I call on the new Democrat majority to move H.R. 17. Services are being lost, libraries are closing, teachers are being given notices they will not be re-hired. It’s time for action.” For more information on the county payments effort, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
03.08.2007	Speeches on floor, bipartisan petitions to House leadership pay offMarch 8, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today joined Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and other members of the Oregon House delegation to announce that a one-year extension of funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (county payments) is included in the emergency supplemental bill. Congressman Walden and DeFazio organized a letter signed by 92 of their colleagues that was sent to the House leadership urging that a one-year extension of county payments be included in the supplemental. “The good news is that we have made great forward progress in forcing the federal government to keep its promise to rural communities. This development shows that a bipartisan, constant team effort the kind Oregon put together can really pay off,” Walden said. “The bad news is that the President has already threatened to veto the emergency supplemental over other issues, so there is still much work left to be done for this to become law.” “A year of emergency funding would clear the first of two essential hurdles,” Walden said. “Now, our next challenge is to secure a long-term funding solution. We’ve experienced the very sour taste of what life will be like without these essential payments, and we don’t want that to become permanent.” Congressman Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on the first day of the new Congress, a bill that would reauthorize the payments for seven years. They have been urging the leadership of the House Natural Resources Committee and Agriculture Committee to promptly move the bill through the committee structure so it can receive a vote by the full House. This morning, Congressman Walden finished his 18-speech series on the floor of the House outlining the effects of the terminated payments to counties. Today’s speech focused on the impact on Malheur County. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in eastern, central and southern Oregon. ###
03.05.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Morrow CountyMarch 5, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Morrow County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the seventeenth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America. “There are 400 miles of paved roads in Morrow County, Oregon, where every county road leads to the national forest. Loss of these funds means no paved roads will be replaced and regular upkeep will be forgone. One of the most expensive roads for the county to maintain runs through the Umatilla National Forest and is a designated scenic byway. “Without county payments, people won’t be able to access their public lands, and the promise of a new ‘outdoor recreation economy’ to replace lost timber jobs will go unfulfilled. “County Public Works Director Burke O’Brien says, ‘We are not the ones who restricted our federal timber harvest. However, we are now dependant on these funds to replace the lost revenues.’ “My colleagues, Congress must keep the Federal Government's word to timbered communities and pass H.R. 17. Time is running out for them.” For more information on the county payments effort, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.28.2007	Congressman testifies before the Natural Resources Committee on 'The Evolving West'February 28, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today testified in front of the House Committee on Natural Resources, laying out the effect of federal land management policy on the West. The hearing was convened to gather testimony from experts on challenges facing western communities. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health in the 109th Congress, Walden led the effort for responsible forest management following catastrophic events like forest fires. Today he told the committee, “Let us not defend a system that is so complicated that it takes three times longer to remove a burned, dead tree than to rebuild the Pentagon.” “Yes, the West is changing, not just because of changing demographics, but largely as a result of federal policies and judicial decisions which keep our forest and rangeland professionals from managing forests,” Walden said. “Healthy communities, healthy forests and healthy rangelands go hand in hand. If we are to see broad and long-term stewardship success, Congress must step up to the plate and pass laws to allow for thoughtful, quick, and active stewardship of our federal lands.” Walden also requested that Natural Resources Committee Chairman Nick Rahall (D-WV) give the “earliest possible consideration” to H.R. 17, the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (county payments). Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio sent a letter to Chairman Rahall on January 26, asking that the committee consider H.R. 17 as quickly as possible. The Natural Resources Committee is one of two House committees with jurisdiction over the legislation. “Before I get into my prepared remarks, I would be remiss if I didn’t make the top of the agenda the need to ask for your earliest consideration on a hearing and action on H.R. 17…of which you (Chairman Rahall) are a sponsor, which you were last year,” Walden told the committee today. “Counties in much of the West are suffering dramatic cuts in their budgets right now, teachers are being given pink slips, and libraries are going to close in the most populous county in my district in April if we don’t act in this Congress to keep a promise that has been made to these counties since Theodore Roosevelt basically created the forest reserves 100 years ago. So I would encourage earliest possible consideration in this committee as we did in 2005 to move that legislation forward.” Walden’s submitted testimony is below: Chairman Rahall, Mr. Young and Members of the Committee, I appreciate the opportunity to testify here today on The Evolving West - a subject involving vast and innumerable issues. Hopefully today I can shed some light on at least a few of them. The fact that the West is changing is not a new revelation. Changing technologies, economies, and demographics have always affected the social, political and even natural landscape. In some cases these changes are beneficial to the environment and the human condition; in some cases they’re not. On the “not” side, for example, as federal grazing allotments disappear due to increased litigation and regulation, many ranchers find that they don’t have enough of their own private, base property to allow them to run a herd of sufficient size to remain profitable. The result is that many ranchers have to find other sources of revenue, often involving the subdivision and sale of their land. This revenue stream is obviously not sustainable in the long run, affecting the economics of local communities, but is also a major contributor to the loss of open space and the broad undeveloped vistas so emblematic of the western landscape. In the West - my State of Oregon and the Second Congressional District, in particular - one of the most obvious and overriding influences is land ownership. In my district, over 50% of the land base is owned by the federal government. In other words, politicians and federal employees in Washington, D.C. have an influence over my constituents unimaginable to most in the East. As laws and regulations are churned out from within the beltway, westerners feel their impact most intensely, particularly those concerning the management of federal lands. I’d like to name just a few of the laws which our federal land management agencies and local communities must deal with: - The Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974;- The National Forest Management Act of 1976;- The Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976;- The Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Research Act of 1978;- The Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978;- The Wilderness Act of 1964;- The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969;- The Federal Advisory Committee Act of 1972;- The Endangered Species Act of 1973;- The Clean Water Act of 1977. Individually each of these laws provides important environmental safeguards, but collectively they intertwine and overlap in often contradictory ways that make it nearly impossible for federal land managers, local elected officials, partnership groups, and private citizens to navigate---even simple decisions are vulnerable to lawsuits on procedural grounds. The result is legal gridlock. In a speech he delivered in Salt Lake City 100 years ago, President Theodore Roosevelt spoke of the purpose of the forest reserves, public lands and the need for local support to ensure this new federal policy would work. Let me share with you his words from that day: “Almost every industry depends in some more or less vital way upon the preservation of the forests; and while citizens die, the government and the nation do not die, and we are bound in dealing with the forests to exercise the foresight necessary to use them now, but to use them in such a way as will also keep them for those who are to come after us. The first great object of the forest reserves is, of course, the first great object of the whole land policy of the United States --the creation of homes, the favoring of the home-maker. That is why we wish to provide for the home-makers of the present and the future the steady and continuous supply of timber, grass and above all, of water. That is the object of the forest reserves, and that is why I bespeak your cordial cooperation in their preservation. Remember you must realize, what I thoroughly realize, that however wise a policy may be it can be enforced only if the people of the States believe in it. We can enforce the provisions of the forest reserve law or of any other law only so far as the best sentiment of the community or the State will permit that enforcement. Therefore it lies primarily not with the people of Washington, but with you, yourselves, to see that such polices are supported as will redound to the benefit of the home-makers and therefore the sure and stated building up of the State as a whole.” In 1986 the national forests in my district produced a timber sale program of 2.226 billion board feet at a value of about $213 million, a quarter of which, $53 million, went to the local counties for schools and roads. Twenty years later, in 2006, the timber sale volume was a mere 198 million board feet worth revenues of $17 million, less than 10 % the 1986 levels. The loss of family wages and the impacts on many local economies and their basic community infrastructure has been dramatic. For example, unemployment in Grant County, Oregon is currently 9.8%. There are areas in my district which are doing just fine but many others continue to feel the stinging loss of family wage jobs and have no economic diversification in reach. The collapse of the timber sale program and the resulting job losses weren’t restricted just to my district but were felt across the country in nearly all counties near national forests, as can be seen in the first chart I have here: annual nationwide federal land harvest averaged around 11 billion board feet for decades, dropping to below 2 billion board feet in the 1990’s. As less wood from national forests became available did Americans consume less wood? No. As we can see on the second chart, this need for wood was responded to by increasing imports to record levels, largely from countries with poor environmental policies and safeguards. Were job losses in rural America necessary? Is it now further necessary for us to further ship our jobs overseas and rely on foreign natural resources? Let’s look at the data. As you can see on the third chart, long before 1986, national forest growth had begun to exceed harvest, beginning in the 1930’s. In fact, on the fourth chart it is evident that not only has growth exceeded harvest but mortality has exceeded harvest as well. Many more trees are dying on our national forests than are being harvested. The rest of the story, unless you’ve been a hermit for the last few years, was not just predictable but inevitable. On the fifth chart you can see that the explosive increase in forest fuels, combined with drought, has resulted in a huge increase in the number and size of catastrophic wildfires - to a record breaking 10 million acres last year. In the words and actions of President Teddy Roosevelt we can still hear the echo of balance and multiple use; of providing for the needs of that day, and for the needs of the future. Teddy Roosevelt was many things, but principal among them he was a man of action. And if he were to join us today, I hardly believe he would be pleased to know that 190 million acres of the federal forest reserves are subject to catastrophic wildfire, disease and bug infestation. This Rough Rider of a President would throw a fit if he knew we were losing more than 4,500 acres a day to the spread of noxious weeds. The man who charged up San Juan Hill would never stand for the gridlock that has overtaken the ability of the educated and trained public land management professionals to effectively steward our natural resources and special places. And neither should we. Let us not defend a system that allows the symphony of fiddlers to tie us up in court for years while bugs devour our forests and fires ravage our communities. Let us not defend a system that is so complicated that it takes three times longer to remove a burned, dead tree than to rebuild the Pentagon. And let us not believe that we lack the power to change things. Gridlock; litigation; divisiveness; process predicament; and polarization---these are words and phrases that describe public lands issues today. Not only do we have the power to affect change, but also we have the solemn responsibility to identify what is wrong, engage the public in finding solutions and then take the action necessary to bring about a better policy. Too often my colleagues in Congress blame agencies and the courts for what we see as wrong. And yet, we are the writers of the laws. We are the ones empowered to solve problems. And the time has come for us to do the heavy lifting. There are many factors that have contributed to the creation of this state of affairs, such as: --An inconsistent and often contradictory “crazy quilt” of laws and regulations, as former Forest Service Chief Jack Ward Thomas aptly put it; --An increasingly urban population that in the East is far removed from forest realities; --A well-funded environmental political industry that aggressively opposes active forest management; --And an indecisive, if not bi-polar, Congress. Yes, the West is changing, not just because of changing demographics, but largely as a result of federal policies and judicial decisions which keep our forest and rangeland professionals from managing forests. Healthy communities, healthy forests and healthy rangelands go hand in hand. If we are to see broad and long-term stewardship success, Congress must step up to the plate and pass laws to allow for thoughtful, quick, and active stewardship of our federal lands. In my lifetime, I’ve seen much change in the West, but there has also been much that has remained constant; such as a general sense of individual responsibility and independence, a neighborly kindness, a strong work ethic, and a genuine appreciation and respect for the natural environment. These may be broad generalities, but I think they are mostly accurate and help to define the West not as just a segment of the country but also as a unique place with its own sense of character and beauty. As your Committee, and the rest of us in Washington, discuss issues and pass laws that affect the West, may we always be mindful that our actions often weaken the basic strengths that make the West uniquely the West. Thank you for your time. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.27.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Jefferson CountyFebruary 27, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Jefferson County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the sixteenth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America. “For Jefferson County, Oregon, where over 50 percent of the land in the county is federal, this means the county’s Community Work Service Program for primarily juvenile offenders would be eliminated. “Under the program, juvenile community service work crews remove trash from public lands, rehabilitate hiking trails, revegetate denuded areas, and repair resource damage due to vandalism. In 2004 alone, these young people removed more than 150 tons of garbage and over two miles of old barbed wire fence from Bureau of Land Management (BLM) lands. “This program was awarded the BLM’s ‘National Volunteer Award for Making a Difference on the Public Lands in 2005,’ and has been very successful in addressing recidivism and introducing a new generation to America’s forest lands. “Former Madras Mayor Rick Allen stated, ‘Loss of these funds will cripple community services.’ “My colleagues, Congress must keep the Federal Government's promise to timbered communities and pass H.R. 17. Time is running out for them.” For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.23.2007	'An Artistic Discovery' open to all Second District high school students; winners' art to be displayed in U.S. Capitol, Walden's officesFebruary 23, 2007 -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that the 2007 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery, is now open to high school students throughout Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes central, southern and eastern Oregon. The contest is a nationwide endeavor for students to showcase their artistic abilities while competing for the chance to have their work displayed in the United States Capitol. “This competition is a tremendous opportunity for young people interested in art, and it gives students the chance to have their work showcased for a national audience,” said Walden. “I walk by the exhibit of last year’s winners on a regular basis when I am in the Capitol and I enjoy seeing the talent collected from throughout the nation. I encourage all high school students with work they would like to share to send it in and be a part of this year’s An Artistic Discovery.” To enter the Congressional Art Competition, students must submit no more than two photographs of their work to Walden’s office by Monday, April 16. After artwork is received, one winner will be selected from each of the 20 counties that make up Oregon’s Second Congressional District. A panel of local college art professors will judge each of these pieces to determine the final winners. The overall winner will have his or her artwork sent to Washington, D.C. to be displayed as part of the national student art exhibition in the U.S. Capitol. Three runners up will be invited to have their artwork hung in Walden’s Washington, D.C., Medford and Bend offices. Artwork will hang in the Capitol and Walden’s offices for one year and will be returned at the conclusion of An Artistic Discovery in 2008. The Congressional Art Competition is open to high school students. In cases where grades 7-12 are in the same building, the competition is open to all students. Artwork submitted to the competition must be two-dimensional and can be no larger than 32 inches tall by 32 inches wide by 4 inches deep. The following artwork categories will be accepted: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer generated art and photography. Each entry must be original in concept, design and execution. Guidelines for the competition, as well as the required student release form, can be found at the bottom of this page. Students who have questions about the competition can call Melinda McIntyre Walden’s Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-6730 or melinda.mcintyre@mail.house.gov. Students may email photos by April 16 of their artwork to Melinda at the above address, jpeg files are preferred, or artwork can be sent via postal mail to the following address (must be received by April 16): Congressman Greg WaldenAttn: Grace Kalista843 East Main Street, Suite 400Medford, OR 975041-800-533-3303 Congressman Walden represents the residents of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. ###
02.23.2007	U.S. Department of Transportation answers call from Oregon for investment in safe, reliable roadsFebruary 23, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today praised a $30.8 million allocation in Emergency Relief (ER) funds from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for emergency repairs to Oregon highways damaged during the storms of November 2006. On November 9, 2006, immediately following the severe storms, Walden toured the sites of destruction around Mt. Hood to assess emergency and long-term needs and how the federal government could best help. “The federal government has responded to the siren call from Oregon’s Congressional delegation and state and local leaders and is stepping up to the plate to help keep the state’s roads safe and reliable,” Walden said. “The Oregon Department of Transportation and their partners pulled off an amazing feat in quickly reopening Highway 35, but the continual problems on the highway demand serious attention and serious solutions and this federal assistance should be a great start.” The roads targeted for the funding include U.S. 101, U.S. 26, and Oregon State Routes 6, 35, 47, and 53. Part of the money will help pay for a permanent solution to Highway 35’s vulnerability to washouts. Following his tour of the destruction, Walden wrote a letter to DOT and the Federal Emergency Management Agency in December asking that ER funds be used to construct a long-term solution for Highway 35. Walden also co-signed a letter from the entire Oregon Congressional delegation in late January that asked the Federal Highway Administration for ER funds for repairs to Oregon highways damaged by the storm. Last year, the House passed legislation — the Mt. Hood Stewardship Legacy Act — backed by Walden and Congressman Earl Blumenauer that addressed transportation issues in the Mt. Hood area. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a deputy whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
02.22.2007	Bipartisan bill would create independent, third-party panel to provide oversight of rules impacting the House, Members and lobbyistsFebruary 22, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Today Congressmen Greg Walden (R–Hood River) and Earl Blumenauer (D–Ore) announced the reintroduction of bipartisan legislation aimed at the critical, but often overlooked, aspect of ethics and lobbying in the Congress: oversight of conduct and rules. “A change in the control of Congress does not lessen the need for an independent and modern ethics process in Washington, D.C.,” Walden said. “While most members of Congress conduct their business with integrity and the utmost respect for both the process and the rules, it's clear that the ethics system in place has too often failed to work appropriately or effectively. It's our responsibility to fix what's broken and ensure the American people that this and future Congresses will be held to the highest possible ethical standards.” “The abuses of power and corruption we’ve seen in the past were completely unacceptable,” said Blumenauer said. “Already this Congress has moved forward to clean house with legislation that was supported by both Democrats and Republicans in the first hundred hours. With Congress now operating in a more open and ethical manner, our legislation is the needed next step that will establish an independent body to ensure the ethics process operates as effectively as possible.” The legislation, H.R. 1136, is the same bill that Congressmen Walden and Blumenauer introduced in the last Congress, known as the Ethics Reform Act of 2006. It would establish an Independent Ethics Commission consisting of eleven former Members of Congress – five selected by each the Speaker of the House and the House Minority Leader, and one selected by the other ten members of the commission. Commission members, who would be compensated on a per diem basis, must have completed their last term in Congress at least two years prior to joining the commission. Walden and Blumenauer are seeking an independently-staffed ethics commission with a director who would ensure that staff members fulfill all of the functions currently performed by the staff of the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. The executive director would serve for a seven-year term and could be reappointed only once. Any recommendations of the Independent Ethics Commission beyond advisory opinions, letters of reproval and admonishment would go to the full House of Representatives. Actions that fall short of official discipline would not require action of the full House. The Lobbying Disclosure Act will be brought under the jurisdiction of the Independent Ethics Commission. The commission will review the filings of lobbyists and post lobbyist fillings online quarterly. More information on H.R. 1136 can be found online at https://thomas.loc.gov. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon; Congressman Blumenauer represents the Third Congressional District of Oregon. Both are former members of the Oregon State Legislature. ###
02.16.2007	February 16, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today spoke on the House floor during debate on H. Con. Res. 63 — the Iraq War Resolution. His prepared statement follows:"Madam Speaker. Since learning that we would consider a resolution regarding troop levels in Iraq, I have spent considerable time listening to veterans of this war, and other wars; questioning some of America’s top national security officials; reading every email and letter on this most serious issue of our day that’s come into my office from the people I represent, and listening to the voices of leaders of the nations surrounding Iraq. I’ve read the National Intelligence Estimate and the Iraq Study Committee’s report. I’ve been given books, such as 'Fiasco,' to digest. I’ve reached out to parents of brave Americans who are on their way into this conflict, and I’ve heard from parents of sons lost in this war. I’ve heard strong opinions on both sides of this issue. And I have reflected upon my own vote to authorize the war in the first place. It has been an agonizing experience for me."Agonizing, because I want to do what is right for America with minimal sacrifice of the brave Americans who wear our nation’s uniform. I want to do what is right to protect our freedom and security. I still remember those days and nights when the smoke from the Pentagon wafted into my apartment which was just blocks away. I remember the images of rescue personnel trying to save lives, only to lose their own. I remember the pledge I made to do all I could to never let that happen to America again. "I supported implementation of the 9/11 Commission recommendations to improve how the government operates, communicates and protects our shores and our citizens. "I supported efforts to improve our intelligence gathering and processing efforts, so that America doesn’t miss key indicators of danger, or worse, misinterpret the data that is gathered. Policy makers must be given accurate and reliable intelligence if we are to make responsible decisions. "Had Congress been given accurate intelligence, I doubt the vote to invade Iraq would ever have come to this Floor in the first place. And I certainly would not have cast the vote I cast because the threat was not what we were told it was, despite the horrific brutality of Saddam Hussein and his henchmen sons. "Unfortunately, we cannot edit history. We cannot change the past. Our responsibility is to the present and even more so to the future. America’s future. "In some areas of the world, America has made strong, diplomatic progress on the most difficult issues facing the planet. I speak of the recent agreement with North Korea coming out of the six party talks. "I’m reminded of the willingness of Libya to give up its weapons of mass destruction and come more in line with the world community. "And while much work remains regarding Iran’s nuclear development, America’s work with other countries, and through the United Nations, is having an effect on Iran. "Meanwhile, our troops and our work internationally in Afghanistan continue to show progress, even in light of the recent resurgence of the Taliban. Consider the historic role NATO is playing to help bring peace and stability to this far off land. "If we are accomplishing good in Afghanistan, why is the situation in Iraq still such a mess? And what can or should America do there now that will hasten Iraq’s move toward stability and the bringing of our troops home to America? "As my colleague from New Mexico, Heather Wilson, so eloquently and forcefully asked this week: What are America’s strategic interests in Iraq and how can we best achieve them? "These are the serious issues of our day. And these are the issues tragically missing from this non-binding resolution. "In this new world where war is not waged by armies in uniform with codes of honor, but by terrorists who blow up food markets and behead journalists, how do we respond in an effective way to prevent the insanity from coming again to our shores? How best do we prevent a whole region from ripping apart at the seams and perhaps taking much of the world with it? "While Congress has a clear, Constitutional role and responsibility when the nation is at war, where is the line that Congress should not cross? Are we really the best equipped to decide precisely how many reinforcements are sent into which battle? Isn’t that decision best left to the commanders in the field whom this Congress just unanimously approved to lead the effort? "Can Congress really give General Petraeus a unanimous vote of support to lead our effort in Iraq and then turn around and deny him the strategy he told us he believes is necessary to win? "A former colonel in the Air Force wrote to me recently on this very topic and she said some in Congress say they support General Petraeus and Admiral Fox Fallon but '…don’t want them to undertake the mission they were confirmed to do. It seems right out of Alice in Wonderland.' "And if Congress is going to make these decisions, then have we analyzed carefully where the other 134,754 troops are in Iraq and what they’re doing and where we want them to go every day? If my own son were in Iraq and his commanders said they needed reinforcements to protect their troops and accomplish their mission, I would not want a bunch of politicians in Washington standing in his way and threatening his security. "Another of the emails I received was from a veteran of the Vietnam War who, like many other veterans of that conflict, urged me to vote against the resolution that is before us today. He wrote: "'Our troops need unqualified support. They don’t need to be told they’re participating in a lost cause.' "Indeed, this two-sentence, non-binding resolution sends a very mixed message to our troops. Moreover, this resolution is a lost opportunity to address at least five major issues that a serious Congress would address: "First, this resolution fails to even mention the Iraqis’ role in this effort. Where’s a siren call for the Iraqi government to keep its word and perform as promised? We cannot be expected for long to do for Iraq what it is unwilling to do for itself. "Second, this resolution fails to even mention the need for this Administration to embrace the Iraq Study Group’s call for aggressive diplomatic initiatives with Syria, Iran and other nations in Iraq’s neighborhood. Where’s the call for enhanced diplomacy? "Third, this resolution fails to even mention the need to replenish the equipment that our National Guard units have left behind while serving their country overseas. My state’s National Guard’s ability to conduct training is deeply affected by a lack of equipment. "Fourth, this resolution fails to call on Iran, Syria and other nations to stop directly, or indirectly, supplying the weapons and explosives to those who detonate car bombs in Baghdad and elsewhere in Iraq, killing women and children as they try to buy food in local markets. Where’s the condemnation of those who are supporting the random acts of violence? Where’s the condemnation of those who carry out these acts of urban terrorism? "Fifth, this resolution fails to define what our strategic national interests are in Iraq and how we can best achieve them. "I know that I stand alone in my state’s delegation by opposing this resolution that sticks it to the President. I’ve been told by some that I should just vote for this, it would be easier, politically, for me, because then the problem in Iraq is off my shoulders. It’s someone else’s problem. They will own it. "But I cannot do that and look myself in the mirror. I cannot ignore the counsel recently given to us by diplomats in the region whose advice we ignored when America took on this challenge and who now counsel us in the strongest of terms against leaving Iraq before the country is stabilized. "They’ve made it clear to this member of Congress that failure in Iraq will have grave and dangerous consequences to the entire region. In short, we broke it, we need to fix it before we leave. "But fixing Iraq does not mean ending all religious differences—differences that have ripped apart this region for more than 1,300 years. Fixing Iraq does not mean installing our form of democracy. Fixing Iraq means ensuring a new terrorist haven is not created or allowed to be created from which they can again train and plan safely to carry out attacks against the West. Fixing Iraq means ensuring that their government can stand on its own and not collapse into a sink hole that drags the other nations in the region into an abyss. "Given the glaring shortcomings of the non-binding resolution we have before us today, I will vote “no” for, as many of those who served in Vietnam have told me, its message does undercut our troops. Moreover, it fails to call for the increased diplomatic initiatives in the region, it fails to call for Iraq to do its part, it fails to define our strategic national interests of stabilizing Iraq so as to prevent the creation of another terrorist training haven, and it fails to address the very real needs of our National Guard. "It is unfortunate that the opportunity to actually affect these very serious policy choices was not allowed on the Floor of the House today. It is, indeed, a missed opportunity for America." ###
02.16.2007	Commissioners from Jackson, Josephine, Lake, Klamath counties to attend roundtable discussion with Walden and a representative from Congressman DeFazio's officeFebruary 16, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -At 2 pm on Saturday and after completing his 292nd round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will bring local leaders together to discuss the latest Congressional attempts to fund the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act (county payments). Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) have diligently led a bipartisan effort for the past two years to ensure that the federal government keeps its promise to forested communities. The meeting will be held at the Jackson County Courthouse Auditorium. With the District Director for Congressman DeFazio, Walden will discuss the bipartisan effort to renew this much-needed funding, which includes the following actions since the new Congress convened at the beginning of the New Year: · January 4 — On the first day of Congress, Walden and DeFazio introduced H.R. 17, a bill to reauthorize county payments for seven years. The bill currently has 114 cosponsors. It is the same bill that Walden and DeFazio introduced in the previous Congress in 2005 that received quick passage out of the Resources Committee, on which both Congressmen served. · January 11 — Walden and DeFazio sent a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Minority leader John Boehner requesting that county payments be included in the Continuing Resolution, a stopgap spending bill to keep critical federal programs funded. · January 18 — Walden sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi requesting that county payments be included in the Democratic leadership’s 100-Hour Agenda. · January 18 — Walden began a series of 18 speeches on the House floor to each day highlight the anticipated impacts to every county in his district that receives county payments funding, including Jackson County (January 18), Klamath County (January 19), Josephine County (January 23), and Lake County (January 24). · January 26 — Walden and DeFazio sent a letter to both the Agriculture Committee and the Natural Resources Committee urging speedy consideration of H.R. 17. · January 30 — Walden and DeFazio offered an amendment to the stopgap funding bill that would have funded county payments for one year. The amendment proposed a 0.00086 percent across-the-board cut to the $463.5 billion bill to fully fund the $400 million needed for county payments. Walden voted against final passage of the bill on the next day because it did not include the funding. · January 31 — Walden and DeFazio sent a letter to House leadership and the Appropriations Committee asking them to include a one-year extension of county payments in the Emergency Supplemental bill. They enlisted a total of 94 members to sign the letter. · February 12 — Walden and DeFazio organized a one-hour speech on the House floor with fellow members from California, Oregon and Washington to educate their colleagues about the urgency of the situation for forested communities. Date: 2 pm, Saturday, February 17 Location: Jackson County Courthouse Auditorium, 10 South Oakdale, Medford, OR Scheduled attendees include: Jackson County Commissioners Dave Gilmour, Jack Walker and CW Smith; Josephine County Commissioner Jim Raffenburg; Lake County Commissioner Brad Winters, and; Klamath County Commissioners John Elliott and Al Switzer. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.14.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Umatilla CountyFebruary 14, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Umatilla County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the fifteenth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of promise to more than 600 forested counties across America and 4,400 school districts. “Umatilla County, Oregon, is the number one food producing county in the state. For them, a well-maintained road system is critical to ensuring family farmers can compete in this global market. “With over 340 bridges and a state-high 1,650 miles of road, Umatilla County faces a significant infrastructure maintenance backlog and challenge. “County Commissioner Dennis Doherty said, ‘American farms are dependent on a farm-to-market road system and loss of these funds will cripple our local road system.’ “Tammy Dennee, Executive Director of the Oregon Wheat Growers League stated, ‘Global competition starts locally. Being the number one wheat producing county in the State it is vital to farmers that the road system is dependable.’ “My colleagues, Congress must keep faith with timbered counties and pass HR 17. Our future depends on it. Our credibility depends on it. And time is running out.” For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.13.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Union CountyFebruary 13, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Union County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the fourteenth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America. “For Union County, Oregon, this means one-third of the road department employees no longer have a job, other county services will be cut, and another rural school district will be left behind. “When my office inquired further, we caught County Commissioner Colleen MacLeod making the 8 hour, 616 mile round-trip from her home in Union County to the state capitol in Salem where she met with other commissioners from around Oregon to talking about how a county could declare bankruptcy. “Commissioner MacLeod said, ‘County governments want to be able to work for themselves, and the federal government needs to let us. We just want to be able to work in the woods.’ “Traveling with the Commissioner was Union County Chamber of Commerce Executive Director Judy Loudermilk who said, ‘What affects one area in a rural community affects all of us. Loss of these funds will be devastating.’ “My colleagues, Congress must keep the Federal Government's promise to timbered communities and pass H.R. 17. Time is running out for them.” For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.12.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Wheeler CountyFebruary 12, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Wheeler County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the thirteenth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America. “For Wheeler County, Oregon this means the Sheriff’s Department will lay off one-quarter of their force. Now, the force is only four deputies including the Sheriff but they are responsible for patrolling 1833 square miles – an area 30 times larger than the District of Columbia. “Last year, a deputy found 6000 marijuana plants worth over $19 million spread over a quarter mile of federal land. This operation was financed by a Mexican drug cartel and cultivated by illegal aliens. “When my office inquired further, the Sheriff said the deputy was in fact out patrolling – he was horseback, alone with no back-up, protecting our nation’s federal land from drug lords. “County Sheriff Dave Rouse said, ‘Cutting these funds will increase the criminal activity on our federal lands.’ “County Judge Jean Burch said, ‘County Payments has been our savior.’ “My colleagues, Congress must renew the Federal Government's promise to timbered communities and pass H.R. 17. Time is running out for them.” For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.08.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Baker CountyFebruary 8, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Baker County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the twelfth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America. “For Baker County, Oregon, this breach of faith means the road department crew who plow snow five months out of the year will be cut in half. The county will also have to fire the only trainer who prepares volunteer firefighters in 13 rural communities. “If this Congress fails to act, the 11 people left in the road department will be responsible for maintaining 1,100 miles of road – one person per 100 miles of road – the same distance from Washington, D.C. to Richmond, Virginia. “If this Congress fails to act, volunteer firefighters might not receive the vital, life saving training on equipment, tactics and communications. “County Judge Fred Warner said: ‘Because we have vast federal lands, we have no tax base to replace lost funding. We just need the federal government to honor their commitment.’ “My colleagues, Congress must renew the Federal Government's promise to timbered communities and pass H.R. 17. Time is running out for them.”For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.07.2007	February 7, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) this morning released the following statement on the death of Dennis Maloney. “Central Oregon has lost another of its finest public servants. Denny Maloney inspired us all to do more to help those in need — especially our youth — to improve the quality of life for all citizens, and to keep a positive attitude while going about our work. I, like many, have lost a friend and trusted counselor. My prayers are with his family during this most difficult time of loss. We will all miss his wisdom and his wit, his enthusiasm and his ability.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.07.2007	Congressman tells committee, Secretary Leavitt that rural health care's importance must not be overlookedFebruary 7, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) yesterday addressed the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt on the administration’s proposal for rural health care funding in the 2008 budget. Walden, who is co-chairman of the 165-member bipartisan House Rural Health Care Coalition, applauded some features of the budget, but expressed disappointment that the administration recommended eliminating funding for some rural health programs such as Rural Hospital Flexibility Grants, which help fund small rural hospitals. Walden discussed how important health care access is to people in rural areas. “Perhaps there’s a presumption that because a program serves a smaller number of people that somehow it is not as important or no one will really notice if it goes away,” Walden said. “Mr. Secretary, I invite you to my district to see that just the opposite is true. In rural areas, such as the 71,000 sq. mile district that I represent, which is larger than 32 states east of the Mississippi River, if a health care program is dissolved or a physician packs up and leaves, there is not a duplicate program or doctor just down the road that can fill the void or step in to meet a need. The community simply goes without and residents are left to travel even further for care. This is what makes rural different than urban.” The Energy and Commerce hearing was convened to review the administration’s Health and Human Services budget proposal for the 2008 fiscal year. The budget was delivered to Congress yesterday. Walden’s full statement before the committee is below: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I realize that a budget of any size — for a family of four or a nation of 300 million — comes down to making tough choices. I applaud some of the choices outlined in the FY 08 Health and Human Services budget, but I have concerns with others. “The President's request for an additional $224 million for Community Health Centers is something I hope Congress will enact. I have seen first hand how this federal investment touches communities and the incredible work that is done in health centers in my district — from Klamath Falls in the south to Boardman in the north and several points in between. “I am also pleased to see that the President recommended a modest increase in funding for State Offices of Rural Health because ours in Oregon does fantastic work and provides valuable guidance to health care providers in rural areas. I am disappointed that the President recommended eliminating funding for other rural health programs such as Rural Hospital Flexibility Grants, which fund quality improvement efforts at Critical Access Hospitals and small rural hospitals. “Perhaps there’s a presumption that because a program serves a smaller number of people that somehow it is not as important or no one will really notice if it goes away. “Mr. Secretary, I invite you to my district to see that just the opposite is true. “In rural areas, such as the 71,000 sq. mile district that I represent, which is larger than 32 states east of the Mississippi River, if a health care program is dissolved or a physician packs up and leaves, there is not a duplicate program or doctor just down the road that can fill the void or step in to meet a need. The community simply goes without and residents are left to travel even further for care. This is what makes rural different than urban. “Mr. Secretary, access is a big deal in my district, where physicians are scarce, proven by the fact there are two counties, both about the size of Rhode Island, that do not have a single physician located in them. As co-chairman of the House Rural Health Care Coalition, I hope we can work together to improve access to health care services in rural parts of our nation. “I appreciate you joining us today.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. Before his election to Congress, Walden spent several years as a member of the board of trustees of Hood River Memorial Hospital. ###
02.07.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Wallowa CountyFebruary 7, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Wallowa County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the eleventh in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to another breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across our great country. “For Wallowa County, Oregon, this means that the road department and the Sheriff’s search and rescue budget will be slashed in half. “There are more than 700 miles of road in Wallowa County maintained by a current staff of 14 people. Soon, only seven will try and keep up with this responsibility. That’s one person for every 100 miles of road in Wallowa County – the same distance from Washington, D.C. to Richmond, Virginia. “County Commissioner Mike Hayward said, “Impact to our roads and rescue services will put our citizens and visitors at risk.” “Loss of the County Payments program will also have a significant negative impact more than 1,800 county governments across America whose “Payment in Lieu of Taxes” funds could be reduced by as much as 20 percent. “This Congress must keep the federal government’s word to the people who live in timbered communities and pass H.R. 17. Time is running out for them.” For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.07.2007	February 7, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today released the following statement on the Bureau of Reclamation’s announcement that it has awarded a contract to remove Chiloquin Dam: “This is very good news for both farmers and fish. For many years the federal government neglected the obvious problem posed by Chiloquin Dam, which the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service estimated blocks 95 percent of the sucker habitat, and was the main reason the sucker fish were listed as endangered more than ten years ago. Removing the dam will provide fish passage to vital habit which the Klamath Tribes, local governments, farmers, and irrigation districts are working collaboratively to restore. Installing the pumps will ensure water for framers. I congratulate the Bureau of Reclamation for awarding the contract, and I look forward to this next step in addressing water management issues in the Klamath River Basin. I never again want a community to experience what the Klamath Basin did in 2001.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.07.2007	February 7, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Congressmen Greg Walden (R-Hood River), Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) are helping communities across Oregon clean up methamphetamine labs and the toxic mess they leave behind. Reps. Walden, DeFazio and Blumenauer, all members of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, cosponsored H.R. 365, a bill that charges the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) with the development of health-based guidelines to assist state and local authorities in cleaning up former meth lab sites. The bill passed today by a vote of 426 to 2. "As I learned during seven town halls I held on methamphetamine throughout southern, eastern and central Oregon, from Pendleton to Paisley families and communities are being torn apart by this epidemic," Walden said. "Children and their families are subjected to toxic fumes left over from meth labs, and it’s essential that we determine when it is safe to occupy the spaces where this poison has been produced. The least we can do at the federal level is help arm those engaged in this battle on the front lines with the tools and research critical to the safe and effective remediation of facilities and lands contaminated by use and production of this devastating substance." "Methamphetamines have devastated the lives of too many Oregonians and their families," DeFazio said. "Communities throughout Oregon and the U.S. will face untold costs in responding to the human, environmental and health consequences of this scourge for years to come. The country needs a better strategy and adequate resources to fight this growing epidemic, and this bill takes an important step toward that goal." "Oregon has made impressive strides to prevent the abuse of methamphetamines by requiring prescriptions for pseudoephedrine and advancing the Stomp Out Meth Project, an Oregon solution for methamphetamine addiction," Blumenauer said. "The federal government needs to partner with local communities to address this epidemic. One way we can help is by having the EPA create guidelines and work with local authorities to clean up old meth labs." In addition to establishing clean-up guidelines, the bill would also:· Direct the National Institute of Standards and Technology to consult with EPA in developing technologies to detect meth labs, emphasizing in field test kits for law enforcement.· Require the National Academy of Sciences to study the long-term health impacts of meth exposure on first-responders and on children taken from meth lab sites. Methamphetamine abuse is a widespread problem in Oregon. Oregon treats more people for meth addiction per capita than any other state in the country and is consistently ranked in the top 10 states nationally for meth lab seizures, with the Drug Enforcement Agency reporting almost 200 meth labs seized in 2005. Oregon Representatives David Wu (D-Portland) and Darlene Hooley (D-West Linn) also cosponsored the bill. ###
02.06.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Hood River CountyFebruary 6, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Hood River County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the tenth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America. “Hood River County, Oregon is my home and hosts two Oregon icons: Mount Hood and the powerful Columbia River, both attractions for outdoor recreation and the dangers that come with them. Surely you remember the December search for the mountain climbers on Mount Hood? This event unfolded just miles from my home town. “The county paid for this rescue and recovery effort entirely with County Payments funds. This included the airplanes, snowcats, and equipment for volunteers, CB radios, and medical supplies. “County Sheriff Joe Wampler said, ‘We will do search and rescue on federal lands and waterways no matter what but the nation must share this cost.’ “County Payments also fund many other vital services like the county health department’s vaccination program for children. “Commission Chair Ron Rivers said, ‘The loss of these funds will have a significant impact on all services including those provided to protect our most vulnerable citizens.’ “My colleagues, Congress must keep the Federal Government's word to timbered communities and pass HR 17. Time is running out.For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.05.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Wasco CountyFebruary 5, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Wasco County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the ninth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America. “For Wasco County, Oregon, this means cutting core school programs, removing the one detective from the drug enforcement taskforce, and losing 40% of the road department employees. “In his own words, Sheriff Rick Eiesland said: ‘Losing these funds will leave a huge void in our fight against illegal drug activity and we would also be forced to cut our contract with the Forrest Service for patrol in the federal lands.’ “School Superintendent Candy Armstrong says: ‘Rural schools have nowhere else to cut except core services. Lost funding represents the entire high school math program.’ “Judge Dan Ericksen says: ‘Roads are the life blood of rural America and losing this funding is the equivalent of applying tourniquets to our arms and legs. We will no longer be able to function.’ “My colleagues, Congress must keep the Federal Government's word to timbered communities and pass HR 17. Time is running out for them.”For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
02.02.2007	February 2, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Co-chairs of the Northwest Energy Caucus Congressmen Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) and Doc Hastings (R-Wash.) today commended the Bush administration for abandoning two previous budget proposals related to the Bonneville Power Administration that would have raised power rates in the Northwest and limited infrastructure investment. The budget proposals were abandoned at the request of the Northwest Energy Caucus and other regional stakeholders. However, Walden, DeFazio and Hastings continue to have serious concerns about the budget proposal related to Bonneville's surplus sales revenue. One of the abandoned provisions would have required the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) to sell its energy at market rates, rather than its current practice of selling at cost. Selling at market rates would require Bonneville to raise its rates by approximately 50 percent. The other abandoned provision, which the delegation has been fighting for years, would have required Bonneville to count any arrangement to use third-party financing to build transmission infrastructure against Bonneville's borrowing authority from the U.S. Treasury. This proposal would have essentially eliminated this financing option for Bonneville and restricted necessary infrastructure investments in the region. Walden, DeFazio and Hastings expressed concern that the president's budget continues to call for Bonneville to use revenues from surplus power sales above $500 million to accelerate repayments of its debt to the Treasury rather than using it to keep rates as low as possible. The administration argues the proposal would create additional room under Bonneville's borrowing authority cap to make infrastructure investments. However, the delegation has argued that this proposal represents a guaranteed rate increase, while the benefits are purely speculative and unlikely to appear. "I'm glad the administration finally heard our roar on some key issues, but they have much homework to still do," Walden said. "The benefits of BPA have been bought and paid for by ratepayers in the region, and it's critical that the budget not be balanced on the backs of ratepayers in the Northwest. Those of us in Congress from the Northwest will continue to stick closely together in protecting ratepayers in our region." "While this budget is less harmful to Northwest energy consumers than previous budgets, I remain concerned that the administration continues to push an ill-considered proposal that would make Bonneville's power rates artificially high while resulting in little or no benefit to the region," DeFazio said. "I'm pleased that the administration has responded to some of our long-standing concerns, however the remaining rate-raising proposal is not acceptable and I hope they will continue working toward consensus with regional stakeholders," Hastings said. ###
02.01.2007	February 1, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield) and Greg Walden (R-Hood River) enlisted 94 fellow members of Congress to join them in sending a letter to leaders in the House and on the Appropriations Committee urging them to include language to reauthorize and fund a one-year extension of the county payments program in the Emergency Supplemental bill. The county payments program, also known as the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000, expired last year and must be reauthorized. Last year, the county payments program provided nearly $280 million for Oregon counties for services like schools, roads and law enforcement. Counties receiving funding under the program have a high proportion of federally owned lands. Prior to the enactment of the county payments program, they had received a percentage of receipts from timber harvests, which fluctuated from year to year. However, harvest levels decreased precipitously in the late 1990s due to changes in federal forest policy. In 2000, Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act to help stabilize these payments and ensure proper funding for vital county services. DeFazio and Walden have also introduced a bill that would reauthorize the county payments program for an additional seven years, HR 17. The text of the letter follows. January 30, 2007 The Honorable Nancy PelosiSpeaker of the HouseH-232, The CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable John BoehnerMinority LeaderH-204, The CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable David ObeyChairmanCommittee on AppropriationsRoom H-218, The CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Jerry LewisRanking Minority MemberCommittee on Appropriations1016 Longworth HOBWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Colleagues: As you develop the Emergency Supplemental (Supplemental) to fund vital government programs we implore you to include in it language to reauthorize and fully fund an extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 (P.L. 106-393). This program, and funding for it, is critical to the survivability of over 775 rural counties and 4,400 schools near national forests in 42 states across the country. P.L. 106-393 expired at the end of September 2006, and if not reauthorized and funded, will result in a substantial and excruciating funding cut for rural counties across America. This act was passed by Congress to provide funding to offset the loss of revenues to counties resulting from severely reduced federal timber sales. The law has kept schools open, roads maintained, search and rescue missions operating, and many other essential local services afloat. The federal government made a pact with rural communities nearly a century ago when it established the federal timber sale program which provided counties a portion of revenue from federal timber sales. Harvest levels on federal lands have been significantly reduced over the past decade by changes in federal forest policy. In 2000, Congress demonstrated its commitment to continue the pact they made with rural counties by passing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. To not reauthorize and fund the Act would break the federal government’s pledge to these rural communities all across the country. We have attached a copy of a letter sent by the National Governors Association to the House and Senate leadership in September of 2006 urging support for reauthorization of this program. Clearly, a law important enough to be supported by the association representing all 50 governors deserves the full attention of the Congress and favorable action in the first hours of the 110th Congress. The Emergency Supplemental would be the last opportunity to address this critical issue before counties have to start implementing cuts to schools and services. A number of counties around the country have already begun sending out pink slips notifying employees of potential lay-offs. Without reauthorization of and funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, the predicament will be an emergency without rescue for hundreds and hundreds of rural counties across America. Thank you for your serious consideration of including language to reauthorize and fully fund P.L. 106-393 in the forthcoming Emergency Supplemental. Best regards, /s/ Peter DeFazioMember of Congress Greg WaldenMember of Congress
01.31.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Harney CountyJanuary 30, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Harney County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the seventh in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act is another day with another broken promise. “When the federal government abruptly slashed timber harvests, the economy in Harney County, Oregon, population about 7,000, nearly collapsed. Hundreds of family-wage jobs were lost. “Seventy-eight percent of the land mass in Harney County is controlled by the federal government, so the government’s decision had a dramatic effect on the people who live there. “In 2000, Congress did the right thing by approving the county payments program, which in Harney County supports roads, community services, and Burns High School, where 60 percent of the student body takes vocational classes. “Take Jim Gibbon, for example. He is a Burns High graduate and a four-year vocational classes participant. Through that learning, he is now co-owner of Burns Ford and employs 20 people. “County Judge Steve Grasty said, ‘Loss of this program means losing future opportunities for young people here and in rural counties across America.’ This Congress must keep the federal government’s word to timbered communities and pass H.R. 17. Time is running out.” For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.31.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Crook CountyJanuary 31, 2007 -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Crook County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the eighth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madam Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America. “For Crook County, Oregon, this means severe cuts in jail beds, sheriff’s patrols, criminal prosecutions and the pursuit of meth cooks. “These services were once funded by ‘timber receipts,’ but because of the virtual elimination of timber harvest, a county which once supported seven sawmills employing thousands of people doesn’t have a single mill today. “Crook County Judge Scott Cooper says, ‘The federal government has been pursuing a comprehensive strategy of disinvestment in rural communities.’ “Congress’s inaction hurts our children too. “Central Oregonian Jeff Sanders, President of the Oregon School Boards Association, is here in the gallery with us today. Jeff brought a letter urging Congress to act on behalf of the 560,000 K through 12 students in Oregon. “My colleagues, Congress must keep the Federal Government's word to timbered communities and pass HR 17. Time is running out for them.” For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.31.2007	WALDEN VOTES 'NO' ON STOPGAP SPENDING BILL TO FUND GOVERNMENTCongressman attempts amendment asking for just 0.00086 percent of major spending bill voted on today to fund one-year extension of county payments programJanuary 31, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) today voted against the Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the federal government, following through on his promise made last weekend to vote “no” on the stopgap funding bill if a one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (county payments) was not included. “Without funding for the vital county payments program, I could not support this bill,” Walden said. “The measure before the House today funds essential federal government programs, but it ignores the over 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America that depend on county payments. It abandons the people who have been such great neighbors of public lands. It’s a real disappointment, but I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure that the federal government revives its promise to forested counties and rural school districts.” Walden yesterday testified before the House Rules Committee seeking approval to offer an amendment, cosponsored by Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Springfield), to the CR which would fully fund the county payments program for one year. The amendment called for an across-the-board 0.00086 percent cut to the $463.5 billion stopgap bill to pay for the $400 million needed for one year of county payments. That amounts to just one penny of every $11.59 of federal spending appropriated in the stopgap spending bill. While the Rules Committee did not approve the Walden-DeFazio amendment — or any of the other eight amendments offered — to be considered on the House floor, Walden’s argument prompted three Democrat members of the committee to become cosponsors of H.R. 17. H.R. 17 is a bipartisan bill sponsored by DeFazio and Walden that would reauthorize the county payments program for seven years and currently enjoys the support of 98 cosponsors (including DeFazio and Walden). Walden also spoke today on the House floor to make the case for including the county payments program in the CR. A procedural vote that would have allowed Walden’s amendment to be heard on the floor garnered the support of 192 members, including DeFazio and Congresswoman Darlene Hooley (D-West Linn), but ultimately failed. The CR eventually passed the House by a vote of 286-140. Earlier today, Walden completed his eighth in a series of 18 addresses on the House floor that each day highlights the impacts of terminated funding on a different county in Oregon’s second Congressional district. Today’s address was on Crook County. For more information on the county payments issue and on Walden’s speeches, click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon, and is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.29.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Deschutes CountyJanuary 29, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Deschutes County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the sixth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Mr. Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties and 4,400 school districts across America. “Seventy-eight percent of the land in Deschutes County, Oregon, is controlled by the federal government. It’s a recreational and outdoor paradise. Funds from this program have supported support public safety, emergency medical, search and rescue operations, and much more to protect the more than two million people who come to central Oregon to recreate every year. “County Sheriff Les Stiles said, ‘Search and rescue is a matter of life and death in Central Oregon and supporting these programs are essential given the surge in outdoor recreation.’ “Our school kids are hurt, too, because this program is not being reauthorized yet. At the Bend-LaPine School District, administrators face the decision of bigger class sizes or fewer teachers, as they struggle to meet state and federal mandates. “School Superintendent Doug Nelson said, ‘These funds help us ensure programs which don’t leave kids behind.’ “My colleagues, Congress must keep the Federal Government's word to timbered communities and pass HR 17. Time is running out for them.” For more information on the county payments effort and for video of the speeches, please click here. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.27.2007	Congressman calls stopgap spending bill without funding for counties a breach of faithJanuary 27, 2007 - HOOD RIVER, ORE. -In a meeting this morning with Hood River County Board of Commissioners Chairman Ron Rivers, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) announced that unless funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (county payments) is in the forthcoming stopgap spending bill to fund government operations — known as a Continuing Resolution (CR) — he will vote against the bill’s passage. A CR was passed at the end of the 109th Congress and it expires on February 15. Another CR must be approved by Congress by February 15 to fund vital government functions. “The federal government faces an extreme funding crisis if another CR is not approved next month by Congress,” Walden said. “However, Oregon’s county governments and rural schools are already experiencing a funding emergency since Congress has not reauthorized and funded the essential county payments program. The federal government made a pact with forested communities nearly a century ago, and it’s high time this pact be upheld. I will not support a funding package that breaches the federal government’s promise to our counties and schools. If the federal government does not fulfill its obligation to the county payments program in the Continuing Resolution, I will express my opposition loudly and vote against it.” Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) have already written to the House leadership asking that a one-year extension of the county payments program be included in the CR. Walden is in the midst of an 18-speech series on the House floor aimed at educating his fellow legislators about the real-life impacts to counties and rural schools should the funding not be renewed. Each speech focuses on a different county in Oregon’s Second District and the consequences of terminated funding. He and DeFazio are also planning a one-hour special order — a one-hour open dialogue before the full House of Representatives — on February 8 that will go into depth about the importance of the program to counties across the country. “Many counties are faced with choosing between schools and law enforcement, between roads and libraries,” Walden said. “The layoff notices are being prepared. The consequences of the federal government breaking its promise to timbered communities will be dire. They are facing an emergency in every sense of the word.” Walden and DeFazio introduced, on the very first day of the new Congress, H.R. 17, a bill which would reauthorize the county payments program for seven years. A complete schedule of Walden’s floor speeches is included below, and it can also be accessed by clicking here. The text of Walden’s completed speeches, for Jackson County, Klamath County, Josephine County, Grant County, and Lake County are also available online at www.walden.house.gov. CountyImpactDateJackson$24.3 millionJan. 18Klamath$19.7 millionJan. 19Josephine$16.9 millionJan. 22Grant$10.2 millionJan. 23Lake$5.6 millionJan. 24Deschutes$4.7 millionJan. 29Harney$4.1 millionJan. 30Crook$3.6 millionJan. 31Wasco$2.9 millionFeb. 5Hood River$2.9 millionFeb. 6Wallowa$1.4 millionFeb. 7Baker$1.2 millionFeb. 8Wheeler$1.1 millionFeb. 9Union$1 millionFeb. 12Umatilla$1 millionFeb. 13Jefferson$840,000Feb. 14Morrow$370,000Feb. 15Malheur$9,500Feb. 16 Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon, and is a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. He and his wife have owned and managed a small business in the beautiful Columbia River Gorge area for over 20 years.###
01.24.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Lake CountyJanuary 24, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Lake County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the fifth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Mr. Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties across America. “For rural Lake County, Oregon – no stranger to economic challenges – this means that 93% of the county’s road budget has vanished. With 709 miles of road to maintain during rugged winters, basic maintenance and sure passage for school buses and emergency vehicles is crippled. “County Commissioner Brad Winters says, “Without these dollars, the destruction of our roads through lack of repair will be inevitable. We will be back to dirt.” “Failure to reauthorize delivers a blow to our schools too. “School District Superintendent Judy Graham puts it this way: “Our past challenges have made it difficult to offer even limited services. Losing county payments funding will devastate the environment our children rely on to learn and grow.” “My colleagues, Congress must pass HR 17 and keep the Federal Government's promise to timbered communities. Time is running out for them.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.23.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Grant CountyJanuary 23, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Grant County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the fourth in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Madame Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act amounts to a breach of faith to more than 600 forested counties across America. “For Grant County, Oregon, where 61 percent of the land in the county is federal, this means the School District will be forced to eliminate essential school programs and nearly double class sizes, delay school repairs and begin telling teachers, administrators and staff who stays and who goes. “School Superintendent Newell Cleaver puts it this way: 'We are watching our infrastructure being destroyed as this issue is debated by the Congress. This program is the difference between rural schools remaining competitive with urban schools or not.' “Grant County Commissioner Boyd Britton says, 'If the federal government would simply allow us to manage these natural resources, we wouldn’t need these funds, however losing these funds will be felt by every man, woman and child in the county, especially the school children.'“My colleagues, Congress needs to pass H.R. 17 and keep the Federal Government's word to timbered communities. Time is running out for them.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.22.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Josephine CountyJanuary 22, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Josephine County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the third in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Mr. Speaker. The failure of Congress to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act results in a broken promise to over 600 forested counties across America. “Surely you remember the frantic search last month for James Kim and his family in the federal forests of southern Oregon. Josephine County relied on critical emergency resources in this heart-breaking effort. 90% of the county’s search and rescue budget has been funded by this federal program which has not been reauthorized. “Likewise, the County utilizes an emergency phone notification system to alert homeowners to disasters and emergencies. They used it during the search for the Kim family. “Sixty-five percent of Josephine County’s land base is federal. When disaster strikes, quick information and response is a matter of life and death. Failure to reauthorize means these county services may not be funded, and that’s outrageous. “Josephine County Commissioner Dave Toler said the loss of this program “is about more than numbers, its loss will change our lives in every way for many more years to come.” “My colleagues, it’s high time that Congress reauthorize this Act and keep the word of the Federal Government to timbered communities.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.19.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman Walden delivers speech outlining what is at stake for Klamath CountyJanuary 19, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Klamath County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the second in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: “Mr. Speaker. This Congress and the last have failed to keep the federal government’s commitment to the people who live near our national forests. “This breach of faith means Greg Thede, the Klamath County School District Superintendent, is faced with the choice of letting teachers go, not purchasing English and reading books for all K though 12 programs for nearly a decade, or robbing from the school maintenance budget to cover budget shortfalls. “The Klamath County police force of 35 officers, which currently patrols a 6000 square mile area, will be cut by one-third. This patrol area, nearly 100 times larger than the District of Columbia, will now be protected, with no back up, by a little over 20 people. “Klamath County, Oregon is no stranger to hardship nor hard work; however, they have had to endure much of both in the last few years because the federal government keeps breaking its commitments to this rural community. “Al Switzer, Klamath County Commissioner asked me to pass along one key point: ‘These are America’s forests, they just happen to be in Klamath County.’” “It is time that Congress reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act. Keep faith with rural schools and counties. Keep the word of the Federal Government to timbered communities.” Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.18.2007	Congressman will outline how each of the 18 counties receiving funding in Oregon's Second Congressional District would be affectedJanuary 18, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) will deliver a series of 18 speeches on the floor of the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing counties in Oregon’s Second Congressional District should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community-Self Determination Act not be renewed. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on Jan. 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The funding represents a century-old commitment from the federal government to people who live near national forests. The schedule for the speeches is below: CountyImpactDateJackson$24.3 millionThurs, Jan 18Klamath$19.7 millionFri, Jan 19Josephine$16.9 millionMon, Jan 22Grant$10.2 millionTue, Jan 23Lake$5.6 millionWed, Jan 24Deschutes$4.7 millionMon, Jan 29Harney$4.1 millionTue, Jan 30Crook$3.6 millionWed, Jan 31Wasco$2.9 millionMon, Feb 5Hood River$2.9 millionTues, Feb 6Wallowa$1.4 millionWed, Feb 7Baker$1.2 millionThurs, Feb 8Wheeler$1.1 millionFri, Feb 9Union$1 millionMon, Feb 12Umatilla$1 millionTues, Feb 13Jefferson$840,000Wed, Feb 14Morrow$370,000Thurs, Feb 15Malheur$9,500Fri, Feb 18 Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.18.2007	Before the full House of Representatives, Congressman WaldenJanuary 18, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today addressed the House of Representatives to explain the dire consequences facing Jackson County should funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act be discontinued. Walden and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced H.R. 17 on January 4, the first day of the 110th Congress, a bill which would reauthorize the Act for seven years. The Act expired in September 2006, and without prompt reauthorization and funding, approximately 4,400 school districts in 615 counties in 39 states will have essential federal funding severed. The speech before the House, the first in a series of 18 that will each day focus on a specific county in Oregon’s Second Congressional District that receives funds from the essential program, follows: Mr. Speaker. This Congress and the last have failed to keep the federal government’s commitment to the people who live near our national forests. This breach of faith means 100 hard working county employees in Jackson County, Oregon will lose their jobs in June. That’s 10 percent of the county’s workforce. Within three months, Jackson County will close all 15 county libraries and slash their road budget. Remember the heart-wrenching search for the Kim Family, lost in the national forest in southern Oregon? Jackson County used their equipment to help in that search; equipment and personnel paid for in part by the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. As Jackson County Commissioner C.W. Smith said, loss of this program is a “national domestic federal funding crisis.” I call on the new Democratic leadership to put H.R. 17 on the 100-hour agenda. Keep faith with rural schools and counties. Keep the word of the federal government to timbered communities. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.16.2007	Young adults from central, southern, eastern Oregon nominated by congressman to be considered for service academy appointmentsJanuary 16, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) is pleased to announce the nomination of 19 students from throughout Oregon’s Second Congressional District for acceptance to one of the prestigious United States service academies. Students were chosen by Congressman Walden based on their academic performance, athletic participation, extracurricular involvement and character. A nominating committee consisting of retired military officers in Oregon’s Second Congressional District assisted Walden in selecting candidates. “Being nominated to one of America’s service academies represents years of hard work and discipline,” said Walden. “Competing with the best and brightest of America’s youth for an appointment to a military academy is both a tremendous opportunity and a great honor. I have every confidence that these talented students will represent their families and communities well in that effort and I commend them for their desire to serve ourcountry. It takes a special commitment to accept the challenges of an academy education, and these young Americans are continuing a long line of patriotic Oregonians in their endeavor. I share the pride of their parents, teachers and friends in congratulating them on this significant achievement.” Walden continued, “I’m also grateful for the assistance of the prestigious nominating committee that volunteered countless hours in considering students for nominations. Their dedication in helping to choose outstanding young Oregonians has been invaluable not only to me but to our country.” The students nominated by Walden follow: Baker CountyCody Millhouse of Richland has been nominated to the United States Military Academy (USMA). Cody is a senior at Pine Eagle High School where he maintains a 3.8 GPA. Millhouse is active in the National Honor Society, debate, football, track, wrestling, his church youth group, Scouts, and 4H. He is the captain of his football team and is a youth group leader. Deschutes CountyWilliam Day of Terrebonne has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA). William is a senior at Redmond High School where he maintains a 3.911 GPA. He is active in football, track, wrestling, and holds the public relations officer position with the student government. William is also a volunteer with the Big Brother-Big Sister program. Kyle Johnson of Bend has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy. Kyle is a senior at Bend Senior High School where he maintains a 3.957 GPA. He is active in NJROTC, Civil Air Patrol, track, football, and his church youth group. Kyle has attained the rank of Lieutenant Junior Grade in NJROTC and the rank of Cadet Master Sergeant in Civil Air Patrol. Joshua Kezele of Redmond has been nominated to the USMA and the USAFA. Joshua is a senior at Redmond High School where he maintains a 3.648 GPA. He is active in the National Honor Society, band, track, cross-country skiing, and his church youth group. Joshua is a camp counselor and a band lesson instructor for the middle school. John Liming of Sisters has been nominated to the USMA. John is a senior at Sisters High School where he maintains a 3.83 GPA. He is active in band, track, football, soccer, lacrosse, and his church youth group. John is the captain of the lacrosse and track teams. Tanner Robertson of Redmond has been nominated to the USMA. Tanner is a senior at Redmond High School where he maintains a 3.186 GPA. He is active in the chorus, baseball, soccer, and tennis. Tanner is the captain of the soccer team and is the president of the student body. He is also a member of his church youth group, has volunteers at the senior center and has been involved with the Summer Chess Club. Ryan Ruark of LaPine has been nominated to the USNA and the USMA. Ryan is a senior at La Pine High School where he maintains a 3.676 GPA. He is active in the National Honor Society, drama, the school newspaper, football, track, and JROTC. Ryan is the Executive Officer in JROTC, is the activities director for the student body, and was the junior class president. Jackson CountyBenjamin Cummings of Central Point has been nominated to the USMA. Benjamin is a senior at Cascade Christian High School where he maintains a 3.981 GPA. He is active in drama, chorus, football, and track. Benjamin is the president of the student government, a church youth group leader, a volunteer lifeguard, and captain of the football team. Josh Keith of Central Point has been nominated to the USNA, the USMA, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Josh is a senior at Crater High School where he maintains a 3.65 GPA. He is active in the National Honor Society, cross country, track, swimming, ice hockey, and his church youth group. Josh has also been active on the math team, was a youth group leader, and volunteers at a local homeless shelter. Robert Leonis of Jacksonville has been nominated to the USAFA. Robert is a senior at St. Mary’s School where he maintains a 3.46 GPA. He is active in football, track, Scouts, the math team, and in the school play. Robert is captain of the football team and captain of the track team. Scott Williston of Medford has been nominated to the USAFA. Scott is a senior at Cascade Christian High School where he maintains a 3.885 GPA. He is active in band, cross country, and his church youth group. Scott is captain of the cross country team. Josephine CountyAshley Hand of Grants Pass was nominated to and accepted an offer of appointment from the USAFA. Ashley is a senior at Grants Pass High School where she maintains a 4.0 GPA. She is active in mock trial, the Young Republicans Club, cross country, and track. Ashley is the Senior Class Vice President, president of the National Honor Society, and the Rotary Student of the Year. Klamath CountyLuke Harris of Klamath Falls has been nominated to the USAFA. Luke is a senior at Henley High School in Klamath Falls where he maintains a 3.837 GPA. He is a Lieutenant Colonel in JROTC and is active in the National Honor Society, Key Club, Peer Court, and soccer. Additionally, Harris is an outdoor school counselor and has received a Daedalian Award and a Military Excellence Award from the American Legion. Michael McDonnell of Klamath Falls has been nominated to the USAFA, the USNA, and the USMA. Michael is a senior at Klamath Union High School in Klamath Falls where he maintains a 3.510 GPA. He is active in the National Honor Society, Key Club, and school math team. He is the Drum Major of the school band and captains both the soccer and ice hockey teams. McDonnell is also the vice president of the astronomy club. Malheur CountyCody Ables of Ontario has been nominated to the USAFA. Cody is a senior at Ontario High School where he maintains a 3.745 GPA. Cody is actively involved in band, chorus, FFA, track, and soccer. He holds many leadership positions; he is the president of his student body, FFA chapter and Paintball Club, is the co-captain of the track team, and is the Homecoming chairman. Umatilla CountyBrian McBee of Pendleton has been nominated to the USMA. Brian is a senior at Pendleton High School where he maintains a 4.0 GPA. He is active in the student government where he is the student body president. Brian is active in the National Honor Society, band, Key Club, Spanish Club, Link Crew, baseball, football, cross country, mock trial, and his church youth group. He is a member of the Catholic Diocesan Youth Advisory Board and part of the Oregon Superintendent of Education Youth Advisory Team. Brian is also an Eagle Scout. Daniel Mitchell of Milton-Freewater has been nominated to the USAFA. Daniel is a senior at McLoughlin High School where he maintains a 4.0 GPA. He is active in band and was the competitive jazz/chamber choir section leader while a sophomore and junior. Daniel also participates in the National Honor Society, Science Club, Key Club, the Technology Student Association, basketball, soccer, and tennis. He attended the Air Force Academy 2006 summer session. He is active in his church youth group and is a member of the Youth Pastor Search Committee. Daniel is also the president of the Honor Society. Jordan Royal of Pendleton has been nominated to the USNA. Jordan is a senior at Pendleton High School where he maintains a 3.77 GPA. He is active in the National Honor Society, jazz band, honors band, swimming, and is a worship leader in his church youth group. Jordan is captain of the swim team and is the drum major. In his spare time, Jordan enjoys dirt biking, playing guitar and trumpet, and staying involved in church activities. Union CountyLane Kemp of Summerville has been nominated to the USAFA. Lane is a senior at Imbler High School where he maintains a 3.88 GPA. He is active in the student government where he is the student body president. Lane participates in band, mock trial, basketball, golf, and his church youth group. His Eagle Scout project is complete and is nearly ready for his board of review. Lane is also a Scout Senior Patrol Leader. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.15.2007	Efforts will benefit the public, water users and environmentJanuary 15, 2007 - BEND, Ore. -During his 287th return home to Oregon from our nation's capital since first being elected, Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced at a Bend meeting with irrigation district and environmental coalition representatives his plans to introduce the Oregon Water Resources Management Act and the Tumalo Water Conservation Act when he returns to Washington, D.C. tomorrow. “The programs supported in these bills are vital for striking a balance between land use, conservation, and public safety. Proper management of water is one of the most serious issues in many parts of Oregon , and the projects included in this bill see to it that water is handled the right way,” Walden said. “The Oregon Water Resources Management Act received solid bipartisan support in the House last session, and I've already had productive discussions with the new leadership on the House Resources Committee regarding it getting favorable attention this session. I will continue to work closely with our Senators to get this legislation to the President's desk as quickly as possible so we can deliver sound results for water users, conservation groups and the public across central, southern and eastern Oregon." The Oregon Water Resources Management Act addresses four separate water conservation and dam safety projects in central, eastern and southern Oregon . It was approved by the House with strong support last year, but the bill did not receive a vote in the Senate before the session ended in late December. Thus, the bill must be reintroduced in the new Congress. The Tumalo Water Conservation Act would provide federal assistance to the Tumalo Irrigation District’s (TID) water conservation project in the Middle Deschutes Basin. Oregon Water Resources Management ActØ The Deschutes River Conservancy Reauthorization Act The Deschutes River Conservancy Reauthorization (DRC) Act would reauthorize the DRC and allow for $2 million in annual federal assistance through 2015. The DRC was originally authorized by Congress in 1996 to implement water conservation measures in the Deschutes River Basin . The DRC has brought together landowners, environmentalists, tribes and local governments to find common ground and achieve successes through efforts such as riparian area fencing, the planting of trees, reconstructing stream beds and enhancing stream flows in the Deschutes River Basin . Congressman Walden has worked closely with the DRC since he was first elected and has toured many of their projects over the last eight years. Ø The North Unit Irrigation District Act The North Unit Irrigation District (NUID) provides farmers and ranchers in a 50,000 acre area in Jefferson County with irrigation water from the Deschutes River . The legislation would allow farmers and ranchers on 9,000 acres in the district to receive water conserved on the Deschutes River , reducing diversions from the Crooked River . The proposed changes would strictly adhere to existing Oregon law and directly benefit 900 farmers and ranchers in Deschutes County who grow alfalfa hay, grass seed, garlic seed and carrot seed as well as raise cattle, sheep, horses and other livestock. Congressman Walden has met several times with NUID management to discuss the positive conservation and water delivery aspects of this legislation. Ø The Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act The Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) to provide grants or enter into cooperative agreements — with tribes, the state, local governments and the Associated Ditch Companies — to plan, design and repair Wallowa Lake Dam and preserve the valuable water recreation site behind the dam. The bill would authorize $6 million in federal assistance and require an even cost share match between federal and local dollars. Rehabilitation of the Wallowa Lake Dam , which has been identified as a high-hazard structure by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, is very important to the local community and this legislation will help advance local efforts to see such work completed. Congressman Walden has worked with county commissioners and the Associated Ditch Companies and held a number of meetings on the legislation leading up to its final draft. Ø The Little Butte/Bear Creek Subbasins Water Feasibility Act The Little Butte/Bear Creek Subbasins Water Feasibility Act would authorize the BOR to conduct a much-needed water management feasibility study at the Little Butte and Bear Creak watersheds as outlined in the agency’s agreement with Medford for the Water for Irrigation, Streams and the Economy (WISE) project. This legislation will help foster collaborative efforts between federal, state and local governments all working together on the WISE project to benefit cities, irrigators, fish and the environment throughout the Rogue Valley. Congressman Walden has helped pass this legislation in the House twice¸ and will continue to support locally-based water conservation projects. Tumalo Water Conservation ActThe Tumalo Water Conservation Act would authorize the Interior Department to assist in the planning, design, and construction of the Tumalo Irrigation District Water Conservation Project in Deschutes County. The Middle Deschutes River has, in the past, been reduced to seasonal flows as low as 30 cfs, and the goal for this project is to enhance that flow to eventually achieve 250 cfs for the Middle Deschutes basin. The completed project, including other work by TID, will deliver pressurized water to TID irrigators during drought years, whereas they now receive an inadequate water supply in 8 out of 10 years. Once completed, this project is projected to enhance in-stream flows and improve habitat for listed species. In the last session, Congressman Walden worked closely with TID and the House Resources Committee to raise awareness of the project’s importance. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon . He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
01.10.2007	January 10, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) issued the following statement on the President's address to the nation on sending additional American forces to Baghdad.“I am deeply disturbed by the deteriorating nature of security in Iraq. The violence among Iraqi parties is very distressing, and until their elected and unelected leaders begin putting Iraq first — and not their own factions — nothing will get resolved.“My view has always been that when it comes to places like Baghdad, Iraqi soldiers should shoulder the responsibility for shutting down the insurgents and militias, while U.S. forces provide auxiliary support such as training and special operations. The Iraqis need to be the ones who end the violence so the entire country can enjoy the freedom won at the cost of 3,000 American lives. Our role should not be to police the streets of Baghdad to keep these warring factions apart. We cannot do for the Iraqis what they will not do for themselves.“While I remain skeptical of any increases of American forces in Baghdad, the President’s plan deserves the full consideration of Congress. I will carefully study the details as they emerge.”Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon . He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce.###
01.04.2007	Walden, DeFazio introduce bill to reauthorize successful "county payments" programJanuary 4, 2007 - WASHINGTON, D.C. -U.S. Congressmen Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) today announced the introduction of H.R. 17, the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Reauthorization Act of 2007, legislation that would reauthorize the successful "county payments" law for seven more years. Of Oregon’s 36 counties, 33 received payments through the program totaling over $273 million last year. Because of the large amount of timber historically harvested from federal lands in Oregon, Oregon counties have received significant payments from the funding formula, with the Fourth and Second Districts receiving the most federal investment respectively. “Nearly one hundred years ago, the federal government made a commitment to rural counties, and we intend to see that it maintains it,” Walden said. “Together with county and association leaders from across the country and many of our colleagues, Congressman DeFazio and I have led a partnership of education about how vital the county payments program is. We were deeply disappointed that all our efforts last year failed to reauthorize and fully fund the program to replace the funds lost by the decline in federal timber harvest. Since first introducing this legislation together two years ago, we’ve successfully educated both sides of the aisle about the critical nature of this program to rural communities in Oregon and throughout the country. Awareness of this importance is now very high, and it’s time for members of Congress to unite behind a revenue stream to fully fund the program. There is no more important issue to the health of rural counties.” "When we first introduced this idea several years ago, the biggest obstacle to the passage of county payments legislation was opposition from the timber industry and environmental groups," DeFazio said. "We sure have come a long way. Organizations from the farthest ends of the spectrum have come together to support this program in a model partnership among local, state and federal interests. Today, the biggest obstacles we face are ever-tightening budgets and growing federal deficits. So we must now redouble our efforts in hand with this unique coalition to reauthorize this legislation. It is the lifeblood of rural counties across America, who serve everyday as stewards of our federal lands." Before passage of the county payments law, Oregon counties were receiving payments as the result of 1908 and 1937 laws specifying that the government share 25 percent of U.S. Forest Service (USFS) receipts and 50 percent of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) receipts with counties in any state that hosts Federal land from which timber is cut. These payments had been used to help finance rural schools and roads. Toward the mid-to-late-nineties, however, the principal source of those revenues, federal timber sales, declined by over 70 percent nationwide. Consequently, the corresponding revenues shared with rural counties throughout the country declined precipitously, hurting school and transportation funding. In 2000, legislation to remedy this imbalance was enacted into law, establishing a six-year payment formula for counties that receive revenue-sharing payments for USFS and BLM lands. The formula established a stable source of revenue, to be used for education, roads and county services in rural areas. The safety net amount was based on historical timber receipts. If counties elect to use funding for projects on public lands, the projects must be developed by consensus and approved by a Resource Advisory Committee (RAC), a group designed to ensure expanded economic activity for the resource-based communities benefit from this legislation. RACs are made up of individuals from the local area dedicated to directing a portion of the funds for projects in their respective regions. A county may also choose to use funds for search and rescue, community service work camps, easement purchases, forest-related education opportunities, fire prevention, and community forestry. ###
09.26.2006	Jackson, Deschutes, Jefferson & Wallowa County Projects BenefitSeptember 26, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -The U.S. House of Representatives on Monday unanimously passed legislation sponsored by Congressman Greg Walden that would enhance dam safety, water delivery, agriculture usage and water conservation efforts throughout central, southern and eastern Oregon. The Oregon Water Resources Management Act of 2006 (H.R. 5079) is a package of four bills previously introduced in the Congress. “This is great news for the local communities affected, and a big step forward for the responsible stewardship of our precious natural resources in central, southern and eastern Oregon,” Walden said. “Water issues are critical throughout Oregon. Whether in Wallowa County where it’s the water stored behind a dam in need of repair to protect residents, or in central Oregon where efforts continue for improving the quality and increasing the quantity of water in the Deschutes River for all uses, water plays a central role in our lifestyles and livelihoods. The Oregon Water Resources Management Act will help bring together the federal government and various local entities to improve cooperation when it comes to the management of water for both environmental and agricultural needs.” “At the heart of this legislation is collaboration,” Walden said. “In each of the four projects H.R. 5079 was designed to support, we see cooperative efforts between various stakeholders and local and federal governments to solve a variety of problems. These projects work to preserve and restore habitats for fish and wildlife, while protecting the needs of farmers and their communities through water conservation, sale and leasing.” “I worked closely with the local stakeholders involved and Senators Smith and Wyden to develop this cooperative legislation that addresses real Oregon problems, and with today’s passage in the House the bill is ready for consideration in the Senate,” Walden added. As passed, H.R. 5079 combines four individual bills: the North Unit Irrigation District Act (H.R. 5079), the Deschutes River Conservancy Reauthorization Act (S. 166), the Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act (H.R. 5019) and the Little Butte/Bear Creak Subbasins Water Feasibility Act (S. 251). Information on each bill follows: Central Oregon Region: The Deschutes River Conservancy Reauthorization (DRC) Act would reauthorize what has been a very good success story of farmers, landowners, conservation groups and local governments working together to support projects for conserving, purchasing and leasing water, while restoring habitats for fish and wildlife. As a result, nearly 140 cubic feet per second have been added to the Deschutes River, with 50 habitat projects resulting in the restoration of 100 miles of stream, 13 acres of new wetlands, and the planting of almost 250,000 native riparian plants. The DRC reauthorization allows for annual federal assistance toward their efforts through 2015. The DRC was originally authorized by Congress in 1996 to implement water conservation measures in the Deschutes River Basin. Since then, it has successfully fostered numerous projects that benefit all aspects of conservation along the Deschutes River. The bill has garnered support from the DRC, the local community and the Bureau of Reclamation. The North Unit Irrigation District (NUID) Act would successfully balance the needs of farmers in Jefferson County, while preserving important waterways for fish and other wildlife. The legislation would resolve several limitations in NUID’s contract with the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR), allowing for the dedication of water to in-stream uses which would make the district eligible to participate in state-funded conservation programs. Additionally, the bill would allow NUID to deliver Deschutes Project water—without increased diversion from the Deschutes Project—to families currently using Crooked River water to irrigate 9,000 acres of land in the district. This would reduce diversion of Crooked River water leaving more water in stream. The bill has garnered support from the District and the Bureau of Reclamation. Southern Oregon Region: The Little Butte/Bear Creek Subbasins Water Feasibility Act would help bring resolution to issues blocking an ongoing collaboration between irrigators and the federal government to meet local water needs without drawing more water from the subbasins. If this legislation were to fail, it would further delay efforts to move forward with this project by blocking the Bureau of Reclamation’s needed instructions from the Congress. The bill would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to conduct a much-needed water management feasibility study at the Little Butte and Bear Creak watersheds as outlined in the agency’s Memorandum of Agreement with the City of Medford for the Water for Irrigation, Streams and the Economy (WISE) project. The act reauthorizes $500,000 in federal assistance for this cooperative effort and requires 50-50 cost share match between federal and local dollars. The bill has garnered support from the city of Medford, local irrigators and the Bureau of Reclamation. Northeastern Oregon Region: The Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act would help protect the people living in the dam’s basin by rebuilding the aging dam, which has been identified as a high-hazard structure by the Army Corps of Engineers. The bill would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to provide grants or enter into cooperative agreements with tribes, the state, local governments and the Associated Ditch Companies to plan, design and repair Wallowa Lake Dam and preserve the valuable water recreation site behind the dam. The bill would authorize $6 million in federal assistance for this project and requires a 50-50 cost share match between federal and local dollars. The bill has the support of Wallowa County and the Associated Ditch Companies. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon.
09.21.2006	Walden-backed effort produces $300,000 to help spur alternative fuels innovationSeptember 21, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden informed the Pendleton Grain Growers, Inc. (PGG) last week that they have been awarded a $300,000 United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development funds grant for the continued growth of PGG’s agri-biodiesel production program. The $300,000 grant will be used for the purchase of additional inventory for the processing of canola seeds into biodiesel. Glycerin, a by-product, will be used in the production of wood pellets. PGG, a farmer-owned cooperative, began producing biodiesel in 2005, and processes approximately three tons of canola per day. Canola is a sound crop rotation alternative to wheat. “I was a strong supporter of PGG President Al Gosiak’s pursuit of a USDA investment in PGG’s value-added approach to utilizing canola, and couldn’t be more pleased that the USDA views their cutting-edge program as favorably as I do,” Walden said. “At a time when our nation needs to diversify our energy sources, PGG represents the future: a locally-owned, farmer-controlled enterprise that has the potential to not only boost the local Umatilla County economy, but also provide a model that can be duplicated throughout the Pacific Northwest.” On March 21, 2006, Walden, who is the Vice Chair of the bipartisan House Renewable Energy Caucus and Co-Chair of the bipartisan House Northwest Energy Caucus, wrote a letter to PGG commending their canola-to-biodiesel program and lent his strong support to their USDA value-added producer grant request. Walden’s letter was included in PGG’s application to USDA. The biodiesel made by PGG is primarily used for local farmers in eastern Oregon for their farm equipment, and if production meets demand, could eventually be shipped throughout the Pacific Northwest for use. “The grant we received from the USDA will allow us to continue to develop a value-added and sustainable oil seed industry to benefit local producers here in our region,” PGG President Al Gosiak said. “I want to thank everyone who has helped make this award possible, particularly Congressman Greg Walden and his staff. We will use this opportunity wisely.” PGG’s business model shows a 50-percent increase in returns when producing up to five million gallons of fuel from locally-grown Canola. By its third year, the local value-added benefit of the project could exceed $7.5 million before any economic multiplier is applied. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources, where he serves as Chairman of the Forests & Forest Health Subcommittee.
09.14.2006	Forest health bill revenues can be used to help fund county roads and schoolsSeptember 14, 2006 - Washington, D.C. - Congressman Greg Walden announced Wednesday that if enacted, H.R. 4200, the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act (FERRA), would provide $130 million in new revenue for the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (aka “county payments”) over the next ten years. Walden is the chief sponsor of FERRA, and co-wrote this bipartisan legislation with Congressman Brian Baird (D-WA). Walden’s announcement was made this morning at the White House before 35 Oregon commissioners in Washington, D.C., to advocate for reauthorization of and funding for the county payments program. It is the result of a request by Walden to the Office of Management and Budget to assess how much revenue would be produced by FERRA and be available to be dedicated to the county payments program. (A copy of the letter is attached.) FERRA is a comprehensive piece of legislation designed to help forests recover from natural disasters, including forest fires, hurricanes and ice storms. It was approved this spring with strong bipartisan support in the U.S. House of Representatives and is currently awaiting action in the Senate. “Today’s news takes us another solid step toward our goal. We’re making progress, but much work remains. I’m particularly pleased that the budget office has determined that with enactment of my forest health bill, we can help fund the county payments program while at the same time improve the conditions in our forests after a fire. Our bipartisan effort will continue, and I’m grateful to the commissioners from Oregon and around the country for coming to help make the case to our colleagues in the Congress. Rural counties roads and schools rely on the county payments program, and this reliance can’t be overstated,” said Walden. Previously, Walden, along with Congressman Peter DeFazio, successfully secured $250 million over five years at part of the Deep Ocean Energy Resources Act that passed the U.S. House this summer with bipartisan support and is currently in a joint House-Senate conference committee. Today’s news adds another viable funding source for our rural schools and counties should each measure be enacted. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources, where he serves as Chairman of the Forests & Forest Health Subcommittee.
09.08.2006	$175,000 in grants will promote community partnerships, prevention programsSeptember 8, 2006 -Congressman Greg Walden announced a major grant for Hood River’s drug prevention programs at an event at Hood River Valley High School in Hood River. The Hood River County Drug Prevention Coalition has been awarded $175,000 in federal funds to continue their successful drug prevention work. The Drug Free Communities Support Program Continuing Grant, awarded by The Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Dept. of Health and Human Services Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, is in the amount of $100,000 – the maximum grant amount possible. The Hood River Coalition was also awarded a Drug Free Communities Support Mentoring Program Grant in the amount of $75,000. The grant is awarded competitively to prevention coalitions that have proven to be highly effective. “Kids today face so many pressures, and drugs are an easy trap to fall into,” Walden said. “As the parent of a teenager in Hood River, I can't say enough about the positive results these vital prevention efforts are producing in our local community.” The purpose of the continuing grant is to continue to build the capacity of the Hood River Coalition so they can engage more community partners (churches, businesses, parents, law enforcement, media, service organizations, etc.) in promoting alcohol, tobacco and drugs abuse prevention. The mentoring grant will allow the Hood River Coalition to mentor the Gilliam County Safe Communities Coalition in an effort to replicate the successes in Hood River. “Our coalition is excited about the opportunity of mentoring in neighboring the communities of Klickitat, Skamania and Gilliam Counties,” Hood River County Prevention Coordinator Maija Yasui said. “We know that illegal drug use knows no geographic boundaries, and its crippling effects are not stopped by the mighty Columbia River, four different county governments or eighty miles of wheat fields that separate our communities. Helping our neighbors in their drug prevention efforts can only strengthen our own efforts.”Walden, who held one of his seven Meth Town Hall forums in Hood River last year, said he recognizes how critical it is to reinforce messages to prevent illegal drug use, especially with children and teens. Walden, who held one of his seven Meth Town Hall forums in Hood River last year, said he recognizes how critical it is to reinforce messages to prevent illegal drug use, especially with children and teens. “Last year my seven Meth Town Halls around central, southern and eastern Oregon provided forums for hundreds of families, teachers, community leaders, local drug prevention groups and law enforcement agencies to discuss the destructive nature of meth and other illegal drugs. These forums made abundantly clear how critical it is to attack the problem at every level through community-wide, collaborative efforts, which is what Maija Yasui and the Hood River Coalition does so well,” Walden said. “These grants allow the good work of the Hood River Coalition to continue, and spread to other communities in need.” Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. In addition to serving on the House Energy and Commerce, and Resources committees, Walden is a member of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine and the Speaker’s Task Force for a Drug-Free America.
09.07.2006	Over 60 Bipartisan Members Support Improvements to the Rural Health Care SystemSeptember 7, 2006 -In an effort to further improve rural Americans’ access to quality health care, Congressmen Greg Walden (R-OR) and Earl Pomeroy (D-ND), co-chairs of the House Rural Health Care Coalition, introduced H.R. 6030, the Health Care Access and Rural Equity Act (H-CARE) on Wednesday, September 6, 2006. The bipartisan legislation, which was introduced with 60 co-sponsors, is a comprehensive bill that makes several improvements to our nation’s health care infrastructure to help rural health care providers address the unique challenges associated with delivering quality health care close to home. The bill would do the following: Authorize health information technology grants for rural practitioners.Require prompt payment to rural pharmacies by Medicare prescription drug plans.Ensure adequate rural representation on the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission.Establish a Rural Heath Quality Advisory Commission.Establish a Rural Community Hospital Program.Raise Rural Health Clinic reimbursements to more appropriately cover costs.Extend several expiring Medicare adjustment payments for rural practitioners including physicians practicing in physician scarcity areas, rural ambulance providers, rural home health agencies and specific classes of rural hospitals. “The H-CARE Act will provide people in rural communities the certainty of care when they’re sick. Today, the health care safety net in small towns is about to rip apart and if it does people will have to travel even greater distances to get help, or be denied access to care altogether. We’re not about to let that happen,” said Walden, who before being elected to Congress served several years as a trustee of a non-profit hospital in his hometown of Hood River, Oregon. “In a rural area, having access to quality health care is a matter of life and death,” Pomeroy said. “When health facilities can’t make ends meet, they close their doors. Not having local access to health care can mean a cancer patient has to travel miles and miles to get treatment and that seniors have to go longer between doctor’s visits because they can’t make the trip. “We need better representation for rural citizens on the committee that recommends the payment schedules; instead of only one rural voice, we deserve four seats at the table. We need to ensure that the federal government is paying our caregivers a fair amount, so they can afford to continue to help people in rural and frontier communities. The H-CARE Act will help providers to take advantage of the latest health information technologies. It makes sure our local pharmacists get paid in a timely manner for helping seniors with their medications. And it expands access for mental health care in rural and remote areas,” said Walden. “The H-CARE Act helps to remedy problems in health care delivery that are unique to rural areas. When a community has one pharmacist, it is important that pharmacist is paid in full and on time because not having the money to cover expenses means closing your doors. Being able to get your prescriptions on Main Street is critical for rural residents. This bill makes necessary improvements so that rural Americans continue to have access to quality health care,” added Pomeroy. To date, twelve national organizations have endorsed the H-CARE Act including the American Hospital Association, National Rural Health Association, American Osteopathic Association, American Ambulance Association, National Association of Rural Health Care Clinics, National Association for Home Care and Hospice, College of American Pathologists, Rural Referral Center/Sole Community Hospital Coalition, Federation of American Hospitals, American Counseling Association, American Association for Marriage and Family Therapists, National Community Pharmacist Association and the Section 508 Hospital Coalition. Numerous state organizations are also supporting the bill. “We know there isn’t much time remaining in this session of Congress, but we’re committed to doing all that we can to make sure these provisions are part of the legislation to prevent cuts in the physician payment schedule which Congress must act on before the end of the year,” concluded Walden. “Rural America has a strong voice in the Rural Health Care Coalition, and we intend to fight until these changes are made. Rural Americans are depending on it,” Pomeroy summed up. Congressman Greg Walden is in his fourth term representing Oregon’s Second District; Congressman Earl Pomeroy is in his seventh term as the at-large representative for North Dakota. Both represent areas where residents are cared for through the rural health care system.
06.23.2006	Northwest TV reporter Matt Daigle will assume position beginning next weekJune 23, 2006 - Washington, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden, R-Ore, today announced that Matt Daigle has joined his Washington, D.C., staff as press secretary effective Tuesday, June 27. Daigle, a television reporter from the Tri Cities Washington area, will manage media relations for Walden. “Matt’s journalism background and experience in the Northwest will be of great value both to my team and the people of central, southern and eastern Oregon,” said Walden. “He has a strong understanding of both broad national issues and the unique issues specific to our region that I work on in the Congress. I’m excited to welcome him aboard.” Daigle comes to the Walden office after more than three years as a reporter with KNDU based in Kennewick, Washington, near the Oregon-Washington border. During his time with KNDU Daigle covered stories relating to federal policy issues ranging from energy and nuclear waste to the Umatilla Chemical Depot and the ongoing fight against methamphetamine. He has a Bachelor of Arts in Communications from Marist College in Poughkeepsie, New York, and a Master of Science in Journalism from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. Beginning June 27, Daigle can be contacted using the same phone numbers used by his predecessor, Angela Wilhelms: (202) 226-7338 (direct) or (202) 744-7974 (cell). He can also be reached by e-mail at matt.daigle@mail.house.gov. Daigle replaces Wilhelms who, after two years as Walden’s press secretary, is returning to her home state of Oregon to open a public relations and strategic planning consulting firm. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
06.21.2006	Bill addresses dam safety, water conservation, enhanced agriculture in central, southern and eastern OregonJune 21, 2006 - Washington, DC -The House Committee on Resources today passed legislation sponsored by Congressman Greg Walden, R-Ore, aimed at enhancing dam safety, water delivery, agriculture usage and water conservation efforts throughout central, southern and eastern Oregon. The Oregon Water Resources Management Act of 2006, H.R. 5079, is a package of four bills previously introduced by Walden and Oregon Senators Gordon Smith and Ron Wyden. The bill passed the Resources Committee by voice vote with no opposition. “Water issues are critical throughout Oregon. Whether it is water stored behind a dam in need of repair to protect residents in Wallowa County, or improving water quality and increasing water quantity in the Deschutes River for all uses, one can’t understate the importance of good water stewardship in central, southern and eastern Oregon,” said Walden. “The Oregon Water Resources Management Act will help facilitate improved cooperation between the federal government and various local entities when it comes to the management of this precious resource for both environmental needs and the many production uses associated with the Second District’s strong agricultural way of life.” He added, “I have worked closely with Senators Smith and Wyden in writing and introducing these legislative concepts bills in the Congress, and I look forward to working with them further as this bill advances through the House and on to the Senate.” As passed, H.R. 5079 combines provisions from the North Unit Irrigation District Act as well as three other bills: the Deschutes River Conservancy Reauthorization Act (S. 166), the Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act (H.R. 5019) and the Little Butte/Bear Creak Subbasins Water Feasibility Act (S. 251). The North Unit Irrigation District (NUID) Act would resolve several limitations in NUID’s contract with the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR), allowing for the dedication of water to in-stream uses which would make the district eligible to participate in state-funded conservation programs. Additionally, the bill would allow NUID to deliver Deschutes Project water—without increased diversion from the Deschutes Project—to families currently using Crooked River water to irrigate 9,000 acres of land in the district. This would reduce diversion of Crooked River water leaving more in stream. “This legislation benefits the local economy and the environment by enabling NUID to more efficiently manage its water supplies and improve conservation efforts. The proposed changes would directly assist 900 farmers and ranchers in Jefferson County while improving stream flows at the same time,” said Walden. The Deschutes River Conservancy Reauthorization (DRC) Act would reauthorize the DRC and allow for annual federal assistance toward their efforts through 2015. The DRC was originally authorized by Congress in 1996 to implement water conservation measures in the Deschutes River Basin. “The Deschutes River Conservancy has done many good things during the past 10 years. It brings together landowners, environmentalists, tribes and local governments to find common ground and achieve successes through efforts such as riparian area fencing, the planting of trees, reconstructing stream beds and enhancing stream flows in the Deschutes River Basin,” said Walden. The Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to provide grants or enter into cooperative agreements—with tribes, the state, local governments and the Associated Ditch Companies—to plan, design and repair Wallowa Lake Dam and preserve the valuable water recreation site behind the dam. The bill would authorize federal assistance for this project, requiring an even cost share match between federal and local dollars. “Rehabilitation of the Wallowa Lake Dam, which has been identified as a high-hazard structure by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, is very important to the local community and this legislation will help advance local efforts to see such work completed,” said Walden. “I’ve held many local meetings with those affected by the dam to develop a bill that protects water rights and provides needed federal assistance to repair this aging structure.” The Little Butte/Bear Creek Subbasins Water Feasibility Act would authorize the BOR to conduct a much-needed water management feasibility study at the Little Butte and Bear Creak watersheds as outlined in the agency’s Memorandum of Agreement with the City of Medford for the Water for Irrigation, Streams and the Economy (WISE) project. “This provision of H.R. 5079 will help foster collaborative efforts between federal, state and local governments all working together on the WISE project to benefit cities, irrigators, fish and the environment throughout the Rogue Valley. The study will help the project’s goals of increasing summer stream flows, improving water quality and temperature, and improving the irrigation systems throughout the region,” said Walden. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
06.21.2006	House Committee approves legislation providing partial funding stream; Congressmen remain focused on fully funding "county payments" lawJune 21, 2006 - Washington, DC -The House Resources Committee today approved a bipartisan amendment offered by Oregon Congressmen Greg Walden, R-Hood River, and Peter DeFazio, D-Springfield, that would provide an annual revenue stream to partially fund the critical Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Reauthorization Act of 2005 (H.R. 517), which would reauthorize the “county payments” program. Walden and DeFazio are cosponsors of H.R. 517 and are leading the effort in the House to see it is enacted. The Walden-DeFazio amendment, approved unanimously by the committee, was made to the bipartisan Deep Ocean Energy Resources Act, which would give coastal states the option to allow energy exploration on America’s outer continental shelf (OCS). The amendment mandates that $50 million of new royalties collected by the federal government from companies engaged in OCS exploration be automatically directed to the county payments program each year for five years, for a total of $250 million. Although $250 million is only a portion of the total amount needed for the federal government to meet its commitment to timber communities throughout America, Walden and DeFazio believe this is an important first step and they remain strongly committed to their bipartisan effort in the House and Senate to find revenue streams to reach the $450 million annually to fully fund the program. Following today’s committee vote, Walden and DeFazio issued the following joint statement: “We fully recognize that this amendment to provide $250 million to pay for the county roads and schools program is only the first step forward in what is an incremental approach toward fully funding this program. This funding source gets us one-ninth of the way. In effect, we’ve gotten through the first inning of the game, but we have eight more to go before we can declare a true victory. “As we have said all along, getting this program reauthorized will require creative work. We will continue to look at each and every available option to provide a revenue stream that will allow the federal government to maintain its century-old commitment to the counties and schools in forested areas that depend on this assistance. With this first step, the Senate and House can now build upon this foundation. “More than 100 years ago, Congress recognized that these counties and communities with federally owned forestland within their boundaries would not be able to provide basic services because of the reduction in local property tax base. Congress also recognized that national forests exist for the benefit of an entire nation, and therefore, the entire nation has a role in maintaining the health of our forests and their surrounding communities. “The county payments program has been praised by organizations from the farthest ends of the spectrum as a model partnership among local, state and federal interests. There is no question that this program funds vital county services in hundreds of counties across America. “We appreciate the support shown today by our colleagues on the House Resources Committee in taking a first step toward funding the county payments program and look forward to earning the approval of the full House and additional support in the Senate. However, we recognize that much work remains and we will stay focused on our ultimate goal.” H.R. 517 was passed by the House Resources Committee last year and is currently awaiting action in the House Agriculture Committee. S 267 is its companion legislation in the Senate, sponsored by Senators Larry Craig, R-Id, and Ron Wyden, D-Ore. More information on H.R. 517, which has 104 additional cosponsors, and S 267, which has 24 additional cosponsors, is available on the web at https://thomas.loc.gov. Congressman Walden represents the 2nd District of Oregon; Congressman DeFazio represents the 4th District of Oregon.
06.14.2006	Funding would reduce travel delays, enhance safety for driversJune 14, 2006 - Washington, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden, R-Ore., today announced a $500,000 investment in the I-84 North Ontario interchange approved today by the House of Representatives in the House appropriations legislation for Transportation, Treasury and other agencies. This federal investment by Congress, which was specifically requested by Walden, would assist the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) on this local transportation package, which is designed to accommodate growing regional and interstate freight volumes on I-84 and Oregon 201. “The effort to reconstruct the I-84 interchange at North Ontario is imperative to improving safety and reducing travel delays in a region that has seen increases in passenger and commercial vehicle volume,” said Walden. “These funds will help ODOT as they continue their work on this much-needed infrastructure improvement. I was glad to lend my strong support to this project, and look forward to working with our senators to ensure it remains in the final agreement between the House and Senate.” The Senate will now consider the House-approved legislation authorizing this investment; any differences between Senate funding and House funding levels would be negotiated in a conference committee between the two chambers. Walden is currently in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District which is more than 70,000 square miles of eastern, central and southern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy & Commerce and the Committee on Resources. ###
06.14.2006	Funding would improve terminal, increase space and enhance securityJune 14, 2006 - Washington, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden, R-Ore., today announced a $950,000 investment Roberts Field for terminal improvements at the Redmond, Oregon, airport. The investment was part of the fiscal year 2007 appropriations legislation for Transportation, Treasury and other agencies. The investment was specifically requested by Walden. “Central Oregon is one of the nation’s fastest growing regions and, as a result, Roberts Field is seeing tremendous increases in air travel to and from the area. Keeping pace with demand and managing this increased volume is not an easy task, and Airport Manager Carrie Novick and her team are doing a tremendous job of managing the airport’s needs for the future,” said Walden. “I look forward to working with our senators to keep this investment in the final agreement between the House and Senate.” The investment, which must still be approved by the U.S. Senate, would help fund terminal improvements and expansion at Roberts Field to help provide more space for passengers, terminal maintenance and operations facilities, baggage claim areas, security screening and handicap accessible restrooms. Airport officials estimate that five million people have used the airport terminal since it opened. “This is great. The money that Congressman Walden helped secure in the House bill will allow us to continue to move the terminal expansion project forward. Without his support of Redmond Airport in this bill, our project’s future would be more uncertain. Somehow thank you doesn't seem enough,” said Roberts Field Manager Carrie Novick. Walden is currently in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District which is more than 70,000 square miles of eastern, central and southern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy & Commerce and the Committee on Resources. ###
06.08.2006	Americans for Tax Reform recognizes Walden for his strong voting record, protection of taxpayersJune 8, 2006 - Washington, D.C. - Congressman Greg Walden, R-Ore., today was honored as a “Hero of the Taxpayer” by Americans for Tax Reform (ATR) at a ceremony in the U.S. Capitol. In addition to having a 92% voting record with ATR on key votes tracked by the group during the first session of the 109th Congress, Walden has signed their Taxpayer Protection Pledge opposing tax increases on individuals and businesses. “These key votes were the most critical for taxpayers in the first session of the 109th Congress,” said ATR President Grover Norquist. “Looking at these votes, taxpayers back home can tell if they have a friend or enemy in Washington. As far as Greg Walden is concerned, they have a friend.” “It is an honor to be recognized as a friend to taxpayers, and I am proud of my voting record on issues important to hard working men and women in America,” said Walden. “There is a fundamental principle at hand: no one knows better what to do with your money than you. Allowing families to control more of the money they earn helps to stimulate our economy, boosting much need job creation throughout the Second District and the nation as a whole.” ATR considers votes on legislation relating to tax relief, free trade, spending control and property rights among others. ATR is a non-partisan coalition of taxpayers and taxpayer groups who oppose federal, state and local tax increases. Walden has had an average rating of 93% with ATR during the last six sessions of Congress. “My wife and I have been small business owners in Oregon for 20 years, and we understand that excessive taxation is a significant obstacle to creating new, good-paying jobs, jobs that are critical to reducing Oregon’s unemployment rate,” continued Walden. “In recent years, tax relief relating to capital gains, dividends, the alternative minimum tax and the estate tax have help our economy strengthen and grow, leaving us with record receipts into the U.S. Treasury and an unemployment rate lower than the average of the sixties, seventies, eighties and nineties combined.” If you have trouble opening the attached photograph of Walden with ATR President Grover Norquist at today’s ceremony, please contact Angela Wilhelms at (202) 226-7338 or via email at angela.wilhelms@mail.house.gov. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.###
06.02.2006	Bend, Eagle Point, Hood River and Wasco high school students honored as winner, runners-up in "An Artistic Discovery;" art to be displayed in U.C. Capitol, Walden's officesJune 2, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Representative Greg Walden, R-Ore., today announced the Second Congressional District winner and runners-up for the 2006 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. The overall winner will have her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year and the three runners-up will have theirs displayed in Walden’s D.C., Medford and Bend offices. “I want to congratulate these young adults on their accomplishment. The artwork they submitted is a testament to their talent, and I look forward to seeing them on display as I go to vote in the Capitol and as I work in my offices. The many individuals who pass through the halls of the U.S. Capitol and my offices in D.C., Medford and Bend will also be able to enjoy these wonderful pieces,” said Walden. “An Artistic Discovery is a tremendous opportunity for young people interested in art and I want to thank all those who participated, including a dedicated and fantastic team of judges from college art programs throughout the state. We had many fantastic works submitted for this year’s competition, and all of the students should be proud.” Megan Montgomery of Bend has been selected as the overall winner for the District. Megan, a junior at Mountain View High School, submitted an acrylic on paper piece titled “Voices in the Forest,” a painting of three African boys playing music. Her painting will be hung in the U.S. Capitol’s national Artistic Discovery display for one year. Nate Ficek of Eagle Point has been selected as a runner-up for the District. Nate, a junior at Eagle Point High School, will have his pencil drawing titled “Freedom Rocks” hung for one year in Walden’s office in Washington, D.C. Anastasia Mejia of Hood River has also been selected as runner-up. Anastasia, a member of Hood River Valley High School’s class of 2006, will have her work of soft pastels titled “Song of Joy” hung in Walden’s Medford district office. Mariah Kirkpatrick of Wasco was named as the third runner-up for the District. Mariah, a member of Sherman High School’s graduating class, will have her pastel drawing titled “Frank Zappa” hung in Walden’s Bend district office. An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide endeavor for students to showcase their artistic abilities and to highlight the importance of art education. In order to enter the competition, high school students had to submit two-dimensional artwork that was original in concept, design and execution from one of the following categories: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer generated art and photography. A panel of Oregon college art professors judged finalists to determine this year’s winner and runners-up. For electronic copies of the students’ art, please contact Angela Wilhelms at angela.wilhelms@mail.house.gov or (202) 226-7338. Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
05.31.2006	Transportation Security Administration to provide new equipment, personnel to help improve efficiency of luggage, passenger screeningMay 31, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden of Oregon today announced that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) has committed to adding additional staff and equipment to Roberts Field in Redmond, Oregon, to help improve the efficiency of passenger and luggage security screening. This fall, TSA will hire six more part-time screeners for the airport and will purchase two Reveal CTX-80 baggage scanners to help reduce delays due to security screening for individuals flying out of Redmond. TSA also plans to add an additional x-ray machine at the security check point. “Thorough security screening of both passengers and bags is a critical component to airline safety. However, as someone who flies between Oregon and the nation’s capital nearly every week, I know firsthand how understaffed screening points can cause severe travel delays and major headaches at airports both small and large. As one of the fastest growing regions in the country, central Oregon continues to see more airline traffic from residents, vacationers and business travelers,” said Walden. He added, “This investment by the TSA in Roberts Field is imperative to both the airport’s safety and its viability. More equipment and personnel will help the airport more efficiently and effectively keep pace with the growing number of passengers flying out of Redmond. Airport administrator Carrie Novick and her crew deserve tremendous credit for having the foresight and know-how to position the Redmond airport’s needs so effectively.” In recent months, Roberts Field has added several new departing flights and there are plans by some carriers to increase service through larger planes, adding to the number of passengers that will be departing from the airport. This increase in passengers coupled with the greater volume of travel during the summer months holidays has led to an enhanced need for TSA screeners and screening equipment to ensure that flights are able to depart on time. Upon hearing the news, Roberts Field Manager Carrie Novick said, “This is incredible news. With the addition of the new Horizon Air service to Los Angeles starting in August, and their announced fleet change planes with more capacity over the next year, I was very concerned about how the airport’s current TSA personnel would be able to handle the additional volume of passengers and baggage. Horizon Air, Sky West and airport staff have been trying for more than a year to find a solution to this problem, but without the help of Congressman Walden and Senator Smith, these positive changes wouldn’t be happening.” Congressman Walden is currently serving his fourth term representing Oregon’s 2nd District in the House of Representatives. ###
05.23.2006	Events and meetings to cover rural health care, home ownership, economic development, energy, public lands management and other key issuesMay 23, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Representative Greg Walden, R-Ore., will be traveling to Lake, Klamath and Jackson Counties on May 31 and June 1 to meet with residents and community leaders on a variety of issues important to the region, including rural healthcare, home ownership, economic development, energy and others. These visits are part of Walden’s 274th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since first taking office in 1999. His schedule is as follows: WEDNESDAY, MAY 31:LAKE COUNTYLAKEVIEW – 11:00-11:45 AM: Congressman Walden, co-chair of the bipartisan, 182-member House Rural Health Care Coalition, will visit the Lake District Hospital to meet with hospital administrators and health care professionals. In addition to discussing the unique challenges that come with delivering health care services in rural areas, Walden will tour the hospital and talk about issues he’s working on in the Congress to help enhance access to quality care in rural areas. LAKEVIEW – Noon-1:30 PM: Walden will then speak at a joint meeting of the Lakeview Rotary and Lake County Chamber of Commerce. Walden will update attendees on issues and legislation currently being worked on in the Congress that impact southern and eastern Oregon as well as answer questions from folks as well. In addition to being a member of the Hood River Rotary, Walden, a small business owner, is a member of the Hood River Chamber of Commerce and The Dalles Chamber of Commerce. KLAMATH COUNTYKLAMATH FALLS – 3:30-4:30 PM: Walden will then travel to Klamath Falls to visit Klamath Community College (KCC) to get an update on the college’s activities and programs, meet with faculty members, tour their facilities and visit with KCC President Fred Smith. Walden will be the first Member of Congress to visit the KCC in its ten-year history. THURSDAY, JUNE 1:JACKSON COUNTYCENTRAL POINT – 8:30-9:30 AM: Congressman Walden will tour the Rogue Creamery and talk with leaders at the company about how they have greatly increased capacity through employment training by utilizing programs in the Workforce Investment Act, which was passed by Congress in 1998 to help consolidate, coordinate and improve employment, training, literacy and vocational rehabilitation programs. Representatives from Motorcycle USA and Capital Associations, two additional local companies that have benefited from Workforce Investment Act programs, will also be present to discuss these programs with Walden. MEDFORD – 10:00-11:00 AM: To help kick off National Home Ownership Month, which begins on June 1, Congressman Walden will be joined by State Treasurer Randall Edwards and USDA Rural Development Director for Oregon Mark Simmons for a home ownership event with ACCESS. Walden will speak at the event, introduced by ACCESS CEO Gary Miller, to talk about state and federal programs that can help Medford area residents realize the dream of home ownership. While home ownership is at record levels, continued attention to this issue is necessary given the rising cost of house prices, especially in rapidly growing areas such as the communities in Jackson County. ASHLAND – 11:30 AM-3:15PM: Walden will then head to Ashland where he will meet with Mayor John Morrison, city councilors and Ashland United Front to learn about some of their new projects and receive an update on existing projects. Last year, Walden worked with Senators Smith and Wyden to help secure a $250,000 investment in the city’s park and ride program. The event will begin with a sit-down meeting and then Walden will take a tour of the construction site for the expansion of the Ashland Forensics Lab, for which he also helped secure a federal investment. After the tour of the lab expansion, Walden will visit other area projects including the Ashland Watershed, a class for at-risk youth at Ashland High School, and the city’s park and ride program. MEDFORD – 3:45-4:30 PM: Congressman Walden will visit with Dr. Charles R. Dibb, president of Hematology Oncology Associates, and Greg Gilbert, the clinic’s administrator, to tour their new 24,000 square foot facility—the largest free-standing medical oncology clinic in Oregon—and learn more about the services they provide to the approximately 100 cancer patients from the region served every day. Representatives from area hospitals will also attend the meeting. Walden and the group will discuss the advantages of having locally-based outpatient oncology services in the region to provide an alternative to the more expensive options of inpatient care or the need to travel to Portland. They will also discuss Medicare reimbursements rates for care provided at the clinic. Later that evening, Walden will attend the clinic’s community open house to help celebrate the new facility. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
05.17.2006	Walden, Baird's common-sense land management legislation to help restore forest health, enhance research now heads to the SenateMay 17, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -In a bipartisan show of support for more responsible forest management policies in America’s national forests, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 4200, the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, by a vote of 243 to 182. The bill—authored by U.S. Representatives Greg Walden (R-OR), Brian Baird (D-WA) and Stephanie Herseth (D-SD)—would give federal land managers the tools necessary to restore forestland damaged by catastrophic events in quicker manner, without waiving environmental laws, if quick action is found to be beneficial to the long-term health and recovery of the forest. Four amendments to the legislation were considered during today’s debate. Although Walden and Baird did not support the amendments, all of which were soundly defeated, both Congressmen encouraged the Rules Committee to allow for their consideration to add additional dialogue and openness to the debate. The legislation now heads to the Senate. “Our common sense, bipartisan legislation came to the House Floor after nine committee hearings across the country, more than fifty different drafts, and overwhelming support by both the House Resources and House Agriculture Committees,” said Walden, who chairs the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health and represents a district that includes nine national forests. “Thousands upon thousands of foresters, scientists, firefighters, local government officials, and private landowners agree: federal forestland managers need the authorities provided by the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act for the future of America’s national forests. The professionals who manage and protect our forests on a daily basis support this legislation because it allows them to use their expertise, hands-on experience and practical knowledge to make timely and responsible decisions necessary to improve the health, vitality and safety of our national forests,” he added. “The passage of this bill is a victory for responsible, common sense policy. The bottom line is, people use wood – to build homes, to make paper – and that wood needs to come from somewhere. We can use wood from trees that are dead or dying, or from trees that are alive and healthy. We can responsibly harvest wood here at home, abiding by environmental protections and creating jobs, or we can get our wood from clear cuts in equatorial rainforests where the environment is far more fragile and environmental protection and labor laws are far weaker or even nonexistent,” Baird said. “This legislation will enable us to utilize dead timber instead of letting it go to waste and to responsibly restore the health and diversity of our forests after a catastrophic event like a fire or hurricane,” Baird added. H.R. 4200 would provide tools and authorities to federal land managers for the rapid assessment of damage in forestlands following catastrophic events. If swift restoration work is necessary to restore the health of our nation’s forests, expedited – but thorough – environmental review of proposed actions would be performed by the agencies, including full public notice and participation. Land managers would then be able to engage in active management practices relating to the dead and dying timber left in forests, restoring landscapes, removing excess fuel loads, improving water and air quality, and preventing additional reforestation backlog, estimated in a May 2005 Government Accountability Office report at one million acres. A broad variety of groups have endorsed H.R. 4200, including the Society of American Foresters, National Association of Counties, National Association of State Foresters, National Federation of Federal Employees Forest Services Council, Federal Wildland Fire Service Association, National Association of Conservation Districts, National Association of Forest Service Retirees, Communities for Healthy Forests, Evergreen Foundation, National Forest Counties and Schools Coalition, and many others. The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act would:Limit the removal of timber to trees that are down, dead, broken or severely root sprung, where mortality is highly probably within five years of the event;Require thorough environmental review, including full evaluation of the environmental effects of a catastrophic event recovery project;Increase the amount of peer reviewed scientific research conducted and made available to the public, federal land managers and policy makers;Use the same guidelines for public notice, appeals and judicial review established in the overwhelmingly bipartisan and effective Healthy Forests Restoration Act;Require agencies to work in cooperation with states, local governments, tribes, land-grant universities and non-governmental organizations in the development of projects;Strictly prohibit the creation of permanent roads in forestlands and call for the immediate obliteration of roads used in restoration efforts;Require an expedited National Environmental Policy Act procedural review and mandate compliance with all environmental laws including the ESA, Wilderness Act, Clean Air Act, National Forest Management Act, Wild & Scenic Rivers Act, and others;Strictly prohibit the replanting of forest plantations; and,Save taxpayers $21 million during from 2007 to 2011. More information on the bill can be found at www.walden.house.gov or https://thomas.loc.gov. Rep. Walden represents the 2nd District of Oregon; Rep. Baird represents the 3rd District of Washington.###
05.12.2006	Bend-based Field Representative Justen Rainey will visit Grant County to meet with constituents, discuss local issuesMay 12, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden, R-Ore., today announced that a member of his staff will hold office hours in Canyon City on Thursday, May 18, to assist Oregonians with questions or difficulties they may have with various federal agencies or departments. Field Representative Justen Rainey will be available to discuss issues and concerns area residents may have concerning agriculture, natural resources, health care, Social Security, taxation, economic development and education, as well other questions individuals might have about the federal government. It is not necessary to make an appointment to visit with Rainey during his office hours, and if individuals are unable to stop in during these hours, they can find additional information and assistance at www.walden.house.gov. Details are as follows:DATE: Thursday, May 18TIME: 3:00-4:00 PMWHERE: Grant County Courthouse - Conference Room - 201 S. Humbolt Street - Canyon City, OR 97820 Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
05.09.2006	May 9, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -The U.S. House of Representatives this evening passed legislation honoring the men and women who make the ultimate sacrifice while serving our nation in the Armed Forces. The Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act, H.R. 5037, cosponsored by Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), would prohibit demonstrations from taking place at a ceremony during a funeral or memorial service for military personnel. The bill passed by a vote of 408 to 3 and now heads to the Senate for their consideration. “Disruption of a family’s precious moments to respect and honor the life, bravery and sacrifice of the men and women who serve our nation and fight for freedom around the world is something that cannot be tolerated. A memorial service is a time for remembrance and mourning, to reflect on those who gave their all, not a time for protests and disrespect based on individual philosophies on war or the military,” said Walden. Specifically, H.R. 5037 prohibits a person from carrying out a demonstration within 500 feet of a cemetery at which a funeral or memorial service is to be held (including 60 minutes prior and 60 minutes following the service) if such a demonstration would include noise or a diversion that disturbs the peace. According to the legislation, demonstrations would include picketing; oration, speech, use of sound amplification equipment, or similar conduct before an assembled group of people; the display of any placard, banner, flag, or similar item; and the distribution of printed materials other than a program distributed as part of the funeral or memorial service ceremony. Additionally, the bill would prohibit a demonstration at a cemetery under the control of the National Cemetery Administration or at Arlington National Cemetery, unless the demonstration has been approved by the cemetery superintendent or director, would establish criminal penalties for the demonstrations outlined, and expresses the sense of Congress that each state should enact similar legislation. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
05.05.2006	Public invited to attend community gatherings on May 15May 5, 2006 - Hood River, OR -On Monday, May 15, U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) will host community forums in Sherman, Gilliam and Wheeler Counties to meet with local residents and discuss current issues before the Congress affecting the region. “As I continue my weekly commute to Washington, D.C. from Oregon, I like to spend my time at home meeting with residents throughout the twenty counties I represent. Getting together with folks to hear their thoughts, questions and ideas on issues we’re working on in Congress helps me develop my ‘to do’ list to take back to the nation’s capital,” said Walden. “I hope area residents will be able to join me at these events and I look forwarding to hearing what’s on people’s minds.” In addition to taking questions, Walden will update residents on key issues including energy policy, renewable energy development, rural health care, agriculture and public lands management. These visits are part of Walden’s 272nd round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. His schedule for the community forums on Monday, May 15 is as follows: Sherman County10:00-11:00 AMCommunity CoffeeLean-To Café13 Clark Street #A, Wasco Gilliam County12:15-1:30 PMNo-Host Lunch*Hotel Condon202 S. Main Street, Condon Wheeler County2:30-3:30 PMCommunity CoffeeAsher Clinic712 Jay Street, Fossil For seating and coffee service, residents wishing to attend should RSVP by calling Walden’s district office toll-free at 800-533-3303 or sending an email to Grace Kalista on his staff at Grace.Kalista@mail.house.gov to let him know they’ll be in attendance. *For residents interested in eating lunch at the Gilliam County community forum, there will be a buffet available for $9.95. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. ###
05.03.2006	May 3, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -In an ongoing effort control the rising cost of gas prices, U.S. Congressman Greg Walden, R-Ore., joined with colleagues on both sides of the aisle today to pass key legislation protecting consumers from gasoline price gouging. H.R. 5253, the Federal Energy Price Protection Act of 2006, passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 389-34 and now heads to the Senate for their consideration. “Last fall we held a number of hearings in the Energy and Commerce Committee to address the rising cost of gasoline and to ensure that consumer protection remained at the forefront of our efforts and this bill incorporates many of our findings. As I said then, Oregonians, especially those in rural areas, pay a hefty price at the pump and enacting strong policies targeted at price gouging is critical. Americans deserve to know that supply and demand are impacting prices at the pump, not the unethical actions of those willing to prey on consumer vulnerability,” said Walden, who requested a study by the Government Accountability Office last year to evaluate the oversight operations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with specific focus on volatility and potential abuses in energy product trading. He added, “Although price gouging is only one piece of the complex, multi-faceted puzzle of energy policy, it is an important step forward for both consumer protection and consumer confidence.” H.R. 5253 prohibits price gouging—at any time—in the market for gasoline, diesel fuel, crude oil, home heating oil and biofuels. Specific provisions in the legislation:Direct the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to establish a national definition for “price gouging,” avoiding varied definitions and interpretations at the state level;Provide for strong civil enforcement by the FTC and state attorney generals and strong criminal enforcement by the U.S. attorney general and the Department of Justice;Establish civil penalties for price gouging at a level of three times the ill-gotten gains for both wholesale and retail sellers. Wholesale violations would also be subject to a per day fine for a continuing violation. Civil penalties collected would be deposited into either a fund used for paying compensation to consumers for violation of state consumer protection laws or into a state’s general fund;Establish criminal penalties for wholesale violations of imprisonment for up to two years or a fine of up to $150 million, or both; and,Establish criminal penalties for retail violations of imprisonment for up to two years or a fine of up to $2 million, or both. Earlier today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee, of which Walden is a member, held a hearing on legislation authorizing the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to alter passenger car fuel efficiency standards. Additionally, as chairman of the House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, Walden has held a number of hearings, including one last Thursday, on the utilization of woody biomass for energy development. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is co-chair of the Northwest Energy Caucus and vice chair of the Renewable Energy Caucus, both bipartisan organizations in the House. ###
05.02.2006	Legislation would enable water conservation, assist farmers and ranchers in central OregonMay 2, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden, R-Ore., today announced that the House Subcommittee on Water and Power, of which he is a member, will hold a hearing on the North Unit Irrigation District (NUID) Act of 2006, H.R. 5079, on Wednesday, May 10, 2006 at 10:00 AM EDT in room 1324 of the Longworth House Office Building. Walden introduced H.R. 5079 in early April with Senators Gordon Smith, R-Ore., and Ron Wyden, D-Ore., to resolve several limitations in NUID’s contract with the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR), enabling the district to more efficiently manage its water supplies and improve conservation efforts. “This legislation is a win-win for the local economy and the environment. The changes proposed in it would directly assist 900 farmers and ranchers in Jefferson County while increasing water conservation efforts at the same time,” said Walden. “When I announced the introduction of this bill in Madras on April 8 at a meeting with members of the NUID and the Deschutes River Conservancy, I said I’d work hard to secure a prompt hearing date, so I’m glad the subcommittee swiftly agreed to hold a hearing on May 10. I look forward to continued work with Senators Smith and Wyden to move this legislation through Congress and to the President’s desk for his approval.” H.R. 5079 would alter NUID’s current contract to allow for the dedication of water to instream uses, making the district eligible to participate in state-funded conservation programs. Additionally, the bill would allow NUID to deliver Deschutes Project water—without increased diversion from the Deschutes Project—to families currently using Crooked River water to irrigate 9,000 acres of land in the district. This would reduce diversion of Crooked River water leaving more instream. The bill also makes a technical change to the contract allowing for the implementation of future changes, agreed upon by both the NUID and BOR, without the approval of Congress. “Local farmers and the environment would benefit greatly from H.R. 5079, and we're pleased Congressman Walden was able to have the Subcommittee schedule this hearing so quickly,” said NUID Chairman Richard Macy, who will testify at the hearing. “We are also grateful for the opportunity to share the importance of this bill to our region with members of the Subcommittee and we look forward to continued work with Congressman Walden to advance this legislation. H.R. 5079 is supported by the Oregon Farm Bureau, Deschutes River Conservancy, Jefferson County Board of Commissioners, Jefferson County Farm Bureau, Central Oregon Irrigation District, Three Sisters, Irrigation District, Swalley Irrigation District, Tumalo Irrigation District, Ochoco Irrigation District, Oregon Water Resources Congress and Oregon’s Water Resources Department. Audio from the hearing will be available live via the web at https://resourcescommittee.house.gov by clicking on the link for Room 1324. More information on H.R. 5079 is available at https://thomas.loc.gov. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
04.27.2006	House Rural Health Care Coalition co-chairs Walden, Pomeroy introduce Medicare Rural Health Provider Payment Extension Act to extend critical reimbursement provisions for rural health services, providersApril 27, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -At a press conference today on Capitol Hill, Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Earl Pomeroy (D-ND), co-chairs of the 182-member House Rural Health Care Coalition, announced the introduction of legislation that would help ensure rural America continues to have access to quality health care despite the often higher costs of health care delivery in rural and isolated communities throughout the nation, including those in central, southern and eastern Oregon. The Medicare Rural Health Provider Payment Extension Act, H.R. 5118, would extend Medicare reimbursement methods for services provided in isolated or underserved areas to help ensure that such reimbursements are equitable and fair for costs incurred by rural health providers. “Rural communities, including those in central, southern and eastern Oregon, face unique issues and challenges when it comes to health care delivery and accessibility. Often, isolated areas face higher costs for medical services given greater distances between patients and care facilities or a lack of physicians or facilities serving a given area. H.R. 5118 would help ensure that Oregonians–especially the elderly and disabled–have access to quality, affordable health care through reasonable and equitable reimbursement rates for rural health providers,” said Walden. H.R. 5118 was introduced by Walden on April 6 and now has more than fifty bipartisan cosponsors. The bill has also earned early support from the National Rural Health Association (NRHA), American Hospital Association, National Association for Home Care and Hospice (NAHC) and American Osteopathic Association. The NRHA named Walden its 2005 legislator of the year for his commitment to rural health care issues and the NAHC named Walden its 2004 “Home Care Hero” for his advocacy on behalf of home health. Provisions in the Medicare Rural Health Provider Payment Extension Act would:Extend the 5% payment adjustment for home health services provided in rural areas to help offset higher home health delivery costs, which can be as much as 12- to 15-percent higher than in urban areas. There are 22 home health providers in Walden’s district, which help ensure access to home care for residents in central, southern and eastern Oregon. However, higher costs threaten the ability of these providers to remain in business. This payment adjustment would allow these providers to keep providing critical home care services to patients in remote or isolated areas;Extend the Medicare incentive payment program for physicians practicing in designated physician scarcity areas, rural communities and counties recognized as having a low number of physicians serving a given population. In the Second District, there are eight counties with seven or fewer physicians, two of which have none at all;Extend the 2% bonus payment for ambulance trips in rural areas to help offset the higher costs of ambulance services in rural areas, which contain farther distances between patients and care facilities. In Oregon, ambulance service providers are, on average, reimbursed for only 70% of costs incurred for emergency medical and transport services for Medicare beneficiaries, which account for a vast majority of their business. This discrepancy and the rising costs of gasoline (gas is estimated to be 22% higher in rural areas) could lead to greatly reduced ambulance services in rural communities;Extend the 1.0 floor on Medicare reimbursements to rural areas to ensure fair and reasonable repayment to facilities and care providers in rural areas. Providers in rural areas are often reimbursed at a rate lower than 1.0, thus receiving less than actual costs incurred, for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries, unjustly penalizing them based on geographic location;Extend the hold harmless treatment for the nation’s 535 sole community hospitals (SCH), which provide inpatient health services for residents in rural, isolated communities, to ensure equitable reimbursements for services provided. In the Second District, SCHs currently operate in Bend, Klamath Falls and The Dalles. Hermiston’s Good Shepherd Medical center recently reduced patient services to achieve a classification other than a SCH, becoming eligible for more fair reimbursements rates; and,Extend reasonable cost reimbursement for clinical lab tests performed by rural hospitals as part of their outpatient services (i.e. for area patients receiving care at home or in nursing homes). Oftentimes, a local rural hospital is the only lab facility serving a given region, and although lab work conducted for patients in the hospital or in a local nursing home is the same, hospitals are reimbursed at a lower rate for clinical lab work for patients that do not have specimens drawn in the hospital. This drives up the overall cost of lab work for patients in the region and could lead to greater inaccessibility for lab work conducted for home bound patients or those who live far from the actual hospital. "The Medicare Modernization Act took great strides to support rural health care providers, yet we recognize that many of those protections are expiring," said Bill Sexton, President of the NRHA and Chief Executive of the Providence North Coast Service Area. "NRHA fully supports Congressman Walden's efforts to extend the MMA's important investments in rural health care, and believes this legislation will assist rural providers in their ongoing efforts to provide medical care for those in need." “I appreciate the strong, bipartisan support shown for this important legislation by members of the Rural Health Care Coalition from all corners of our great nation, and I look forward to working with Mr. Pomeroy and our cosponsors as we work to advance H.R. 5118 through the Congress,” added Walden. More information on the bill can be found at https://thomas.loc.gov. Congressman Walden represents Oregon’s 2nd District, which includes 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is co-chair of the bipartisan Rural Health Care Coalition. Before his election to Congress, Walden spent several years as a member of the board of trustees of Hood River Memorial Hospital. ###
04.26.2006	April 26, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -In a statement prepared for a legislative hearing today in the House Subcommittee on Water and Power discussing the Deschutes River Conservancy (DRC) Reauthorization Act, U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), a member of the subcommittee, expressed his strong support for the Act, S. 166, which would reauthorize the DRC and authorize annual funding of $2 million through 2015. Walden announced the hearing date at a meeting earlier this month in Madras with members of the DRC Board of Directors and local water users. DRC Executive Director Tod Heisler was in Washington, D.C. to testify before the Subcommittee. Walden’s statement follows: “Good afternoon Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your willingness to hold this legislative hearing today to hear testimony on the Deschutes River Conservancy Reauthorization (DRC) Act, which was passed unanimously by the Senate in November of last year. I also want to thank the Executive Director of the DRC, Tod Heisler, for traveling across the country to testify and answer questions today. “The legislation passed by the Senate would reauthorize the DRC for an additional 10 years, and make two other minimal changes to the organization, ensuring that it is able to continue to receive federal funds and partner with the Departments of Interior and Agriculture to implement important water conservation projects in central Oregon. Since 1999, Congress has appropriated more than $5 million to the DRC since Fiscal Year 1999, something I’ve supported each year I’ve served in Congress. “The DRC brings together key stakeholders in the Deschutes River Basin in my district to proactively devise conservation and water quality and supply solutions. The organization helps bring together farmers, tribes, irrigation districts, cities, private business, public agencies and environmental organizations to preserve traditional farm and ranch communities and help provide water to increasing tourism and municipal water needs. “Recent projects undertaken in the Deschutes Basin include planting more than 100,000 trees, installing 40 miles of riparian fencing, removing berms and reconstructing stream beds, along with other restoration activities to improve habitat and water quality along 100 miles of the Deschutes River and its tributaries. “On April 8th I had the opportunity to meet with stakeholders from Jefferson, Deschutes and Crook counties to discuss the many ongoing projects currently underway as well as additional steps to be taken to help conserve additional water in the river system. This legislation and other bills I’ve introduced will help move these important goals forward to provide water supply for those affected by the flow of the river. “Many people in the Deschutes Basin have worked hard to maintain farming and ranching activities and ensure the sustainability of the watershed, and I know that some have concerns with the existing structure and operation of the DRC, particularly ensuring that the perspectives of irrigated agriculture are well represented. These concerns are further outlined in written testimony submitted by other constituents in my district, and I look forward addressing them as we work with the committee to advance this reauthorization through the legislative process.” More information on S. 166 can be found online at https://thomas.loc.gov. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
04.17.2006	April 17, 2006 - Medford, OR -Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that Grants Pass resident Dick Hanlin has joined his Medford office to work as Director of Community Outreach and Assistance for Walden’s congressional district, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. Hanlin joins Walden’s staff after serving as the executive director for Boys & Girls Clubs in Anchorage, Portland and, most recently, the Rogue Valley. “I place a high priority on having Oregonians working in my offices who understand the needs of residents in the district and appreciate the unique way of life in the central, southern and eastern parts of our state. Dick’s experience working with local communities, organizations and individuals will be a tremendous asset to me as well as folks throughout the district and I know he’ll do a terrific job helping me serve the Second District,” said Walden. Since 1985, Hanlin has worked for the Boys & Girls Clubs of Greater Anchorage, Alaska, the Portland Metropolitan Area, and in the Rogue Valley, where he brought clubs in Jackson and Josephine counties together under an umbrella organization to enhance efficiency and individual club operations to help serve 5,000 kids and teens each year in the region. Hanlin also served as chair of the Oregon State Association of Boys & Girls Clubs from 2005 to 2006. “I’m very excited about the opportunity to join Team Walden and I’m looking forward to working with and on behalf of Oregonians throughout the District,” said Hanlin. Hanlin’s primary focus will be on outreach to local communities throughout the twenty counties in Walden’s district including helping communities identify ways Walden or the federal government might be able to assist them with local issues. Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in the southern, central and eastern regions of the state. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
04.13.2006	Events and meetings to cover county payments reauthorization, economic development, renewable land management and other key issuesApril 13, 2006 - Washington, DC -During the final two days of a two-week, 13-county and 55-event swing throughout central, eastern and southern Oregon, U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) will be traveling to Jackson and Klamath Counties to meet with local community leaders, county commissioners, and area residents. During his meetings in southern Oregon, Walden will discuss reauthorization of the critical county payments law, renewable energy, economic development, land management and water resource issues. These visits are part of Walden’s 269th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999. His schedule is as follows: THURSDAY, APRIL 20JACKSON COUNTYWHITE CITY – 9:15-10:15 AM: Congressman Walden will visit the Southern Oregon Rehabilitation Center and Clinics (SORCCC), formerly known as the White City Domiciliary, for a tour of the facilities and to receive an update on SORCC programs and successes from Director Max McIntosh, Associate Director Carol Bogedain, Chief of Staff Dr. Andrew Mebane and Director of Nursing Karen Allen. Congressman Walden was an ardent supporter of successful efforts to keep the facility open during the Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES) process in 2004 and has been an active supporter of VA health care issues during his time in the Congress. Walden will also use this opportunity to commend the SORCC staff in person for their dedication to patient care, which recently earned the facility extremely high marks on a survey of patient experiences. KLAMATH COUNTYKLAMATH FALLS – Noon-1:30 PM: Congressman Walden, vice chair of the bipartisan House Renewable Energy Caucus, will join members of the Klamath County Economic Development Association (KCEDA), including Executive Director Trey Senn, for a lunch meeting to discuss renewable energy options throughout Klamath County and their role in economic development. Potential renewable energy development options in the County include wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and others. Walden has been a strong advocate for enhanced development of alternative fuel and energy sources to help reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil while benefiting the environment. Also joining Walden at the lunch will be State Senator Doug Whitsett, State Representatives Bill Garrard and George Gilman, Commissioners Brad Winters and Al Switzer, City Councilor Bud Hart, various business leaders already engaged in renewable energy efforts, and Larry Holzgang of the Oregon Economic Community Development Department. 3:00-4:15 PM: Congressman Walden will meet with the Klamath County Board of Commissioners and mayors from cities throughout the County to discuss current issues before the Congress impacting the region and to get an update on local efforts county leaders are engaged in. Topics of conversation will range from reauthorization of the critical county payments law, possible expansion of the Air National Guard at Kingsley Field, transportation projects, salmon and water issues, and public lands management. Congressman Walden’s previous events and meetings during the House of Representatives’ April District Work Period took him to Morrow, Umatilla, Union, Wallowa, Baker, Malheur, Grant, Harney, Deschutes, Jefferson and Wasco Counties Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
04.08.2006	April 8, 2006 - Madras, OR -At a meeting today in Madras with members of the Deschutes River Conservancy (DRC) Board of Directors and local water users, U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) announced that the House Subcommittee on Water and Power, of which he is a member, has scheduled a legislative hearing for the Deschutes River Conservancy Reauthorization Act of 2006 for Wednesday, April 26, 2006 at 3:00 PM EDT. The Act, S. 166, would reauthorize the DRC and authorize annual funding of $2 million through 2015. “The Deschutes River Conservancy plays an important role for water management in the Deschutes River Basin and they have done a fine job coordinating efforts between the various irrigation districts and water users throughout the area. Their reauthorization is a necessary step toward advancing projects in the Basin that will continue to improve water delivery and conservation efforts,” said Walden. “I’m grateful that the Subcommittee has scheduled a hearing on the DRC Reauthorization Act and I look forward to working with the DRC Board of Directors, irrigators, the Senators and my colleagues as we advance this legislation through the House and onto the President.” “We are very grateful to Representative Walden for supporting the work of the DRC over the past ten years. The job of the DRC is not complete, however, and we thank Rep. Walden for his efforts to reauthorize the DRC for another ten years. The DRC has an excellent track record using federal dollars to catalyze localize solutions; for every three dollars the federal government has invested, the DRC has invested another seven. The DRC is committed to achieving even larger successes over the next ten years with the same financial model,” said Tod Heisler, executive director of the DRC. Audio from the hearing will be available live via the web at https://resourcescommittee.house.gov by clicking on the link for Room 1324. More information on S. 166 can be found online at https://thomas.loc.gov. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
04.07.2006	April 7, 2006 - Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), co-chair of the bipartisan Rural Health Care Coalition, today announced that he will attend the grand opening celebration of the Mount Jefferson Community Clinic, a recently completed community health clinic in Madras operated by Ochoco Health Systems, on Monday, April 17 at 11:00 AM. Walden has been a strong supporter of the community clinics throughout central Oregon and has also toured and held meetings at the Bend and Prineville locations. “Access to and the quality of affordable health care remains among my top priorities, and I am confident that the Mount Jefferson Clinic will do a tremendous job serving residents throughout Jefferson County. I look forward to helping the community celebrate the grand opening of the clinic and taking a firsthand look at the facility,” said Walden. Walden helped the Ochoco Community Clinic extend services into Jefferson County through his support for a grant application submitted to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and a federal investment of approximately $600,000, which they will receive annually to help with operations and expenses at the clinic. Walden, who will also be in Madras tomorrow, Saturday, April 8, for a meeting with the Deschutes River Conservancy and local water users to discuss legislation he has introduced on behalf of the North Unit Irrigation District, H.R. 5179, has just begun a two-week trip throughout central, southern and eastern Oregon that will cover nearly 2,500 miles in 13 counties over 49 different events. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.###
04.05.2006	April 5, 2006 - Washington, D.C. - - U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) issued the following statement after the House Agriculture Committee today overwhelmingly passed the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act by a bipartisan vote of 36-3. Walden wrote the bill, H.R. 4200, with Congressman Brian Baird (D-WA) and Stephanie Herseth (D-SD) to give federal land managers the authority to – if necessary – act more rapidly after a catastrophic event damages national forests. H.R. 4200 does not mandate any specific action, but does allow for quicker timelines for the harvest of burned, dead trees if forest managers on the ground deem this to be the best course of action and such harvest is allowed under a forest’s existing forest plan. “This common-sense, bipartisan bill has earned strong support from a wide variety of organizations throughout the nation, including the 15,000-member Society of American Foresters, for its responsible approach to managing federal forestlands damaged by catastrophic events. The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act would allow our talented federal land managers to have the same tools states, counties, tribes and private landowners have at their disposal to improve and restore the health of our national forests. “I appreciate the overwhelming support shown by the House Agriculture Committee for this bill through their vote today and I look forward to working with my colleagues as we bring H.R. 4200 before the full House.” H.R. 4200 was passed by a nearly two to one margin last week by the House Resources Committee with strong bipartisan support; the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee also has jurisdiction over the bill, but may choose to waive that jurisdiction, sending the bill to the House Floor subject to scheduling by the House Majority Leader. More information on the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act can be found at www.walden.house.gov or https://thomas.loc.gov. Walden represents Oregon’s Second District which is more than 70,000 square miles of eastern, central and southern Oregon and includes nine national forests.###
04.04.2006	April 4, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Senators Gordon Smith (R-OR) and Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) have introduced legislation to allow the North Unit Irrigation District located in Jefferson County to participate in conservation projects funded by the State of Oregon. Some of the conserved water will be returned to instream flows on the Deschutes River to support fish and wildlife. The district will also have the option of distributing a portion of the conserved water to farmers and ranchers currently served by the Crooked River, reducing irrigation water taken from that river. "Farmers, ranchers, and the environment all stand to benefit," Smith said. "A dependable source of water will be made available to grow crops and support livestock while conservation efforts will help return water to the Deschutes and Crooked Rivers, increasing flows for fish and wildlife." “Water is the backbone of Oregon’s economy and quality of life, and efforts like these help us to better conserve and protect this critical resource,” said Wyden. “Boosting local agriculture while protecting the valuable fish and wildlife native to the area would be a huge win for Jefferson County.” "This is a real win-win effort. It's good for the environment and good for 900 family farms and ranches in the area too. In addition to helping the North Unit Irrigation District more efficiently manage water delivery while balancing the needs of fish and wildlife, this legislation would remove barriers that prevent the district from accessing additional resources to help with conservation efforts throughout the region. I'm hopeful that the Senators and I can get this legislation moved through Congress and to the President's desk quickly," said Congressman Walden. The North Unit Irrigation District provides farmers and ranchers in a 50,000 acre area in Jefferson County with irrigation water from the Deschutes River. The legislation would allow farmers and ranchers on 9,000 acres in the district to receive water conserved on the Deschutes River, reducing diversions from the Crooked River. The proposed changes would strictly adhere to existing Oregon law and directly benefit 900 farmers and ranchers in Deschutes County who grow alfalfa hay, grass seed, garlic seed and carrot seed as well as raise cattle, sheep, horses and other livestock. The legislation has the support of the following organizations: Oregon's Water Resources Department, Oregon Farm Bureau, Deschutes River Conservancy, Jefferson County Board of Commissioners, Jefferson County Farm Bureau, Central Oregon Irrigation District, Three Sisters Irrigation District, Swalley Irrigation District, Tumalo Irrigation District, Ochoco Irrigation District, and Oregon Water Resources Congress.###
04.03.2006	Walden-Blumenauer legislation subject of Wednesday hearing in House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest HealthApril 3, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -The Mt. Hood Stewardship Legacy Act, H.R. 5025, introduced last week by Oregon Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) and Greg Walden (R-Hood River), will be the focus of a legislative hearing in the House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, chaired by Walden, this Wednesday, April 5, at 9:15 AM (EDT) in room 1310 of the Longworth House Office Building in Washington, D.C.. H.R. 5025 was introduced by Walden and Blumenauer on March 28 after several years of collaboration between the congressmen and stakeholders impacted by proposed changes on Mt. Hood. Cosponsoring the bill are fellow Oregon House Members, Congressmen Peter DeFazio and Congresswoman Darlene Hooley. The bill has earned early support from regional county commissioners, The Oregonian and The Columbian newspapers, and key groups such as American Rivers, the Campaign for America’s Wilderness, the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs, the Hood River Valley Residents Committee (HRVRC) and American Forest Resource Council (AFRC). Witnesses for the hearing will be: USDA Forest Service Deputy Chief Joel Holtrop; Hood River County Commissioner Carol York; Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Chairman Ron Suppah; Frank Backus, AFRC; Matthew Garrett, Oregon Department of Transportation; Ken Rait, Campaign for America’s Wilderness; and Chris Winter, HRVRC. Their legislation is a multi-faceted approach to addressing the many diverse management issues on the mountain. In addition to proposing than 77,500 new acres of wilderness and 23 miles of Wild and Scenic Rivers in the Mt. Hood National Forest, the bill would encourage long-term planning to meet future demands for recreational uses, transportation and clean and abundant drinking water while fostering forest health and respecting the cultural traditions and historical rights of Native Americans. More information on The Mt. Hood Stewardship Legacy Act can be found at www.blumenauer.house.gov, www.walden.house.gov or at https://thomas.loc.gov. Congressman Blumenauer represents the 3rd District of Oregon and Congressman Walden represents the 2nd District of Oregon; the two districts split Mt. Hood at its crest. ###
04.03.2006	Klamath Basin native Matt Byrne, a Washington, D.C.-based legislative assistant, will visit eastern Oregon to meet with constituents, discuss local issuesApril 3, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that a member of his staff will hold office hours in Lakeview on Tuesday, April 11 to assist Oregonians with questions or difficulties they may have with various federal agencies or departments. Legislative Assistant Matt Byrne, who grew up on a cattle ranch straddling the Oregon-California border, will be available to discuss issues and concerns area residents may have concerning Agriculture, Health Care, Social Security, Taxation, Economic Development and Education issues as well other questions individuals might have about the federal government. It is not necessary to make an appointment to visit with Byrne during his office hours, and if individuals are unable to stop in during these hours, they can find additional information and assistance at www.walden.house.gov. Details are as follows:DATE: Tuesday, April 11TIME: 11:00 AM – 2:00 PMWHERE: Commissioners’ Meeting Room - County Courthouse; 513 Center Street, Lakeview Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
04.03.2006	Events and meetings to cover rural development, public lands management, health care, methamphetamine and many other key issuesApril 3, 2006 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Representative Greg Walden (R-OR) will be traveling to eleven counties in Oregon’s Second Congressional District from April 10th-14th to meet with residents and community leaders on a variety of issues important to the region. Walden’s visits will take him to Umatilla, Wallowa, Union, Baker, Malheur, Grant, Harney, Deschutes and Wasco counties. In addition to meeting with various local Rotary clubs and area Chambers of Commerce, Walden will host meetings and attend events focusing on access to health care, Steens Mountain and many other critical issues. These visits are part of Walden’s 268th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office in 1999 and a two-week swing covering more than 2,000 miles throughout the district during the House of Representative’s April District Work Period. His schedule is as follows; all times are Pacific unless otherwise noted: SATURDAY, APRIL 8: JEFFERSON COUNTY MADRAS – 2:00-3:00 PM: Congressman Walden will meet with board members of the Deschutes River Conservancy (DRC), representative from local irrigation districts and area farmers and ranchers to discuss current projects throughout the Deschutes River Basin. During the meeting Walden will discuss legislation he has introduced that would allow the DRC, North Unit Irrigation District, Tumalo Irrigation District and other districts throughout the Deschutes to continue water delivery while undertaking additional conservation efforts across the watershed. MONDAY, APRIL 10: MORROW COUNTY BOARDMAN – 8:45-10:00 AM: Congressman Walden will meet with Gary Neal, general manager of the Port of Morrow, and Port Commissioners – Jerry Healy, Larry Lindsay, Marvin Padberg, Don Russell and Joe Taylor – to discuss ongoing projects at the Port and talk about ways to encourage and foster economic development in Morrow County. Following their meeting, Walden will join Neal for a driving tour of the Port of Morrow. UMATILLA COUNTY PENDLETON – Noon-1:30 PM: Congressman Walden, a long-time member of the Hood River Rotary, will attend the Pendleton Rotary meeting and give members an update on congressional activity affecting northeastern Oregon. Following the meeting, Walden will be available to answer questions attendees may have. WALLOWA COUNTY ENTERPRISE – 5:30-7:30 PM: Walden will meet with area residents and community leaders at an informal dinner to provide them with an update on activities in the Congress, including legislation to help restore Wallowa Lake Dam he has recently introduced and committee passage of H.R. 4200, his Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, legislation to give federal land managers the tools necessary to move, if necessary, more rapidly to restore lands damaged by a catastrophic event. TUESDAY, APRIL 11: WALLOWA COUNTY LOSTINE – 8:00-9:00 AM: Congressman Walden and Mark Simmons, Oregon director for USDA Rural Development, will present Mayor Krag Norton and the City of Lostine with a federal investment of $1.25 million from USDA Rural Development. The funds will be used to construct a new 250,000 gallon water storage reservoir that will help the community meet current and future demands for water through a more reliable water system. UNION COUNTY ELGIN – 10:00-11:00 AM: Congressman Walden will visit Omnicut, Inc., an Elgin company which manufactures machine parts and assemblies for the production of Boeing C-17s, a large airplane used to fulfill military and humanitarian aid airlift needs. Walden will meet with company leaders and employees to learn more about their business and products as well as tour their facility. LA GRANDE – Noon-1:30 PM: Walden, a small business owner in the Columbia River Gorge and recent recipient of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s “Spirit of Enterprise” award will speak at the Union County Chamber of Commerce meeting, giving members an update on congressional activity impacting the region and the business community. BAKER COUNTY BAKER CITY – 2:30-3:30 PM: A member of the Congressional Caucus to fight and control meth and an outspoken advocate for the need to advance the fight against meth in communities throughout the nation, Congressman Walden will visit the Powder River Prison’s state- and nationally-recognized meth treatment program. The program and Powder River was the first of its kind when established in 1989. It is a necessary program for a prison such as Powder River where 80 percent of inmates are meth addicts. BAKER CITY - 5:30-8:00 PM: Walden, an Eagle Scout and former member of the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) board of directors, will speak at a fundraising dinner for the Blue Mountain Council of the BSA. He will talk to Scouts and other dinner attendees at the Baker City event about the importance of civic involvement and public service and the role that young men involved with the BSA can help improve their neighborhoods and communities. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12: MALHEUR COUNTY ONTARIO – 8:00-9:00 AM (MDT): Congressman Walden will meet with the Malheur County Commissioners – Judge Dan Joyce, Jim Nakano and Lewis Wettstein – to discuss issues he is working on in Congress impacting the region, including efforts to reinstate the importation of high-quality, safe U.S. beef into countries whose borders still remain closed, rural health care issues, enhancing immigration control and border security, and reauthorization of the farm bill. The Commissioners will also update Walden on key initiatives they are focused on within Malheur County. ONTARIO - Noon-2:00 PM (MDT): Congressman Walden will speak at a joint meeting of the Ontario Rotary Club and the Ontario Kiwanis Club to give members and guests an update on activity in Congress and to take questions they may have about specific issues. GRANT COUNTY CANYON CITY – 3:30-430: Walden will then drive to John Day for a meeting with Grant County Commissioners Dennis Reynolds, Boyd Britton and Scott Myers to update them on congressional activity impacting the region. Walden will also use this opportunity to thank Judge Dennis Reynolds for his years of service on the Grant County Board of Commissioners. During their discussion, the group will discuss issues including Walden’s Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, reauthorization of the county payments law, efforts to reinstate the importation of high-quality U.S. beef into countries whose borders still remain closed, rural health care, and enhancing immigration control and border security. THURSDAY, APRIL 13: HARNEY COUNTY BURNS – 10:45-11:45 AM: Congressman Walden will host a round table meeting to discuss Steens Mountain and implementation of the Steens Mountain Cooperative Management Act with the Harney County Court and representatives of the Steens Mountain Landowner Group and the Bureau of Land Management. Their discussion will be an open dialogue on the Act’s effectiveness as well as issues of concern area residents and the Harney County Court. BURNS - Noon-1:30 PM: Mark Simmons, Oregon state director for US Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development, will join Congressman Walden at the Harney District Hospital for a presentation of a federal investment in the new hospital, which Walden helped secure. Walden, co-chair of the bipartisan House Rural Health Care Coalition, has been a tireless advocate for improving access to quality health care in rural areas through enhanced technology, facility improvements and fairness for rural patients. Walden and Simmons will present Hospital Administrator Jim Bishop with the federal investment at the construction site of their new building following a lunch with the hospital’s board of directors. FRIDAY, APRIL 14: DESCHUTES COUNTY BEND – 6:30-8:00 AM: Congressman Walden will attend the Bend Bachelor Rotary Club’s breakfast meeting. In addition to updating club members about congressional activity impacting the central Oregon area, Walden will help judge a high school speech competition taking place during the first part of the meeting between three Summit High School students. During his own speech, he will address topics ranging from the ongoing fight against methamphetamine in local communities and rural health care to recent committee passage of his bipartisan Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act and reauthorization of the ‘county payments’ law.REDMOND – 8:30-9:30 AM: Walden will then drive to Redmond where he will attend the Redmond Chamber of Commerce Coffee Clatter to meet with central Oregon business owners and community leaders about issues impacting the region and the business environment. Congressman Walden, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, remains focused on ways to encourage economic development in this rapidly growing area, including investments in transportation infrastructure.WASCO COUNTY MAUPIN – 11:00 AM-Noon: Congressman Walden invites Maupin area residents to attend a community event to hear a congressional update from him about issues affecting the region and ask questions about additional issues of interest to them. Walden will be introduced by Wasco County Commissioner Sherry Holliday. The public is invited to attend. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second Congressional District, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.###
12.22.2005	Young adults from central, southern, eastern Oregon nominated by congressman to be considered for service academy appointmentsDecember 22, 2005 - Washington, DC -Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) is pleased to announce the nomination of seventeen young adults from throughout Oregon’s Second Congressional District for acceptance to one of the prestigious United States service academies. Candidates for service academy nominations are chosen by Congressman Walden based on their academic performance, athletic participation, extracurricular involvement and character. The nominations were submitted last week to the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), U.S. Military Academy at West Point (USMA), U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), and U.S. Naval Academy (USNA). A service academy nominating committee made up of retired military officers in the Second District assisted Walden in his selection of candidates. “Being nominated to one of America’s service academies represents years of hard work and discipline,” said Walden. “Competing with the best and brightest of America’s youth for an appointment to a military academy is both a tremendous opportunity and a great honor. I have every confidence that these talented individuals will represent their families and communities well in that effort. I commend all of these outstanding young men; it takes a special commitment to accept the challenges of an academy education, and they are continuing a long line of patriotic Oregonians in their endeavor. I share the pride of their parents, teachers and friends in congratulating them all on this significant achievement and in wishing them luck in receiving an appointment to one of our prestigious academies.” Walden continued, “I’m also grateful for the assistance of the experienced and knowledgeable nominating committee that volunteered countless hours in considering students for nominations. Their dedication in helping to choose outstanding young Oregonians has been invaluable not only to me but to our country.” The students selected for nomination by Walden follow: DESCHUTES COUNTYDavid Marshall of Bend has been nominated to the USNA. He is a 2004 graduate of Mountain View High School where he played football. Marshall participated in Navy Junior ROTC, is a certified lifeguard and currently works as a physical therapist technician while attending COCC, where he maintains a 3.35 GPA. He enjoys running, swimming and mountain biking in his spare time. Karl Wallskog of Bend has been nominated to the USAFA and USMMA. He is a 2005 graduate of Redmond High School, where he maintained a 3.53 GPA. In high school, Wallskog was active in National Honor Society, Key Club, his church youth group and Civil Air Patrol. He is a certified SCUBA diver, has a private pilot’s license and has volunteered with Habitat for Humanity.HARNEY COUNTYStephen “Zed” Davies of Frenchglen has been nominated to the USAFA. He is a senior at Crane Union High School where he maintains a 4.00 GPA and is ranked first in his class. In addition to being student body president and president of his FFA chapter, Davies is active in National Honor Society, football, track, wrestling, his church youth group and Boy Scouts, where he has earned the rank of Eagle Scout. Davies has received a letter of assurance to the USAFA. HOOD RIVER COUNTYDane Jacobson of Mt. Hood has been nominated to the USNA. He is a senior at Hood River Valley High School where he maintains a 3.90 GPA and is captain of the soccer team. Additionally, Jacobson is active in golf, cross country, Snowboard Club, Aviation Club and Club Soda. In his spare time, he likes to windsurf, ski, snowboard and play with computers. Samuel Seal of Parkdale has been nominated to the USMA and USAFA. He is a senior at Horizon Christian School where he maintains a 3.88 GPA. Seal is active with the school’s newspaper and yearbook, soccer team and his student body president. Additionally, he volunteers with Habitat for Humanity and participates in his church’s youth group. JACKSON COUNTYRobert Hayward of Central Point has been nominated to the USAFA and USMA. He is a senior at Crater High School where he maintains a 3.94 GPA and is ranked second in his graduating class. In addition to serving as captain of the hockey team, Hayward is active in soccer, National Honor Society and went to Boys State. Outside of school, Hayward is active in his church’s youth group, is a certified SCUBA diver and enjoys working with remote control cars and planes.Nathan Lee, also of Central Point, has been nominated to the USMA and USNA. He is a senior at Cascade Christian High School and maintains a 3.81 GPA. He is president of the student body and captain of both the track and cross country teams, on which he has earned First Team All-Conference awards. Additionally, he is involved with football, 4H, chorus and his church’s youth group and enjoys outdoor activities such as hunting, fishing, hiking and camping. Lee has received letters of assurance from the USMA and the USAFA.Adam Lindgren of Gold Hill has been nominated to the USMMA. He is a senior at Crater High School and maintains a 3.25 GPA. He serves as 4-H president and is a camp counselor while also participating in football, wrestling, Key Club and his church’s youth group. Lindgren enjoys camping, fishing, hunting and raising pigs and sheep. Andrew Soltis of Medford has been nominated to the USAFA, USMA and USNA. He is a senior at Cascade Christian High School and maintains a 3.71 GPA. He is a Scholar Athlete, participating in football, track, soccer and golf, and a Distinguished Christian High School Student. Soltis is also active in National Honor Society, band, Sparrow Club, Math Team and his church’s youth group. Sean Wilmarth, also of Medford, has been nominated to the USNA, USMA and USMMA. He graduated from high school in 2005 with a 3.75 GPA and as captain of the cross country team. He currently attends San Diego State University where he participates in Navy ROTC. Jacob Wilson, also of Medford, has been nominated to the USAFA, USMMA and USNA. He is a senior at North Medford High School where he maintains a GPA of 3.46. Active in Cival Air Patrol, Wilson has received the Wright Brothers Award and is a Bravo Flight Sergeant. He also plays tennis and his active in his church’s youth group. JOSEPHINE COUNTYMichael Mrkvicka of Grants Pass has been nominated to the USMMA and USNA. He is a senior at New Hope Christian School where he maintains a 3.93 GPA. Captain of the cross country team and co-captain of the basketball team, Mrkvicka is also active in track, student government and his church’s youth group. In his spare time he enjoys running, playing sports, reading and studying geography. KLAMATH COUNTYJoshua Dutton of Klamath Falls has been nominated to the USMA. He is a senior at The Triad School in Klamath Falls where he maintains a 3.59 GPA and is active in band, honor choir, National Honor Society, basketball, cross country, track, theater, Key Club and student government, where he serves as School Treasurer. Additionally, Dutton is a volunteer with Habitat for Humanity and is active in his church’s youth group. Andrew Neves of Klamath Falls has been nominated to the USAFA. He is a senior at Henley High School where he maintains a 3.28 GPA and is involved with cross country, track, FFA, the Ski & Snowboard club and student government, where he serves as class president. Neves is a Major in Air Force Junior ROTC and enjoys a variety of outdoor activities in his spare time.UMATILLA COUNTYBrandon “BJ” Matney of Pendleton has been nominated to the USAFA. He maintains a 3.71 GPA as a senior at Pendleton High School where he is active in National Honor Society, baseball and soccer. Additionally, Matney is active in his church’s youth group and maintains a part-time job. He enjoys sports and working on automotive repairs. Matthew Talbot of Hermiston has been nominated to the USMA and USAFA. He is a senior at Hermiston Senior High School where he maintains a 3.65 GPA and is active in National Honor Society, Key Club, Math Club, DECA and the Bowling Club. Additionally, Talbot is a youth bowling coach and enjoys spending some of his spare time reading. UNION COUNTYCheyenne Yancey of La Grande has been nominated to the USAFA. He graduated from La Grande High School with a 3.79 GPA earlier this year and is now attending the University of Idaho where he is studying natural resources and forest operations. This summer, Yancey completed a mission trip to Haiti where he helped build an orphanage and school. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
12.22.2005	Bill sponsored by Congressman Walden benefits southern Oregon economy; removes obstacles to Harry & David's growthDecember 22, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -President George W. Bush today signed into law legislation written by U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), HR 4195, which was passed by both the House of Representatives and Senate this month and allows the Harry & David Operations Corporation to make an early, full repayment of their financial obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation, rather than making installment payments over a lengthy and drawn out period of time. “I’m grateful to President Bush for his support of this legislation, which is vital to the future growth of the Harry & David Corporation, a tremendous asset to the economy of southern Oregon and the state as a whole,” said Walden. “By working collaboratively with the Bureau of Reclamation, local southern Oregon irrigation districts and Senators Smith and Wyden, we were able to enact legislation that will remove obstacles to the Corporation’s efforts toward public ownership. I commend them for the good work they are doing in – and for – southern Oregon, and I thank my colleagues in the Congress and President Bush for their support of HR 4195.” With enactment of HR 4195, the Harry & David Operations Corporation is now able to make an early repayment of financial obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) for establishment of local water projects, which allow for water distribution throughout the Rogue Valley; the company will continue to pay fees to irrigation districts for water used to locally grow fruit. Harry and David’s contracts with the Medford and Rogue River Valley Irrigation Districts have now been brought in line with other districts throughout the West, including the Talent Irrigation District, which already have early repayments options. This law is necessary due to current reporting requirements, which mandate that any shareholder with a one-percent or greater ownership stake in Harry & David file Reclamation reporting forms. Full, early repayment not only insures that the BOR will receive due compensation, but it removes the need for cumbersome obstacles that could hinder Harry & David’s efforts to become a publicly held corporation Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which contains 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committees on Resources and Energy & Commerce. ###
12.16.2005	Senate swiftly approves bill removing obstacles to Harry & David's growth; measure now heads to President's deskDecember 16, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) tonight applauded U.S. Senators Gordon Smith and Ron Wyden of Oregon and their colleagues in the Senate for swift action in passing H.R. 4195, legislation developed in partnership with the Department of the Interior and local southern Oregon irrigation districts that will allow the Harry & David Operations Corporation to make an early repayment of financial obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR). This legislation was unanimously approved by the House of Representatives last week and will now advance to the President for his signature. Developed collaboratively, this bill will help remove obstacles to the growth of Harry & David Corporation, one of our district’s largest employers and a tremendous asset to the economy of southern Oregon, as they move toward public ownership,” said Walden. “I enjoyed teaming up with Senators Smith and Wyden in this effort, and I’m glad the Senate could quickly approve this legislation, which my colleagues and I passed in the House last week. Teamwork in both the drafting of this legislation and advancing it through the congressional process really paid off.” HR 4195 made a technical change, offering an early repayment option that allows Harry and David to cover obligations owed to the BOR for establishment of local water projects, which allow for water distribution throughout the Rogue Valley. The company will continue to pay irrigation districts for water used to grow Harry & David fruit locally; this early repayment will give it critical flexibility in financing its continued growth and development. This option brings Harry and David’s contracts with the Medford and Rogue River Valley Irrigation Districts in line with other districts throughout the West, including the Talent Irrigation District, which already have early repayments options written into contractual agreements. Current reporting requirements would mandate that any shareholder with a one-percent or greater ownership stake in Harry & David would need to file Reclamation reporting forms. Full, early repayment not only insures that the BOR will receive due compensation for its establishment of the local water project, but removes a cumbersome obstacle in Harry & David’s efforts to become a publicly held corporation, which would help long term growth of both the company and the local economy. Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which contains 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committees on Resources and Energy & Commerce. ###
12.14.2005	Walden announces financial investment of more than $126,000 to district for assistance with operations and firefighter safetyDecember 14, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that a $126,350 investment from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) will be made in Klamath County Fire District #4 to support general operations and safety programs. “This award is a testament the hard working individuals fighting fire in Klamath County,” said Walden, who chairs the House Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee. “Fire can be such a devastating occurrence; ensuring that these brave firefighters have the resources, training and equipment necessary is paramount. Their dedication keeps people, communities and our environment safe. I appreciate the continued commitment to Klamath County shown by President Bush and Homeland Security Secretary Chertoff through this investment.” The AFGP awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the services they deliver to local communities. Grantees submit applications for the Operations and Fire Safety Program, Fire Prevention Program or Firefighting Vehicles Acquisition Program. Peer review panels score applications, and awards are based on financial need and the articulation of benefits to be derived from the funds. “This investment was an excellent choice by the AFGP,” continued Walden. “They clearly recognize the importance of strong firefighting operations in rural Oregon.” Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
12.14.2005	Walden-backed provisions take aim at limiting access to ingredients, imposing stiffer penalties for production, curbing international meth traffickingDecember 14, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -The federal fight against methamphetamine took a major step forward today as the House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation containing critical provisions directed at curbing meth production both domestically and abroad. The policy changes approved were outlined in the Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005 and supported by Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), a member of the Congressional Caucus to Fight & Control Methamphetamine and the Speaker’s Task Force for a Drug Free America. At a news conference earlier today with House Majority Whip Roy Blunt and Judiciary Chairman James Sensenbrenner, Walden said, “Today we change the paradigm on the producers and begin protecting the people. Passing these provisions takes the detonating device out of the hands of the meth cooks who are the roadside bombers in our rural communities. Their toxic brew poisons our people, pollutes our streams and destroys families. Every case of parental rights termination in Oregon last year was related to methamphetamine abuse. And when you look into the eyes of children who have lost their parents, and when you talk with parents who have lost their children, you develop a real passion to do whatever it takes to protect our communities from this scourge.” He added, “Let the word go out at home and abroad that the Congress and the citizens of this country will do whatever it takes to shut down super labs and those who make meth in their homes. We expect, and will demand, full cooperation from countries and companies who produce or sell pseudoephedrine. “Oregon has enacted some of the strongest laws in the country to battle methamphetamine, but you cannot effectively stop the meth cooks on a state-by-state basis. They will simply go to a state without tough restrictions and get ingredients there. This legislation helps stop the state-by-state shopping network and gives the country a fighting chance to stop the spread of meth.” Provisions included in the legislation would: Classify pseudoephedrine and ephedrine as “Schedule Listed Chemicals,” requiring a national standard for sale from behind the counter or from a locked case on the sales floor (this would not preempt more stringent laws such as the successful ones enacted in Oregon);Require retailers to maintain a log of identification and signatures for all sales of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine products;Mandate store training for employees selling such products;Reduce federal limits on per-sale and per-month purchase of pseudoephedrine products to 3.6 grams and 9.0 grams respectively; Repeal the federal “blister-pack exemption” that allowed for unlimited sale quantities of blister packed medicine;Require the State Department to identify the five largest importers and five largest exporters of key precursor meth ingredients, directing that these countries comply with international efforts to track shipments of such products or face reduced eligibility for U.S. foreign aid;Increase the maximum prison term for possession of precursor ingredients with an intent to manufacture meth;Allow an additional 10-20 years to be added to other established penalties for an individuals convicted of making meth in the presence of a child;Establish grants to state and local governments for law enforcement agencies to aid in the investigation of meth trafficking and to help reimburse costs incurred by the DEA for clean-up of toxic meth lab sites; and,Authorize grants for treatment of pregnant women addicted to meth and meth-endangered children living in a home where meth was produced, distributed and/or used. “While there may not be a silver bullet in ridding our communities of meth, we have taken a strong step forward today. Through continued collaboration and cooperation at all levels – local, state and federal, domestic and international – we will be successful in keeping meth off our streets, away from our children and out of our lives,” Walden added. At Walden’s request, Congressman Mark Souder held an official field hearing of the Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy & Human Resources in Pendleton in October titled “Stopping the Methamphetamine Epidemic: Lessons from the Pacific Northwest.” The hearing afforded Souder, chairman of the subcommittee, the opportunity to hear firsthand accounts from law enforcement, treatment professionals and meth-effected families about the devastation facing the region, including Walden’s district, which covers central, southern and eastern Oregon. His district, Oregon’s Second, contains 20% of the state’s population but has 35% of all clandestine labs seized in Oregon. The problem in Umatilla County in particular has reached epic proportions; with only 2% of the state’s population, nearly 25% of all meth labs are found within its borders. Earlier this year Walden held seven town hall summits to educate the public and raise awareness about the issue. Thousands of residents gathered for summits held in Baker City, Grants Pass, Hood River, Klamath Falls, Medford, Pendleton and Redmond. At the events, Walden was joined by local government, prevention, law enforcement and treatment professionals. Attending both the Medford and Grants Pass summits was White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Deputy Director Scott Burns, who joined Walden in Umatilla County to meet with the Blue Mountain Enforcement Narcotics Team in August 2004. Walden believes these visits by Burns were instrumental in the long-awaited designation of Umatilla County as a High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) by ONDCP in September. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon, and he is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership structure. ###
12.13.2005	Bipartisan bill cosponsored by Walden calls for federal research, creates guidelines to deal with environmental consequences of toxic labsDecember 13, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -The U.S. House of Representatives today approved by voice vote H.R. 798, the Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act of 2005, legislation introduced by Congressman Bart Gordon (D-TN) and cosponsored by Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) that would direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish voluntary guidelines to assist state and local governments in the remediation of former methamphetamine (meth) lab sites while also calling for various research programs aimed at increasing our knowledge of environmental and property contamination. “During the seven town halls I held on this issue in February and March throughout central, southern and eastern Oregon, it was evident that communities are becoming increasingly affected by this epidemic. Meth is a poison that ravages the minds and bodies of its users, threatens public safety, costs taxpayers thousands of dollars, and destroys environments surrounding the clandestine labs in which it is produced,” said Walden, a member of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Meth and the Speaker’s Task Force for a Drug Free America. “The least we can do at the federal level is help arm communities and local governments, those engaged in this battle on the front lines, with the tools and research critical to the safe and effective management of lands contaminated by use and production of this toxic substance,” he added. Aside from the voluntary guidelines established under the jurisdiction of the EPA’s Assistant Administrator, the bill also calls on the EPA to establish and conduct a research program to support the development and updating of these guidelines on an ongoing basis. Research conducted by the program would focus on identifying chemicals related to meth labs and production, better addressing the biological effects of meth and minimizing adverse human exposures to such chemicals, evaluating the performance of various meth lab cleanup and remediation techniques, and assessing the types and levels of exposure to chemicals of concern. H.R. 798 would also require that the Assistant Administrator convene a conference every three years that would bring together state agencies and others involved with handling the impacts of former meth labs. This conference would also allow nonfederal participants a chance to provide information on their problems, needs and experiences with the voluntary guidelines established by the EPA on a continual basis. Two additional provisions of this bill call for the EPA to work with the National Academy of Sciences to study the status and quality of data on the residual effects of meth labs, including the identification of research gaps and the recommendation of an agenda for the overall research program, and for the National Institute of Standards and Technology to support a research program developing new methamphetamine detection technologies. “Property owners and taxpayers are paying the high price for the illegal actions of meth cooks and abusers,” Walden continued. “This bill would help foster a coordinated effort between federal, state and local governments to tackle the important task of rooting out and cleaning up the toxic waste left by this poison.” For each pound of meth manufactured, it is estimated that five-to-six pounds of toxic waste byproduct are produced. In 2004, Oregon had 420 meth labs seized; and with only 20 percent of the state’s population, the Second District had 35 percent of the lab seizures. Passage of H.R. 798 occurred one day before the House is expected to pass comprehensive provisions targeting the domestic and international production, trafficking and abuse of methamphetamine. Those provisions, included in the PATRIOT Act’s reauthorization, are tentatively scheduled for a vote by the House of Representatives tomorrow. If you have trouble opening the attached MP3 audio file of Walden’s statement on the passage of HR 798, please contact Angela Wilhelms at angela.wilhelms@mail.house.gov or 202-226-7338. Congressman Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which includes twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon, and he is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership structure ###
12.12.2005	Decision follows persistent advocacy by Walden, Administration officials, and othersDecember 12, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -In response to an announcement today by Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns that the Japanese government has reopened its borders for the importation of American beef products, Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today issued the following statement: “This is terrific news for the U.S. cattle industry and the hard working individuals who produce safe and high quality American beef, including many family farmers and ranchers in central, southern and eastern Oregon. Our food safety standards are second to none, and I’m pleased that the Japanese government has finally recognized this and reopened its borders to American beef and beef products. Our voices and strong reasoning have been heard. “The barrier to trade imposed by Japan was unfair and it cost American cattle producers and the U.S. economy more than $6 billion in lost activity. The cattle industry in Oregon alone is valued at more than $500 million, making it our state’s second most valuable commodity. “I joined with colleagues from both sides of the aisle to press for legislation that would impose tariffs on Japanese goods equal to the lost felt by the American economy as a result of the ban if it were not lifted by the end of this year; we can now withdraw such pressure. Today’s announcement will allow us to resume normal levels of beef exports to our largest importer in that industry. “I applaud President Bush, Secretary Johanns and Trade Representative Rob Portman for their diligence and continued work to return U.S. beef exports to normal levels throughout the world. Resumption of beef trade with Japan is a major step forward, and by lifting its ban, hopefully Japan has set a precedent for other Asian countries whose markets remain unjustly closed to American beef.” According to the Department of Agriculture, the United States is able to export beef from cattle 20 months of age and younger to Japan under the agreement announced yesterday. In 2003, the U.S. exported $1.4 billion worth of beef and beef products to Japan before the country closed its borders to American beef in December of that year following the first case of BSE found in the United States. Walden has remained aggressive in efforts to encourage Japan to lift its ban on American beef. After learning last week that the Japanese Food Safety Commission was going to recommend lifting the ban to the Japanese ministries on Agriculture and Health, Walden wrote to Japanese Ambassador Ryozo Kato urging swift action by his country’s government in making a final decision to remove this barrier to trade. In addition to this and previous correspondence with Kato on this important issue, Walden also kept consistent pressure on President Bush and his administration urging that this issue remain their top economic priority in dealings with Japan. In October, Walden cosponsored legislation introduced by Rep. John Salazar (D-CO), H.R. 4179, which would have imposed tariffs on Japanese goods equal to the estimated $3.14 billion in annual lost economic activity as a result of the ban if it were not lifted by the end of 2005. Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which covers twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy & Commerce, Committee on Resource, Western Caucus, Rural Caucus and the Congressional Beef Caucus. ###
12.08.2005	Recommendation from Japanese officials to reopen the border for imports follows persistent efforts by Walden, colleaguesDecember 8, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -In his latest action to urge Japan to immediately reopen its border for imports of American beef, Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today sent a letter to Ambassador of Japan Ryozo Kato urging swift action by the his country’s government in lifting their ban on U.S. beef following a recommendation made by the Japanese Food Safety Commission indicating their concurrence with America’s longstanding knowledge that U.S. beef is safe for consumption. The Commission will send its recommendation to the Health and Agriculture ministries of Japan for their consideration in the decision to lift the ban imposed two years ago after the first case of BSE was found in the U.S. “The American economy loses more than $3 billion every year due to the unjustified barrier to beef trade Japan has imposed. The quality and safety of American food products are unparalleled, and I am encouraged that the Japanese Food Safety Commission is finally moving forward with a recommendation that their nation reinstate the importation of American beef,” said Walden, a member of the Congressional Beef Caucus, Rural Caucus and Western Caucus. “I’m hopeful that the Japanese government will heed the recommendation of the Food Safety Commission and not delay in reopening the border to our high-quality beef. Japan is a friend, and it is time that they put a stop to the trade politics being played at the expense of the hard-working ranching families throughout Oregon and the United States,” he added. Walden’s letter to Ambassador Kato is part of his continued effort to encourage Japan to lift the ban, including letters he’s written to the Japanese government and President Bush about the issue. Last month, during a speech at a convention of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association, Walden announced his cosponsorship of H.R. 4179, legislation that would impose tariffs on Japanese products entering the United States to equal to the $3 billion annual loss to the American economy caused by the ban. Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which covers twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. ###
12.07.2005	Groups representing millions of members endorse legislation's "commitment to timely responses to catastrophic events" in federal forestsDecember 7, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -During testimony delivered today at a hearing in the House Committee on Agriculture, Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) announced that a coalition of twenty-two state and national conservation organizations have endorsed the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, H.R. 4200. Walden, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, authored the bill and introduced it last month with Congressman Brian Baird (D-WA), who also testified at the hearing. Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Ranking Member Collin Peterson (D-MN) are both original cosponsors of H.R. 4200. Written to give land managers the tools and authorities necessary to responsibly restore the health of federal forests damaged by catastrophic events in a timely manner, the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act earned the support of these conservation organizations because it “would enhance the ability of our membership’s ongoing efforts to protect and improve habitat, responsibly manage and conserve fish and wildlife and ensure the overall health of our forest ecosystems,” according to a letter sent to Walden yesterday by the organizations. “As Congressman Baird and I crafted this legislation, forest health was our number one priority. We used the knowledge and experience of land managers, scientists, foresters and experts to help determine what tools are necessary to responsibly and quickly restore forest health without compromising environmental standards, which are so critical to habitat and water quality. The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act allows federal land managers to better accomplish goals of forest health while also providing economic benefit to local communities through the utilization of dead and dying trees before they rot and lose all value,” said Walden. Among the conservation groups who endorsed H.R. 4200 were the International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, Bear Trust International, Boone and Crockett Club, Conservation Force, Campfire Club of America, Wildlife Management Institute, Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership, Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation, Foundation for North American Wild Sheep, National Wild Turkey Federation, North American Bear Foundation, Quality Deer Management Association and the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation. The groups lauded the Act’s “commitment to timely responses to catastrophic events by allowing for rapid restoration of ecosystems, utilization of damaged trees before they lose economic value, protection of adjacent lands from subsequent wildfires, insect infestations and disease outbreaks, and the opportunity for public participation in recovery planning is consistent with our members’ expectations and is simply common sense.” “We support the bill’s provisions to increase scientific research on the best methods to recover ecosystems damaged by catastrophic events. Finally, the provisions that provide for involvement of state, local and tribal authorities in evaluating damage from catastrophic events and formulating appropriate response plans ensures that the interests of local communities, conservation organizations and adjacent landowners are heard and considered,” their letter continued, indicating the coalition’ strong support for the bill’s research and cooperative partnership provisions. “I appreciate the support of the many individuals and organizations who understand the importance of this common sense legislation to the long term health and vitality of our national forests,” said Walden. “Their sentiments echo what so many Oregonians believe – that timely and responsible action on forests is sometimes the best course, but that our talented land managers are often unable to get the work done.” He told the Committee, “People in Oregon don’t accept the notion that it should take three years to remove a burned dead tree after a fire. And yet, all too often that’s what happens. Currently, in Oregon, only about 5% of burned federal lands receive any restoration treatments. This is particularly disturbing given that approximately 12 million acres in my state are at high risk for catastrophic fire.” Walden concluded his testimony by saying, “As an old Eagle Scout, I still hear the words of my scoutmaster who would tell us kids to ‘leave your campsite better than you found it.’ That’s what we did with passage two years ago of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, and that’s what we will continue to do with passage of the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act. We will leave our forests in better condition than we found them, treading lightly on the land, protecting water quality and enhancing habitat, while using the fiber from dead trees while it still has value.” More information on H.R. 4200 can be found at https://thomas.loc.gov. Walden, 48, represents the people of Oregon’s Second District, which covers more than 70,000 square miles of eastern, central and southern Oregon and includes nine national forests. He was one of the original authors of the successful Healthy Forest Restoration Act which provides federal land managers with a quicker system to reduce the threat of fires around communities and throughout forests. ###
12.06.2005	Walden bill negotiates repayment options between Harry & David Corp., local irrigation districts; removes obstacles to company's growthDecember 6, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously passed H.R. 4195, legislation sponsored by Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) and developed in partnership with the Department of the Interior and local southern Oregon irrigation districts, that will allow the Harry & David Operations Corporation – known for its Harry & David and Jackson & Perkins brand names – to make an early repayment of financial obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR). The company will continue to pay irrigation districts for water used to grow Harry & David fruit locally; this early repayment will give it critical flexibility in financing its continued growth and development. “Harry & David is one of our district’s largest employers and a tremendous asset to the economy of southern Oregon. Their ability to grow is a major factor in job creation and economic development for the region, and the legislation we approved today removes roadblocks that would have impeded that ability,” said Walden. “I appreciate the collaborative efforts of the Bureau of Reclamation and the local irrigation districts in working out the details of this legislation, which will allow Harry and David to continue the excellent work it is doing in – and for – southern Oregon.” This technical change to offer an early repayment option brings Harry and David’s contracts with the Medford and Rogue River Valley Irrigation Districts in line with other districts throughout the West, including the Talent Irrigation District, which already have early repayments options written into contractual agreements. This repayment covers obligations owed to the BOR by patrons such as Harry & David for establishment of the local water project, which allows for water distribution throughout the Rogue Valley. “I am very impressed with the way Congress has handled this legislation given its complexity and the short time frame since introduction. I want to personally thank Congressman Walden and his staff for their hard work and dedication in moving this legislation through the US House of Representatives,” said Harry & David President and CEO Bill Williams. Williams added, “The legislation, when passed by the US Senate and signed by the president, removes long standing obstacles to Harry & David’s future growth and it helps to insure the continued production of our famous Royal Riviera Pears in Southern Oregon’s Rogue Valley.” Current reporting requirements would mandate that any shareholder with a one-percent or greater ownership stake in Harry & David would need to file Reclamation reporting forms. Full, early repayment not only insures that the BOR will receive due compensation for its establishment of the local water project, but removes a cumbersome obstacle in Harry & David’s efforts to become a publicly held corporation, which would help long term growth of both the company and the local economy. H.R. 4195 has a companion in the Senate introduced by Senator Gordon Smith, S. 1576, which has been passed by the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and is now awaiting a vote by the full Senate. Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which contains 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committees on Resources and Energy & Commerce. ###
12.02.2005	Statewide association, local governments, home builders, educational foundation endorsements announced during speech delivered by WaldenDecember 2, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -Support continued to grow this week for the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, H.R. 4200, bipartisan legislation that would help federal land managers more responsibly and quickly recover federal forestlands damaged by catastrophic events. During a speech delivered today to more than 200 people attending the annual luncheon of the Portland Wholesale Lumber Association (PWLA), Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) announced new endorsements of H.R. 4200 from local governments, building associations and the non-partisan Evergreen Foundation. “The continued support received by the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act from such a wide variety of organizations and groups is a testament to the common sense principles outlined in the bill,” said Walden, author of the legislation and chairman of the House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. “Congressman Brian Baird [D-WA] and I introduced this bill last month with nearly 100 original bipartisan cosponsors from all parts of the nation. Since then, the bill has earned resounding endorsement from forestry experts, land management agencies, governments, conservationists and many others. I welcome the continued support that comes as more individuals and groups learn what this solid piece of legislation would accomplish and judge it on its merits,” he added. Walden informed PWLA members that the Association of Oregon Counties, which represents Oregon’s 36 counties, unanimously passed a resolution endorsing the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act. Additionally, two Oregon counties – Jackson and Deschutes – passed individual resolutions expressing support for H.R. 4200 based on the bill’s benefits to the environment and economy in their respective areas. Jackson County’s resolution urged “prompt passage of the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, with its commitment to timely responses to catastrophic events on federal lands, allowing for rapid restoration of ecosystems, usage of damaged trees before they lose all economic value, protection of adjacent lands from subsequent wildfires, insect infestations and disease outbreaks, and full public notice and participation, including involvement by state, local and tribal authorities in recovery planning and implementation.” The nonpartisan Evergreen Foundation, based in Montana, also recently endorsed H.R. 4200. In a letter to Walden, Jim Peterson, editor of Evergreen Magazine and executive director of The Evergreen Foundation, wrote “In both literal and figurative senses, H.R. 4200 takes significant and positive steps in the direction of restoring the sanctity and stability of the common ground share by the majority of Americans who love forests and want them protected from harm, no matter its source.” “Based on a century of scientific, historic and anecdotal evidence, and our own reputation for fact-finding, we are pleased to add the Evergreen Foundation to the long and impressive list of scientists, forestry organizations and federal agency personnel that are supporting The Forest Emergency Recovery & Research Act,” he added in the letter. The Oregon Home Builders Association (OHBA) also officially endorsed the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act this week, as did the Central Oregon Builders Association. "Congressman Walden's legislation is not only good for the health of our national forests, but it's good for local economies as well. By utilizing dead and dying trees in our local forests to help meet the demand for wood products - such as homes and paper - we reduce the pressure to cut green trees or import trees from foreign countries. This bill just makes sense," said Tim Knopp, executive vice president of the Central Oregon Builders Association and former Oregon House Majority Leader. "In addition to the responsible replanting of green trees where dead ones once stood, this environmentally conscious bill will help create jobs and sustain local economies while restoring the health of forests damaged by raging wildfires and other catastrophic events." H.R. 4200 “would provide authority for timely and effective responses to catastrophic events, allowing the land management agencies to rapidly respond to the unique characteristics of each event and the particular needs of each locale, allowing for the use of damaged trees and other resources before they lose all economic value, while restoring ecosystems to a naturally functioning state,” stated the OHBA’s resolution. Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
12.01.2005	Bipartisan pair continues efforts to craft long-term stewardship plan for Mt. Hood; legislative concepts to be discussed at Hood River, Portland summitsDecember 1, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -As part of their continued effort to create a long-term vision to address the future of Mt. Hood, Oregon Congressmen Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) have announced two public summits to be held on Saturday, December 3, 2005 in Hood River and Portland. The summits, titled “A Legacy for Mt. Hood,” will give area residents an opportunity to hear Walden and Blumenauer’s blueprint for future legislation and provide the Congressmen feedback on those ideas. “The concepts we are putting forward at these summits culminate a three-year effort of listening and learning about the demands on the mountain, and the needs and ways to protect it for the future while we enjoy its many offerings today. As Oregon’s recreation mountain, Mt. Hood stands as a bold symbol of the quality of life we desire in the Northwest. Our proposals will improve transportation, recreation and the health of the forest, while enhancing and protecting water quality and wilderness values,” said Walden, chair of the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. “After three years of hard work, we're ready to advance a proposal for additional wilderness and a legacy for the future of Mt. Hood,” said Blumenauer. The Legacy for Mt. Hood summits come on the heels of this summer’s two-day round table discussions with over 50 stakeholders and experts in July and the four-day, 41-mile hike on the Timberline Trail circumnavigating Mt. Hood completed by the Congressmen in August. During their backpacking trek, they met with experts in a variety of fields including hydrology, geology, forestry, wilderness, recreation, Tribal issues, climatology and wildlife. These meetings, along with previous summits and round table meetings held throughout the last three years, have given Walden and Blumenauer an extensive look at the challenges facing Mt. Hood due to the many varied uses it provides millions each year. Information on the summits is as follows; the public is encouraged to attend: 9:00 – 11:00 AMHood River Best Western1108 E. Marina Way - Hood River, OR1:30 – 3:30 PMPortland State University, Hoffman Hall1833 SW 11th - Portland, OR Previous summits included Mt. Hood: A View from the Summit in August 2003, which drew more than 300 participants, and “Mt. Hood: A Vision for the Future” in August 2004, where more than 250 interested residents heard information and ideas from a variety of stakeholders and experts. Topics have included transportation, recreation, forest health, watersheds, timber resources, economics, local governments and wilderness protection. Congressman Blumenauer represents the 3rd District of Oregon and Congressman Walden represents the 2nd District of Oregon; the two districts split Mt. Hood at its crest. ###
11.18.2005	Transportation legislation includes funds to aid Ashland residents, employees with transportation and parkingNovember 18, 2005 - Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that the House of Representatives has approved legislation providing the City of Ashland with a $250,000 investment in a “park and ride” lot for the benefit of area residents and employees, many of whom work in densely populated areas with little available parking“This park and ride will be a tremendous asset to those who live and work in Ashland , an area growing rapidly. Giving employees the ability to leave cars at this lot and take public transportation or employee shuttles to work will help relieve traffic congestion and pressure on already limited sources of parking,” said Walden, who wrote a letter to Subcommittee with jurisdiction over transportation urging the support of this project.The funds will help the City of Ashland and the Rogue Valley Transit District purchase land for the “park and ride” location, a project identified as a component of improved transit for the community. The investment was part of the fiscal year 2006 appropriations bill for the Departments of Transportation, Treasury, Housing & Urban Development and the Judiciary. After being approved by the Senate, the legislation will advance to the President for his signature.
11.15.2005	True Enforcement and Border Security Act enhances law enforcement, tightens borders, reduces incentives to illegal immigrationNovember 15, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -As part of an ongoing effort to increase security along U.S. borders and curb illegal immigration, Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) became an original cosponsor of the True Enforcement and Border Security Act, H.R. 4313, introduced yesterday by Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA). H.R. 4313 addresses many key issues surrounding enhanced immigration control including the completion of additional fencing along the southern U.S. border, sharply increasing the number of border patrol agents and detention capabilities, and eliminating benefits that entice illegal immigrants to America. “Illegal immigrants continue to cross our nation’s borders creating an overwhelming burden on taxpayers through increased costs of education and health care, and, most importantly, they can pose a threat to homeland security. Enhanced patrols, greater authority given to local officials, the construction of additional physical barriers along the border, and many other provisions in H.R. 4313 will help curb illegal immigration,” said Walden, a member of the Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus. “While there is no ‘silver bullet’ in the ongoing fight against illegal immigration, the True Enforcement and Border Security Act will go a long way toward advancing our efforts.” The True Enforcement and Border Security Act is a comprehensive piece of legislation drafted in a collaborative process that takes into consideration the many different legislative proposals that have been suggested in the House and Senate this year. H.R. 4313 would: Create a border security zone from the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico with 25 additional ports of entry, calling on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to incorporate fencing, roads and technology infrastructure along the nation’s border with Mexico;Authorize 6,000 new border patrol officers, 1,250 immigration investigators, 500 adjudicators and 2,000 worksite investigators;Affirm inherent authority of state and local law enforcement to enforce immigration laws and require reimbursement to such agencies for their cooperation in immigration enforcement;Withhold funding from the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) from states and localities with sanctuary policies to protect illegal or criminal aliens; Halt current “catch and release” practices by increasing federal detention space;Make illegal immigration less attractive by withholding U.S. citizenship from babies born on American soil to illegal aliens;Give DHS the discretion to suspend immigration procedures and benefits to criminal aliens and terrorists;Establish a framework that will allow employers to verify, at the time of hire, that an applicant is in the U.S. legally and eligible for employment;Increase penalties and prevent employers from hiring illegal aliens through an improved Social Security identification card and verification system;Prevent illegal aliens from collecting Social Security and claiming the Earned Income Tax Credit; and,Increase penalties for forging immigration and identity documents, falsely claiming U.S. citizenship and alien smuggling. More information on H.R. 4313 can be found at https://thomas.loc.gov.
11.14.2005	Jim Brown, state forester under four Oregon governors and Kulongoski's natural resource policy director, says H.R. 4200 would restore "common sense" to forest managementNovember 14, 2005 - Salem, OR -The Oregon Department of Forestry’s top official under Governors Goldschmidt, Roberts, Kitzhaber and Kulongoski has announced his support for H.R. 4200, the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, introduced earlier this month by U.S. Congressmen Greg Walden (R-OR) and Brian Baird (D-WA). This bipartisan legislation gives federal land managers tools and authorities to take action to recover forests damaged by catastrophic events more rapidly than current process allows. In a guest opinion printed today in The Oregonian, Jim Brown – Oregon’s state forester for 16 years, past-president of the National Association of State Foresters and Governor Ted Kulongoski’s former policy director for national resources – wrote that the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act “will restore a common sense approach to restoring forests and their multiple values destroyed by catastrophic events” and “will provide federal land managers the resources and tools to ensure future generations will also enjoy resilient green forests.” “Jim Brown has extensive, firsthand experience in forest management from his 36-year career with the Oregon Department of Forestry, and he has deep insight into the needs of forests damaged by wildfire,” said Walden, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. “The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act would allow professional land mangers to restore the health of forests damaged by catastrophic events in a timely and responsible manner, while adhering to existing environmental law and without compromising the public’s ability to participate in the planning process.” In his piece, Brown uses the example of the Tillamook Burn, an area covering hundreds of thousands of acres in northwest Oregon ravaged by catastrophic wildfire in the early decades of the 1900s. Local counties and the State of Oregon took proactive measures to restore forest health and recover economic value from trees killed by the fires. Today, the Tillamook State Forest is a diverse ecosystem providing recreation, timber and clean water for human use and habitat for species, including some protected under the Endangered Species Act. “Jim has a keen understanding of how legislative policy can impact forest and community health, and I appreciate his support for our common sense legislation,” added Walden. A full copy of Brown’s statement can be found at www.walden.house.gov/issues/forestrecovery.
11.11.2005	Statement reminds Oregonians to thank veterans on Veterans DayNovember 11, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -To honor our nation’s veterans and celebrate Veterans Day today, U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) announced his support of several pieces of bipartisan legislation making improvements to key military service benefits including health care, veterans’ disability and retirement. Walden has also released a public service announcement to radio and television stations throughout the Second District thanking America’s veterans. “Today we celebrate Veterans Day and honor the 25 million Americans who have served in our Armed Forces. We honor them for their love of country and their sacrifice. America has always been a nation devoted to the cause of liberty at home and abroad; and through their bravery, out nation’s heroes have advanced freedom’s cause and allowed us to be free and secure,” said Walden, a member of the House Army Caucus, the Air Force Caucus, the Navy/Marine Corps Caucus and the USO Congressional Caucus. “Veterans Day is a day to pay tribute to those who have worn our nation’s uniforms – to thank them for their service and sacrifice. It is my hope, however, that we do not limit ourselves to expressing gratitude solely on this designated day, but that we all remember to regularly extend thanks to those who have served the United States so bravely and selflessly,” he added. Walden has announced his support for five pieces of legislation covering a variety of issues related to military and veterans’ affairs:H.R. 303, the Retired Pay Restoration Act would allow military retirees who have a disability as a result of military service to receive both their veterans’ disability and military retired pay without offset; currently, only veterans with the most severe disabilities receive both of these benefits.H.R. 602, the Keep Our Promise to America’s Military Retirees Act, helps the many military retirees unable to receive proper health care through the Tricare system, many of whom live in rural areas like those in central, southern and eastern Oregon. The bill would help reduce pharmacy costs for military retirees who are physically unable to use Tricare Network Pharmacies due to where they live and helps expand basic health care coverage for the most elderly military retirees by waiving Medicare Part B premiums currently required to enroll in Tricare for Life. H.R. 783 would reduce from 60 to 55 the minimum age for the receipt of military retired pay for non-regular service, allowing reservists and Guard members who have not reached the age of 60, but who have completed a sufficient number of years of service, to receive earned retirement pay. H.R. 968 allows participants in the military’s Survivor Benefit Plan to stop paying premiums into that plan after they reach the age of 70 and after they have been paying premiums for 30 years. Veterans currently pay premiums until their death, at which time the Plan begins paying benefits to their spouse; this bill would set a maximum amount of time and money that a veteran must pay into the system.H.R. 3478 allows the families to invest military death gratuity payment into preferred savings plans (Roth IRAs, Health Savings Accounts, Archer Medical Savings and Coverdell Education Savings Accounts) at higher amounts by waiving current caps on how much can be invested in those accounts. This prevents Uncle Sam from taking a bite out of support given to families coping with the loss of a loved one. “Military personnel ensure our nation’s freedom and guard her safety, and we have a responsibility to ensure that their service does not go unrecognized and that promises made to them are kept. We need to secure access to quality, affordable health care and fair retirement benefits for military retirees, and provide support for families of those who give the ultimate sacrifice,” said Walden. An MP3 audio file of Walden’s public service announcement is available on his website at www.walden.house.gov/press/audio/2005/VETPSA.mp3. More information on Veterans Day and how individuals can help thank our nation’s veterans and active military personnel can be found at www.va.gov/opa/vetsday.
11.10.2005	Testimony to be delivered at legislative hearing on bill in Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee this morningNovember 10, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, H.R. 4200, continues to gain support from across America for its provisions to expedite emergency recovery and restoration efforts after catastrophic events in the nation’s forests. Today, the Assistant Organizing Director of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America plans to testify formally before the House Resources Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health that the legislation “…takes the next logical step that will continue to move us toward healthier public forests,” supplementing the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, which he said helps “reduce the risk of new fires” but “did not do anything to expedite salvage and reforestation projects after the fire.” Denny Scott, an Oregon resident and long-time member of the Carpenters Union, also plans to tell committee members that after a fire, dead and dying trees still have economic value, “…but that value does not last long as insects and rot quickly destroy the value of the timber. Therefore, timber that could be cleared and processed in nearby mills, and therefore provide needed jobs in forest communities, instead lays decomposing on the forest floor.” “I would point out there is widespread agreement that the current system is a failure,” Scott plans to testify, citing a statewide survey in Oregon showing a vast majority of respondents support quicker recovery and restoration action after a fire on public lands. The Carpenters Union was joined in supporting the legislation by the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association, which gave its support to the measure during their annual convention last weekend in central Oregon. “As individuals and families who make our living off the land, ranchers deeply understand the importance of environmental responsibility and stewardship of both public and private lands. The condition in which federal forests are left following a catastrophic event presents a threat to water quality, habitat and neighboring communities while simultaneously allowing a precious and renewable resource to rot until it loses all value. The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act simply makes sense. It allows land managers to work in partnership with local communities and interested parties to implement plans that will help restore the health of forests, providing both environmental and economic benefits,” said Sharon Livingston, President of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association. “The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act lets our federal land managers move more quickly to stop erosion and begin restoration work that is essential to long-term forest health and water quality,” said the bill’s author, U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), who chairs the Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee. The measure is being discussed today before Walden’s subcommittee following two years of hearings on the subject of forest recovery. “Most of us understand that we need to fix the present system to allow for quicker action after a major event, such as a fire, windstorm or hurricane. That’s what the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act does. Forest officials will still have to follow their forest plans, it just allows them to do that in four months rather than three years if an emergency situation arises,” said Walden. The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act will also receive praise from the academic world today with the testimony of Dr. Hal Salwasser, Dean of the College of Forestry at Oregon State University. Dr. Salwasser refutes claims by those who argue that doing nothing after a catastrophic event is always the best course of action. Salwasser plans to tell members, “…doing nothing in many places may in fact create the most harm for those places and their soils, waters, native plants and animals, resources of value to humans.” “Because forest restoration or recovery make sense only in relation to the designated purposes for places to be restored or recovered, thoughtful determination of whether nature or human intervention creates the most desirable outcome or poses the least ‘harm’ is needed. H.R. 4200 is wise in calling for collaboration with states, Tribes, and citizens and for scientific peer and public review of assessments and environmental analyses to make those determinations,” he added in written testimony. Salwasser, prior to becoming the Dean of the School of Forestry, worked as a research station director in California and served as Regional Forester in the Northern Rockies. “We’ve listened and learned a lot during our two years of hearings in the Subcommittee, and we’ve put to paper a balanced and thoughtful approach to solving the problems that stop quicker recovery efforts, quicker protection of our water sources and quicker restoration of our forest environments. We must become better stewards of these precious federal lands,” said Walden. The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act has attracted more than 100 cosponsors from across the country since it was introduced in the U.S. House last week. Walden, 48, represents the people of Oregon’s Second District which is more than 70,000 square miles of eastern, central and southern Oregon and includes nine national forests. He was one of the original authors of the successful Healthy Forest Restoration Act which provides federal land managers with a quicker system to reduce the threat of fires around communities and throughout the forests.
11.10.2005	OSU College of Forestry dean, former Jackson County commissioner and an Oregonian representing the United Brotherhood of Carpenters also testify before House panel that H.R. 4200 would benefits to forests, communitiesNovember 10, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -The Chief of the U.S. Forest Service, and the Department of the Interior’s Assistant Secretary for Policy, Management and Budget today testified in support of the bipartisan Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act’s common sense approach to land management during a legislative hearing in the Resources Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), who sponsored the bill, invited Rep. Brian Baird (D-WA) to participate in today’s hearing. Baird, who is not a member of the Subcommittee, was a lead cosponsor of the legislation along with Rep. Stephanie Herseth (D-SD), a member of the Subcommittee. Chief Dale Bosworth and Assistant Secretary Lynn Scarlett told Walden that their agencies support H.R. 4200, which would give federal land managers the ability to more quickly address recovery of national forestlands damaged by a catastrophic event – such as fire, ice storms, windstorms or hurricanes – if expedited action is necessary for the health and restoration of the forest. “We believe H.R. 4200 would provide some innovative authorities to improve the ability of the Secretary to promptly implement recovery treatments in response to catastrophic events affecting federal lands…The Department strongly supports the goals of the legislation and its intent to get recovery actions accomplished promptly while focusing on maintaining sound environmental decision-making and public involvement,” Chief Bosworth told members of the Subcommittee. In her opening statement, Assistant Secretary Scarlett testified that “procedural delays under current laws still prevent timely implementation of recovery and restoration activities. Failure to undertake timely recovery actions after these events has adverse environmental, economic and community impacts. H.R. 4200 helps agencies avoid these impacts by providing tools to agencies to expedite recovery and restoration activities.” “The talented professionals managing federal forestlands on a daily basis have become all too familiar with the devastation that can occur following a catastrophic event. And unfortunately, they have become all too familiar with an inability to responsibly and promptly restore the health of those forests due to process restraints and a system bogged down by litigation and appeals. We heard from both Chief Bosworth and Assistant Secretary Scarlett that the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, which was enacted in 2003, has helped mitigate the threat of catastrophic wildfire through hazardous fuels reduction, but that land managers need additional tools to address forest needs after a catastrophe does hit,” said Walden, co-author of the bipartisan Healthy Forests Restoration Act. “After two years of hearings on this issue and a great deal of thoughtful and collaborative work with my colleagues in the Congress and professionals in our forests, I have introduced this legislation to help restore both the environmental and economic health of forestlands and communities,” he added. The Subcommittee also heard testimony in favor of the legislation from Dr. Hal Salwasser, Dean of Oregon State University’s College of Forestry; Denny Scott, Assistant Organizing Director for the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America; Peter Kolb of Montana State University’s extension forestry program; Stanford Adams of the North Carolina Division of Forest Resources; and Sue Kupillas, Executive Director of Communities for Healthy Forests and former Jackson County Commissioner. Both members lauded H.R. 4200’s provisions enhancing public-private cooperative relationships. “Certain post-fire situations require a rapid coordinated response in order to assure effectiveness of recovery and restoration efforts. Moreover, the environmental threats typically do not stop at ownership boundaries. Treatments limited to one side of a jurisdictional boundary may be less effective than actions coordinated within a broader ecosystem,” testified Scarlett. Bosworth added, “Equally significant are the bill’s provisions for working across boundaries, particularly with local communities, Tribes and state agencies. Often highest priority recovery needs are those that directly benefit private lands and neighboring jurisdictions.” During a question-and-answer portion of the hearing, Scarlett raised the issue of the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act’s strong provisions aimed at improving the body of peer-reviewed scientific information available to land managers, policy makers and the public on post-catastrophic event restoration of damaged forests. Chief Bosworth echoed her sentiments by testifying that“The bill’s provisions on research protocols, monitoring and forest health partnerships would improve the environmental quality of decisions through continuous learning and adaptation while forging partnerships between managers, researchers, communities and interested citizens.” The Department of the Interior has jurisdiction over the Bureau of Land Management, which has approximately 55 million acres of forest and woodlands; the Forest Service is part of the Department of Agriculture and contains 191 million acres of forestland. Walden, 48, represents the people of Oregon’s Second District which is more than 70,000 square miles of eastern, central and southern Oregon and includes nine national forests. He was one of the original authors of the successful Healthy Forest Restoration Act which provides federal land managers with a quicker system to reduce the threat of fires around communities and throughout the forests.
11.09.2005	Congressional appropriations bill includes funding toward technology for the new West County Government and Justice CenterNovember 9, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation providing a $150,000 investment toward high-tech equipment for Umatilla County’s new West County Government and Justice Center. The Conference Report funding Science, State, Commerce and Justice for fiscal year 2006 included the investment, which has been supported throughout the process by Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR). In April and again in November, Walden wrote to Congressman Frank Wolf (R-VA), chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over this funding bill, in support of funds to help with the purchase of a data-sharing system and a video-conference system for the new facility. Citing Umatilla County’s growing epidemic with illicit drug production, manufacturing and use, Walden told Wolf that the rural county will need additional technological infrastructure to help meet the growing needs in law enforcement and court services. “I am grateful that my colleagues in the House have recognized the importance of investing in the infrastructure and development of Umatilla County. Rural counties face unique challenges when it comes to law enforcement and other critical services given the greater distances covered by talented, but limited, personnel. With a strong technological infrastructure, the new facility on the west end of the County will help serve residents in that region,” said Walden, who sits on the House Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet and is a member of the Congressional Rural Caucus. The Conference Report passed by the House is currently awaiting approval in the Senate. If the Senate approves the bill as is expected, it will then advance to the President for his approval.
11.09.2005	November 9, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Representative Greg Walden (R-OR) will be in Klamath Falls this Saturday, November 12, during what will be his 39th visit to the region since taking office in 1999 and his fourth so far this year, to discuss natural resource and economic development issues throughout the region. Joining Walden for a round table lunch with local economic development groups will be Sandy Baruah, an Oregonian and the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Rural Development. This visit to Klamath Falls is part of Walden’s 257th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C., since taking office. His schedule is as follows: SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 1210:00–11:00 AM: Congressman Walden will meet with Klamath Water Users Association Executive Director Greg Addington and association members to discuss current issues surrounding water storage and usage in the Klamath Basin. Walden, a member of the House Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power will also update attendees on current activities in the Congress. 11:15 AM-12:30 PM: Congressman Walden has invited Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Sandy Baruah, an Oregonian, to join him in a meeting with local economic development leaders and organizations during a round table lunch. Representatives from the Klamath County Economic Development Association, Team Klamath and the Klamath & Lake Counties Economic Development District will update Baruah and Walden on current activities aimed at spurring economic growth in the region, and will discuss recent successes they have realized and opportunities they see for the future. Assistant Secretary Baruah will update attendees on plans for the Economic Development Administration (EDA) and advise the groups on ways they can enhance interaction with the EDA and its programs. Location: OIT, Mt. Mazama Room, 3210 Campus Dr., Klamath Falls. Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.
11.09.2005	Plans to say H.R. 4200 is "...needed to help lower some of the barriers to responsible and successful recovery actions following catastrophic eventsNovember 9, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -The highly respected Dean of the College of Forestry at Oregon State University will tell a congressional subcommittee that the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act (H.R. 4200) is “ecologically sound.” “H.R. 4200 is needed to help lower some of the barriers to responsible and successful recovery actions following catastrophic events,” Dean Hal Salwasser will tell the Resources Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health during a hearing in Washington, D.C. Salwasser will tell the committee that “…recovery must be timely to be successful.” “There is no reason other than debilitating process requirements and obstruction that federal forest managers cannot also be timelier in their recovery actions while still protecting vital soil, water, cultural, fish, wildlife and recreation resources. H.R. 4200 clearly provides for this through its assessment and environmental analysis requirements.” In his prepared testimony, Salwasser will also tell the panel that “Clearly, removal of unwanted trees following disturbance events must be quick to avoid loss of economic value due to decay, usually in the first year, two years at maximum. It must also be quick to set the stage for reforestation, which must also occur within the first two years for the highest seedling survival and lowest costs of managing competing vegetation. For these reasons, H.R. 4200 is right to enable expedited decision making and public review. States, Tribes and private forestland managers and conservation experts are routinely able to carry out post-event actions in such a timely manner to achieve successful outcomes.” The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act is sponsored by U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Brian Baird (D-WA), along with more than 100 cosponsors from both parties and from across the country. The legislation comes after two years of hearings and study by the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, which looked into the obstacles to recovery after catastrophic events on the federal forests. “It is important to remember that the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act merely lets federal land managers respond quicker during an emergency to implement recovery efforts. It waives no environmental laws nor does it overturn any court decisions. It simply allows quicker action to implement what the underlying forest plans require,” said Walden, who chairs the Subcommittee. The Subcommittee’s hearing begins at 9:30 a.m. Thursday in the nation’s capital. Live audio will be available at https://resourcescommittee.house.gov (Room 1334). Walden, 48, represents the people of Oregon’s Second District which is more than 70,000 square miles of eastern, central and southern Oregon and includes nine national forests. He was one of the original authors of the successful Healthy Forest Restoration Act which provides federal land managers with a quicker system to reduce the threat of fires around communities and throughout the forests.
11.08.2005	Walden to hold hearing on forest recovery legislation this Thursday in House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest HealthNovember 8, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -Newspapers throughout the Northwest have shown strong support for the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, H.R. 4200, bipartisan legislation introduced last week by U.S. Congressmen Greg Walden (R-OR), chairman of the House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, and Brian Baird (D-WA). Within the first week since the bill’s introduction, many Oregon and Washington newspapers have editorialized in favor of its common sense approach to land management, which would give federal land managers the tools and resources necessary to – if necessary – quickly restore the health of America’s forests damaged by catastrophic events such as wildfires, hurricanes, ice storms or windstorms. The Oregonian (Portland, OR), November 4, 2005: “This country’s policy on dead trees is rotten. The government spends many months and millions of dollars writing salvage plans after wildfires and windstorms, and then environmental groups fight those plans until most of the trees decay and topple over.” H.R. 4200 “is an attempt to stop the waste of time, money, wood and jobs inherent in the current salvage policy.” “To fight even a modest salvage program is to imply that dead trees, killed in an Oregon wildfire, are more precious than live trees somewhere else, even in a vulnerable rainforest. Like a lot of things about our country’s salvage policy, that just doesn’t make sense.” The Chronicle (Centralia, WA), November 4, 2005: “The Baird-Walden bill achieves the primary goals of reducing waste of an economically valuable natural resource and at the same time allowing for faster recovery of the burned forest and the habitats that provides.” The Bulletin (Bend, OR), November 2, 2005: The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act “is a bill that would bring reason to what now, too often, is an unreasonable process.” The Democrat-Herald (Albany, OR), November 8, 2005: “In a society that uses wood, it can’t be wrong to get it from trees that are dead instead of from green ones, or from countries where environmental laws don’t exist.” The Columbian (Vancouver, WA), November 4, 2005: “This bill was written after two years of hearings and nationwide input. More than ample research was conducted. And, full public notice and participation in the future is mandated in the bill’s language.” The Olympian (Olympia, WA), November 3, 2005: “This bill is expected to draw protests from the environmental community, but common sense needs to trump environmentalists’ suspicion of the forest industry.” The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, which currently has more than 100 bipartisan cosponsors, will have a hearing in Walden’s Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee this Thursday, November 10. The Act has also been referred to the House Committee on Agriculture and the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. Congressman Walden has represented the people of Oregon’s Second District since 1999. He is chairman of the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health and a member of the full House Committees on Resources and the Committee on Energy & Commerce.
11.07.2005	November 7, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) has recorded a public service announcement (PSA) honoring America’s veterans and reminding Oregonians to pay tribute to the brave men and women who have served in our armed forces. “Since the inception of our great nation, men and women have given selflessly to advance the cause of freedom and democracy while securing the safety of America and her people. Veterans Day is a day to pay tribute to those who have worn the uniform, to thank them for their service and sacrifice. It is my hope, however, that we do not limit ourselves to expressing gratitude solely on this designated day, but that Americans remember to regularly extend thanks to those who have served the United States,” said Walden. The PSA, recorded in advance of the upcoming Veterans Day holiday, is available to interested radio and television stations. Veterans Day is November 11, 2005; more information on the holiday can be found at www.va.gov/opa/vetsday. Below is a transcript of the PSA Walden released to radio and television stations serving his district: “Hello, I’m Congressman Greg Walden. “This month, we celebrate Veterans Day, and honor the 25 million Americans who have served in our Armed Forces. We honor them for their love of country and their sacrifice. “America has always been a nation devoted to the cause of liberty both at home and abroad; and through their bravery, our nation’s heroes have advanced freedom’s cause and allowed us to be free and secure. “For information on how you can help thank our nation’s veterans and active military personnel, visit the Department of Veterans Affairs website at: www.va.gov. An MP3 audio file can be downloaded at the link below and a video copy has been sent to television stations throughout the District. Please contact Angela Wilhelms at (202) 226-7338 or angela.wilhelms@mail.house.gov if you have trouble downloading the audio file, or if you do not receive a copy of the video and would like one. Audio: www.walden.house.gov/press/audio/2005/VETPSA.mp3.
11.05.2005	Legislation to impose tariffs on Japanese goods to offset the more than $3 billion in annual lost economic activity due to the country's ban on U.S. beefNovember 5, 2005 - Redmond, OR -As part of his continued effort to encourage Japan to lift its ban on the importation of American beef, Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced to a group gathered for the annual convention of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association and the Oregon Cattlewomen that he has cosponsored bipartisan legislation that would impose tariffs on Japanese goods entering the United States until that ban is lifted. H.R. 4179, introduced by Congressman John Salazar (D-CO), would impose tariffs equaling $3.14 billion per year, the annual economic loss to the American cattle industry as a result Japan’s ban, which was imposed immediately following the discovery of our nation’s first documented case of BSE in December of 2003. “Keeping U.S. beef out of Japan has gone from being an issue of safety to being an unjustified barrier to trade. The quality and safety of American food products is unparalleled, and the intolerably slow action of Japanese officials in reopening the border has left us with no choice but to impose these tariffs. Ranchers and families throughout rural America are paying a tremendous price and the overall economy of our communities, states and nation are impacted as a result,” said Walden, a member of the Congressional Beef Caucus, Rural Caucus and Western Caucus. Walden’s support for H.R. 4179 follows his cosponsorship in March of a resolution introduced by Congressman Jerry Moran (R-KS), H. Res. 137. This resolution states “That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that if the Government of Japan continues to delay in meeting its obligations under the understanding reached with the United States on October 23, 2004, to resume beef imports from the United States, the United States Trade Representative should immediately impose retaliatory economic measures on Japan.” In September, Walden joined more than 100 members of the U.S. House in signing a letter to President Bush urging him “to make restoring market access for U.S. beef to Japan [his] highest economic priority” with that country. The letter acknowledged the diligence of the President and his Cabinet in discussing this issue with Japanese officials, including the Prime Minister personally, but noted that the hardships the industry has faced since the border closed. “Congressional patience is exhausted and legislative remedies are becoming more likely” given the importance of this issue to so many communities and families throughout the United States,” the letter stated. “In the twenty months since an initial case of BSE was diagnosed in America, Agriculture Secretary Johanns and former Secretary Ann Veneman have implemented new scientifically sound BSE controls and substantially expanded the Department of Agriculture’s surveillance program, testing more than 500,000 of the highest-risk American cattle. Additionally, U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman has remained committed to working with Japanese trade officials. My hope is that this legislation will help advance their efforts and get the Japanese border open soon.” Walden received a letter last week from the Ambassador of Japan stating that the Japanese Food Safety Commission was working on a report to verify the safety of U.S. beef, but the letter indicated there were several steps that had to be completed before such verification would occur with no clear indication of a timeline or anticipated lift of the ban. “Having the border closed to Japan takes dollars out of our local economies. We feel that our country has protocols in place to guarantee that no one will be harmed by beef they receive from the United States, and we believe they need to open the borders – it’s time. I cannot say how grateful I am for Congressman Walden’s continued support for the ranching industry and its families,” said Sharon Livingston, president-elect of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association. “Japan is playing trade politics. There is no scientific reason for them to keep their border closed to U.S. beef,” added Bob Skinner, a rancher from Jordan Valley and past-president of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association. “We are lucky to have someone like Greg Walden in Congress willing to play hard ball when it comes to the issues that are so important to the folks in his district.” Walden is in his fourth term representing the people of Oregon’s Second District, which covers twenty counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the House Committee on Resources.
11.03.2005	WALDEN TO VISIT CENTRAL OREGON ON SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5 FOR EVENTS IN CULVER, REDMONDNovember 3, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Representative Greg Walden (R-OR) will be in central Oregon this Saturday, November 5, during what will be his 61st visit to the region since taking office in 1999 and his sixth so far this year, to meet with community and business leaders in Culver about a variety of issues and to deliver a speech at the annual convention of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association and the Oregon Cattlewomen in Redmond. This visit to Deschutes County is part of Walden’s 256th round trip between Oregon and Washington, D.C. since taking office. His schedule is as follows: SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5:CULVER - 9:30–11:00 AM: Congressman Walden will meet with local community and business leaders in Culver about issues of concern to that area and to share an update of activities currently going on in the Congress. Walden will meet with Mayor Dan Hardens, Jefferson County Sheriff Jack Jones, Culver School Superintendent Linda Florence, members of the Culver City Council, and representatives from local businesses and family farms. REDMOND - NOON–1:00 PM: Congressman Walden will address ranchers gathered from throughout the state at lunch during the annual convention of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association and the Oregon Cattlewomen. Walden will update the group on activities and legislation in the Congress, including the recent House passage of the bipartisan Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act and his introduction Wednesday, November 2, of the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act, bipartisan and common-sense legislation to help expedite processes for federal forestland recover following catastrophic events to help preserve the environmental and economic health of our national forests. Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.
11.03.2005	Walden announces financial investment of more than $48,000 to city for assistance with operations and firefighter safetyNovember 3, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that a $48,141 investment from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) has been made in the City of Milton-Freewater Fire Department to support general operations and safety programs. The Fire Department serves individuals throughout a 325-square mile region. “This award is a testament to the hard working individuals at the Milton-Freewater Fire Department,” said Walden, who chairs the House Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee. “Fire can be such a devastating occurrence; ensuring that these brave firefighters have the resources, training and equipment necessary is paramount. Their dedication keeps people, communities and our environment safe. I appreciate the continued commitment to Umatilla County shown by President Bush and Homeland Security Secretary Chertoff through this investment.” “This grant award will give the City of Milton-Freewater Fire Department a substantial leap ahead in much-needed equipment, which would have taken many years to purchase without this grant. I would like to give thanks on behalf of the whole department,” said Shane Garner, City of Milton-Freewater Fire Department Fire Chief. The AFGP awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the services they deliver to local communities. Grantees submit applications for the Operations and Fire Safety Program, Fire Prevention Program or Firefighting Vehicles Acquisition Program. Peer review panels score applications, and awards are based on financial need and the articulation of benefits to be derived from the funds. “This investment was an excellent choice by the AFGP,” continued Walden. “They clearly recognize the importance of strong firefighting operations in rural Oregon.”
11.03.2005	November 3, 2005 - Washington, D.C. -Nearly 100 members of the U.S. House of Representatives have joined together to sponsor legislation that would expedite the cleanup and restoration of federal forests after catastrophic events such as wildfires, hurricanes and windstorms. The “Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act,” HR 4200, was unveiled today at a news conference in the nation’s capital. The measure is modeled after the Healthy Forest Restoration Act, which provides expedited procedures to protect communities from wildfires. Its introduction comes after nearly two years of hearings by the Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee of the House Resources Committee that focused on problems plaguing the nation’s forests after catastrophic events. “Today in America’s forests, it can take three years for the federal government to cut a burned, dead tree after a fire. And by the time the decision is finally made, the trees have often rotted, become bug infested or lost most of their value. The Government Accountability Office reports that upwards of a million acres of forestland is in need of replanting. We can, and should, do better that,” said Congressman Greg Walden, chairman of the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. Walden, a Republican from Oregon, and U.S. Reps. Brian Baird (D-WA), Stephanie Herseth (D-SD), and Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD) are the principal authors of the measure. “Unlike past attempts to address this problem, our legislation ensures that federal environmental laws are followed fully. It provides for public participation in the planning process, including the right to administrative and judicial appeal. It ensures that the underlying forest plans are followed. And it has safeguards to mitigate against environmental harm. But instead of requiring the agencies to develop multiple plans that can take years to get approved, we reduce the planning process to 30 days—a timeline the Forest Service says is reasonable for them to meet—and then follow the same appeals process as required under the Healthy Forest Restoration Act, which allows the public nearly three months to comment on the plan before a final decision is made,” said Walden, whose district includes nine national forests. “The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act’s expedited provisions are narrowly written and only apply to areas where emergency actions are needed. Further, the measure’s expedited procedures apply only to dead trees. The measure doesn’t apply in wilderness areas, national monuments or national parks,” said Walden, who was a principal author of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act in 2003. “This is a responsible, common sense bill. People use wood – to build homes, to make paper – and that wood needs to come from somewhere. We can use wood from trees that are dead or dying, or from trees that are alive and healthy. Furthermore, we can responsibly harvest wood here at home, abiding by environmental protections and creating jobs, or we can get our wood from clear cuts in equatorial rainforests where the environment is far more fragile and environmental protection and labor laws are far weaker or even nonexistent,” Congressman Baird said. “This bill will enable us to utilize dead timber instead of letting it go to waste and to responsibly restore the health and diversity of our forests after a catastrophic event like a fire or hurricane.” FERRA provides tools and authorities to federal land managers for the rapid assessment of damage in forestlands following catastrophic events. If swift restoration work is necessary to restore the health of our nation’s forests, expedited – but thorough – environmental review of proposed actions would be performed by the agencies, including full public notice and participation. Land managers would then be able to engage in active management practices relating to the dead and dying timber left in forests, restoring landscapes, removing excess fuel loads, improving water and air quality, and preventing additional reforestation backlog, estimated in a May 2005 Government Accountability Office report at one million acres. The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act of 2005:§ Limits the removal of timber to trees that are down, dead, broken or severely root sprung, where mortality is highly probably within five years of the event;§ Requires thorough environmental review, including full evaluation of the environmental effects of a catastrophic event recovery project;§ Does not allow timber harvest in areas designated as Wilderness, National Parks or National Monuments;§ Requires an expedited National Environmental Policy Act procedural review, and mandates compliance with all environmental laws including the ESA, Wilderness Act, Clean Air Act, National Forest Management Act, Wild & Scenic Rivers Act, Federal Land Policy & Management Act, Multiple-Use Sustained-Yield Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Forest & Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act, National Historic Preservation Act, and the Healthy Forests Restoration Act;§ Uses the exact same guidelines for public notice, appeals and judicial review established in the overwhelmingly bipartisan and effective Healthy Forests Restoration Act;§ Strictly prohibits the creation of permanent roads in forestlands;§ Increases the amount of public land that is rehabilitated, preventing future wildfires, insect infestation and disease outbreak;§ Requires agencies to work in cooperation with states, local governments, tribes, land-grant universities and non-governmental organizations in the development of projects;§ Requires the establishment of native or beneficial plants according to the approved forest or resource management plan;§ Strictly prohibits the replanting of forest plantations;§ Increases the amount of peer reviewed scientific research conducted and made available to the public, federal land managers and policy makers; and,§ Is funded through existing trust funds and unobligated balances. With 99 original sponsors from both sides of the aisle and throughout the nation, the Forest Emergency Recover and Research Act addresses a fundamental management issue that is not specific to any particular region or type of forestland. Forests damaged by hurricanes in the Southeast, ice storms in the Northeast, blow downs in the South, tornadoes in the Midwest, and forest fire in the West must all be actively managed following these catastrophes in order to restore their vitality. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (R-WA), an original cosponsor of the bill, stated, “Our forests, and the resulting timber, play an extremely important role in the economy of the Pacific Northwest. Maintaining healthy forests is essential to those who make a living from the land and for those of us who use them for recreational purposes. Eastern Washington has experienced a number of deadly forest fires this season, and it is crucial that we have bipartisan legislation that will expedite the research and restoration process.” “Today, more than ever, action is needed to restore federal forest lands after catastrophic events. Federal land managers’ hands are often tied by process even when the best science and years of experience show that quick action is critical to restoring America’s forest legacy,” claims Dr. John Helms, president of the Society of American Foresters. “In addition to the damage inaction causes to the forest, wildlife, and water, it is difficult for federal managers to reforest areas if they cannot first remove dead and dying timber. Unfortunately, many of the nation’s forests often take years to recover on their own.” A July 2005 statewide survey conducted in Oregon by Communities for Healthy Forests showed that 77% of Oregonians support restoration of burned forests or those that have been destroyed by catastrophic events. Additionally, 75% believe that the government should review administrative rules which stop timely reforestation of damaged forestlands. “Communities for Healthy Forests and Oregonians support restoration of burned forests including taking out dead burned trees and planting seedlings. The Walden bill gives federal agencies the tools to start restoration before the dead trees decay. It’s a win-win for forests watersheds, wildlife and people,” said Communities for Healthy Forests Executive Director Sue Kupillas. Additional sponsors of HR 4200 from the Northwest include Representatives Doc Hastings (R-WA), Butch Otter (R-ID) and Mike Simpson (R-ID). Walden will hold a legislative hearing on the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act in the Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee on Thursday, November 10. More information on HR 4200 can be found at www.walden.house.gov/issues/forestrecovery.
11.01.2005	Constituent Services Manager Troy Ferguson will visit central Oregon to meet with residents, answer questions and discuss local issuesNovember 1, 2005 - Bend, OR -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that a member of his staff will hold office hours in La Pine on Thursday, November 3, 2005, to assist Oregonians with questions or difficulties they may have with federal agencies or departments. Troy Ferguson, a Constituent Services Manager in Walden’s Medford district office, will be available to discuss issues and concerns area residents may have concerning Veterans’ Affairs, Agriculture, Health Care, Social Security, Taxation, Economic Development and Education issues as well any other questions constituents might have about the federal government. It is not necessary to make an appointment. Information for the office hours is as follows: Date: Thursday, November 3, 2005Time: Noon – 2:00 PMPlace: La Pine Senior Center 16629 Burgess Road Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.
10.20.2005	House Subcommittees on Environment & Hazardous Materials, Health hold joint hearing on the environmental and health impacts of methamphetamineOctober 20, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -The House Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittees on Environment & Hazardous Materials and Health today held a joint hearing on the devastating impacts of methamphetamine following requests by U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), a member of the Committee and the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine. “The far-reaching effects of meth on human life and the environment are tremendously devastating. Those of us in rural areas like those throughout central, southern and eastern Oregon, have become all too familiar with the threats posed by this poison, but far too many Americans are not yet aware . This hearing gave my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee an opportunity to hear firsthand the impacts of meth abuse, production and trafficking on the overall quality of life for families and communities,” said Walden, who was joined in Pendleton last Friday by Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources Chairman Mark Souder for an official congressional field hearing also convened at Walden’s request. Walden addressed the critical issue facing Oregon, specifically counties throughout the Second District, which contain only 20% of the state’s population, but nearly 40% of all clandestine lab seizures so far in 2005, noting that “the market for meth in the Northwest is now dominated by Mexican organizations that manufacture meth and traffic it up major distribution routes; but rural areas, like those I represent have been, and continue be, home to disproportionate numbers of small toxic labs that pose immediate health and safety risks to children, local law enforcement officials and the environment.” He also applauded the aggressive actions taken by the Governor and state legislature in limiting access to precursor ingredients such as ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, which have led to decreases in the overall number of labs producing meth in the state, but reminded his colleagues that, although it is heartening to see reduced production in Oregon as a result, “it is unfortunate that enacting these sorts of laws in select states will only shift the problem elsewhere, not eliminate it,” reinforcing the need for federal policies to address this issue with a comprehensive and multi-pronged approach including law enforcement, treatment, prevention, education and strong cooperation between international, federal, state and local governments. Joseph Rannazzisi, Deputy Chief of the Drug Enforcement Administration’s Office of Enforcement Operations, whom Walden has worked closely on this issue, echoed that sentiment. He testified that meth’s combined ease of production, intensely addictive nature and effect on rural areas “requires a multifaceted response.” During the hearing, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) reported that treatment admissions for which meth was the primary substance abused increased more than 450% nationwide in the last decade, and the highest rate of meth use is found in young adults 18-25. Accordingly, a key component to these efforts lies in the education and prevention of meth with children and teens. A witness at today’s hearing from HHS pointed to the good work already underway in Oregon through The Oregon Partnership’s “Methamphetamine Awareness Project” targeted to students in the ninth and tenth grades. “One thing that was clear to me during the seven town halls I held throughout the Second District on the fight against meth was that local communities and coalitions are resolute in their efforts to tackle this problem on the front lines. The problems meth causes in my rural district are substantial, but the efforts of state and local enforcement agencies, as well as treatment and prevention providers, are truly outstanding,” said Walden, inviting more of his colleagues to visit Oregon to see these efforts firsthand. Walden has cosponsored several pieces of legislation aimed at curbing international trafficking of meth and its precursor ingredients, providing financial resources to community based programs, establishing national standards for the procurement of products containing pseudoephedrine-a key ingredient to the production of methamphetamine, and enhancing criminal penalties for meth cooks, distributors and those who endanger children. More information on these bills and a fully copy of Walden’s statement for today’s hearing can be found at www.walden.house.gov/issues/meth. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Resources. ###
10.18.2005	October 18, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Representative Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that southern Oregon native Shirah Foy has joined his Medford district office and Bend native Graham Miller has joined his Bend district office as interns. Miller and Foy will work part-time in their respective office assisting Walden and his staff with office various operations and projects Foy is currently working toward her Associate in Arts at Rogue Community College and is active in local politics. She has studied French and Spanish and hopes to focus on international business as she continues her education. Miller is a sophomore at the International School of the Cascades and is also active in local politics. He keeps busy playing baseball, golfing and skiing. After high school, Miller hopes to attend college and possibly explore a career as a staff member in the political arena. “Both Shirah and Graham are bright and talented young adults who are enthusiastic about helping Oregonians in the Second District and learning more about the inner-workings of a congressional office,” said Walden. “I look forward to having them as part of ‘Team Walden’ and know that they’ll be tremendous assets to my team on the ground in Oregon. Their families and friends should be very proud.” The Medford office can be reached toll-free from the 541 area code at (800) 533-3303 or locally at (541) 776-4646. The Bend office can be reached at (541) 389-4408. Residents may also email Walden through his website at www.walden.houe.gov/contactgreg. Congressman Walden represents the Second District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in the southern, central and eastern regions of the state. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
10.11.2005	District Director John Snider will visit Columbia Gorge to meet with residents, answer questions and discuss local issuesOctober 11, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that a member of his staff will hold office hours in The Dalles on Thursday, October 13, 2005, to assist Oregonians with questions or difficulties they may have with federal agencies or departments. John Snider, Walden’s District Director and a lifelong Oregonian, will be available to discuss issues and concerns area residents may have concerning Agriculture, Health Care, Social Security, Taxation, Economic Development and Education issues as well any other questions constituents might have about the federal government. It is not necessary to make an appointment. Information for the office hours is as follows: Date: Thursday, October 13, 2005Time: 1:00 – 2:00 PMPlace: The Dalles City Hall Conference Room, 2nd Floor 313 Court Street Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
10.10.2005	Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources Subcommittee Chairman brings meth discussions to eastern Oregon at Walden's request; law enforcement, treatment & prevention experts from throughout Oregon to testifyOctober 10, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that Congressman Mark Souder (R-IN), chairman of the House Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources, will hold an official congressional field hearing in Pendleton, Oregon on Friday, October 14 to discuss the fight against methamphetamine in local communities and what more can be done on a federal level to assist state and local professionals in their ongoing efforts. Walden, a member of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine and the Speaker’s Task Force for a Drug-Free America, invited Chairman Souder to hold a hearing in Umatilla County given its drastic problem with meth use, production and trafficking. Walden encourages the public to attend the hearing. “The scourge of methamphetamine has long plagued rural communities throughout the West, devastating lives, families and communities while costing taxpayers exorbitant amounts of money. National attention toward this issue is gaining momentum and I appreciate the strong focus Chairman Souder has placed on illicit drugs – specifically methamphetamine – in the Congress,” said Walden. He added, “This hearing will afford Chairman Souder the opportunity to hear the firsthand accounts that became all too familiar during my seven town halls throughout central, southern and eastern Oregon earlier this year. The stories of meth addiction, child abuse and related crime are horrific, but I am constantly encouraged by the accounts of success seen in prevention, treatment and law enforcement efforts at the local level.” “While the national media have only recently begun to pay attention to meth, rural areas have sadly been acquainted with—and devastated by—this deadly drug for a long time. With his town hall summits, Congressman Walden has dedicated himself to raising awareness of the dangers of meth abuse in Oregon, and he’s been a leading figure and key ally in Congress,” said Chairman Souder. “The upcoming congressional field hearing in Pendleton—which has been ravaged by the meth epidemic—will help us determine how the federal government can better assist state and local law enforcement in this fight. The testimony we hear will be important to the passage in Washington, D.C. of more anti-meth measures.” WHAT: Congressional Field Hearing – “Stopping the Methamphetamine Epidemic: Lessons from the Pacific Northwest” WHO: House Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources (Chairman: Congressman Mark Souder); Congressman Greg Walden WHEN: Friday, October 14, 2005 - 2:00 – 4:30 PM (Media Availability from 1:15-1:45) WHERE: Pendleton City Hall - 500 SW Dorion; Pendleton, OR 97801 WITNESSES: Rodney Benson, DEA Special Agent in Charge – Seattle Field Division; Chuck Karl, Director – Oregon HIDTA (High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area); Dave Rodriguez, Director – Northwest HIDTA; Tammy Baney, Chair – Deschutes County Commission on Children and Families; Kaleen Deatherage, Public Policy Director – Oregon Partnership, member – Governor’s Methamphetamine Task Force; Jerome Delvin, Washington State Senator, Richland Police Officer; Tim Evinger, Sheriff – Klamath County; Rick Jones, Director – Choices Counseling Center, Grants Pass; and John Trumbo, Sheriff – Umatilla County Sheriff. Last week Walden cosponsored the Methamphetamine Epidemic Eradication Act of 2005 sponsored by Chairman Souder, and he has sponsored additional legislation to help the ongoing efforts to find a solution to this problem from a domestic and international front. More information on these bills can be found at www.walden.house.gov/issues/meth. The hearing will mark Walden’s fifth visit to Umatilla County this year and 31st since taking office in 1999. His most recent visit was on September 9, 2005 when he traveled to the County to announce their designation as a High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, a designation Walden has helped local officials from the region obtain for the past several years. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Resources. ###
10.10.2005	Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee Chairman addresses the need for emergency recovery and restoration on damaged forestlands, cites recent devastation from Katrina as exampleOctober 10, 2005 - CORVALLIS, OR -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), chairman of the House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, today delivered the keynote speech at the annual conference of the Oregon Forest Industries Council. Before the group of nearly 200 gathered in Corvallis, Oregon, Walden spoke of the benefits provided by the 2003 Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA), which he coauthored, and the need to monitor that Act’s implementation while also engaging in efforts to ensure land managers are able to responsibly and effectively restore forests after catastrophic events destroy their health and vitality. “Throughout the last two years, as chairman of the Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, I have held numerous hearings on forest restoration and recovery needs following devastation inflicted by a catastrophic event. Over the course of these hearings, I have never heard of an event inflicting such devastation as did Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf Coast in late August,” said Walden, referring to a Subcommittee hearing held last week on recovery and restoration efforts in the aftermath of Katrina. “Here in the West we think of fire first and foremost, but forests across America are impacted not only by wildfire, but also by ice, bug infestation and – as we learned all too well this summer – hurricanes. When Hurricane Katrina swept through the Gulf Coast destroying lives and cities, the storm also wreaked havoc on forestlands in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi,” he added. Five million acres along the Gulf Coast containing nearly 20 billion board feet of timber were impacted by Katrina’s 140 mile per hour winds. This timber, which could have built roughly 800,000 homes and made 25 million tons of paper, was valued at approximately $5 billion. “The economic loss hits not only families, but also public institutions as well. Mississippi, for example, has land set aside to provide revenue for public schools. Most of that land was planted with timber that has now been destroyed, dramatically impacting future public school funding. Additionally, property tax receipts – Mississippi’s other main mechanism for school funding – will decline due to diminished value of land and property,” said Walden. The ravaged forests pose immediate environmental risks to species, habitat and the quality of water and air throughout the region. Additionally, several witnesses at last week’s hearing testified that the millions of acres of dead and dying timber, coupled with additional storm debris, have created an enormous fire risk. These lands now face fuel loads ranging between 10-20 times normal levels, and should fire break out, the felled timber and destroyed local infrastructure will make it exacerbate the problem making it excessively difficult to fight fire. U.S. Forest Service (USFS) Chief Dale Bosworth said in testimony submitted to the Subcommittee, “One of the most important recovery challenges is the need to begin removing dead and downed trees from the forests as quickly as possible. We are concerned about the amount of new fuel now on the forest floor…Greater fuel loading will increase the intensity of a wildfire, causing it to burn hotter and making it more difficult to control.” “Under authorities provided in HFRA, federal land managers have been able to expeditiously remove threatening fuel loads from the forest floor. However, dead trees that are still standing may not be removed under HFRA and are instead left to rot, impeding reforestation efforts that could lead to healthy and thriving forests. As stewards of our public lands, this is not a practice we should be comfortable with,” said Walden. As former USFS Chief and board member for the National Association of Forest Service Retirees (NAFSR) Max Peterson testified, “The public has the right to expect that the government be prepared to take prompt, effective action to mitigate the adverse consequences” following the devastation brought by catastrophic events. He went on to say that the NAFSR urges “that procedural requirements be streamlined so that timely action can be taken. [They] believe there must be a balancing of the reasonably expected consequences of the proposed rehabilitative actions against the reasonably expected long term consequences of no action.” Agreeing with Peterson’s assessment and recognizing the tremendous immediate and long-term threats posed by leaving timber stands dead and dying, Walden is currently drafting bipartisan legislation to address the needs of forest restoration and recovery following catastrophic events. His legislation would help provide federal land managers with the tools and resources necessary to responsibly, efficiently and expeditiously restore the health and vitality of our nation’s forests. “Such efforts are critical to the immediate protection of these lands from additional devastation as well as to the longevity of our forests for generations to come,” said Walden. Congressman Walden has represented the people of Oregon’s Second District since 1999. He is a member of the Committee on Resources and the Committee on Energy & Commerce. ###
10.10.2005	Bipartisan Congressional Panel Will Take Comprehensive, Common Sense Look at Returning Adult Salmon and Steelhead PopulationsOctober 10, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Congressmen Norm Dicks (D-WA), Brian Baird (D-WA), and Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced they will host a series of official meetings throughout the Northwest to gather information on the survival of returning adult salmon and steelhead populations. The Congressional Meetings on the Survival of Returning Adult Salmon and Steelhead will bring together various stakeholders and interested parties from both the public and private sectors. The first two meetings will be held in Vancouver and Tacoma, Washington, during the week of October 10; a third meeting is slated for Pendleton, Oregon, but has not yet been scheduled. Witnesses for the meetings will be by invitation only, however the public is encouraged to attend and may submit written testimony to the Congressmen. Details for the two upcoming hearings are as follows: WHAT: Congressional Meeting on the Survival of Returning Adult Salmon and SteelheadWHO: Congressmen Norm Dicks, Brian Baird and Greg Walden COLUMBIA RIVER MEETINGDATE: Tuesday, October 11, 2005TIME: 9:30 AM – 1:40 PM (Doors open at 9:00; Media availability from 1:45 – 2:15)WHERE: Water Resources Education Center – Community Room – 4600 SE Columbia Way; Vancouver, WashingtonWITNESSES: National Oceanic and Atmospheric AdministrationU.S. Fish and WildlifeOregon Department of Fish and WildlifeWashington Salmon Recovery Funding BoardBonneville Power AdministrationColumbia River Intertribal Fish CommissionFish FirstPacific Fishery Management CouncilNative Fish SocietyNorthwest Gillnetters AssociationNorthwest Planning and Conservation CouncilNorthwest River PartnersNorthwest Sportfishing Industry AssociationSalmon for All West Coast Seafood Association PUGET SOUND MEETINGDATE: Wednesday, October 12, 2005TIME: 9:30 AM – 1:15 PM (Doors open at 9:00; Media availability from 1:20 – 1:45)WHERE: University of Washington-Tacoma Campus – Keystone Building’s Carwien Auditorium – 1900 Commerce Street; Tacoma, WashingtonWITNESSES: National Oceanic and Atmospheric AdministrationU.S. Fish and WildlifeWashington Department of Fish and WildlifeKing County Executive Ron SimsNorthwest Indian Fisheries CommissionPacific Salmon CommissionPacific States Marine FisheriesPuget Sound AnglersPuget Sound ESA Business CoalitionPuget Sound GillnettersSalmon Spawning and Recovery AllianceWashington Trout Congressman Norm Dicks represents the sixth district of Washington, Congressman Brian Baird represents the third district of Washington, and Congressman Greg Walden represents the second district of Oregon. ###
09.30.2005	Bend High Junior Arielle Askren begins work for the U.S. House of Representatives during the fall term as a congressional pageSeptember 30, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -Bend High School junior Arielle Askren began her service this month as a congressional page in Washington, D.C. and has landed a coveted position working in the House Republican Cloak Room, which is just off the House Floor and a gathering place for Members. Arielle was nominated by U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) to serve as a page in during the 109th Congress; her term runs until the first part of 2006. Arielle’s qualifications for the Page Program include maintaining a 3.98 GPA while participating in the school’s golf team, her church’s worship team, Sparrow Club, and Trinity Grinds Coffee Shop, a non-profit coffee shop contributing to Revolution Youth Mission Trips. Her additional hobbies and interests include music, reading, computers and animals. “The page program is such a wonderful experience for young people interested in the legislative process and our federal government. You get to see history being made while living, working and studying in the nation’s capital,” said Walden. “I see Arielle on the House Floor quite often and I know that she’s doing a terrific job representing central Oregon and the entire Second District. Arielle should be very proud of her accomplishment and her family should be proud of the work she is doing here in the House of Representatives.” When Walden asked what has been the most fun since starting this new adventure, Arielle responded, “It was probably going on my very first run to deliver something directly to a Congressman, but passing the test we have to take to show we’ve memorized all of the faces, names and states of the Members felt pretty good too.” “I’m really enjoying this experience a lot,” she added. “It’s amazing to know that I actually work in the U.S. Capitol and get to be on the House Floor. Plus, it’s neat to go to school in the Library of Congress every day.” In addition to assisting the House of Representatives with operations on the Floor and helping with various duties as assigned by the Clerk of the House, Arielle attends the House Page School to maintain academic involvement in key subjects such as English, Math, Social Studies, Science, Foreign Language and Computer Technology. In addition, students attend Washington Seminars, a series of field trips and guest lectures to further educate them on the cultural and historical opportunities in Washington as well as the legislative process. During the first weeks of the program, the school has arranged a tour of Monticello and a scavenger hunt on the National Mall that took students to a number of monuments, memorials and Smithsonian museums. Arielle’s favorite monument is the Lincoln Memorial. “One of my all time favorite movies is Mr. Smith Goes to Washington , and I had to go see the Lincoln Memorial right away. I actually watched that movie on the flight out here,” she said. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon . He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.###
09.30.2005	Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act, co-sponsored by Walden, advances to Senate; House recognizes need to update ineffective, 32-year-old lawSeptember 30, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -H.R. 3824, the Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act of 2005 (TESRA), yesterday passed the House of Representatives with a strongly bipartisan vote of 229-293 and will now advance to the U.S. Senate for its consideration. U.S. Congressman Greg Walden is an original co-sponsor of this comprehensive legislation, which calls for key changes to enhance the Endangered Species Act (ESA) to improve its overall implementation. Walden issued the following statement on TESRA’s passage: “Passing this legislation is simply the right thing to do. Though well-intentioned, the ESA has seen a recovery rate on listed species of less than one percent, and since its enactment into law by President Nixon back in 1973, the law has seen no significant changes or modernizations. “Not only should the health of species throughout the nation be demonstrably improved by the ESA, but the health of communities and local economies should be carefully addressed as well. As a result, we have a responsibility to ensure that the law is effective and fair for all those it impacts. “One hundred years ago, President Theodore Roosevelt created the Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuge in the Klamath Basin as a means to ensure healthy wildlife populations. The Klamath Basin has now become home to the largest bald eagle wintering ground in the continental United States. “But nearly a century after this visionary laid out a plan to preserve and enhance wildlife, the government made a decision to shut off water to 1,200 farm families under the Endangered Species Act. These decisions not only left these families desolate and destroyed a region’s economy, they were found to be faulty during an independent peer review of the science and data. “Bad decisions led to even worse results, and when talking about the fate of a species or the fate of a community, we have a responsibility to get it right. This modernization of the Endangered Species Act, for the first time ever, will put into law clear criteria and guidelines for science, including requirements for empirical data and science that can stand the rigors of peer review. “This legislation calls for greater accountability in the decision-making process by opening it up to the public, requiring disclosure of information on the internet for access by all Americans, and by giving governors and states an enhanced ability to participate in the process and collaborate with the federal government. “Secondly, this bill addresses a bedrock principle of the American democracy – private property rights. When the government says they are going to put a highway though your property, our Constitution says the government has to pay you for it. Standards under the ESA should be no different. We do not open the door for speculation and egregious compensation claims, we simply require fairness by not forcing private property owners to shoulder the burden of public policy. “I believe in recovery. I believe in conservation. And I believe in public-private cooperation that will bring us together for the sake of improving the ESA so that it works for generations to come.” TESRA was introduced by House Resources Committee Chairman Richard Pombo (R-CA), Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-CA) and Walden at a press conference at the California State Capitol in Sacramento earlier this month to signify the bill’s efforts to enhance state and local government participation in the development and management of recovery plans. Walden then announced the bill’s introduction at a rally in Klamath Falls, Oregon, which both he and Pombo refer to as “Ground Zero” in the need to update the ESA given the crisis that unfolded after faulty decision-making under the auspice of the Law led to the shut-off of water to farmers and ranchers in the Klamath Basin. More information on H.R. 3824 can be found at www.walden.house.gov by selecting “Strengthening the ESA.” Walden has represented the people of Oregon’s 2nd District since 1999. He chairs the Resources Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. ###
09.27.2005	September 27, 2005 -WASHINGTON, DC - House Majority Whip Roy Blunt ( Mo. ) today announced that Oregon Congressman Greg Walden will continue to chair the Industry Sector Working Group on Healthcare. Walden, who chaired the effort last year as well, will be joined by Oklahoma Senator Tom Coburn, who will co-chair the bicameral effort.“Greg is a critical leader on our Whip Team, and his experience in that role will assist him in reaching out to industry leaders to address their concerns and ideas in a bicameral fashion,” Blunt said.The Industry Sector Working Groups are a cooperative effort between Blunt and Senate Republican Conference Chairman Rick Santorum ( Penn. ). The five bicameral working groups will focus on banking, aerospace/defense, intellectual property/trade, healthcare, and high tech issues.“Congressman Walden and Senator Coburn are uniquely positioned to work hand-in-hand with the healthcare sector,” Blunt said. “The leadership in the House and Senate will be listening to their ideas as they work to form strong coalitions of industry leaders who want to help us spread our message on the economy, job creation, and deregulation.”###
09.27.2005	Blunt Reappoints Walden to Chair Healthcare Industry GroupSeptember 27, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -House Majority Whip Roy Blunt (Mo.) today announced that Oregon Congressman Greg Walden will continue to chair the Industry Sector Working Group on Healthcare. Walden, who chaired the effort last year as well, will be joined by Oklahoma Senator Tom Coburn, who will co-chair the bicameral effort. “Greg is a critical leader on our Whip Team, and his experience in that role will assist him in reaching out to industry leaders to address their concerns and ideas in a bicameral fashion,” Blunt said. The Industry Sector Working Groups are a cooperative effort between Blunt and Senate Republican Conference Chairman Rick Santorum (Penn.). The five bicameral working groups will focus on banking, aerospace/defense, intellectual property/trade, healthcare, and high tech issues. “Congressman Walden and Senator Coburn are uniquely positioned to work hand-in-hand with the healthcare sector,” Blunt said. “The leadership in the House and Senate will be listening to their ideas as they work to form strong coalitions of industry leaders who want to help us spread our message on the economy, job creation, and deregulation.” ###
09.23.2005	Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act calls for significant changes to criminal penalties, environmental regulation, precursor chemical regulationSeptember 23, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) this week signed on as an original cosponsor of comprehensive legislation to help put an end to the meth epidemic that is sweeping through communities in central, southern and eastern Oregon as well as those throughout the nation. The “Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act” was introduced Thursday by Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources Subcommittee Chairman Mark Souder (R-IN). “During the many town halls I’ve held throughout the District to discuss the impacts meth has on our lives and communities, it became very clear to me that finding a solution to this problem will take a strong focus on a variety of fronts. Talented law enforcement, treatment and prevention professionals in our local communities face this problem head-on every day, but they need the help and support of national policy such as the Act we’ve introduced this week,” said Walden, a member of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine and the Speaker’s Task Force for a Drug Free America. “This bill addresses a number of key issues including criminal punishments for those engaged in meth trafficking, the environmental impacts of meth production, and the regulation of precursor chemical ingredients. However, I understand that this is just the beginning and we have much more to do. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance this critical piece of legislation and advancing our efforts to combat meth at all levels,” he continued. Walden has cosponsored several pieces of legislation this year to address the myriad of issues we face as a result of the increased problem posed by methamphetamine in our communities. He has also supported key amendments and appropriations legislation to enhance funding available for key programs such as the Community Oriented Policing Services and Byrne Memorial Grants. The bill, H.R. 3889, would close several existing loopholes in federal regulation of precursor chemicals by:Ending the “blister pack exemption,” which currently allows larger sales of cold medicine sold in blister packaging;Reducing federal per-transaction sales limits for pseudoephedrine from nine grams to six grams (approximately two 24-packs);Granting the Attorney General authority to set production and import quotas for pseudoephedrine projects, and;Requiring the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) to report to Congress with a specific recommendation about making pseudoephedrine a Schedule V product, which would require behind-the-counter sales nationwide. Additionally, this legislation would enhance international regulation of precursor chemicals by:Requiring those who import precursor chemicals to file complete information about the chain of distribution (from the manufacturer to American shores);Mandating the State Department to identify the five largest exporters of major meth precursor chemicals and the five largest importers of such chemicals that have a high rate of meth production. Once identified, these countries would have reduced eligibility for U.S. aid if they do not comply with efforts to control trafficking of these ingredients, and;Requiring the State Department’s Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs to provide assistance to Mexico as a means to help prevent the production of meth and the illegal diversion of precursor chemicals. The bill would also enhance criminal penalties for the production and trafficking of meth by:Mandating a new prison term of 20 years for anyone convicted of manufacturing meth in a home where children live;Lowering the threshold amounts which trigger higher penalties for producing, trafficking or smuggling meth or its precursors;Increasing penalties for those attempting to smuggle meth, or its precursor chemicals, across our nation’s borders by misusing established “fastpass” lanes, which allow pre-screened trucks to bypass certain security measures, and;Clarifying that current penalties for growing organic drugs (such as cocaine and marijuana) on federal property also apply to manufacturing synthetic drugs (such as methamphetamine). H.R. 3889 also gives authority to the Department of Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency to enforce environmental regulations against meth cooks who pollute the environment with the toxic by-products of meth. It is estimated that five-six pounds of toxic by-product are produced for every pound of methamphetamine manufactured. To view a copy of the bill text and a section-by-section analysis, please visit the Subcommittee’s website at: https://reform.house.gov/CJDPHR/. You can also read more about legislation cosponsored by Walden and his work on this issue at www.walden.house.gov/issues/meth. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Resources. ###
09.22.2005	Drug-Free Communities Program provides critical assistance to local effortsSeptember 22, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today announced that the federal Drug-Free Communities Program will make an investment of $100,000 in Grant County’s Safe Communities Coalition and a $90,122 investment in the Josephine County Substance Abuse Community Action Team. The investments are administered through a competitive grant program by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). “One thing I learned during the seven town halls I held throughout the District on methamphetamine is that local efforts such as the Community Action Team in Josephine County and the Safe Communities Coalition in Grant County are on the front lines of an ongoing battle to prevent substance abuse. This investment will go a long way toward enhancing the hard-work and continued dedication of the many talented individuals involved with these local efforts,” said Walden, a member of the Speaker’s Task Force for a Drug Free America and the Congressional Caucus to Fight Methamphetamine. “We face difficult challenges in education and prevention when it comes to substance abuse, especially with the recent rise in methamphetamine use and trafficking in communities throughout Oregon. Local efforts are critical to finding solutions to substance abuse, and I appreciate the continued support ONDCP Director John Walters has shown Oregon’s Second Congressional District.” Josephine County Commission for Children and Families Director Janet Bell said, “This award affirms the work and dedication of our community to provide prevention resources and support activities for youth at risk for alcohol and drug use. The Substance Abuse Community Action Team (SACAT) brings together community groups and civic leaders to form a strong coalition and this award provides us with resources necessary to bring awareness to our many projects.” “This investment provides Grant County with a wonderful opportunity and helps recognize the unique needs of rural eastern Oregon,” said Kerryann Woomer, Alcohol and Drug Prevention Coordinator for Grant County. “Communities throughout Oregon already do such great work when it comes to prevention; these federal funds will provide even greater opportunities for us to advance our education and training programs.” Director Walters, President Bush’s ‘Drug Czar,’ stated, “As a nation, we have made significant progress in protecting our young people from the dangers of substance abuse, with a 17 percent reduction in drug use over the last three years. This investment will help the dedicated citizens of Josephine and Grant Counties contribute even more to this effort and will help build on the important progress being made to keep our children healthy and drug free.” To qualify for this investment, the counties had to demonstrate a history of cooperative work on substance abuse reduction initiatives, develop a long-term plan to reduce substance abuse, and participate in a national evaluation of the Drug-Free Communities Program. The Drug-Free Communities Program was initially established by Congress in 1997 and extended in 2001 by legislation which Walden supported. Administered by the ONDCP in conjunction with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the Program provides investments in community organizations that serve as catalysts for citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Resources. ###
09.22.2005	Bipartisan legislation provides education, vocational training for Oregon's youth through work in federal forestsSeptember 22, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -The House Resources Committee today passed bipartisan legislation authored by U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), the Public Lands Corps Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2005. The bill, H.R. 2875, would establish a program in which young adults could gain experience in forestland management while helping to implement fuels reduction components of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA), which Walden coauthored and become law in 2003. “Through the Public Lands Corps, our young people, especially those who are disadvantaged, would be able to gain valuable education about and a sense of ownership in our public lands,” said Walden. “They would receive hands-on training that can better position them for future careers in forest management while taking proactive measures to prevent catastrophic wildfire. Most importantly, we would be teaching future generations about the importance of responsible stewardship of our forests.” Walden introduced the Act to give young adults ages 16 to 25 the opportunity to obtain skills and valuable education in forestland management while conducting work in fuels reduction projects on federal forestlands. Projects would be directed at efforts to prevent catastrophic fire and rehabilitate public land affected or altered by fires. Most notably, work would be done in accordance with HFRA plans to reduce hazardous fuels. Young adults participating in the Corps would be managed by the agency in charge of the given public land under the jurisdiction of either the Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture. The managing agency could contract directly with youth, or they could enter into contracts with state-level departments of natural resources, agriculture or forestry. H.R. 2875 will now head to the House Floor for a vote by the full House of Representatives. Similar legislation introduced by Walden was passed by the House of Representatives in the last Congress, but the Senate did not take action prior to Congress’ adjournment. In February of this year, Walden received the “Congressional Champion” award from the National Association of Service and Conservation Corps for his work on this issue. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is the chairman of the House Resources Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. ###
09.22.2005	Resources Committee approves HR 3824; legislation includes key provisions strengthening science, establishing priorities, protecting private property rightsSeptember 22, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -Bipartisan efforts to strengthen and update the 32-year-old Endangered Species Act (ESA) took a stride forward today as the House Resources Committee approved H.R. 3824, the Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act of 2005 (TESRA), legislation co-sponsored by Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR). TESRA calls for common-sense changes to the ESA to improve its overall implementation, which has seen a recovery rate of less than one percent and not been significantly updated since its enactment in 1973. “I cannot stress how important these changes are to the success of the Endangered Species Act, for the protection of both species and communities,” said Walden. “We have a responsibility to update this law, making changes that will shed light on the process, hold the federal government accountable for its actions and financial expenditures, protect private property rights, encourage a cooperative relationship with states and local governments and, most importantly, ensure that faulty decisions do not lead to disaster for all species—humans included.” Earlier this week, Walden joined Committee Chairman Richard Pombo (R-CA), lead sponsor of HR 3824, and co-sponsor Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-CA) for a national announcement of the bill’s introduction in Sacramento, California. Walden then traveled to Klamath Falls, Oregon, for a regional announcement and rally in support of the legislation. Both Walden and Chairman Pombo have stated that the Klamath Basin is “Ground Zero” in the fight to improve the ESA. During today’s eight-hour mark up, Walden reiterated the need for peer review of decisions made by the federal government when considering data and science presented for their consideration. He cited the crisis that ensued following the water shut off to Klamath Basin farmers and ranchers in 2001, a decision which the National Academy of Sciences determined as lacking “substantial scientific support” and of “doubtful utility” when they conducted their independent review. “We want to make sure that the decisions we are making that affect species and those who live in communities around these species are based on data that can withstand the rigors of the scientific community when peer reviewed,” said Walden to his colleagues on the Committee. “I saw the disaster in the Klamath Basin where 1,200 farm families had their water cut off. It wasn’t until after those decisions had been implemented that we were able to get the independent peer review that is called for in this language [H.R. 3824].” The final vote in the Committee was 26-12; H.R. 3824 will now proceed to the full House for its consideration. For more information on H.R. 3824, please visit www.walden.house.gov and select “Strengthening the ESA.” Walden, 48, has represented the people of Oregon’s 2nd District since 1999. He chairs the Resources Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. ###
09.19.2005	September 19, 2005 - KLAMATH FALLS, OR -Congressman Greg Walden’s work to modernize the Endangered Species Act (ESA) will take on new focus today when he, House Resources Committee Chairman Richard Pombo (R-CA) and Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-CA) unveil a bipartisan 74-page revision of the Law at a press conference at the California State Capitol Building in Sacramento. Walden will then travel to Klamath Falls, Oregon, for a regional press conference to announce the proposed revisions. The ESA was established in 1973 and has not been updated significantly since. “This 32-year-old law needs the fix that we’re offering in a bipartisan way today. It’s time to make the federal agencies charged with administering this law open up their process to the public. It’s time to set standards to make sure the data they use represent the best scientific data available. It’s time to make sure that state governors have a direct role to bring their vast resources into the process. It’s time to reach out to private property owners in order to protect their rights and encourage their participation in recovery efforts. And it’s time to make sure no region of the country ever suffers again as the Klamath Basin did when faulty decisions by the government led to disaster,” said Walden. “The Klamath Basin is ground zero in the fight to improve the Endangered Species Act,” Chairman Pombo said. “People throughout the area, and in many other parts of America, have been affected by this law’s dangerous, unintended consequences. Congressman Walden has led the charge in our nation’s capital to strengthen the ESA’s scientific standards so that we avoid the consequences of poor decisions like the one to shut off water to Klamath Basin farmers and ranchers in 2001. This bill will do just that and more, and with Greg's leadership, I am confident that we will win support in the Congress.” The measure, HR 3824, titled the “Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act of 2005,” requires the government to use “the most accurate, reliable, and relevant” scientific data available in all of its decisions. It also requires the government to “establish criteria that must be met to determine which data constitute the best available scientific data” and emphasizes the need to use empirical and peer reviewed data when making decisions regarding species listing and recovery efforts. “When it comes to the fate of a species or the fate of a region, we want to make sure that government scientists are relying on sound data, that all of the information in their decisions is made public and accessible on the internet, and that there are standards in place governing the process. Otherwise, the public is kept in the dark and we run the risk of decisions based on data and assumptions that may not pass the test of peer review,” added Walden. “Along with many parts of my Congressional District, the Klamath area represents one of the more obvious cases of the dysfunctional application of the Endangered Species Act. As such, I am pleased to be working with my colleagues, Chairman Pombo and Congressman Walden, on strengthening the Act so that species can be recovered using the best scientific data available. Under the new recovery plan structure dictated by the ‘Threatened and Endangered Species Recovery Act,’ more resources are focused on bringing species back from the brink of extinction while creating more transparency in the process for those whose land is affected,” said Congressman Cardoza (D-CA). The proposed law requires the government – for the first time – to prioritize listed species most in need of recovery, develop timelines and recovery strategies based on those priorities, and report on those efforts to the Congress and the public on a regular basis. Walden went on to say, “If you’re serious about saving species from extinction, and you have limited resources and time, then it only makes sense to require prioritization of which species need help first. Following prioritization, it is critical that agencies develop recovery plans based on the order of need and based on the best available science. This much-needed update to the law requires all of that, and more. “We also call on the agencies to work closely with private land owners in a new partnership to develop 10, 20 and 30-year conservation plans. Species in need do not recognize the distinction between private and public lands. And under this law, the government will not only provide new incentives to help private land owners with conservation efforts, but the measure also provides compensation to land owners who would be forced to stop using their property. “It’s not right to think that the public’s interest in protecting species should be the sole burden of private land owners. If the public, through the laws of the federal government, wants costly actions to occur on private land, then the public must be willing to step up and help compensate private land owners where appropriate for their loss. “Our over-arching goal with these revisions is to make the law more successfully achieve the goals that were established 32 years ago when it was enacted. Through the fixes in this legislation we improve the standards for data. We put sunshine on the process by making all the information used in the government’s decisions available to the public on the internet. We establish a clear and formal role for the governors, private land owners, Tribal land owners and local governments. We prioritize the work of the government to do the most for species most in need. And we set realistic timelines for actions and decisions. “If adopted, these modest changes will bring tangible and positive results for the environment and the people we represent.” H.R. 3824 is scheduled for a hearing in the House Committee on Resources, of which Walden is a member, this Wednesday, September 21, 2005. Walden, 48, has represented the people of Oregon’s 2nd District since 1999. He chairs the Resources Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health. ###
09.14.2005	Nominated by Congressman Greg Walden, the Masons are honored for their commitment to children through adoption, foster care workSeptember 14, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today met with Tillamook residents Shary and Don Mason, who are in Washington, D.C. to be honored as Congressional Angels in Adoption™ for 2005 by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), of which Walden is a member. The Masons, nominated by Walden for their dedication to establishing stables homes for children through adoption, were two of only 191 honorees selected nationwide, four of whom are from Oregon. This year’s Angels were honored last night at a recognition ceremony and gala. With seven children of their own, Don and Shary are also the adoptive parents of their niece, eight-year-old Brianna Mason, and the legal guardians of their grandson, five-year-old Random Sahr, both special needs children. Shary, who co-chaired Oregon’s Adoption Task Force, is a program director for the Oregon Department of Justice’s Citizen Review Board, a “statewide foster-care review program of citizen volunteers to help state courts ensure that case plans and services meet the needs of children in foster care and youth offenders in the custody of the Oregon Youth Authority” (Oregon Department of Justice). Don is a former city manager and municipal court judge as well as a Marine Corps veteran of the Korean War. “Don and Shary are truly a gift to the children they have so warmly welcomed into their lives. Their compassion has helped provide Brianna and Random with a stable home and an environment in which their needs can be met,” said Walden. “Additionally, Shary’s work with the Citizen Review Board helps countless other children by ensuring they live in a safe and permanent home and helping youth offenders break the cycle and become productive, successful members of society.” CCAI is a non?partisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to raising congressional and public awareness about the tens of thousands of foster children in this country and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes. The Angel in Adoption™ program, created in 1999, is a unique opportunity for federal legislators to recognize individuals from their home states that have made a commitment to improving the lives of children and families through adoption. In addition, the program raises public awareness of the many different ways all individuals can help the more than 535,000 children in need of adoptive homes here in the United States. PHOTO: Congressman Walden (left) meets with 2005 Angels in Adoption™ Don and Shary Mason along with the Mason’s adopted daughter, eight-year-old Brianna Mason, and their grandson, five-year-old Random Sahr, of whom they are legal guardians, in his Washington, D.C. office during their visit to the nation’s capital for the Congressional Angels in Adoption™ ceremony. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
09.14.2005	U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly supports bipartisan Children's Safety Act of 2005September 14, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) today joined with colleagues from both sides of the aisle to protect America’s children by voting in favor of the Children’s Safety Act of 2005 (HR 3132). The legislation, which Walden co-sponsored and passed the House with a vote of 371-52, would take steps to improve sex offender registration, verification and notification systems while establishing mandatory minimum sentencing for these perpetrators. “Too many times we have heard the heartbreaking stories about innocent, young children who have suffered at the hands of convicted sex offenders. As a concerned parent, I feel frustrated when I hear that thousands of convicted sex offenders fail to register in communities as required under current law; this becomes even more disturbing when you find out that one of these ‘lost’ predators has repeated their crime with a new victim,” said Walden. He added, “I know how important it is for families to feel safe and secure in their homes and communities. The common sense reforms and strong initiatives found in HR 3132 would do more to ensure the safety of our children than any federal law since the establishment of the Amber Alert plan. This bill would help moms and dads in our district, and throughout the nation, have greater peace of mind.” In order to strengthen the security of families and children across the country, the Act would:· Expand coverage of sex offenders to include any felony sex offense and misdemeanor sex offenses;· Expand covered offenses against children to include possession of child pornography as a triggering offense for registration and notification requirements;· Require sex offenders to register prior to release from prison;· Increase the duration of required periodic registration;· Authorize the creation of up to ten demonstration programs for electronic monitoring of sex offenders;· Ensure mandatory minimum punishment for violent and sexual crimes against children. The legislation is now headed to the Senate for their approval. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House leadership structure and a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
09.12.2005	September 12, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) will speak to cyclists participating in Cycle Oregon’s “Discover Oregon” bicycle tour at tonight’s stop at Sorosis Park in The Dalles. Walden will speak at 7:30 PM and be introduced by Cycle Oregon President Jonathan Nicholas. He will discuss economic development in rural communities and express his gratitude for Cycle Oregon, a non-profit organization that not only showcases Oregon to thousands of cyclists each year, but also raises money to support communities throughout the state, including many rural towns in Walden’s district, which covers 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. “Cycle Oregon is a fantastic organization and one that we’re proud to call our own. As a lifelong Oregonian who enjoys recreating in the outdoors a great deal, I know the phenomenal scenery cyclists will enjoy as they raise funds to preserve the very treasures through which they’ll be riding. ‘Discover Oregon’ is a terrific experience benefiting a wonderful cause,” said Walden. Dollars raised into the Cycle Oregon Fund are used for local projects in rural communities, through which their rides take them. The organization has helped support several endeavors for schools, parks and communities within the Second District, including those in John Day, Haines, Sisters, Burns, Baker City, Dufur, Paisley, Union, Wallowa and Butte Falls to name a few. This year’s week-long Cycle Oregon tour stretches across northern Oregon from Boardman to Astoria, following much of the same course trekked by Lewis and Clark 200 years ago. Congressman Walden is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.
09.07.2005	White House drug office declares county High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; Walden to discuss benefits of designation with local community this FridaySeptember 7, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), a member of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, today announced that the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) has designated Umatilla County a High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). Walden, who persistently pursued this designation for the County for several years, learned that the State of Oregon received notification from ONDCP Director John P. Walters today. Walden will be at the Umatilla County Criminal Justice Center (Media Room, 4700 NW Pioneer Place, Pendleton) this Friday, September 9, for a Noon to 1:00 p.m. to meet with local law enforcement officials to discuss the importance of this new designation. “This welcome announcement couldn't come too soon for all of Umatilla County, and our state in general. As we saw during the March fourth town hall on methamphetamine I hosted in Pendleton, Umatilla County has been put through the ringer in terms of drug manufacturing and trafficking, and this wave of activity crashes well beyond the County’s borders. While many have worked tirelessly to rid Umatilla County of the scourge of illegal drugs, additional resources are needed to wage the most effective battle,” said Walden. “So far this year, Umatilla County has seized more meth labs than any other county in Oregon, and with only two percent of the state’s population, their seizures make up 23% of the State’s total. Beyond meth, the County also faces a severe problem with marijuana production, a drug far more toxic today than just a decade or two ago. Area law enforcement had a single raid last summer that resulted in the seizure of more than 17,000 plants with a street value of $17 million. This clearly illustrates how Umatilla County’s problem is large enough to impact the entire state. “I commend the excellent work done by Sheriff John Trumbo, the city police chiefs and officers, BENT, and Chuck Karl of Oregon HIDTA in finding solutions to this problem. Both Umatilla County and Oregon HIDTA made a very strong case in the application for a designation, and the additional resources now available through this program will help advance their efforts a great deal,” he added. The HIDTA program enhances and coordinates drug control efforts among local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies, and provides agencies with coordination, equipment, technology, and additional resources to combat drug trafficking. These tools from the federal government will help supplement the good work already being done at the local level by the area’s talented law enforcement professionals, individuals who have made a tremendous impact on the problem, but must cover vast areas of rural land with already strained personnel levels. Oregon was one of only three states nationwide to receive HIDTA designations this year. HIDTA counties will receive funds to establish the local program and be eligible for additional federal funds for future HIDTA initiatives. On February 23, Walden sent a letter to Walters in which he outlined the rising threat to Oregon’s Second District posed by methamphetamine, especially in Umatilla County, which had the highest number of clandestine labs per capita in the state. In his letter, Walden repeated his request to have Umatilla County added to the list of HIDTA counties, a task he knew was challenging given budgetary restraints facing the federal government, but one he also knew was critical to the region’s overall public safety and health. “I want to especially thank ONDCP Deputy Director Scott Burns and Associate Deputy Director John Horton, a fellow Oregonian, for their continued commitment to the meth epidemic plaguing eastern Oregon,” said Walden. “When they traveled with me to Umatilla County in August of 2004, they were able to hear firsthand from local law enforcement just how devastating the problem in Umatilla County had become. Ever since that time, they have remained in close contact with our office and I’m grateful for their personal support of this designation.” Other HIDTA counties in Oregon are Clackamas, Deschutes, Douglas, Jackson, Marion, Multnomah and Washington. A copy of Walden’s February letter to Walters can be found at: www.walden.house.gov/issues/meth. Congressman Walden represents 20 counties in central, southern and eastern Oregon. He is a Deputy Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Resources.
09.07.2005	September 7, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), a Columbia Gorge native who will return to Oregon this weekend from Washington, D.C., will speak at a benefit for Columbia Gorge Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) this Friday, September 9. The benefit begins at 7:00 PM and is being held at the Westwind Gallery (412 East 2nd Street, The Dalles). “As a parent of a teenage son, I know how important it is for all children to have safe and stable homes, and a strong voice to speak up for them when they cannot necessarily represent themselves,” said Walden. “Far too many kids these days face the harsh reality of abuse and neglect. Thankfully, organizations such as CASA – and the wonderful groups and individuals who support them – are willing to make a commitment to the protection of these fragile children.” According to the Columbia Gorge CASA office, 30 volunteers in 2004 advocated for 100 children. However, more than 100 children in the region are without a CASA volunteer to speak for them in court; 93 of these children are in Wasco County. The mission of CASA “is to support and promote court-appointed volunteer advocacy for abused and neglected children so that they can thrive in safe, permanent homes.” More information can be found at www.nationalcasa.org. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.
09.06.2005	Congressman will visit Port of Umatilla, meet with local leadersSeptember 6, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -During a visit to Umatilla County this Friday, September 9, U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) will visit the Port of Umatilla to see their new crane, get an update on economic development activities and meet with local officials about current operations. The 10:15-11:30 a.m. meeting will begin at the Port of Umatilla’s board room; following a briefing, the group will walk to the container crane, where Walden will get a firsthand demonstration. “The Columbia River ports are an extremely valuable component to Oregon’s economy, and the Port of Umatilla plays a vital role in trade and commerce throughout northeast Oregon,” said Walden. “Investments in the infrastructure of our maritime system are key to their sustainability and future economic development. I am looking forward to getting a firsthand look at the crane and the container yard.” The new crane at the Port of Umatilla’s intermodal facility, which will enhance the Port’s ability to load container ships and ground transportation, was purchased in-part using a $3.8 million federal investment secured by Walden and Oregon Senators Gordon Smith and Ron Wyden in the fiscal year 2003 appropriations legislation. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources.
09.01.2005	September 1, 2005 - WASHINGTON, DC -U.S. Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), chairman of the House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, will take an aerial tour of the Tryon Complex Fire currently burning near the Hells Canyon National Recreation Area this Monday, September 5, 2005. The hour-long tour will depart the Joseph Airport at 8:30 AM. Joining Walden on the tour will be Wallowa County Commissioner Mike Hayward, Tryon Complex Fire Incident Commander Nick Lundy, Eagle Cap/Hells Canyon National Recreation Area District Ranger Mary DeAguero and Acting Wallowa-Whitman National Forest Supervisor Dick Marley and. The Tryon Complex Fire, ignited by lightening on August 14, consists of the Hass Fire, the Tryon Fire and the Cherry Creek Fire. “Oregonians are all too familiar with the devastation to the environment, habitat, water and air quality, and local communities that can accompany these large, catastrophic blazes,” said Walden. “Representing a district with 11 national forests and as chairman of the Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee, I hear firsthand from individuals who work and recreate on our forestlands about the damage they see following wildfires. It is imperative, and a top priority of mine, that we give our land managers the tools necessary to both curb and control such fires, as well as restore the health of our forests after they occur.” Earlier this week, Walden held subcommittee hearings in Washington and South Dakota on forestland management and the implementation of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, legislation he co-authored in 2003 to help reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire on overcrowded national forests through fuels reduction projects. He will be visiting Wallowa County with his family over the Labor Day Weekend on the last leg of his extensive travels throughout the Second District during the August District Work Period, which also included trips to Deschutes, Crook, Josephine, Jackson, Klamath, Lake, Union and Baker Counties, as well as a four-day, 41-mile hike around Mt. Hood with Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) during which they met with numerous stakeholders to discuss long-term management issues facing the Mountain. Congressman Walden represents the Second Congressional District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in southern, central and eastern Oregon. He is a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce as well as the Committee on Resources. ###
