11.28.2018	Douglas, AZ – Yesterday, the General Services Administration and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) announced that the Feasibility Study, which began in the fall of 2017, confirmed a need for a two-port solution in order to modernize the Douglas Port of Entry. Upon receiving this news, Representative Martha McSally issued the following statement. "I have been working on modernizing the Douglas Port of Entry with a two-port solution since I arrived in Congress. This project is absolutely vital to our security and local economy. Yesterday’s announcement is a major win for Douglas, our region, our state, and our country and represents a critical step towards updating this antiquated facility." Over the last four years, Representative McSally has fought tirelessly to update the Douglas Port of Entry (POE). She has engaged with administration officials under both President Obama and President Trump. As Chairwoman of the Border Maritime Security Subcommittee, Representative McSally held a hearing on border infrastructure and manning needs where she highlighted the importance of improving the Douglas POE. In addition, Congresswoman McSally has repeatedly called on CBP to accelerate their modernization projects. Because of her advocacy, the Douglas Port of Entry project was placed on CBP's 5-year plan and the feasibility study was funded. Most recently, she hosted Department of Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen in May to highlight the issues that the port faces.
10.31.2018	TUCSON - Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally issued the following statement after confirming troops deployed as part of Operation Faithful Patriot will be housed at military installations in Southern Arizona. "I confirmed with military leaders that Davis-Monthan and Fort Huachuca will be hosting military assets deploying soon to help secure our border. Arizona's military installations are yet again demonstrating their value to our national security and safety. Border security is national security and I fully support the President's decision to deploy the military to protect our border and Arizona communities. We will welcome the troops into our community as we do all who serve and sacrifice for our nation."
10.03.2018	TUCSON – Yesterday, U.S. Representative Martha McSally led a letter to Paul Ryan, the Speaker of the House, and Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, urging them to bring legislation to the House floor to fix the “retail glitch” ensuring that restaurants and retailers can take full advantage of the expensing provisions within the Tax Cut and Jobs Act (TCJA). Due to a technical drafting error, businesses that make qualified improvement property (QIP) investments in the interior of their facilities cannot write off the cost of the improvements in the year they are made, but instead revert to a 39 year cost recovery period. The TCJA clearly intended to improve the cost recovery treatment for QIP investments as it does other types of investment, but the technical error made their treatment worse than they were prior to TCJA’s passage. “Restaurants and retailers are some of the most visible and valued businesses in our communities and it is essential that we correct this technical error and extend to them the same treatment as other types of investment,” said Congresswoman McSally. “While they wait for Congress to correct this error, these businesses are delaying or forgoing renovations, halting plans to revitalize declining malls, and placing safety improvements on hold. Not only does this hurt restaurants and retailers, but it hurts the businesses involved in the planning renovations, and ultimately our communities. We must act swiftly to correct this glitch.” Click HERE to read Representative McSally’s full letter.
10.01.2018	TUCSON – Today, President Trump announced the United States has reached a new trade agreement with Canada and Mexico. Congresswoman McSally released the following statement about the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). "The news today is a major win for American workers and the people of Arizona. Nearly fifty percent of all Arizona exports are destined for Mexico or Canada. The Trump Administration has worked hard to negotiate a trilateral agreement that modernizes NAFTA and prioritizes our workers, farmers, and ranchers. We will all benefit from an updated agreement and I will continue to advocate on behalf of Arizonans as Congress considers the details and works to implement this deal.”
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – President Donald Trump signed the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Bill into law today. This legislation will allocate $674.4 billion to rebuild our armed forces, restore military readiness, and support our warfighters. U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s amendment to increase funding for the A-10 wing replacement program was also included in the final appropriations bill. This amendment increases the total amount of funding for new A-10 wings to $144 million, which will allow for the re-winging of roughly 14-20 planes. Earlier this month, Representative McSally sent a letter to the Defense Appropriations Conference Committee urging that they include her amendment to fund the A-10 wing replacement program at the full authorized amount. "For the last ten years, partisan bickering in Washington has failed to prioritize funding our military on schedule. Our troops pay the price, not knowing when their funding — for critical equipment, bases, and future warfighting capabilities — would be passed,” said Congresswoman McSally. "Since coming to Congress as one of the few veterans here, I have tirelessly advocated against continuing resolutions (CRs), especially for defense, by providing a first-hand voice of how detrimental CRs are to our military. Today, we can let our troops know that we support them and have their backs. This funding will continue the positive trend of rebuilding our military and restoring readiness, which will ultimately translate to maintaining our strategic edge, deterring our enemies, and saving American lives.” This defense bill allocates: $163 million in funding for the A-10 fleet, including $144 million for new wings – $65 million above the Air Force request thanks to an amendment Congresswoman McSally included in the bill and shepherded through the conference process. $224 million for Compass Call cross deck initiative—more than double the amount requested, which will allow for acceleration of modernization for this vital information warfare and electronic attack operations platform. $243.2B for training, maintenance, and base operations to ensure our troops are prepared for their missions, like the critical missions at Arizona bases, including F-35 pilot training at Luke Air Force base; A-10 pilot training at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base; military intelligence training and electronic testing at Ft. Huachuca; munitions testing in Yuma; and many others. The bill also funds programs that support Arizona’s premier defense industry: $9.3 billion for 93 F-35 aircraft, which supports 27 suppliers and more than 6,000 jobs in Arizona. $1.1B for 66 AH-64 Apache helicopters, which are made in Mesa, Arizona. Funds critical munitions, including the Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM), SM-3, and SM-6 missiles, which are manufactured in Tucson. Supports the Global Hawk program, which is maintained in Sierra Vista. Includes $163 million for MQ-1C Grey Eagle, which is supported by Arizona suppliers. Adds $6 million for strategic radiation-hardened microelectronic processors to help guard against threats to our satellite constellations which fuel U.S. communications and global positioning satellites and are used in weapons systems that are Arizona-made. Provides $16 billion for basic, applied, and advanced research—an increase of $771 million-- that will benefit Arizona’s world-class research enterprises.
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally, the Chairwoman of the Homeland Security Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, held a hearing to assess federal efforts to combat human trafficking. Members of the subcommittee heard testimony from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice about what steps they have taken to dismantle trafficking operations, small and large, and their work to partner with state, local, and tribal governments as well as law enforcement and the general public to raise awareness of this issue. The witnesses highlighted the importance of legislation recently signed by President Trump to authorize DHS’ Blue Campaign and another bill that gives states and victims the power to sue websites like Backpage.com that support and facilitate human trafficking. “I called this hearing today to shine a light on the heinous crime of human trafficking, and highlight the work being done by our federal agencies who partner with state, local, and tribal governments and law enforcement agencies to eradicate human trafficking from our streets, our local business, and our neighborhoods. 55 percent of active cases involved the sex trafficking of children. Predators use social media to identify and locate our children and then go on to use websites like Backpage.com to rent them to the highest bidder,” said Congresswoman McSally. “It’s critical that we prosecute those who victimize our most vulnerable populations. We must also support efforts to raise awareness and educate those who work in law enforcement, at ports of entry, in health care, in child protective services, and elsewhere to identify trafficking. I am committed to fighting for survivors and ensuring they receive the care they need after they’ve been rescued.” Click HERE or below to watch Congresswoman McSally’s opening statement. Click HERE or below to watch Acting Assistant Attorney General John Gore discuss how the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking (FOSTA) Act creates liabilities for websites that facilitate sex trafficking or prostitution. Click HERE or below to watch Special Agent Steven Cagen discuss how about abolishing ICE would be detrimental to the Department of Homeland Security.
09.21.2018	Las Vegas, Nevada – Today, President Trump signed into law, legislation to fund military construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs for Fiscal Year 2019. This legislation provides support for critical housing, infrastructure, and facilities for U.S. military forces and their families, as well as increased funding for veterans’ health care and benefits. In Congress, Representative Martha McSally co-sponsored the VA MISSION Act, which President Trump signed into law earlier this year. Today’s appropriations bill includes funding for many programs that Representative McSally fought for in the VA MISSION Act. “This legislation provides the funding we need to keep the promises we’ve made to our veterans and provides more than $86.5 billion – the largest annual dollar amount ever – for the Department of Veterans Affairs. The vast majority of this funding will go toward improving medical care for our veterans, but it also will support things like speeding up claims processing for the 450,000 veterans who have been waiting for years to receive the benefits they’ve earned,” said Congresswoman McSally. “This bill also funds 174 military construction projects across the country and overseas – projects that strengthen our national security, enable our military to complete their missions successfully, and support our military families with quality schools, housing, and other services. With the help of President Trump and his administration, this Congress is doing its job to honor our veterans, support our troops, and protect the homeland.” At Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, this bill provides $15 million to replace an Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) facility which dates back to the Vietnam era. This project will ensure that millions of dollars-worth of equipment — as well as the soldiers and maintainers that work on that equipment — are protected from harsh weather conditions. At Luke Air Force Base, this bill will provide $40 million for two construction projects to ensure that F-35 maintenance and operations can be completed in a covered, safe environment. In addition, this funding bill: Funds VA medical care at $72.3B – providing for 7M patients to be treated in FY19, including: $8.6B for mental health care services $206M for suicide prevention outreach $400M for opioid abuse prevention $270M for rural veterans’ health initiatives Supports a strong nuclear national security strategy with a total of $15.23B for the Department of Energy's nuclear weapons security programs – $560M above FY18 levels, including: $11.1B for Weapons Activities ($458M above FY18) to maintain the strongest possible nuclear deterrence posture and address critical infrastructure maintenance needs $1.79B for Naval Nuclear Reactors ($169M above FY18) to support our Navy's nuclear-powered fleet, including the Columbia-Class Ballistic Missile Submarine $1.95B for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation to keep nuclear materials from getting in the hands of terrorists and other bad actors Fortifies U.S. energy infrastructure against cyber and other attacks, including $120M for research and development to strengthen the security of our electric grid, and supporting the Administration's efforts to focus resources on addressing these threats
09.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally led a bipartisan letter to the Sonny Perdue, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), regarding the Risk Management Agency’s (RMA) recent decision to reduce the policy protection amounts value of Pasture, Rangeland, and Foraging (PRF) crop insurance. PRF insurance helps protect producers from risks of forage loss due to a lack of rainfall and helps them bounce back from a potentially devastating drought. “Cattle ranching is an extremely important part of Arizona agriculture and contributes to our state’s economy immensely. RMA assured farmers and ranchers that they would not alter PRF insurance last month but went on to change their mind without providing adequate notice. This eleventh hour move harms Arizona’s ranchers and is unacceptable,” said Congresswoman McSally. “The tens of thousands of local farmers who rely on this program deserve much better, and I will continue to have their backs every step of the way.” “The PRF drought insurance program has helped Arizona ranchers deal with a very severe drought. The 30-66% drop in the protection provided by the program greatly reduced their ability to operate their ranches during such a severe drought as we have had this year. The decision by USDA puts Arizona beef production at a tremendous risk,” said Jay Whetten, President of the Arizona Cattlemen’s Association. “We sincerely appreciate congresswoman McSally’s advocacy for Arizona farmers and ranchers with regards to the recent decision of the USDA to potentially limit coverage available under the PRF insurance program,” said Lanny Hair, Executive Vice President of the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of Arizona. Agriculture including both farming and ranching is a critical component of the Arizona economy and insurance coverages are necessary for the operation of any business enterprise. A sudden reduction in available coverage from the RMA will leave many who have relied on this program facing unnecessary financial exposure. We appreciate Congresswoman McSally’s efforts to help protect this critical segment of Arizona’s economy.” Earlier this year, RMA assured ranchers that no significant changes would be made to the program. However, just before the PRF policies for crop year 2019 were made available, RMA suddenly and drastically reduced “county base values” by an average of nearly 41% in Arizona. This means that ranchers are insured for less and will receive much smaller payouts. In her letter to Secretary Perdue, Representative McSally called for the RMA to reverse course and use the same “county base values” as 2018 and for the 2020 insurance year solicit more input from stakeholders before drastically reducing the county base values. Click HERE to read Representative McSally’s full letter.
09.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally led a bicameral letter to the Defense Appropriations Conference Committee urging that the committee fund the A-10 wing replacement program at the full authorized amount of $144 million to accelerate re-winging of the A-10 fleet in fiscal year 2019. This would mitigate aircraft groundings and prevent a critical capability gap in the Air Force’s operational forces. “The A-10 Warthog is instrumental in U.S. contingency operations around the globe and continues to be utilized to the fullest extent in multiple combat theaters. Due to this high level of demand, we are literally ‘flying the wings off’ these aircraft,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Without accelerated funding for wing replacements, the Air Force will be forced to begin grounding some of these aircraft until new wings can be provided. Our combatant commanders and the ground troops that depend on the Warthog’s unique, life-saving mission capabilities cannot afford this delay. Congress must act to provide increased funding now to ensure the entire A-10 fleet stays healthy and ready at a moment’s notice.” This letter builds upon Representative McSally’s amendment to the House-passed Defense Appropriations bill which increased proposed funding for the A-10 wing replacement program by $65 million above the Air Force’s initial budget request. Since her election to Congress in 2015, Representative McSally has led the fight to reverse the Air Force’s decision to prematurely mothball the A-10 fleet. So far, she has successfully secured more than $128 million to re-start the A-10 wing replacement program, which will provide one-third of the fleet with new wings and ensure that the fleet will remain operation into the 2030’s. Click HERE to read Representative McSally’s full letter.
09.11.2018	TUCSON – On Monday, the House Ways and Means Committee released the text of the Tax Reform 2.0 package. The legislation builds on the success of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, signed into law by President Trump in December 2017, by permanently locking in tax cuts for individuals, families, and businesses. Among the provisions contained in the bill, the package includes a two-year extension of the medical expense deduction, which Representative McSally secured after leading the effort to include it in the historic tax cut law. “Arizonans are seeing the positive impacts of the tax cuts Republicans worked to push through Congress last year. The August jobs report released on Friday showed continued growth, unemployment remaining near record lows, and wages rising at the fastest pace since 2009,” said Congresswoman McSally. “It is great to see Tax Reform 2.0 moving forward and I am proud that I worked with Chairman Brady to ensure that an additional two-year extension of the medical expense deduction was added into the package. Preserving this deduction will protect seniors and hard working families in Arizona with high health care costs and provide relief from a harmful ObamaCare tax hike.” “Millions of Americans are struggling under the weight of unaffordable medical bills,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady. “Thanks to Congresswoman McSally’s advocacy and tireless work to protect seniors and those struggling with high medical bills, this Tax Reform 2.0 package provides additional relief for those with high medical bills for two more years.”
09.04.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally released the following statement after Governor Doug Ducey announced the appointment of former U.S. Senator Jon Kyl to succeed Senator John McCain in the U.S. Senate. Congresswoman McSally served on the staff of Senator Jon Kyl as a participant in the Air Force's Legislative Fellowship Program from 1999-2000. "Senator Jon Kyl is a brilliant man of integrity and a proven leader for Arizona and the entire country. I learned this first-hand working as a national security fellow for him when I was an active duty Major. His example inspired me to step up and serve in office myself. I am grateful for Senator Kyl's willingness to serve Arizona and America again at such a critical time and to carry out the legacy of his long-time friend and colleague Senator McCain. I commend Governor Ducey for his wise decision and look forward to working with Senator Kyl for Arizona."
08.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally continued to pay her respects to Senator John McCain as she attended the historic memorial service in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda at the start of this American hero lying in state. Senator McCain was only the 30th person in our nation's history to be honored in this way and it is well deserved due to his six decades of service and sacrifice to America. "Senator John McCain was truly an American hero and patriot who gave his entire life in service and sacrifice, always putting country first. I was deeply honored to know him and be ribbed by him as a fellow fighter pilot. Arizona and the country have a hole bigger than the Grand Canyon that can never be filled with his passing. My prayers remain with Cindy and the McCain family in this time of sorrow.” Click HERE or below to watch Congresswoman McSally salute Sen. McCain at the memorial service. Congresswoman McSally stands with fellow Members of the Arizona Delegation.
08.27.2018	TUCSON – Today, President Trump announced the United States and Mexico have reached an agreement on a preliminary bilateral trade deal. The new pact will be called "The United States Mexico Trade Agreement." Congresswoman McSally released the following statement. "This is fantastic news for Arizona since Mexico is our number one trading partner. I have been tirelessly advocating to the administration regarding Arizona's strong interest in modernizing NAFTA in a way that supports jobs here. Most recently, I met with Larry Kudlow and Peter Navarro, two key advisors to the President, on these issues to ensure Arizonans were heard. I am grateful for the administrations' efforts to achieve this breakthrough. I look forward to reviewing the details of the agreement further in the coming days."
08.25.2018	TUCSON – Congresswoman Martha McSally issued the following statement today after she heard the news that Senator John McCain had passed away “John McCain was one of Arizona’s greatest Senators, one of our country’s finest statesmen, and an American hero who risked his life to defend this great nation. He loved this state, and he loved this country. I pray that God comforts Cindy and the entire McCain family. My heart is with them, and Arizona grieves with them.”
08.24.2018	Luke Airforce Base – Heather Wilson, the Secretary of the Air Force, visited Luke Air Force Base (AFB) for the first time today at the invitation of Representative McSally, the only member of the House Armed Services Committee in Arizona. On her tour, Secretary Wilson saw firsthand how Arizona’s unique geography and location helps the U.S. Air Force train pilots for the world’s most advanced aircraft. At the 56th Fighter Wing Headquarters, Secretary Wilson, Representatives McSally, Lesko, and Sinema participated in a town hall meeting with Luke AFB officers and enlisted Airmen. After the town hall, the Air Force Secretary examined Luke’s F-35 Academic Training Center and Secretary Wilson and Representative McSally flew the F-35 simulator. More than 300 pilots graduate from Luke annually and proceed to combat assignments throughout the world. The 56th Fighter Wing also trains more than 350 maintenance technicians each year. The tour concluded by visiting the 63rd Fighter Squadron, which trains F-35A pilots. Secretary Wilson, Representative McSally, Representative Lesko, and Representative Sinema then went to the flightline to see an F-35A on the ramp. The day concluded with Secretary Wilson, Representative McSally, and Representative Lesko attending a reception hosted by Fighter Country Partnership, a local group of civic leaders committed to supporting the mission, Airmen, and families at Luke. "It was an honor welcoming Secretary Wilson to Luke Air Force base to see first-hand, the home of the training of the our next generation of fighter pilots. I would like to thank her for accepting my invitation to meet with the brave men and women of the 56th Fighter Wing,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Today, Secretary Wilson saw why Luke and our region are essential to the mission of our Air Force and national defense." Congresswoman McSally greets Secretary Wilson. Secretary Wilson briefs Congresswoman McSally. At the F-35 Academic Training Center, Congresswoman McSally and Secretary Wilson were able to test simulators used by our Airmen. Congresswoman McSally discusses how Luke Air Force delivers major victories for the U.S. Air Force.
08.24.2018	GLENDALE – Heather Wilson, the Secretary of the Air Force, has accepted Representative McSally’s invitation to tour Luke Air Force Base today and see firsthand how important the base is to Arizona. Home to the 56th Fighter Wing, the largest fighter wing in the world and the only active-duty Air Force F-16 training wing, Luke Air Force Base has over 5,250 military and civilian personnel, over 70 F-35As and over 70 F-16s, 24 squadrons, and four tenant units. State officials have concluded that Luke Air Force Base is a major economic driver for the region and has a total economic impact of over $2 billion per year. Representative McSally was a chief proponent in securing $40 million to construct a F-35 aircraft maintenance unit facility in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. "Arizona’s bases have attributes you won’t find anywhere else: over 300 days a year of sunshine, ample military airspace, and proximity to the Barry F. Goldwater Ranges, to list just a few," said Congresswoman McSally. "As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am honored that the Secretary of the Air Force has accepted my invitation to visit Luke Air Force Base and meet with the brave men and women of the 56th Fighter Wing. Today, Secretary Wilson will tour this amazing facility and see firsthand how the Grand Canyon State’s unique location delivers major victories for the U.S. Air Force.”
08.24.2018	TUCSON – Congresswoman Martha McSally has issued the following statement after hearing the news that Senator John McCain will no longer be treated for brain cancer. " John McCain's life has been one of service and sacrifice. His strength and resolve enabled him to endure 5.5 years as a prisoner of war, and to continue to serve his country for decades. I have been praying for Senator McCain and his family during this difficult time, and continue to ask for God's grace and comfort for him and his family.”
08.13.2018	FORT DRUM, NEW YORK - Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally was one of six Members of Congress who attended after being invited by the White House to witness President Trump sign the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019 into law. Representatives McSally was one of a select few chosen to join President Trump at Fort Drum for this special occasion. The National Defense Authorization Act provides important funding for U.S. military operations across the globe. This legislation directly addresses the military readiness crisis and includes the largest pay raise for troops since 2010. In this NDAA, Congresswoman McSally successfully secured critical funding for the A-10 wing replacement program, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program, and other crucial capabilities. The final bill includes a total of $144 million for new A-10 wings to re-wing between 14-20 planes. “I'm working with President Trump to rebuild our military and grow our defense assets to ensure we continue to have the strongest military in the world. We are repairing the harm done by the Obama Administration, which cut funding to our military and vital defense assets for almost a decade. We are restoring readiness and increasing capability and capacity in a force that has been asked to do too much with too little for too long," said Congresswoman McSally. “The NDAA gives our troops a much-deserved raise; provides funding for the A-10s based at Davis-Monthan; supports the F-35s based at Luke AFB and Marine Corps Air Station Yuma; and also provides millions for base upgrades. This bill also supports Arizona’s leading defense industry by increasing investment in critical munitions, next generation weapons systems, and much more.” During the event, President Trump spoke about his working relationship with Congresswoman McSally when he said “There’s another Member of Congress here today who is not only an Air Force veteran, but the first woman ever to fly a fighter jet in combat in U.S. history and I have gotten to know her very well and she is terrific, Congresswoman Martha McSally, thank you Martha, thank you for being here, thank you very much.” Since taking office in 2015, Representative McSally has led on defense issues in the House, fighting to repair and rebuild our military and securing funding for Arizona's defense assets. To help restore military readiness, the NDAA authorizes billions of dollars that would rehabilitate worn out military equipment and commits to repairing aircrafts, tanks, vessels as well as crumbling military buildings and infrastructure. To help bolster national security, the NDAA allocates millions of dollars towards strengthening America’s cyber defense systems against ongoing campaigns of cyber-attacks and hacking. These funding authorizations will keep Arizona at the forefront of our nation’s defense infrastructure, including support for Arizona’s military installations: Davis-Monthan Air Force Base: $15 million for a long-overdue Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) facility. Luke Air Force Base: $40 million for additional military construction for F-35 aircraft maintenance unit facility and squad operations. Increased resources for our testing ranges at the Yuma Proving Ground, the Electronic Proving Ground at Ft. Huachuca, and the Barry M. Goldwater ranges, with an additional $58.9 million to improve and modernize these major combat range and test facility bases. This includes procurement of advanced threat radar systems to improve open-air range test capabilities for next-generation equipment and aerial armament. Click HERE or watch below the video of President Trump’s remarks about Congresswoman McSally.
07.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02), Representative David Schweikert (AZ-06), and members of the Congressional Valley Fever Task Force introduced the FORWARD Act to advance diagnostics, clinical research, and treatments for Valley Fever. The legislation outlines the impact of the orphan fungal-disease and provides critical support to researchers and drug developers to find viable treatments, and ultimately a long-term cure for Valley Fever. Although Valley Fever is endemic across the southwest U.S., 68.3% of all reported cases in the last ten years were in Arizona. Within the first six months of 2018, Arizona reported 3,988 cases of Valley Fever, representing a 32% increase compared to last year during the same period. With this legislation, Arizona can make tremendous progress to keep our communities healthy. The University of Arizona Valley Fever Center for Excellence has played a central role in this effort by promoting research and high-quality care for patients experiencing the effects of Valley Fever. The FORWARD Act seeks to bolster the work of the Valley Fever Center for Excellence in a number of ways including the establishment of a blockchain pilot to give researchers access to massive amounts of clinical data for Valley Fever research without compromising patient privacy. Rep. McSally and Rep. Schweikert recognize, now more than ever, the importance of the FORWARD Act to support all those involved in this effort from hospitals, to researchers, to patients.
07.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally introduced the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP) Best Practices Act in response to the opioid epidemic that has plagued communities across Arizona. PDMPs are electronic databases that track opioid prescriptions in a state. This legislation would direct the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) to coordinate with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to develop best practice guidelines to strengthen and enhance PDMPs. This legislation would also facilitate the adoption of PDMPs by all states, and create a pilot program to share PDMP data between states. “The opioid epidemic has torn apart families and ruined lives forever. 116 Americans die every day from a drug overdose. These victims come from every background - they are teachers, ranchers, retirees, and students. No parent should have to bury their own child,” said Congresswoman McSally. “This crisis has plagued Arizona for too long. We’ve taken steps to combat this epidemic but there’s still more work to be done. That’s why I introduced the PDMP Best Practices Act because this bill will save lives and keep prescription drugs out of the wrong hands by helping those who need it the most. PDMPs can be a powerful tool to track the diversion and misuse of controlled substances as well as harmful drug interactions. The PDMP Best Practices Act would facilitate the creation of guidance on what information should be submitted to PDMP’s including: (1) patients at the highest risk for misusing controlled substances; (2) information helpful for identifying inappropriate trends in prescribing; (3) best practices on treatment options for prescribers considering medication assisted treatment for substance abuse disorders; (4) identifying barriers to implementation of these guidelines, and steps to address the barriers. In May, Representative McSally chaired a field hearing to examine how an unsecured border magnifies the opioid crisis in Arizona. Experts from law enforcement, state government, and community organizations testified about the solutions they believed would curb addiction and save lives. Additionally, the House of Representatives successfully passed 70 bills to combat and solve the opioid epidemic. ###
07.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after she voted in support of the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act to simplify the requirements states must follow when submitting workforce development plans. These reforms would allow local leaders to submit proposals based on their region’s specific education and economic needs. “America is a place where anyone can succeed. Today, education is key to achievement, and success in the classroom leads to success in the workforce. Unfortunately, technical education and vocational training are too often unavailable in schools across the nation. I strongly supported the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act to help more Americans enter the workforce with the skills necessary to compete for and succeed in high-skilled, in-demand careers.” ###
07.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally, the Chairwoman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, held a hearing regarding the deployment of National Guard personnel to the southern border. Members of the subcommittee heard testimony about what is being done to enhance U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) operations, the specific duties National Guard troops are conducting at the border, and the coordination efforts between the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Defense (DoD). “The National Guard is providing additional personnel at the Southern border which has made it easier for our Border Patrol Agents and CBP Officers to combat the flow of illicit goods into the United States. Their support has directly contributed to the apprehension of thousands of individuals illegally crossing the border and the seizure of thousands of pounds of illegal drugs,” said Congresswoman McSally. “At the same time, Operation Guardian Support has provided Guard members with valuable experience, and hands on training, that has prepared them for further service to our nation. I applaud Governor Ducey and the Arizona National Guardsmen and women who are deployed to the southern border and I will continue to make sure they have the resources they need to further carry out this mission. Border security is national security.” Click HERE or below to watch Congresswoman McSally’s opening statement. Click HERE or below to watch Tucson Sector Border Patrol Chief Rodolfo Karisch discuss how the National Guard provides much-needed help to Customs and Border Patrol Agents at the Southern Border. Click HERE or below to watch Major General Michael T. McGuire of the Arizona National Guard discuss the vital training guardsmen and women are receiving at the border.
07.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation making appropriations for the Department of the Interior (DOI) and other federal agencies. The bill passed the House 217 to 199. “This legislation reins in the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) regulatory agenda, repeals the harmful Waters of the United States rule which stifles economic development and job creation, and relieves livestock operations from regulatory red tape. It provides critical funds for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which provides important resources for all of Arizona’s fifteen counties, particularly in rural areas, to help balance their budgets and pay for essential services. This legislation will also give federal agencies the resources they need to suppress wildfires, manage our forests, and reduce hazardous fuels,” said Congresswoman McSally. “The bill also allocates resources for federal, state, local, and tribal agencies to combat the opioid epidemic and provides funds for the Internal Revenue Service to further implement the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. I worked with the leaders of these Appropriations Committees to ensure these important programs received substantial funding and was pleased to support this legislation on the Floor today.” The FY 2019 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill: Directs $500 million in funding for the PILT program which sends funds to local governments in states to help fulfill budget shortfalls that would harm local government responsibilities. Allocates $3.9 billion for the DOI and the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) to fight and prevent forest fires that threaten communities across the nation. Provides $5.9 billion for the Indian Health Service and $3.1B for the Bureaus of Indian Affairs and Indian Education. Combats the opioid epidemic by providing $415 million for the Office of National Drug Control Policy and targets $280 million for the High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program. Strengthens sanctions against terrorism by providing $161 million for the Treasury Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence. Funds small business loan programs for veterans ($12.3 million) and women entrepreneurs ($18.4 million).
07.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally questioned Under Secretary for the National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) Christopher Krebs about the security of Arizona’s election infrastructure. The NPPD, an office within the Department of Homeland Security, works to protect and enhance our nation’s physical and cyberspace security. She asked what the NPPD had learned from the reported hack into an Arizona voter registration system in 2016. For years, foreign adversaries have been trying to undermine America’s democratic institutions and attack critical infrastructure. Click HERE or below to watch their full exchange.
07.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally, along with Representatives Debbie Lesko, Andrew Biggs, David Schweikert, and Paul Gosar sent a letter to the Secretary of the Navy, Richard Spencer, asserting that Airman Colton Whitmire should be able to attend his step-father’s funeral. On Saturday, Captain Juston Doherty was found dead while on Army National Guard training orders at Papago Park Military Reservation. Although Airman Whitmire lived with Captain Doherty for most of his childhood, he has been denied emergency leave since the relationship was not listed on a next-of-kin form. In their letter, the Representatives argue that, due to the close parent-like relationship between Airman Whitmire and Captain Doherty, Airman Whitmire should be granted emergency leave so he can attend the funeral. “Having served as a Commander in the Air Force, I am sensitive to the decisions that commanders need to make regarding emergency leave. However, I understand that Airman Whitmire is stationed on the USS Iwo Jima on the way home from deployment and it appears that the naval chain of command is not taking the unique circumstance of this family into account. Navy regulations should allow emergency leave in this case, and I hope Airman Whitmire will be able to attend his step-father's funeral,” said Congresswoman McSally. Below is a copy of the letter.
07.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally released the following Independence Day message celebrating our country's freedom and honoring those who defend our liberties each day. "As we celebrate Independence day surrounded by our friends and family today let’s be reminded that 242 years ago our founding fathers adopted the Declaration of Independence. The opening being, ‘We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal. That they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We were formed as a country based on an idea and the idea did not come free. So many paid with blood to fight for that freedom from that day forward and continuing today. So let’s pray for our troops and let’s have a heart of gratitude for the freedoms we enjoy and the price that was paid for them. Let’s be unified as a country as we look to the future. Grateful for our past grateful for our opportunities, our freedoms and our liberties and willing to continue to fight for them in the future," said Congresswoman McSally. Click HERE or below to watch her full remarks.
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Act, annual legislation which provides important funding for operations, readiness, and healthcare programs for U.S. troops and their families. Congresswoman Martha McSally successfully secured funding for Arizona’s defense assets and fought for critical funding for the A-10 wing replacement program, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program, and other crucial capabilities. The final House bill includes Congresswoman McSally’s amendment which increases funding for new A-10 wings which provides a total of $144 million to re-wing between 14-20 planes. “This is a pivotal funding year for our nation’s defense. The previous administration atrophied the effectiveness of our country’s military. Because of the Trump Administration’s partnership with Congress, we are reversing this dangerous trend and are providing our troops with the tools they need to be ready to fight at a moment’s notice. This legislation injects desperately needed resources for training and equipment while investing in the modernization and development of the U.S. armed forces,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Arizona’s defense industry remains at the forefront of the effort in support of our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines, and I fought hard to ensure this bill not only supports missions at our bases, but also gives our suppliers and manufacturers the certainty they need to continue delivering superior, life-saving equipment and weaponry to the Warfighter.” The bill also funds a 2.6 percent pay raise for members of the military—the largest increase in almost a decade—and increases health care and family programs for troops, military families, and retirees. In addition, this legislation contains $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, as well as $318 million for sexual assault prevention. These funding items build upon the wins Representative McSally already secured in the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act, including support for Arizona’s military installations: Davis-Monthan Air Force Base: $15 million for a long-overdue Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) facility. Luke Air Force Base: $40 million for additional military construction for F-35 aircraft maintenance unit facility and squad operations. Increased resources for our testing ranges at the Yuma Proving Ground and the Electronic Proving Ground at Ft. Huachuca with an additional $58.9 million to improve and modernize these major combat range and test facility bases. This includes procurement of advanced threat radar systems to improve open-air range test capabilities for next-generation equipment and aerial armament. The bill also bolsters Arizona’s premier defense industry: Accelerates and increases funding for modernization of the Compass Call fleet to $216 million—a full $108 million above the President’s Budget request—to speed up acquisition of aircraft. Provides $9.4 billion for 93 F-35 aircraft, which supports 27 different Arizona suppliers and over 6,000 jobs for Arizonans. Procures six additional AH-64 Apache helicopters, which are made in Mesa, Arizona. Funds critical munitions, including the Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM), which is manufactured in Tucson. Supports the Global Hawk program, which is maintained in Sierra Vista. Includes $163 million for MQ-1C Grey Eagle, which is supported by Arizona suppliers. Adds $6 million for strategic radiation-hardened microelectronic processors to help guard against threats to our satellite constellations which fuel U.S. communications and global positioning satellites and are used in weapons systems that are Arizona-made. Boosts basic, applied, and advanced defense technology research by $771 million overall, benefitting Arizona’s world-class university research enterprises.
06.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally voted in favor of the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act. The legislation contains the four pillars proposed by President Trump to secure our southern border, end the visa lottery system, move the U.S. towards a merit-based immigration system, and provides a solution for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) population. It also allows families to stay together while the law is enforced. The bill failed in the House 121 to 301. "Securing our Southern border has been one of my highest priorities since I arrived in Congress three and a half years ago. To my constituents, the porous border and broken immigration system are not stories they see on T.V. or read about in the newspaper but part of their everyday lives,” said Congresswoman McSally. “I believe the legislation I have been working on since September of last year, the Securing America’s Future Act, took a stronger approach to addressing these problems, but I do not believe making the perfect the enemy of the good does anything to make our country safer either. However, like President Trump, I supported this bill because it represents a tangible solution for these important issues. I stand ready and look forward to continuing to work with the President to find a way to get the mission done.” The Border Security and Immigration Reform Act: Secures the Border: Provides nearly $25 billion for border security, which includes funding President Trump’s border wall as well as technology and infrastructure. The bill also provides an increase of Border Patrol Agents and CBP Officers and modernizes and expands ports of entry. Contains More Tools to Prevent Illegal Immigration: This legislation roots out fraudulent claims of asylum, guarantees that unaccompanied children are returned safely to their country of origin, and provides the Department of Homeland Security with the ability to remove dangerous criminal aliens, alien gang members, and aliens who participate in gang-related activities from U.S. soil. Modernizes Our Immigration System: The bill ends the visa lottery, reduces chain migration, and shifts towards a merit-based immigration system. Provides a DACA Fix: 6-year renewable legal status for DACA recipients contingent on specific requirements such as enrollment in an educational institute, acquired a high school diploma or GED, and has a clean criminal history.
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congresswoman Martha McSally’s amendment to increase funding for the A-10 wing replacement program. The amendment increases the total amount of funding for new A-10 wings to $144 million in fiscal year 2019, which will allow for the re-winging of roughly 14-20 planes. “Three years ago, when I first came to Congress I began the fight against the Obama administration and their plan to mothball the entire A-10 Warthog fleet. This is an airplane I flew and commanded in combat - I know a little bit about it and we won that fight,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Since then, the Warthog has continued to be deployed to multiple combat theaters, in some of the most contested environments around the globe. If we only appropriate the base request currently included in the bill we will only secure enough funding to re-wing somewhere between 12-16 aircrafts. At that rate it could take nearly a decade to re-wing the remaining 109 A-10s. That’s not fast enough. These missions are happening NOW. We are literally flying the wings off these airplanes and our enemies won’t wait.” Click HERE to watch Representative McSally’s remarks. As of right now, there are 109 A-10’s of the 281 in the fleet that still need new wings. The Air Force initially requested $79 million for the A-10 wing replacement program this year, however, House and Senate-passed National Defense Authorization Acts (NDAA) authorized an additional $65 million for the A-10 re-winging program. The amendment brings the funding contained in the DOD appropriations bill in line with the NDAA. A former A-10 fighter pilot, Congresswoman McSally was the driving force behind convincing the Air Force to take the A-10 out of “mothball status” in 2015 and 2016. Recently, the Air Force Secretary went on the record for the first time to confirm that the Air Force will keep the A-10 in its operational fleet until at least 2030.
06.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed two bills introduced by Representative Martha McSally to bolster the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) security efforts along the border and overseas. The Office of Biometric Identity Management (OBIM) Authorization Act establishes the OBIM as the primary biometric repository for the DHS. OBIM provides biometric identity services to DHS components and other Federal agencies in support of anti-terrorism, counterterrorism, border security, credentialing, national security, and public safety efforts. The Immigration Advisory Program (IAP) Authorization Act codifies the IAP, which deploys U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officers to international airports in partners countries to prevent terrorists and other criminals from boarding flights bound for the United States. These are Congresswoman McSally’s tenth and eleventh bills that have been passed by the 115th Congress. “Terrorists, transnational criminal organizations, and others seeking to do harm are constantly adapting their strategies to infiltrate our country,” said Congresswoman McSally. “My bills passed by the House today will give DHS explicit authority to identify and track high risk individuals and prevent them from ever reaching our shores. In the current environment, we must find ways to push out our borders and deploy 21st century solutions to counter 21st century threats. These two pieces of legislation will help us move closer to accomplishing these goals and increasing the safety and security of all Americans.” The OBIM operates the DHS’s repository of over 225 million unique identities that include fingerprint-based biometrics as well as face and iris holdings. The office also supports DHS’s efforts to create a biometric entry/exit program which can accurately identify individuals who seek to enter the U.S. based on their biometric information. The IAP is an important part of CBP’s security agenda overseas. This program deploys CBP Officers to major last-point-of-departure airports, to advise airlines against boarding foreign nationals that will be deemed inadmissible upon arrival. In Fiscal Year 2017, there were a total of 4,328 no-board recommendations made across 12 different IAP airport locations.
06.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s bill to secure the southern border fell just twenty-two votes shy of passing the House of Representatives. The Securing America’s Future Act, introduced in January, secures the border, closes many legal loopholes, ends chain migration and the visa lottery, addresses the issue of family seperation and moves to provide a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “I’ve been working tirelessly on this bill since September of last year and it’s unfortunate it fell short today because it represents an important step to keeping our country safe,” said Rep. McSally. As a representative of border communities in Southern Arizona, I have witnessed first-hand the security threats we face and the dysfunction of our immigration system. The provisions contained in this bill are thoughtful solutions to solve the serious issues that continue to impact communities in Arizona and the rest of the country. Like many pieces of legislation, this bill was not perfect and certain improvements that had been made over the last six months were left out. This large vote total represents a huge victory for those of us who believe the border must be secured and I remain ready to lead and help deliver legislation to the President’s desk that he can sign into law.” The bill addresses the porous southern border by authorizing the construction of a border wall, investing in new technology, and improving, modernizing, and expanding ports of entry. The bill strengthens lax enforcement policies and closes loopholes within the existing legal immigration system that are being exploited by drug cartels, human traffickers, and violent gangs like MS-13. H.R. 4760 also takes important strides to refocus legal immigration on skills needed in the Unites States. Lastly, the legislation provides DACA beneficiaries a 3-year renewable legal status, while ensuring that gang members, individuals who have criminal convictions, or convictions in juvenile court for serious crimes are not eligible for legal status.
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally successfully included an amendment with significant wins for Arizona veterans to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act 2019 in the late hours of Thursday evening. The amendment will ensure that $225 million in Veterans Affairs’ medical services funds are set aside for suicide prevention in fiscal year 2019. “Veterans make up less than 9 percent of the U.S. population--yet, veteran suicides account for 18 percent of all suicides in America. After adjusting for differences in age and sex, that puts the risk of suicide at 22 percent higher for veterans than for civilian adults,” Rep. McSally said. “It is not enough to simply talk about studies and statistics and hope for the best. Lip service will not save lives. For the over 500,000 veterans that call Arizona home, this can be a life or death issue. Today and every day, on average, 20 veterans take their own lives. Twenty of my fellow warriors--20 heroes; 20 loved ones; sons, daughters, mothers, fathers--20 vets who often survive combating the enemy in conflict only to come home and take their own lives. Mr. Speaker, this is unacceptable. When they raise their right hand and take an oath that they are willing to defend our freedoms with their lives, we have a covenant that we’ve got their back, and we are going to give them everything they need.” The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act provides $8.6 billion for VA mental health programs. Upon being signed into law, this legislation will also require VA to provide a detailed report of its plan for spending these funds on suicide prevention outreach programs, like the Veterans Crisis Hotline, to the House Committee on Appropriations. The Act passed the House on Friday by a vote of 235-179. Watch Rep. McSally present her amendment on the floor below:
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Representative Martha McSally joined President Trump at the White House this afternoon for the signing of the John S. McCain III, Daniel K. Akaka, and Samuel R. Johnson VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks Act, which she championed in the House of Representatives. Nicknamed the VA MISSION Act, this critical legislation streamlines community care programs and expands the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Post-9/11 Caregiver Program to veterans of all wars. For over four years, the Veterans Choice Program has allowed eligible veterans to secure access to care from community providers when VA care is not readily available. However, the program was one of seven community care programs that were duplicative and conflicting, often creating confusion for veterans looking to utilize them. The VA MISSION Act consolidates these programs into one easy-to-use system. By minimizing bureaucracy and improving efficiency, this legislation will provide veterans in rural and urban areas of Arizona with better care and better access to the health services they have earned. “Congress was asleep at the wheel in 2014 when the public learned as many as forty veterans may have died while waiting for care at the Phoenix VA in my home state of Arizona,” Rep. McSally said. “Sadly, mismanagement and time manipulations were not confined to Arizona, but were systemic throughout the VA nationwide. Thankfully, individuals like Steven Cooper, a veteran who sued the Phoenix VA for breach of the duty and standard of care, stood up and took action to right these wrongs and shine light on a culture of corruption and neglect. This suit helped kickstart VA reform. When I came to Congress, my two main goals were to ensure those responsible for this gross negligence were held accountable and that reforms were properly implemented and working for our veterans. The provisions contained in the VA MISSION Act will increase transparency and ensure veterans have better access to care – a strong next step toward achieving both these goals.” Also in attendance at the signing ceremony was Arizona veteran Steven Cooper. Following a negligent failure by the VA to diagnose Mr. Cooper with prostate cancer, he sued the Phoenix VA in 2015 for breach of the duty and standard of care. Mr. Cooper won the suit and was awarded $2.5 million in March 2017 after a U.S. magistrate judge found that his now-terminal cancer would have been curable had the VA hospital in Phoenix diagnosed it properly. Rep. McSally presented Mr. Cooper with one of President Trump’s ceremonial signing pens in the Rose Garden as a way of honoring his courage and commitment to protecting veterans everywhere. The VA MISSION Act also: strengthens the VA’s workforce and recruitment; enforces safe opioid prescription standards; and expands the caregiver program to veterans of any era. This legislation also builds on the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, which was passed with Rep. McSally’s support in 2017. President Trump Hands Rep. McSally Pen Following the Signing of the VA Mission Act Rep. McSally With Steven Cooper, Rima Cooper, and Vice President Pence Rep. McSally and Steven Cooper Take Questions About the Importance of the VA Mission Act
05.31.2018	NOGALES, AZ – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today hosted Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen at multiple locations along the U.S.-Mexico border in Arizona, where she toured the Douglas and Nogales ports of entry and took a line tour to view enforcement challenges, border fencing, terrain features and threats, and spotter lookout points. The visit provided Secretary Nielsen an opportunity to witness the unique security challenges Arizona faces and allowed her to hear from local stakeholders and government officials about how they are impacting border communities. "Secretary Nielsen is well versed on the challenges we face along our southern border but nothing provides a better understanding of our unique border challenges and opportunities than seeing them first-hand and talking to individuals on the ground. I’ve fought in Congress to advance legislation to address staffing shortages at our ports of entry and increase funding for infrastructure and technology to secure the border and stop the flow of illicit contraband into our communities. This visit by the Secretary helps convey why I’ve engaged in those efforts and demonstrates why more is needed. I appreciate her taking the time and look forward to working with her and other members of the administration as Congress tackles these issues in the coming weeks.” On Thursday morning, the trip began with a visit to the Douglas Port of Entry. Built in 1933, the Douglas port is outdated and inadequate to handle the pedestrian and commercial traffic it encounters. Rep. McSally highlighted her previous work and steps needed to modernize and expand the ports capacity. The two officials next met with Sheriffs from Cochise, Pima and Yuma counties to discuss law enforcement issues faced along the border. In the afternoon, Rep. McSally and Secretary Nielsen were joined by Rep. Schweikert to host a roundtable with members of the business community, ranchers, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the Arizona National Guard. The trip concluded with the group traveling to several locations along the border with Border Patrol agents to discuss ways to greater strengthen the southern border. Rep. McSally hosting Secretary Nielsen comes on the heels of a Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee hearing she chaired in Phoenix, AZ to examine the opioid epidemic and the illicit flow of opioids across our southwest border. In 2015, she hosted over 20 Members of Congress at the Southern Arizona border. Rep. McSally's border security legislation, the Securing America's Future Act, is set to be voted on in the House this June. The Securing America's Future Act is the only border security legislation in the House that the President and Secretary Nielsen support. Photos from today’s events can been seen below. Roundtable with Sheriffs from Southern Arizona Observing vehicle checkpoints at the Douglas POE Holding a Roundtable Discussion with Secretary Nielsen, Congressman Schweikert, Ranchers, Customs and Border Protection, the Arizona National Guard, and Local Stakeholders Walking along the border Huddling with Border Patrol agents to discuss ways to greater secure the border
05.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following Memorial Day message honoring those in our military who have given the ultimate sacrifice of their lives to protect our freedoms. “On this Memorial Day, please take some time to think about the meaning of this day. Veterans Day is for the living and those of us who have served. Memorial Day is for who gave the last full measure of devotion and died for our freedoms, who died for our ability to have these days to enjoy the free society we live in. There are so many families today who are grieving because their son or daughter is not with them anymore, and they also paid that sacrifice for us. So please take some time today to educate, reflect, or take some time to think and pray for those who have lost their loved ones. Have a meaningful Memorial Day,” said Congresswoman McSally. Click HERE or below to watch her full remarks at the Vietnam Memorial.
05.28.2018	TUCSON, AZ – U.S. Representative Martha McSally led a bipartisan congressional delegation, including three Members of Congress from Arizona, to South Korea over Memorial Day weekend to meet with top military and diplomatic officials about the current situation on the Korean Peninsula. The trip included a visit to the truce village of Panmunjom in the demilitarized zone (DMZ), where the Armistice was signed in 1953. This is the same site Kim Jong-un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in met last month, just hours before they met there again on Saturday. “I am so proud of our troops and extremely impressed with their readiness and capabilities, in lock step with the Republic of Korea (ROK) military, to fight tonight if necessary to defend the peninsula from any aggression by Kim Jong-un. After strategic discussions with military and diplomatic leaders on the ground, I’m confident that the U.S.-ROK alliance remains strong and focused on achieving the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of North Korea. It was also striking to stand at the line of demarcation in the DMZ, which starkly divides freedom from tyranny, just a few hours before President Moon met there with Kim Jong-Un in secret. I pray Kim Jong-un takes advantage of this historic opportunity to give his people a better future.” Congresswoman McSally, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, led a group of three other representatives to key military outposts on the Korean Peninsula, including: Yongsan Army base, where they met with USFK command team and U.S. embassy leadership; Osan Airbase, home to the 7th Air Force and the 25th Fighter Squadron, which flies the A-10 Warthog; Camp Humphreys, home base for the 8th Army and 2nd Infantry Division operations. The delegation also met with the Korean Deputy Defense Minister for Policy, Yeo Suk-joo, to discuss the ongoing threat and efforts toward diplomatic engagement. They discussed ways to strengthen cooperation and collaboration between the United States and South Korea to achieve the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of North Korea. In special commemoration of Memorial Day, the group also visited the Korean War Memorial to honor and remember those Americans and Koreans who lost their lives during the Korean War. Rep. McSally at the truce village of Panmunjom in the DMZ in front of the building where President Moon and Kim Jong-Un met a few hours later Reps. McSally (AZ-02), Schweikert (AZ-06), O’Halleran (AZ-01), Panetta (CA-20) meet with General Vincent Brooks, Commander, U.S. Forces Korea Rep. McSally engages with the 7th Air Force Commander and A-10/F-16 pilots by an A-10 at Osan Airbase
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the fiscal year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act, legislation that authorizes significant funding for Arizona’s many defense assets. Congresswoman McSally successfully worked to ensure that the bill protects Arizona’s military aircraft and installations. It includes funds for new A-10 wings, an accelerated Compass Call cross-decking initiative, 77 new F-35s, and even new Apache attack helicopters. For military installations, it includes millions for a new Aerospace Ground Equipment facility at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, $40 million to construct an F-35 aircraft maintenance unit facility at Luke Air Force Base, and resources to upgrade the testing ranges at Yuma Proving Ground and the Electronic Proving Ground at Ft. Huachuca. “Arizona leads the way in our nation’s defense. Our installations, our aircraft, our weather, and our troops are unparalleled. It’s my job in Congress to ensure these top-notch defense assets continue to have the resources and support they need to keep our armed forces on the cutting edge. This bill does that. It infuses resources to update our bases, build more necessary aircraft, and produce more munitions. I don’t want to see any more troops lost in unnecessary training accidents, and by beginning to reverse our readiness crisis, this bill will help save lives. Now, I urge the Senate to pass it,” said Congresswoman McSally. Among the several amendments to the legislation she successfully offered, Congresswoman McSally included an amendment to emphasize the importance of the Western Army Aviation Training Site (WAATS) in Marana to Army attack aviation readiness. She also inserted amendments to grant a waiver of time limitations so the Distinguished Service Cross can be awarded to Staff Sergeant Justin Gallegos, a soldier from Arizona who was killed in Afghanistan in 2009 and further a long-overdue runway expansion and munitions storage for Tucson International Airport. Additionally, she was a primary author of an amendment that was adopted that will improve access to minerals and raw materials critical to the viability of the U.S. defense industrial base. The FY 2019 NDAA includes the following in its provisions: Davis-Monthan A-10 re-wing: $163 million for A-10 enhancements, including an additional $65 million above the President’s budget request for re-winging; also directs the Air Force to consider multi-year funding to get the job done cheaper, quicker, and more efficiently. Compass Call Cross-deck initiative: full funding President’s budget request ($108 million) and directs that the cross-deck project be accelerated Davis-Monthan Air Force Base: $15 million for a long-overdue Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) facility Supporting Arizona’s Military Installations Luke Air Force Base: $40 million for additional military construction for F-35 aircraft maintenance unit facility and squad operations Increased testing resources for our testing ranges at the Yuma Proving Ground and the Electronic Proving Ground at Ft. Huachuca with an additional $58.9 million to improve and modernize these major combat range and test facility bases, including procurement of advanced threat radar systems to improve open-air range test capabilities for next-generation equipment and aerial armament AZ Jobs & Industry F-35: $4.17 billion for 77 new F-35’s Supports 27 different suppliers and 6,020 direct and indirect jobs in Arizona (worth $503.8 million of economic impact) Improved Turbine Engine Program – the Army’s premier engine enhancement program for its Future Vertical Lift initiative $284.6 million for new AH-64 Apache attack helicopters, which are built in Mesa Full funding for Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) program, which will ensure access to space for military and commercial assets $128 million for Global Hawk modifications in Sierra Vista, impacting over 342 Arizona suppliers, and supporting 220 jobs in Sierra Vista $338.1 million for Stryker A1 combat vehicle upgrades $216 million for 198 additional Tomahawk missiles (line was previously set for decommission) $25m for HMMWV (High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle) modernization for the National Guard (above President’s budget request) $60 million for Gray Eagle service live extension program Accelerated construction of the fourth Ford—class aircraft carrier, construction of two additional Littoral Combat Ships, and supports two additional Virginia class attack submarines in fiscal years 2022 and 2023
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) today successfully offered an amendment to the fiscal year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that will expand a parallel runway at Tucson International Airport (TIA) and provide space for expansion of munitions storage facilities on the property. Specifically, this amendment authorizes a land transfer that will allow TIA to relocate and extend a parallel runway for use by civilian and National Guard personnel. It will also provide additional land space for Raytheon’s munitions storage facilities. “Together, the Air Force, the Arizona Air National Guard, the Tucson Airport Authority, Pima County, and a number of other local stakeholders have worked hard for many years to make this runway expansion project a reality. My amendment will carry this project across the finish line at the federal level. This expansion will facilitate significant economic growth, development, and viability of our region. Additionally, this extra space will allow Raytheon to expand its munitions storage facilities on the airport property so they can continue their important work of providing critical munitions to our nation’s military right here in Tucson. It will also enhance the kinds of support the 162nd Wing can provide for our troops.” In 2016, Raytheon announced a $550 million facility expansion in anticipation of increasing missile production, testing, and storage, requiring 559,000 square feet of new commercial space. The TIA expansion project will help Raytheon in this new effort. Additionally, TIA is home to the 162nd Wing—the Air National Guard's (ANG) premier F-16 fighter pilot training unit. It is one of the largest ANG wings in the country and resides on 92 acres next to the Tucson International Airport. The wing shares use of the runway with the airport and will also benefit from its expansion.
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ), joined by Congressman Kevin Cramer (R-ND), today successfully offered an amendment to the fiscal year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The amendment grants a waiver of time limitations so the Distinguished Service Cross can be awarded to Staff Sergeant Justin Gallegos, a soldier from Tucson who was killed in Afghanistan in 2009. The Distinguished Service Cross is the second highest military award that can be given to a member of the U.S. Army for extreme gallantry in combat with an armed enemy force. Staff Sgt. Gallegos selflessly gave his life and has not yet been recognized with the Distinguished Service Cross. “SSG Gallegos bravely fought and gave his life in service to our country and his fellow soldiers. He embodies what the Distinguished Service Cross stands to honor. He is worthy of this distinction, and we are indebted to this Arizonan hero for his striking courage and sacrifice. My amendment ensures he receives this long overdue recognition,” said Congresswoman McSally, who has been deployed six times to the Middle East and Afghanistan. Clint Romesha is a Medal of Honor recipient who fought alongside Staff SSG Gallegos in Afghanistan. “The battle in which Staff SSG Gallegos fought and perished took place on October 3, 2009, and the heroics that he performed in combat were critical both to the successful defense of Combat Outpost Keating and the survival of all but eight members of Black Knight Troop,” said Romesha. Romesha added, “For almost a decade, the men who fought shoulder-to-shoulder with Staff Sgt. Gallegos, along with his wife, son, and members of his extended family, have all been patiently waiting for the Army to properly honor his sacrifice. I welcome this amendment and the commemoration made possible by it as an important final step in memorializing one of the finest soldiers, as well one of the bravest human beings, with whom I've ever had the honor to serve.” “SSG. Gallegos is a hero to our country,” said Rep. Cramer. “Through our deep gratitude for our armed forces, the Distinguished Service Cross stands to commemorate and honor the sacrifice made by our troops. I am pleased to work alongside Rep. McSally to recognize Sgt. Gallegos through this amendment and I hope the Senate quickly follows.” Later this week the House will vote on the final passage of H.R. 5515. The Congresswoman will work with Senator McCain to ensure this amendment’s passage in the Senate as well.
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In a Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee hearing she chaired yesterday, U.S. Representative McSally blasted loopholes in our existing immigration laws that allow MS-13 gang members, drug cartels, human traffickers and others to enter the country. "Individuals have learned how to exploit the system," said Congresswoman McSally during the hearing. "It should surprise no one that many of those who claim asylum do not ever show up for their court date, most likely because their claim is unfounded in the first place." Congresswoman McSally summarized several of the major loopholes and the policies necessary to address them in her statements below. First, the United States needs to raise the standard for the initial asylum interview that happens at the border. The second is to hold individuals as long as it takes for them to have due process while their asylum claims are adjudicated. Third, serious criminals, gang member, or terrorists should be unequivocally prohibited from entering the country. Fourth, require a swift removal if the asylum claim is denied. Fifth, terminate asylum status for those who return back to their country. Sixth, expeditiously return of unaccompanied minors to non-contiguous countries. Finally, increase the penalties for false asylum claims in order to deter and hold people accountable. Because these loopholes are written into law, only Congress can act to close them. Legislative solutions to close these gaps are included in the Securing America’s Future Act, which Congresswoman McSally authored with Representatives Goodlatte, McCaul, and Labrador. It is the only border security bill the President supports. Click HERE or below to watch her remarks in committee. Video of McSally takes a hard line on asylum-seekers Additionally, the Congresswoman appeared on Fox News today with Harris Faulkner today ahead of the President’s MS-13 roundtable in Long Island. Rep. McSally further discussed her hearing and how House leadership has committed to taking up Securing America’s Future Act in June. “Transnational criminal organizations are taking advantage of our lax laws, and only Congress can act. My bill closes these loopholes and we are demanding that it be brought to the floor. Leadership says it will be brought to the floor, and we need 218 votes for it to pass. Democrats need to stop playing politics with this,” Congresswoman McSally said on Fox. Click HERE or below to watch her full interview. Video of U.S. Rep McSally Speaks to Harris Faulkner About the Importance of Closing Border Loopholes Read Politico and the Washington Time’s coverage of the hearing below. Politico: McSally takes a hard line on asylum-seekers By Ted Hesson 05/22/2018 03:47 PM EDT Rep. Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) today blasted "loopholes" that allow migrants to seek asylum in the United States. McSally chaired a hearing of the House Homeland Security Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee that focused on asylum and illegal immigration. "Individuals have learned how to exploit the system," she said. "It should surprise no one that many of those who claim asylum do not ever show up for their court date, most likely because their claim is unfounded in the first place." McSally spoke of the need to toughen the standard to lodge an asylum claim, and to alter a human trafficking law that prohibits the swift deportation of children from countries other than Mexico or Canada. The Arizona lawmaker is engaged in a competitive primary race for the Senate seat currently occupied by Republican Jeff Flake. The latest polls show McSally in a near tie with Kelli Ward, a physician and immigration hard-liner. A group of protesters held up pro-refugee signs at the start of the hearing until McSally had them removed by U.S. Capitol Police. Washington Times: More than 450 caravan migrants made it into U.S. Only small fraction facing charges By Stephen Dinan - The Washington Times - Tuesday, May 22, 2018 More than 450 people from the illegal immigrant caravan managed to make it into the U.S., officials told Congress Tuesday. Of those just 122 were arrested for jumping the border, while more than 330 others showed up at official ports of entry and demanded asylum, the officials told the House Homeland Security Committee, giving the first complete look at the effects of the caravan. Despite a very public zero tolerance policy the Trump administration announced for the caravan, authorities have announced charges against only a small fraction of the 122 people who jumped the border. Homeland Security officials weren’t able to give an exact number of people who did face charges, but the Justice Department only announced 11 prosecutions in California, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection pointed to a few others in Texas. In court documents filed in California, a Border Patrol supervisor said they didn’t lodge charges against mothers who jumped the border with their children or, in one case, a woman who was eight months pregnant — but it was unclear how many people that covered in total. The caravan began as about 1,500 people from Central America making their way north through Mexico to the U.S., traveling for weeks. Some got turned back in Mexico, others were granted protections in Mexico, but nearly 600 reached Tijuana, and of those more than 450 did get into the U.S. “We encountered almost 500 of them,” said Ronald D. Vitiello, acting deputy commissioner of Customs and Border Protection. The majority — more than 330 — followed government directions and waited to apply for asylum through the official ports of entry, and are now in processing in the U.S. Of those, asylum officers have screened 216 of them already, and found 205 — nearly 95 percent — cleared the initial low bar of claiming a “credible fear” of being sent back to their home country, giving them an initial foothold in the U.S. That’s “so low that nearly everybody can make it through,” said Rep. Martha McSally, the Arizona Republican who served as chairman of Tuesday’s hearing where officials detailed the caravan enforcement. Many of the asylum seekers will be released into the country and eventually given work permits while they await their full asylum hearings, which can take years. Only about 20 percent will be successful in winning those cases, while many others won’t even bother to pursue their asylum cases, instead ignoring summonses and disappearing into the illegal immigrant population, analysts said. Lee Francis Cissna, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which handles the initial asylum screening, said the caravan migrants are emblematic of a much larger problem. His agency now has an asylum backlog of more than 300,000 cases, many of them likely to be bogus. “A lot of people, we believe, do this on purpose,” he said, adding that once they’ve been waiting for six months they can apply for work permits, which is what many of them are seeking anyway. “they can wander around working freely in the economy for as long as it takes to hear their claims.” Democrats said that attitude was a disservice to real asylum seekers who are fleeing horrid conditions in their home countries. “We love to paint immigrants as criminals. That is not the complete facts and that is very offensive for me to see that continuing to happen,” said Rep. Nanette Barragan, California Democrat. She said when she practiced as a lawyer, she handled asylum cases and said proving a case is difficult. She said the low level of approval has less to do with people being undeserving and more to do with the difficulty of navigating the immigration courts. She said if more asylum-seekers had lawyers, more would be able to win their cases. “Just because you don’t get asylum doesn’t mean that it’s a fraud,” she said.
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to allow the City of Tucson to take full ownership of Udall Park today unanimously passed out of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and will next be considered on the Senate Floor. Last month, Congresswoman McSally sent a letter urging the committee to take up the Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act of 2017—common-sense legislation which unanimously passed the House last October. After passing the Senate committee today, the bill is one step closer towards becoming law and resolving a 28-year dispute with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to clarify the City of Tucson’s full ownership of Udall Park. “Udall Park is a cherished urban park in the heart of Tucson. However, unresolved disputes over this land with the Bureau of Land Management have directly prevented the City from expanding and improving the park. Until the city’s full ownership is clarified, Tucson can’t seize opportunities to supplement park funding, approve certain community events, or even allow local farmers markets on small portions of the park to benefit the city,” said Congresswoman McSally. “I’m pleased to see the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee respond to my letter and swiftly pass this legislation, and I urge the full Senate to pass it and put this dispute to rest once and for all.” At Congresswoman McSally’s invitation, Tucson City Manager Michael Ortega traveled to Washington, DC in July to testify before the House Natural Resources Committee on how Rep. McSally’s legislation will address a reversion clause in the 1989 agreement with the Bureau of Land Management to allow the city to finally obtain ownership of the park. Click HERE to watch his testimony. “The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee’s passage of the Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act brings us one step closer to realizing the full potential of our community’s beloved Udall Park. I thank the Committee leadership, Chairwoman Murkowski, and Ranking Member Cantwell, along with Senator Flake, Senator McCain, Representative McSally, Representative Grijalva and the entire Arizona Congressional delegation for their unanimous support of the bill,” said Mayor Jonathan Rothschild Click HERE to read the letter Congresswoman McSally sent to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in April.
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – With U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s support, the House passed critical legislation today to save and improve veterans’ community care programs so Arizona veterans can access the care they have earned when and where they need it. The VA Choice Program—landmark legislation that allows veterans to access alternative care when the VA cannot provide them the timely care they need—will run out of funding this month without Congressional intervention. This legislation will ensure seamless care for veterans and strengthen the VA Choice Program by consolidating the VA’s community care programs into one cohesive program that is simpler for veterans to use. The VA Mission Act is strongly supported by President Trump and the administration has urged Congress to send it to the President’s desk before Memorial Day. “Our heroes deserve access to the quality care they have earned, regardless of whether they live in a city or a small town. No veteran should be unable to access care just because of their zip code. This bill strengthens and improves the speed and accessibility of care for our veterans by consolidating multiple VA community care programs into one program that will make it easier for veterans to understand and access. When I was a caregiver myself for someone requiring complex cancer care at the VA and in the community, I experienced first-hand the complexity and confusion with the multiple VA care community programs. Streamlining these programs into one will provide better efficiency, clarity, and care tailored to each veteran’s unique medical needs,” said Congresswoman McSally. “We must uphold our responsibility to care for the men and women who put their lives on the line to protect our country and our freedoms—and this bill doubles down on the covenant we made with our troops. The President appropriately pressed Congress to act, and I urge the Senate to take this up as quickly as possible.” Funds for the VA Choice Program are expected to run out as early as May 31, 2018. The VA Mission Act continues funding for the program and enhances it through three main provisions. First, the bill would streamline the department’s duplicative community care programs into one cohesive program. Second, it creates an independent process for reviewing VA’s assets to ensure veterans can access the care they have earned. Third, it expands the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Post-9/11 Caregiver Program so that family caregivers and veterans injured during World War II, the Korean, Vietnam and Gulf Wars are also eligible for full comprehensive caregiver assistance. Congresswoman McSally has regularly met with leaders of VA’s across Arizona, including the Southern Arizona VA Health Care System and the Phoenix VA Health Care System. As a veteran who receives care from the VA herself, she understands the difficulties veterans often face when trying to access care, especially if they live in rural areas. That’s why Rep. McSally has been hard at work in Congress to improve the VA Choice Program so that Arizona veterans can receive quality care faster and closer to home.
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally joined Fox News yesterday to discuss the upcoming Congressional Delegation she is leading to the Korean peninsula. “We have this historic diplomatic opening thanks to the maximum pressure campaign by the Trump administration, but we need to keep the vice-grips strongly on Kim Jong Un until North Korea actually changes their behavior to fully denuclearize the peninsula. I think it’s really important for me to get on the ground with this delegation—talk to the troops, talk to the embassy, see what’s actually happening real time, and get a real sense first-hand,” said Congresswoman McSally. Click HERE or below to watch her full interview with Neil Cavuto. Video of McSally Discusses Leading Upcoming Trip to Korean Peninsula She also discussed her trip on Fox Business Network, saying, “I want to get to the demilitarized zone, talk with the diplomatic leaders and the military leaders there to get eyes on the situation and see what’s happening. This President has given us a historic opportunity…we need to keep up the maximum pressure campaign and keep focused on verifiable, irreversible denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. That’s our objective.” Click HERE or below to watch her full interview with Countdown to the Closing Bell. Video of McSally Discusses North Korea on Countdown to the Closing Bell
05.14.2018	TUCSON –U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that Rebecca Burton, a junior at Empire High School in Tucson, was awarded first place in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for her watercolor entitled “Sister.” Out of forty-four submissions from students at ten high schools around Congressional District 2, “Sister” was selected for first place by a panel of local art experts. Rebecca’s artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol until next Spring and she will be invited to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception along with other Congressional district winners. Congresswoman McSally with 1st place winner, Rebecca Burton, and her winning artwork “Sister” Second place went to Michael Fisher, a senior at City High School for his art piece, “Eye” in pen and ink. Camyrn Malozsak, a junior at Walden Grove High School, was awarded third place for her photograph “Biz-B.” Their artwork will be displayed in the Tucson and Sierra Vista offices, respectively. Congresswoman McSally with 2nd place winner, Michael Fisher, and his artwork “Eye.” Congresswoman McSally with 3rd place winner, Camyrn Malozsak, and her artwork “Biz-B” “I would like to congratulate all who participated in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. These art pieces display the talent and creativity of our students, and the incredible diversity of this year’s art submissions is truly emblematic of Southern Arizona,” said Congresswoman McSally. In addition, three pieces received honorable mention: “Silent Voices” a pencil drawing by freshman Mykaela Salvacion of Basis High School in Oro Valley, “What Lies Beneath” a photograph by senior David Bertoldo of Walden Grove High School in Sahuarita, and “Rhab Alharb" an oil painting by Joy M. Mona, a senior from Ironwood Ridge High School in Oro Valley. Rep. McSally also announced the winner of the “People’s Choice” award, selected by constituents who voted for their favorite submission on Rep. McSally’s Facebook page. The artwork that received the most votes was “Hummingbird” – a photograph by Jacqueline Maldonado, a sophomore at Flowing Wells High School. “Hummingbird” will be displayed in Rep. McSally’s office in Washington, DC. ​ Congresswoman McSally with People’s Choice winner, Jacqueline Maldonado, and her photograph, “Hummingbird.” To view all the submissions, click HERE. To view all photos of the event, click HERE.
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – After a marathon markup session, the House Armed Services Committee early Thursday morning passed legislation to authorize national defense funding for fiscal year 2019. Because of U.S. Representative McSally’s persistent advocacy, the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) secured funding for Arizona’s defense priorities throughout the state. Among the extensive list of wins for Arizona, the bill includes more funds for new A-10 wings, full funding and acceleration for Compass Call’s cross-decking initiative, and millions for a new Aerospace Ground Equipment facility at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. The measure also funds 77 new F-35s and allocates $40 million to construct an F-35 aircraft maintenance unit facility at Luke Air Force Base. The bill also increases resources to upgrade the testing ranges at Yuma Proving Ground and the Electronic Proving Ground at Ft. Huachuca. It also includes funding for new Apache attack helicopters, which are built in Mesa, and emphasizes the importance of the Western Army Aviation Training Site (WAATS) in Marana to Army attack aviation readiness. “The weather, the airspace, and the network of diverse military facilities make Arizona a premier location for the Department of Defense. The missions at our six military installations are indispensable to our national security and vital to our local communities. I fought hard to ensure that this year's defense bill invests in Arizona’s amazing military assets throughout the state. This bill will: infuse resources to update our bases; build more of our needed aircraft like F-35 fighters and Apache attack helicopters; produce more critical munitions like Raytheon’s Tomahawks; support research and development of next-generation weaponry; and keep the A-10 fleet flying for years to come. If we want to stop seeing tragic and unnecessary training deaths in the news, we must invest in our military readiness. This bill does just that, and I am honored to have fought and won on so many key investments for our troops,” said Congresswoman McSally. Congresswoman McSally has successfully prevented the A-10 from being prematurely mothballed, and for the second year in a row has secured funding to continue rewinging the A-10 fleet to prevent its grounding. Earlier this year, she successfully got the Air Force Secretary to state on the record that she plans to keep the fleet in operation until “at least 2030.” The FY 2019 NDAA includes the following in its provisions: Davis-Monthan A-10 re-wing: $163 million for A-10 enhancements, including an additional $65 million above the President’s budget request for re-winging; also directs the Air Force to consider multi-year funding to get the job done cheaper, quicker, and more efficiently. Compass Call Cross-deck initiative: full funding President’s budget request ($108 million) and directs that the cross-deck project be accelerated Davis-Monthan Air Force Base: $15 million for a long-overdue Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) facility Supporting Arizona’s Military Installations Luke Air Force Base: $40 million for additional military construction for F-35 aircraft maintenance unit facility and squad operations Increased testing resources for our testing ranges at the Yuma Proving Ground and the Electronic Proving Ground at Ft. Huachuca with an additional $58.9 million to improve and modernize these major combat range and test facility bases, including procurement of advanced threat radar systems to improve open-air range test capabilities for next-generation equipment and aerial armament AZ Defense Industry F-35: $4.17 billion for 77 new F-35’s Supports 27 different suppliers and 6,020 direct and indirect jobs in Arizona (worth $503.8 million of economic impact) Improved Turbine Engine Program – the Army’s premier engine enhancement program for its Future Vertical Lift initiative $284.6 million for new AH-64 Apache attack helicopters, which are built in Mesa Full funding for Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) program, which will ensure access to space for military and commercial assets $128 million for Global Hawk modifications in Sierra Vista, impacting over 342 Arizona suppliers, and supporting 220 jobs in Sierra Vista $338.1 million for Stryker A1 combat vehicle upgrades $216 million for 198 additional Tomahawk missiles (line was previously set for decommission) $25m for HMMWV modernization for the National Guard (above President’s budget request) $60 million for Gray Eagle service live extension program Accelerated construction of the fourth Ford--class aircraft carrier, construction of two additional Littoral Combat Ships, and supports two additional Virginia class attack submarines in fiscal years 2022 and 2023
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement regarding the President’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Iran Nuclear Deal and reinstate the highest level of economic sanctions on the Iran regime. “The deeply flawed so-called Iran Deal, which was essentially an Obama executive order, gave the Ayatollah regime hundreds of millions of dollars in cash to fund terrorism, foolishly allowed Iran to self-inspect, didn’t even target Iran’s ballistic missile program, and gave Iran a patient path to a nuclear bomb in as little as 7 years from now. Because of this awful deal, Iran is emboldened and has continued to sabotage stability in the region while threatening our strong ally, Israel. I wholeheartedly support the President’s decision to terminate U.S. participation in this rotten deal and instead levy powerful economic sanctions on the largest state-sponsor of terror in the world. In order to shut down Iran’s export of terrorism and violence—and prevent them from ever having a nuclear weapon—we must cut off their flow of resources. As someone who has deployed to this volatile region six times, I commend President Trump for comprehending what Obama never grasped: you don’t give a dangerous regime unilateral concessions in weakness, you stop them with strength. With Trump’s leadership, we will not cower from nuclear blackmail by rogue regimes. The United States is safer and stronger because of the President's decision, and we urge our European allies to wake up to reality and join us.” Congresswoman McSally has been consistently outspoken with her concerns with the Iran Deal. She’s outlined its flaws in the Arizona Republic and Arizona Daily Star and provided Congressional leadership with provisions needed to prevent a nuclear Iran.
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative McSally today questioned U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen on Arizona’s border security priorities, including the dangers of sanctuary policies, closing the legal loopholes enticing MS-13 and other gangs to slip across the border, and the national guard. Congresswoman McSally highlighted how her legislation, the Securing America’s Future Act, would address all three priorities—closing those glaring loopholes, cracking down on sanctuary cities, and authorizing the National Guard to provide assistance at the border. MS-13 Abuse of Legal Loopholes First, Congresswoman McSally highlighted how the Yuma sector is a transition point for the MS-13 gang, a gang composed primarily of immigrants or descendants of immigrants from El Salvador and other Central American countries with the motto “kill, rape, control.” She also pointed to a joint DHS/DOJ MS-13 operation last year in which 25% of the 267 gang members arrested had entered the U.S. as UACs, as well as a 2017 “spot check” on an HHS facility where roughly 30% of the 138 teens being held had ties to MS-13 and other gangs. The Congresswoman was invited by the President to attend a roundtable with him at the White House to discuss cracking down on MS-13. “Earlier this week, a Yuma sector border patrol apprehended 61 people who entered the U.S. illegally. During an initial interview, one of these individuals claimed to be an unaccompanied minor. He later admitted he was an adult and part of MS-13,” said Congresswoman McSally. “UACs from El Salvador and other Central American countries are given different treatment than those from Mexico or other countries like Canada and are allowed to remain in the United States only to disappear into the shadows. Is MS-13 using loopholes in our law to send individuals to the United States?” In her answer, Secretary Nielsen affirmed that is the case and estimated that only 3.5% of unaccompanied minors are eventually removed. The Danger of Sanctuary Policies Congresswoman McSally next turned to the sanctuary policies of states like California to question the Secretary on how they are impacting the safety of communities in those states and around the nation. “In California, according to DHS, 100 gang members, many of whom belonged to MS-13, were recently released in October 2016 to June 2017 because of their sanctuary policies,” said Congresswoman McSally. “So we have gang members and other violent felons and criminals who—because of these dangerous policies—and being released back into our communities to be a further danger, instead of being handed over to federal authorities in prison where it is safer for the community and safer for your agents. Can you speak to the dangers of that and what needs to be done?” Secretary Nielsen emphasized that “Sanctuary cities protect criminals, not the community.” She detailed how agents have to go into the communities to contain the criminals, which puts both the community—and the immigrants in that community—as well as officers, at risk. She also noted how these policies “pit blue against blue, federal law enforcement against state law enforcement when they should be working together to protect our communities.” National Guard Deployment to the Border Finally, Congresswoman McSally restated her full support of having the National Guard deployed to the southwest border, and invited the Secretary to tour the border in her district to see the progress. Secretary Nielsen outlined how the National Guard is acting as a force multiplier for U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Click HERE or below to watch their full exchange. Video of McSally Questions DHS Secretary Nielsen
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor on her resolution to honor Southwest Airlines Pilot Tammie Jo Shults for her unflappable courage that saved so many lives, and for paving the way for women in military and commercial aviation. Congresswoman McSally’s resolution has twenty-seven cosponsors from both sides of the aisle. Click HERE for the text of the resolution, and CLICK HERE to watch Congresswoman McSally discuss the resolution on Fox News. Click HERE or below to watch her speech on the House Floor. Video of McSally Honors Pilot Tammie Jo Shults on House Floor Transcript Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Tammie Jo Shults, the Southwest Airlines Captain who heroically and expertly landed the damaged Boeing 737 last week. She saved 148 lives through her courage, skill, professionalism, and nerves of steel. We also mourn the death of Jennifer Riordan, who was killed by the immediate effects of this mishap. Tammie Jo Shults was a hero long before this successful emergency landing. Captain Shults was one of the first female fighter pilots for the U.S. Navy and one of the first women to fly the F/A-18. Although she was never allowed to fly in combat, she became an aggressor pilot and an instructor. Tammie Jo Shults reminds us that the airplane doesn’t care whether you have ovaries or not, as long as you have the qualifications and the training to complete the mission. And that’s why, Mr. Speaker, I introduced a resolution on Monday to commend Captain Tammie Jo Shults for her unflappable courage that saved so many lives, and for paving the way for women in the military and commercial aviation to finally fly in combat and lead as equals. Generations of women can fight for freedom and save lives, like she did, because of her. Thanks for leading the way, Tammie Jo, for all of us. I yield back.
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON –U.S. Representative Martha McSally today questioned the newly sworn-in U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner McAleenan on the status and future of border security priorities, including the deployment of National Guard troops to the southwest border and closing immigration loopholes that are a magnet for illicit migration. Congresswoman McSally’s opening statement highlighted that, since January 2018, almost 22,000 unaccompanied minors and 40,000 families arrived at the border under these policies that enrich the cartels. “This caravan has gotten a lot of attention, there is a large group of people coming to our border, many who plan to exploit our loopholes—but this has been happening every single day in the communities along the border…the insanity is that the message to any transnational criminal organization is just to get to the border, look for someone, turn yourself in, say the right words, then you can just disappear into the interior of the United States with a very small percentage showing up for their court date in the future, correct?” the Congresswoman asked Commissioner McAleenan. “That is correct, and that is exactly right. Transnational criminal organizations are preying on these individuals, charging them $5,000-$10,000 to smuggle them to the border and allow them to use their area to cross” answered Commissioner McAleenan. Video of McSally Questions New CBP Commissioner on Legal Loopholes The Congresswoman also focused on the value of the National Guard on the border as a “force multiplier” for CBP. “I fully support the deployment of the national guard to the border. As the representative of a border community myself, I personally think that it is taking Washington too long to get something done about securing our border,” said the Congresswoman in her second round of questioning. “Can you tell me about the status of the deployment, what our troops are doing, and will we see additional deployments?” “CBP very much appreciates the opportunity to work with the National Guard again. We have 600 on the ground already, doing things like surveillance, operational support, intelligence analysis, and maintaining access roads and infrastructure. So they are going to extend our capability in a number of different areas,” answered Commissioner McAleenan in part. “This frees up border patrol agents to be able to patrol the border and intercept illegal activity while the guardsmen act within their core competencies in the military to provide support functions. I’m also concerned about having the agents we do have fully focused on the border. There have been media reports that at certain stations only 12% of agents are patrolling the border. That’s not adequate, we need to make sure that highly trained agents are out there patrolling the border and what else can we do to partner with you to free them up to do that job?” In his answer, Commissioner McAleenan highlighted how closing legal loopholes would reduce the time needed to process family units and minors, putting more agents back into the field. Video of McSally Questions New CBP Commissioner on National Guard Deployed to Border Congresswoman McSally also emphasized the need to prioritize and expedite the modernization of the outdated and overworked Douglas Port of Entry. “Land ports of entry are critical for both economic opportunity and increasing cross-border commerce which will provide economic development and jobs in America, but also for security. We’ve seen the vast majority of drugs are coming through the ports of entry,” Congresswoman McSally stated. “These ports of entry are part of border security, but they are also apart of economic development and opportunity and many of them are woefully inadequate, like the Douglas Port of Entry in my district. Built in 1933, it needs to be replaced, and we’ve been advocating for that since I came here. Have you been to the Douglas Port of Entry and can you speak to the importance of updating ports like this for border security, economic development, and counterterrorism?” The Commissioner agreed, saying, “I have been to the Douglas Port of Entry many times—a challenging facility to say the least given the growth in traffic since the 1930s. It wasn’t designed for where we are today.” The Commissioner also told the Congresswoman that the Douglas Port of Entry was “a top ten priority” and he believes it will be in Fiscal Year 2019 or Fiscal Year 2020. Click HERE or below to watch the full exchange. Video of McSally Questions New CBP Commissioner on Douglas POE Modernization Congresswoman McSally also reiterated her firm support in Congress to provide funding for a wall and expressed eagerness for a concrete and definitive timeline for the wall’s completion. Click HERE or below to watch her full opening statement below. Video of McSally Opening Statement
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today sent a letter to the Chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources urging the committee to take up her bill to grant the City of Tucson full ownership of Udall Park. The City of Tucson has been working to clarify its ownership of the park for 28 years. The Congresswoman’s legislation clarifying ownership unanimously passed the House in October and is awaiting further action in the Senate. “Udall Park is a cherished urban park in the heart of Tucson. However, unresolved disputes over this land with the Bureau of Land Management have directly prevented the City from making the park all that it can be. Tucson can’t even host a farmer’s market there because of this dispute! It’s silly that this requires an act of Congress, but since it does, I will continue to work to resolve this longstanding issue so the community can take full advantage of Udall Park,” said Congresswoman McSally. At Congresswoman McSally’s invitation, Tucson City Manager Michael Ortega came to Congress in July to testify on the City of Tucson’s support for McSally’s legislation. In his testimony, he explained how a reversion clause in the 1989 agreement with BLM has prevented the City of Tucson from having full autonomy and ownership for Udall Park to the City of Tucson—and how Rep. McSally’s legislation, the Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act, will address the problem. “I want to thank Representative McSally and the entire Arizona Congressional delegation for working with the City to complete this land transfer nearly 28 years in the making,” said Tucson City Manager Michael Ortega. “The existence of the reverter has directly impeded the City from taking advantage of commercial opportunities to supplement park funding, approve certain community events or look to other commercial ventures on small portions of the park that would benefit the city in general,” he said while testifying before the committee. “This is a unique situation, unlike any other reverter elimination being proposed anywhere on BLM administered lands. H.R. 1547 is needed to complete what should have been completed almost 28 years ago, and to provide an enhanced recreational and economic future for the citizens of Tucson and its environs.” The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources held a subcommittee hearing on McSally’s legislation in February. In her letter, Congresswoman McSally urged the committee to pass the legislation and “bring closure to a land exchange between the City of Tucson and the Bureau of Land Management almost three decades ago.” The full text of the letter is below, or click HERE to read the pdf. Dear Chair Murkowski and Ranking Member Cantwell: We are writing to urge the Committee to bring closure to a land exchange between the City of Tucson and the Bureau of Land Management almost three decades ago. H.R. 1547, the Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act brings the matter to a satisfactory conclusion and honors an historic agreement between the two parties. This legislation passed the House unanimously by a vote of 401-0 after being reported by the Committee on Natural Resources. We thank you for holding a subcommittee hearing on the Senate companion bill in February, and strongly request that your committee bring up the bill for consideration at the next business meeting. Passage of the legislation would provide for the unencumbering of title to 173 acres of non-Federal land owned by the City of Tucson, Arizona for purposes of economic development by conveyance of the Federal reversionary interest to the City. We believe the specific circumstances requiring passage of this legislation are very different from other legislation intended to eliminate reverters from Recreation and Public Purposes Act Patents issued to other entities by the Bureau of Land Management. In 1989, by signed agreement, the City transferred a parcel of land to the BLM that was valued at $4 million, resolved a long-standing $324,000 gravel trespass of Federal minerals by a private company and paid $145,00 to move a USGS facility to other Federal lands. In exchange, the BLM granted the subject R&PP Patent, with a reverter, to the City of Tucson and the BLM State Director signed a letter to the City promising to support Federal legislation to remove the reverter. There were exigent circumstances requiring the matter to be handled in this manner. The City believed everyone would honor the agreement, which was fully supported by the Arizona delegation and BLM’s Headquarters at the time. Twenty-eight years have passed and this issue is begging to be resolved on behalf of the City as soon as possible. Udall Park is one of the most popular recreational destinations for Tucson residents, and it is also a living tribute to one of the great Arizonans of the 20th Century, Congressman Mo Udall. Thank you for your time and attention to this needed legislation. Congresswoman Martha McSally
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally is introducing a resolution in Congress to honor Tammie Jo Shults, the Southwest Pilot and fellow female trailblazer aviator who heroically landed a damaged 737 Boeing aircraft, saving the lives of nearly every single one-hundred and forty-nine souls on board. Before she started flying for Southwest in 1993, Tammie Jo Shults was one of the first female fighter jet pilots for the U.S. Navy. Although she was never allowed to fly in combat, Captain Shults was an aggressor and instructor and her ten years of military experience equipped her to handle the emergency safely and with impressive calmness. “Captain Tammie Jo Shults is nothing short of an American hero. The Air Force and the Navy made a big mistake when they decided not to let her fly in combat, but her courage and her calmness under pressure from all of her years of fighter pilot experience is a reminder that the airplane doesn’t care if you are a man or a woman as long as you have the qualifications and the training to complete the mission – and she did that yesterday. Not only did she pave the way for women like me in aviation, but husbands, wives, mothers, fathers, sons, and daughters are alive today because of her. I’m introducing this resolution to commend her for her service to our nation—in both military and commercial cockpits,” said Congresswoman McSally. In her Congressional resolution, Rep. McSally will commend Captain Tammie Jo Shults and the crew of Southwest Flight 1380 for their display of courage and heroism that saved 148 lives; and praises Captain Tammie Jo Shults not only for her commitment to the safety of the passengers on her plane, but for paving the way for women in military and commercial aviation. Congresswoman McSally discussed her admiration for Captain Tammie Jo Shults yesterday on Fox News with Shannon Bream and explained how the rigorous training she received in Navy as a fighter pilot prepared her for the Southwest emergency. Click HERE or below to watch the clip. Video of Rep. McSally Speaks to Shannon Bream About Resolution Honoring Tammy Jo Shults McSally also shared her thoughts on Captain Shults with Task and Purpose defense magazine. Click HERE to read her comments in the story. The full text of the draft resolution is below. Ms. MCSALLY submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure RESOLUTION Honoring Captain Tammie Jo Shults and the crew of Southwest Flight 1380 for their bravery, knowledge, and dedication to the safety of passengers on board. Whereas on April 17, 2018, Captain Tammie Jo Bonnell Shults piloted Southwest Flight 1380, destined for Dallas, Texas, from New York’s LaGuardia Airport; Whereas 149 people were on board Flight 1380, 144 passengers and five crew members; Whereas Flight 1380 suffered an in-flight failure of its left engine approximately twenty minutes after takeoff, sending shrapnel into the fuselage. Whereas seven passengers were injured and the life of Jennifer Riordan, of Albuquerque, New Mexico, was tragically lost during the accident. Riordan is survived by two children and her husband, Michael Riordan. Whereas on April 17, 2018, Albuquerque Mayor Tim Keller said in a statement that Mrs. Riordan’s death is a “tremendous and tragic loss” and “her leadership and philanthropic efforts made this [Albuquerque] a better place every day and she will be terribly missed.” Whereas Captain Shults’s experience and quick thinking allowed her to successfully complete an emergency landing at the Philadelphia International Airport, saving the lives of every passenger except for Mrs. Riordan and avoiding any casualties on the ground; Whereas after making a safe emergency landing, Captain Schults, as shared by passenger Diana McBride Self, “came back to speak to each” of the passengers personally. Whereas Captain Shults was one of the first female fighter pilots in the Navy’s history and the first woman to fly F/A-18 Hornets. Whereas, although she was never allowed to fly in combat, she became an aggressor pilot and an instructor; Whereas Captain Shults served in the Navy for 10 years, reaching the rank of Navy lieutenant commander. Whereas a friend of Captain Shults said that her military training prepared her for this moment. “Those are the kinds of people you want as pilots. That’s what she does, and she’s good at it.” Whereas thanks to the calmness, courage, heroism, and experience demonstrated by Captain Shults and the crew of Southwest Flight 1380, 148 lives were saved and countless others were spared: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) commends Captain Tammie Jo Shults and the crew of Southwest Flight 1380 for their display of courage and heroism that saved 148 lives; and (2) praises Captain Tammie Jo Shults not only for her commitment to the safety of the passengers on her plane, but for paving the way for women in military and commercial aviation.
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today was recognized by the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) for her congressional leadership in support of the military and veterans. McSally was awarded the Arthur T. Marix Congressional Leadership Award, named for the retired Marine Corps colonel who founded MOAA in 1929. It is presented annually to members of Congress who distinguish themselves in protecting the rights and interests of uniformed services members, their families, and survivors. “We selected Representative McSally for her enduring commitment to the men and women serving in uniform. As a combat veteran herself, she offers a valuable perspective on the unique challenges veterans face, and is able to effectively shape national policy,” said Lt. Gen. Dana T. Atkins (Ret.), MOAA President and CEO. “As the only female officer in the House of Representatives, a lifetime member of MOAA, and someone who has personally served, I’m humbled to receive this award. When I took the oath of office here in Congress, it was the very same oath I took as an officer in the military. I do consider my time deployed to DC as my next assignment, except in civilian clothes. I want servicemembers, veterans, and their families to know that I’ve got their back. We’ve gone into battle together before and now that I’m in DC, I’m going to keep fighting for you,” said Congresswoman McSally. During her time in office, Congresswoman McSally has passionately and effectively advocated for landmark policy changes to strengthen our armed forces, reverse our military readiness crisis, and provide support and care for veterans and their families. She has spearheaded robust increases for national defense, including the largest year-to-year increase for defense funding since the War on Terror began 15 years ago and consistent pay raises for our troops. She has also secured lasting investment in Arizona’s defense assets, including the A-10 at Davis-Monthan and NETCOM at Ft. Huachuca. She has led the charge on numerous veterans’ measures, including advocating for systemic reform to improve accountability and transparency at the VA. McSally has also worked to ensure that Gold Star families don’t lose access to military installations and subsequent memorial services, unit reunions, and grief counseling services if their military family member loses their life in armed conflict. Read MOAA’s full write up honoring Congresswoman McSally below, or by clicking HERE. Former A-10 Pilot Brings the Fight for Servicemembers to Capitol Hill In 2010, Col. Martha McSally retired from the Air Force, leaving behind a 26-year career studded with groundbreaking achievements. An A-10 Thunderbolt pilot, she was the first woman in U.S. history to fly a fighter into combat and the first one to lead a fighter squadron into a fight. But, like many veterans transitioning out of military service, she did not have “total clarity” on what she was going to do after she got out. She had always felt called to serve - that much was a given. “Each day is a gift, and I want to make a difference with my life,” says McSally, who was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2014 and represents Arizona's 2nd district. McSally is an Air Force Academy graduate with master's degrees from the Air War College and Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government. After five assignments in Tucson over the course of her military career, Arizona was home. McSally still misses the battle-buddy bond that was “pretty strong and intense,” even though those years in a flight suit included times of feeling apart. “There was very much an environment of being isolated and alone at key moments,” she says. There had been a “tremendous amount of resistance” to women's advancement as fighter pilots. Future female pilots' fates flew with her, and she knew it. “Get better every time you fly” was her constant mantra. Meanwhile, she'd publicly fought the Pentagon over an issue of women's rights, ending in a lawsuit naming then-Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. At the time, female troops serving in Saudi Arabia were required to wear the Muslim “abaya” body covering in public, while no similar restriction applied to male servicemembers. She wasn't even looking when she ran across the job posting that offered a way to keep serving after her retirement, as a professor at the George C. Marshall European Center for Security Studies in Germany. About six months into that job came the day in 2011 when Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.) was shot during a constituent meeting in a grocery store parking lot. Over the course of Giffords' recovery and leading up to her eventual resignation, McSally came to realize what she needed to do. “It was more to me a call to duty,” she says. “I decided to be true to it.” From the day she made up her mind to come home to Arizona and run for Congress until she won her seat in the House of Representatives by 167 votes in 2014, only 1,049 days elapsed. The oath of office she swore on becoming a member of Congress was the same, word for word, as the oath she pledged when she first put on the uniform of a military officer. Now McSally is serving in civilian clothes at her new duty station in Washington, as she puts it - where the lack of a clear mission focus can be frustrating but where she can make a bigger, more strategic impact. She serves on the House Armed Services and Homeland Security committees and chairs the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security. She's a “secret shopper” of VA health care, getting her own care through the system. She has her eye on the issue of higher rates of homelessness among female veterans. She still can appreciate, from back when she was fighting DoD over women's rights, the words of encouragement she received from friends and mentors during that lonely time ­- which she doesn't characterize that way unless you ask. “I would rather have paved the way for others behind me,” McSally says. “It's just kind of the core of who I am.” McSally has announced her intent to run for the U.S. Senate. Arizona's primary is Aug. 28. McSally's fellow recipient of the Arthur T. Marix Congressional Leadership Award, Rep. Kyrsten Sinema, is on the Democratic ballot for the same seat.
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on President Trump’s announcement that he has ordered air strikes against Syria in response to confirmation that Assad is responsible for a chemical attack against his own civilians: “I commend President Trump for his bold and decisive action against the murderous Assad regime in response to Assad’s use of chemical weapons against his own people. What we are seeing from our president and our allies is a targeted, proportional, and necessary global response to this violation of international law. These strikes will send Assad—and his puppet master, Putin and enabler Iran—a clear message: the world will not stand by idly while they commit these atrocities. We stand firm with our coalition partners, Britain and France, and with the brave men and women who are leading these attacks.” Click below to watch Rep. McSally discuss the air strikes on Fox and Friends: Video of MCSally Discusses Syria Air Strikes on Fox &amp;amp; Friends
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative McSally today questioned Secretary of Defense Mattis and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Dunford regarding the Department of Defense’s Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Budget Request. Her questioning highlighted what the readiness crisis means for the armed forces, and what message it sends to America's adversaries. “As you have all mentioned today, we just partnered with you and the President in order to provide a desperately needed funding boost for our troops to deal with the readiness crisis and the erosion of our competitive edge. But, with less and less of our society serving in our military and being veterans there is a bit of a civil-military disconnect. Secretary Mattis … talk to my constituents and the American people about what has happened with the readiness and the erosion of our capabilities and why it is so important that we all are partnering in order to give our troops everything they need and also for those who have a patriotic urge, why it would be important for them to join those ranks,” Congresswoman McSally asked. Click HERE or below to watch his full answer. Video of 20180412 The FY19 National Defense Authorization Budget Request from the DOD (ID: 108075) Rep. McSally also highlighted how our readiness crisis looks to our adversaries, giving the Secretary of Defense and opportunity address them. “The mullahs, the thugs, the dictators are all listening today to you to identify some weaknesses or vulnerabilities,” said Rep. McSally. “So I also want to give you the opportunity to speak to them, that if they choose to take us on it would be an awful mistake that would come at high price.” Click HERE or below to watch his answer. Video of 20180412 The FY19 National Defense Authorization Budget Request from the DOD (ID: 108075)
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of the Balanced Budget Amendment, a measure she cosponsored which amends the U.S. Constitution to prevent Congress from spending more than it receives in revenue. “This amendment does not ask the government to do anything less than what American families and businesses on main streets across this nation do every day: live within our means. Our nation is careening towards a fiscal crisis and giving China—the number one country holding America’s debt—the keys to our financial security,” said Congresswoman McSally. “This amendment would take definitive action to reverse course and provide the external pressure necessary to rein in our spending. The American people want this amendment to hold Congress accountable, and it’s time we finally do.” Forty-nine states are required to have balanced budgets, either by statute or a Constitutional amendment, including Arizona, which had an estimated $247 million more cash on hand than expected as of last month. A Balanced Budget Amendment almost passed Congress in 1995 but failed by one vote in the Senate. At that time, the national debt was $4.9 trillion. Today, the national debt has ballooned to over $20 trillion. The Balanced Budget Amendment ensures that total spending will not exceed total revenue, prevents the government from increasing public debt, and requires that total spending not exceed 20% of GDP. The amendment also requires a true majority in both the House and the Senate to pass a tax increase, along with a three-fifths supermajority to raise the debt limit.
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in support of the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (FOSTA), legislation that makes it a federal crime for websites to facilitate illegal prostitution— allowing the government to hold bad actors accountable, prosecutors to seek higher penalties, and victims to sue websites and pursue justice. ​ The legislation passed the House with the Congresswoman’s support and has already led to federal authorities seizing control of Backpage.com, a website renown for advertising opportunities to sexually exploit minors. Just this week, the FBI raided the homes of Backpage.com owners Michael Lacey and Jim Larkin in Sedona and Paradise Valley, Arizona. “No one should be able to sell children and hide behind the law to do it—but that’s exactly what Michael Lacey and Jim Larkin did while running Backpage.com out of Arizona. No longer. Thanks to this legislation, websites that facilitate illegal prostitution and sexually exploit minors will be held accountable for their actions by law. I’ve heard first-hand the devastation sexual trafficking wreaks on lives of youth here in Arizona. Only twisted, dark people harm children or associate with those who do, and in Congress, I am determined to crack down on this exploitation and ensure that each and every human is treated with the dignity that they deserve. I applaud President Trump for signing this bill, which has my resounding support,” said Rep. McSally. In Congress, Representative McSally has aggressively fought human trafficking. She held a roundtable with local elected officials, members of law enforcement, and non-profit leaders on ways the community can work together to stop trafficking in Southern Arizona. She declared Pima County a “Zero Tolerance Human Trafficking Zone.” She has spoken on the House floor in support of legislation to punish offenders who facilitate trafficking of victims online. The Congresswoman was also present when President Trump signed legislation she supported that protects victims of human trafficking by providing the right tools to federal, state, and local law enforcement. This was just one of several anti-trafficking measures supported by McSally that have been signed into law.
04.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Today with Congresswoman McSally’s support, the House of Representatives passed legislation to choke off human traffickers’ access to the financial system. Specifically, the End Banking for Human Traffickers Act of 2017 gives the financial industry more tools to detect and deter money laundering attached to human trafficking and encourages foreign governments to prevent such transactions. Human trafficking is estimated to produce profits of roughly $150 billion a year for traffickers, and these profits have made human trafficking the third most lucrative criminal enterprise in the world, according to the United Nations. “It is disgraceful that in the 21st century, right here in America, humans are still bought and sold as slaves. Human trafficking is rampant and a devastating reality for American youth who become victims, and we feel it acutely in Southern Arizona. During my time in Congress, I have worked hard to provide law enforcement the tools to crack down on perpetrators, including those who exploit young victims online, like Michael Lacey and Jim Larkin, the owners of Backpage.com. This bill takes another important step by working to intercept the financial transactions of these criminals. People should never be for sale, so let’s prevent these criminals from cashing in on their profits,” said Rep. McSally. The International Labor Organization estimates that over $150 billion in illegal profits are made from forced labor each year and $99 billion is earned from the victims of sexual exploitation. The measure requires the federal government to step up its anti-trafficking operation. It requires the Federal Institutions Examination Council to ensure existing procedures are sufficient to detect and deter money laundering related to human trafficking, mandates that the President’s Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking submit an analysis of anti-money laundering efforts of the United States Government related to human trafficking and recommendations to improve such efforts, adds combatting illicit financing related to human trafficking as a statutory responsibility of the Treasury’s Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence (OTFI), designates an office within OTFI to coordinate efforts to combat the illicit financing of human trafficking, and includes a framework to prevent such transactions as part of the minimum standards the State Department uses to rate countries’ efforts to combat human trafficking. Earlier this spring, Congresswoman McSally was invited to the White House when President Trump signed legislation she supported as part of the House Homeland Security Committee’s efforts to combat human trafficking. The bipartisan bill protects victims of human trafficking by providing the right tools to federal, state, and local law enforcement, as well as private sector organizations to increase awareness to help stop human trafficking. During her entire tenure in Congress, Representative McSally has been a fierce fighter of human trafficking. She’s held a roundtable with local elected officials, members of law enforcement, and non-profit leaders on ways the community can work together to stop trafficking in Southern Arizona. She declared Pima County a “Zero Tolerance Human Trafficking Zone.” She also has spoken on the House floor in support of legislation to punish offenders who facilitate trafficking of victims online and supported numerous bills aimed at cracking down on human trafficking, several of which have been signed into law. ​
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after she voted in support of the Omnibus Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2018, legislation to fund the government for the next seven months, through the end of FY 2018. “Our military is climbing out of a readiness crisis while facing threats on many fronts, our borders are vulnerable to cartels and gangs, our infrastructure needs rebuilding, our communities are reeling from an opioid epidemic, our schools are unsafe, and our country needs to invest in these pressing matters to once again be safe, strong, and prosperous. That’s what this spending bill is about—and that’s why it is vital that Congress come together now to support it. This legislation contains big wins for Arizona that I have personally fought to include that will re-wing more A-10s, support local law enforcement in our border communities, take care of our seniors, fund wildland fire suppression, and address maintenance needs at our national parks. No funding bill will be 100% perfect—but this spending bill includes our highest priorities and is backed by the President. I am proud to support it today." The spending bill includes robust increases for national defense and the largest year-to-year increase for defense funding since the War on Terror began 15 years ago; manpower, technology, and physical barriers to secure the border; a down payment investment to rebuild aging infrastructure such as highways, airports, and rural broadband; tools to combat the opioid crisis and fight mental illness; and measures to care for public lands and fight wildfires. The bill also includes wins for Arizona military assets. Click HERE to view a fact sheet summarizing the provisions in the bill and their importance to Arizona.
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation cosponsored by Congresswoman Martha McSally to allow terminally ill patients that have exhausted all other options to access medications that have passed basic Food and Drug Administration safety protocols but are still being tested in extensive clinical trials. The bill does not require participation and it does not impose a mandate on anyone. Right to Try legislation has already become law in 38 states, and Arizona’s 2014 ballot initiative passed with 80% of the popular vote. “Patients should be the ones making decisions about the treatment they receive—not the government. This legislation ensures that we allow individuals every opportunity to save their own life. It’s clear that Arizona, and the nation, overwhelmingly supports this legislation from both sides of the aisle—and President Trump urged Congress to take action on this during his State of the Union address. Let’s give the terminally ill a fighting chance and the hope they deserve. I applaud the Goldwater Institute for its effective efforts to promote this cause both in Arizona and around the country so patients can seek a cure right here at home,” said Congresswoman McSally. Right to Try specifically establishes a robust informed consent to access unapproved drugs, and provides safeguards for patients and liability protections for pharmaceutical companies. For example, alternative treatments cannot be the subject of a clinical hold and or be produced by manufacturers who are purposefully misbranding or mislabeling drugs. Pharmaceutical companies, manufacturers, sponsors, physicians, clinical investigators, and hospitals that participate will be protected from liability—barring negligence and misconduct. For years, the Goldwater Institute has been at the forefront of the national effort to pass right to try legislation at the state and national level. In order for existing state laws to have meaningful impact, a federal law is necessary because many drug companies are waiting to participate until they know whether the federal government supports the program.
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC— The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is recognizing U.S. Representative Martha McSally with the Spirit of Enterprise Award for her leadership in pro-business, pro-growth economic policies in Congress. Congresswoman McSally has received the award each year that she’s served in Congress. “Thanks to watershed economic growth policies passed by Congressional Republicans and signed by President Trump, America is once again becoming competitive—a country where businesses can thrive, grow, and invest,” said Rep. McSally. “Small businesses optimism and confidence in the economy is at a record high, more businesses are moving back to the US from overseas, and job growth means unemployment claims have dropped to lowest in almost five decades. I’m honored to receive this recognition for my work reducing regulations, slashing taxes, and supporting Arizona businesses in Congress.” The U.S. Chamber of Commerce represents more than 3 million businesses of all sizes and sectors across the United States, and their prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s How They Voted scorecard. Congresswoman McSally received the award for her support of historic tax cuts, access to Medicare, curbing lawsuit abuse, and other important measures for businesses. She was one of the few members to receive a 100 percent score from the Chamber.
03.20.2018	Washington, D.C.—In a House Armed Services Committee hearing on Tuesday, U.S. Representative McSally questioned Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson on details of the Air Force’s plan to keep the A-10 in the operational fleet for the next decade or more. “Two years ago, we sat in a similar hearing with previous Air Force leadership arguing strongly about the need to keep the A-10 Warthog. We won. Since then, the A-10 has been pivotal ‘schwacking’ ISIS, deployed to the European defense, been ready south of the DMZ, and have now been sent back to Afghanistan,” said Congresswoman McSally. Congresswoman McSally thanked the Secretary for Air Force’s commitments to re-wing the remaining A-10s but expressed concern regarding conflicting statements by certain Air Force officials on the status of the A-10’s future. “There’ve been some reports that divestment will still commence in a few years, and other public statements saying it will fly well into the 2030’s and beyond. So can you state for the record how long you plan to have the A-10 in the inventory?” In response to Rep. McSally’s question, Secretary Wilson stated that the Air Forces “expect[s] the A-10 to continue flying at least until 2030.” This is the first time that any Air Force Secretary has gone on the record publically to support keeping the A-10 fleet operational into the 2030’s. Video of U.S. Rep McSally Questions Air Force Secretary Wilson on Maintaining and Re-Winging the A-10 Background: A former A-10 fighter pilot, Congresswoman McSally was the driving force behind convincing the Air Force to take the A-10 out of “mothball status” in 2015 and 2016. Since securing the future of the current fleet, Rep. McSally has continued to fight to modernize the fleet by ensuring that Congress provides funds to re-wing the remaining A-10’s that need new wings in order to keep the entire fleet in the air and in the fight through 2030 and beyond. Rep. McSally was instrumental in getting $103 million to restart the production line for new A-10 wings and will include enough funding for about four more re-wings on top of the 170-plus that are already re-winged. The FY19 budget request includes $80 million for the next trance of new wings.
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Rep Martha McSally, Chairwoman of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, today participated in a roundtable with President Donald Trump and other cabinet officials at the White House to discuss the threat sanctuary cities pose to the public safety of communities throughout America. Congresswoman McSally was one of only a handful of Members of Congress invited to attend and the only representative from Arizona. Also in attendance was Arizonan Mary Ann Mendoza, the mother of fallen Sgt. Police Officer Brandon Mendoza, who had served 13 years with the Mesa Police Department when he was killed in a head-on collision by a highly intoxicated illegal immigrant with multiple criminal convictions. Ms. Mendoza shared her son’s story and spoke on behalf of the scores of victims nationwide who were killed because of unenforced immigration laws. In her comments with the President, Congresswoman McSally highlighted how Arizona’s proximity to California and other sanctuary jurisdictions endangers the lives of Arizonans. “Mr. President, good to see you. Thank you for the leadership on this issue and as someone who represents Arizona, Ms. Mendoza and her family, and their loss is very real to us. Now we don’t have any sanctuary cities in Arizona, but we’re right next door to California. And as we saw in the loss of Sgt. Mendoza, it’s the policies of other states and cities that are letting these criminals go, that then impact the rest of us,” said Congresswoman McSally. “This is clearly a federal government’s responsibility. There are a lot of things that happen around here that the federal government overreaches, but in this case, this is clearly what the federal government should be doing and for them to be thumbing their nose at law and order and protecting citizens, is so dangerous and a travesty. As we look in Arizona, we often look into the dangers of the southern border, but if these dangerous policies continue out of California, we might need to build a wall between California and Arizona as well to keep these dangerous criminals out of our state. But seriously, they cannot just provide sanctuary for these criminals and think that it is only impacting California dangerously. It impacts the rest of us because these criminals will move quickly to other jurisdictions, we have, for example, MS-13 gang members that often are arrested in Arizona that have come from California with previous criminal records and other sanctuary cities and states. So this is a very serious public safety issue and I’m glad you’re leading on it and thanks for the opportunity to be here.” Trump: “Thanks, Martha, good job. You’ve done really well too, by the way. That’s the word.” Martha: “Yes, Sir.” Trump: “That’s very good.” Click HERE or below to watch the Congresswoman’s full remarks. Video of U.S. Rep McSally Calls for Federal Action on Sanctuary Cities at White House Roundtable Congresswoman McSally joined with Chairman Goodlatte, Chairman McCaul, and Rep. Labrador to introduce the Securing America’s Future Act, comprehensive border security and immigration legislation which will crack down on sanctuary cities. Specifically, the bill authorizes the Department of Justice to withhold law enforcement grants from sanctuary cities and allows victims to sue the sanctuary cities that released their attackers. It also includes Kate’s Law, named after Kate Steinle, to enhance criminal penalties for deported criminals who illegally return. The bill has close to 100 cosponsors, including Majority Whip Steve Scalise, and the support of President Trump and the Department of Homeland Security. After the meeting, the Congresswoman sat down with Mary Ann Mendoza to share their takeaways from the meeting. Click HERE or below to listen to them share their thoughts on how sanctuary city policies harm Arizonans. Video of McSally Discusses WH Meeting with Mary Ann Mendoza Before the meeting, the Congresswoman joined Harris Faulkner on Fox News to discuss what she hoped to hear from the President and work with him towards in the meeting. Click HERE or below to watch the full interview. Video of U.S. Rep McSally Speaks to Harris Faulkner on the Danger of Sanctuary Cities Ahead of WH Roundtable
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—During a House Armed Services Committee hearing today on military funding in President’s Budget Request for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019, U.S. Representative Martha McSally chided Army Secretary Mark Esper on the reckless and irresponsible decision to dismantle the deployable, combat-ready 1-285th Attack Reconnaissance Battalion (ARB) in Marana, Arizona, which flies the AH-64 Apache in support of current Army operations. As a former Commander of the 354th Fighter Squadron at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, Rep. McSally regularly led joint tactical training with the Apache unit in Marana. In her numerous interactions with Secretary Esper and other Department of Defense leaders on this issue, including Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis and Deputy Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan, she has stressed the value of keeping these attack aviation assets in the Arizona National Guard in order to retain the skill and expertise of hundreds of qualified Apache pilots and maintainers. “I want to note for the record that I remain strongly opposed to the Army’s decision to close down Apache battalions in the National Guard while at the same time growing attack aviation battalions from scratch in the active duty force,” said Congresswoman McSally in an open session on Tuesday. “As I have said many times, this wastes millions of dollars and thousands of years of specialized experience invested in hundreds of pilots and maintainers.” The Congresswoman also stressed that this decision is an unnecessary waste of valuable experience and capability in the face of growing threats, especially in light of the fact that Congress just secured, and the President signed into law, the largest increase to defense funding in years. “We went to the mat to fight for more resources for our military over these last months, and the very week the budget deal was signed into law, a combat-ready unit in Arizona was told to transfer its Apaches and shut down, and a PA company will come home from deployment and lower their flag.” Click below to watch the Congresswoman’s remarks. Video of U.S. Rep McSally Expresses Disappointment in Army&amp;#039;s Decision to Close Apache Battalions in Arizona Background: Since she was elected to Congress in 2015, Congresswoman McSally has worked closely with Major General Michael McGuire, The Adjutant General of Arizona, to combat the Army’s decision to reduce the number of Attack Reconnaissance Battalions in the National Guard. In addition to consistent engagement with top Army leadership, Congresswoman McSally has personally petitioned Secretary of Defense Mattis and Deputy Secretary of Defense to reverse this decision and retain strong combat attack aviation capability within the Army National Guard.
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today chaired a House Homeland Security Committee Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security hearing to evaluate the President’s $33.25 billion request to finally secure the border. The request includes $18 billion for the wall, $8.5 billion for increased manpower, $5.8 billion for surveillance technology, and $1 billion for access roads. During the hearing, the Congresswoman highlighted the failed policies of the past and questioned Brandon Judd, National President of the National Border Patrol Council, on the price of addressing border security piecemeal. “Piecemeal actions in the San Diego and El Paso sector pushed the illegal activity into my state. Then we worked to address it in the urban areas, but it pushed illegal activity out into the rural areas,” Rep. McSally said. She asked him to elaborate on his analogy of a balloon—pushing on one end inflates another just as addressing one part of the border pushed activity to another, and if the budget request would be sufficient for a holistic solution. Brandon Judd answered that impenetrable barriers in strategic locations would be 99% effective. Click HERE or below to watch the Congresswoman’s exchange with Mr. Judd. Video of McSally Questions Brandon Judd on Harm of Past Piecemeal Security Congresswoman McSally also highlighted that the opposition to the wall is political, not substantive—citing the mileage of barriers in Southern Arizona that President Obama authorized with the support of Democrats. Brandon Judd agreed and also pointed out how those physical barriers yielded substantial results in decreasing illegal activity. “It blows my mind how things get taken out of proportion and turned into something political. The Secure Fence Act was voted on by then-Senator Obama, then-Senator Clinton, then-Senator Schumer, all realizing the value of 700 miles of physical barriers on our southern border to stop and slow down the illegal activity and the cartel activity that was coming into our country. In my district, President Obama signed and approved 9.5 miles of barrier in Douglas and 7 miles in Naco, to list a few examples. Let’s get out of the politics and into the reality of what our agents need and what an actual border wall system will do for them,” said Rep. McSally. “What I can tell you is in the locations that you’re talking about, in Douglas, in Naco, we saw what it was like when we did not have any physical barriers, and we saw immediately the drop in the number of illegal crossings once we did have physical barriers. And again, 2003, 112,000 apprehensions. Last year in Naco, I think that the apprehensions were somewhere around 20,000. So from 112,000 to 20,000; that is largely due to the technology that we invested, which includes barriers,” Judd responded. Click HERE or below to watch the Congresswoman’s remarks on the wall and Mr. Judd’s answer. Video of McSally Highlights Double Standard of those opposed to border wall In her opening remarks, Congresswoman McSally stated, “For years, CBP has reiterated the need for the right combination of barriers, technology, and personnel. The reason is simple, the border is complex and there is no ‘one size fits all’ solution. Along all 1,954 miles of border, there are wide variations in terrain and threats from urban cores like San Diego and El Paso, to remote rural areas like my district in Arizona. We know that the border is not secure – gangs and trafficking organizations exploit it every day. And it is not just border communities that are threatened by these bad actors, Americans across the country are affected by the illicit activity traversing our borders. We have a unique opportunity to change the status quo on the border. The proposal offered by CBP is a solid framework.” Click HERE or below to watch the Congresswoman’s full opening remarks. Video of McSally Opening Statement Afterward, Congresswoman McSally joined Stuart Varney on Fox Business to discuss the hearing, the funding request, and her meeting at the White House next week. Click HERE or below to watch the full interview below. Video of McSally Discusses Sanctuary Cities and Border Security on Fox Business
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today took action to stop school violence. The House of Representatives passed legislation that Congresswoman McSally cosponsored to create a comprehensive grant program that provides schools and local law enforcement with training, technology, equipment, and coordination to prevent, identify, and respond to violence on school campuses. In addition to supporting the bill, Rep. McSally sent a letter urging appropriators to fully fund these school safety resources. “No child should be worried about their personal safety at school and no parent should send their kids off to school uncertain if they will ever see them again. The classroom should be a safe place to focus on learning, not a combat zone,” said Congresswoman McSally. “We need a multi-layered system to prevent school violence, and that’s what this program provides: training, coordination, technology and equipment, even crisis intervention teams. By giving schools and local law enforcement the resources they need to identify, respond, and prevent violence on campuses in a way that addresses their unique circumstances, this important program can save lives.” The STOP School Violence Act has four prongs. First, it funds training for law enforcement officers, school personnel, and students to respond and prevent violence, including active shooter training. Second, it provides technology and equipment like mobile apps and a hot-line for anonymous reporting in addition to locks and metal detectors. Third, it creates a school threat assessment and crisis intervention teams for expedited responses. Finally, it supports better coordination with local law enforcement. Not only did Rep. McSally vote to create this program, she sent a letter requesting $150 million to fully fund it. Full text of the letter is below. Congresswoman McSally’s action today builds upon her track record of leadership in Congress to prevent school violence. She authored legislation to help prevent mentally ill individuals from obtaining firearms while expanding funding for the identification and treatment of mental illness. Her legislation will improve the background check system, support treatment for mental illness, and strengthen responses to mental health crises. Rep. McSally also authored mental health legislation that was signed into law last year to help local communities better treat mental health. Congresswoman McSally’s Mental Health and Safe Communities Act includes provisions to support mentally-ill offenders re-entering the community, expand assistance to individuals with substance abuse and mental health disorders, and improve training for law enforcement to better identify and respond to instances involving mental illness. These legislative efforts were the result of the Congresswoman’s roundtables, ride-alongs, and visits to mental health courts and behavioral health centers in Arizona to understand the matter first hand. Click HERE to view a pdf of the legislation. The Honorable John Culberson Chairman Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies House Appropriations Committee Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable José Serrano Ranking Member Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies House Appropriations Committee Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Serrano, Thank you for your work to appropriate resources to support our nation’s priorities. As you begin to draft the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, we respectfully urge you to include $150 million in funding for the Secure Our Schools (SOS) grant program, one of the Community Policing Services (COPS) programs. As Andrew Pollack, whose daughter Meadow was one of the victims at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, stated, “We as a country failed our children. This shouldn’t happen. . . . And we need to come together as a country and work on what’s important. And that’s protecting our children in the schools.” Drills and trainings to prepare schools for horrific situations like we saw in Parkland, Newtown, and Marysville are part of everyday life for students and teachers across the country. Kids should be focused on learning instead of worrying about their personal safety in their classroom. No child should ever feel unsafe while going to school and we must give them the peace of mind they deserve. It is our duty to stand up for these kids and take the necessary steps to ensure their safety. In 2002-2011, SOS grants provided funding to state, local, and tribal governments to develop school safety resources. The funds may be used for physical security measures, such as metal detectors, locks, and lighting; for security training of personnel and students; and for coordinating with local law enforcement. These competitively awarded match grants will help ensure that our schools have the resources they need to keep students safe. Thank you again for your work on the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. We respectfully urge you to include $150 million for the SOS grant program to protect our nation’s children.
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally joined Fox News today to discuss the President’s visit to inspect border wall prototypes yesterday in San Diego and the importance of physical barriers in a border security strategy. Tomorrow, the Congresswoman will chair a House Homeland Security Committee Border Subcommittee hearing to review the President’s $33.25 billion request for physical barriers, technology, manpower, and roads to finally secure the border. “I represent a border district, one of only nine members of Congress that does. What we’ve seen in the past is that when there were no barriers at all, it was a free for all. We saw that in San Diego where the President visited yesterday, and we’ve seen it in Arizona as well. We finally have a president who has the will and desire to secure our border,” said Congresswoman McSally in the interview. “I’ll be chairing a hearing tomorrow afternoon to make sure the country can hear about what CBP has asked for in order to secure our border. They’ve put forward a $33 billion request over the next year… it is all of the things we need to stop the cartels from trafficking through our communities, which is a public safety threat. We’re working on a bill right now to fund our government and it needs to include a down payment on all of these issues. I’ll be highlighting all of this tomorrow in our hearing.” Click HERE or below to watch the full interview. Video of Rep. McSally Discusses Importance of a Border Wall System on Fox News The $33.25 billion request includes $18 billion for the wall, $8.5 billion for increased manpower, $5.8 billion for surveillance technology, and $1 billion for access roads. The Congresswoman will question officials from the Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and National Border Patrol Council on what border security results such a large expenditure could deliver for the American people. Click HERE to watch the hearing tomorrow LIVE at 11 am AZT or 2 pm ET.
03.13.2018	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally is inviting local high school students and their parents or guardians to attend “Academy Day” on Saturday, April 7 to learn more about applying to U.S. Service Academies. Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, US Coast Guard Academy, and University of Arizona R.O.T.C. will be on hand at the event to answer questions and provide more information about the nomination and application process. The Congresswoman will also be present to talk with students about her experience and the unique opportunity that U.S. Service Academies provides to access a quality education and pay it back serving their country in uniform. “As the youngest of five children with a single mom after my father suddenly passed away, the U.S. Air Force Academy gave me an opportunity to move forward, earn a degree, and serve my country. Now, I hope to inspire talented students in Southern Arizona to seize this opportunity and pursue military service,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Academy Day is an important event for students and parents to learn more about service academies and R.O.T.C. programs, and engage with representatives from those institutions firsthand.” Nominations from Members of Congress are required for four U.S. service academies: the U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. More information about requesting a nomination can be found by clicking HERE or by contacting Nancy Heiser at (202) 570-6815 or McSally.Academy@mail.house.gov. WHAT Academy Day WHO U.S. Representative Martha McSally joined by representatives from U.S. Air Force Academy U.S. Merchant Marine Academy U.S. Military Academy U.S. Naval Academy University of Arizona R.O.T.C. WHERE Empire High School Auditorium 10701 East Mary Ann Cleveland Way Tucson, AZ 85747 WHEN Saturday, April 7 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally is leading other members of Congress in urging House appropriators to allocate billions of the budget to address the opioid crisis that has hit Arizona communities especially hard. Pima County in the Congresswoman’s district had 356 overdoses in 2016, a rate almost twice as high as any other county in Arizona. According to the Arizona Department of Health Services, 790 Arizonans died from opioid overdoses in 2016. In the letter, the legislators requested the funds be targeted towards those areas most in need of assistance. “It is clear that we must redouble our efforts to stop this disastrous and heartbreaking problem that is wreaking havoc on our communities and kills an average of 115 Americans every single day,” the lawmakers write. “We are encouraged to hear that H.R. 1892 provides room for the appropriation of an additional few billion dollars for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019 to continue the fight against the opioid crisis and improve mental health care. We ask that you target the funds towards those populations most in need including states with the highest per-capita overdose mortality rates, as well as tribal and rural areas.” Overdose deaths in Arizona increased by an alarming 74 percent over the past four years. The number of Americans killed by drug overdoses nearly doubled in the last decade. Congresswoman McSally has consistently been a leader in the fight against opioid addictions, applauding the administration for declaring the opioid crisis a nationwide public health emergency last fall, spearheading legislation signed by the President, and voting for an increase of $781 million for fighting the opioid epidemic. Last Congress, Congresswoman McSally worked to include provisions in the 21st Century Cures Act that provide resources and training to law enforcement on the frontlines of dealing with this crisis. Additionally, Congress passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act with Congresswoman McSally’s support, to offer grants, treatment and prevention, and support for law enforcement in communities around the nation to combat this crisis. Click HERE to see below for the full text of the letter. The Honorable Tom Cole Chairman Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 2358-B Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Rosa DeLauro Ranking Member Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Cole and Ranking Member De Lauro, In light of the recent passage of H.R. 1892, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, we write to express our strong support for the inclusion of potentially billions of dollars in additional resources to combat the opioid crisis. With the number of Americans killed by drug overdoses nearly doubling in the last decade, it is clear that we must redouble our efforts to stop this disastrous and heartbreaking problem that is wreaking havoc on our communities and kills an average of 115 Americans every single day.[1] That means this crisis claims nearly as many American lives in one year as the entire Korean War. As you are aware, the 21st Century Cures Act contained almost $1 billion in funding for the State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis Grants to help fight the opioid crisis. While these grants have begun to make a difference in our communities, we want to build on this effort. We are encouraged to hear in discussions that H.R. 1892 provides room for the appropriation of an additional few billion dollars for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019 to continue the fight against the opioid crisis and improve mental health care. We want to ensure that these funds are appropriated and specifically targeted towards the areas and populations in the most need of assistance. Despite recent efforts to target resources to those most in need, Native Americans and native Alaskans who had 500% increase in overdose deaths—have been left out of the conversation.[2] As you begin to appropriate the much needed additional funds to fight the opioid crisis, we ask that you target the funds towards those populations most in need including states with the highest per-capita overdose mortality rates, as well as tribal and rural areas. Please make sure that your appropriations legislation clearly states that these funds must be targeted to the areas and populations who need it most. Sincerely, Martha McSally Member of Congress Mike Bishop Member of Congress John J. Faso Member of Congress Claudia Tenney Member of Congress Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. Member of Congress Sean P. Duffy Member of Congress John Katko Member of Congress Ted Budd Member of Congress Luke Messer Member of Congress Chris Collins Member of Congress Keith J. Rothfus Member of Congress Elise M. Stefanik Member of Congress Kevin Cramer Member of Congress [1] Rudd RA, Seth P, David F, Scholl L. Increases in Drug and Opioid-Involved Overdose Deaths — United States, 2010–2015. [2] https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/10/30/native-americans-among-the-most-harmed-by-the-opioid-epidemic-are-often-left-out-of-conversation/?utm_term=.4542d529861c
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that Arizona’s Department of Transportation (ADOT) has been awarded a TIGER grant to expand and improve a critical junction that connects Arizona’s busiest port of entry to the rest of the country. SR-189 is a frequently congested and backed up 5-lane artery that connects the Mariposa Port of Entry with Interstate 19. Due to the Congresswoman’s consistent leadership, ADOT will receive $25 million to expand the key juncture on the nation’s trade route. “This announcement is big news for Arizona as the conduit of our nation’s cross-border commerce. The Mariposa Port of Entry in Nogales is responsible for processing 40% of America’s imported produce and hundreds of southbound trucks filled with exports—but currently, SR-189 is overwhelmed and unable to handle so much traffic, undermining the ports effectiveness and harming nearly $17 billion in trade with Mexico. I’ve been fighting for this funding for two years, I am very thankful the Administration granted my request to contribute a $25 million towards the construction of this project, which is so vital to our state’s jobs and economy,” said Congresswoman McSally. U.S. Rep. McSally has made enhancing Southern Arizona infrastructure a top priority. This past fall, she led other members of the Arizona delegation in sending a letter to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao urging the Administration to award the project with a TIGER grant. McSally also led this effort requesting funds from the Obama Administration in 2016. Click HERE and HERE to read those letters. In addition to advocating for the SR-189 TIGER grant in recent years, she led advocacy during consideration of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act to ensure major trade routes such as SR-189 are included in the National freight strategic plan, as well as three other Arizona projects, including the Sonoran Corridor, a project predicted to support 189,000 jobs and $32.2 billion in economic impact. The Mariposa Port of Entry in Nogales is one of the busiest in the country, with more than 7 million vehicle crossing per year, including 350,000 truck crossings per year, and up to 40% of the country’s imported winter produce. The port is also important to American exports of vegetables, fruit and other items that directly benefit American jobs and our standard of living. SR-189 is unable to handle the demand placed upon it resulting in congestion issues that threaten the timely delivery of perishables and diminish the efficiency of the port. The project will help expand the capacity of SR-189 by making targeted intersection and access management improvements, and by constructing an overpass of Frank Reed Road for I-19 off and on ramps. The overpass and onramps will improve the flow of traffic and allow vehicles to more quickly and safely get to and from the port. The award of this grant will allow ADOT to combine other funds and build both phases at once, speeding up the completion time and saving money. The full text of the letter Rep. McSally led is below. The Honorable Elaine L. Chao Secretary of Transportation U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE Washington D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Chao: As members of the Arizona Congressional delegation, we write in request of full and fair consideration of the TIGER 9 grant application by the Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT) for needed improvements to State Route 189 in the border community of Nogales, Arizona. The Mariposa Port of Entry in Nogales is one of the busiest in the country, with more than 7 million vehicle crossing per year, including 350,000 truck crossings per year, and up to 40% of the country’s imported winter produce. The port is also important to American exports, with hundreds of southbound truck per day of vegetables, fruit and other items that directly benefit American jobs and our standard of living. Significant State, Federal and private resources have been invested in modernizing and expanding the port and adjacent facilities to accommodate current and future demand. However, the critical connection between the port and our country’s interstate system, Arizona State Route 189, is unable to handle the demand placed upon it resulting in congestion issues that threaten the timely delivery of perishables and diminishes the efficiency of the Port. The ADOT project submitted under TIGER 9 would solve these issues by constructing dedicated and grade separated on and off ramps from Interstate 19 to SR 189, and to as well make needed safety and capacity improvements along the SR 189 corridor, resulting in a much smoother, safer and more seamless flow of commerce to and from the Port of Entry in Nogales. ADOT is seeking to substantially leverage $25 million in TIGER funding for this $134 million project by not only using its share of Federal transportation funds, but also state money appropriated by the Arizona Legislature and contributions from the City of Nogales, Santa Cruz County and the trucking industry itself. The result is a true financial partnership between Federal, state, local and private stakeholders to help eradicate a clear “weak link” in the nation’s trade system. Millions of American jobs are dependent upon the efficient flow of trade with Mexico. The ADOT project will support and protect those jobs. We strongly believe that this proposal has significant merit and hope that you will give their TIGER Grant application your every possible consideration. We look forward to answering any questions you may have.
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced two bills to officially authorize two programs that are part of Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) efforts to extend the border far from U.S. shores. These bills will codify the Office of Biometric Identity Management (OBIM), which delivers identity services as the steward of the DHS biometric repository, including capabilities that will help U.S. Customs and Border Protection store and match biometric data as part of the exit/entry program, and the Immigration Advisory Program (IAP) which deploys U.S. Customs officers overseas to ensure that dangerous and inadmissible aliens are prevented from boarding airplanes bound for the U.S. “Both of these programs provide necessary services to secure our homeland and protect our borders. Congress has passed multiple laws since 2004 mandating the creation of a workable biometric exit/entry system, and OBIM is vital to that program’s implementation,” said Congresswoman McSally. “IAP also ensures that dangerous individuals are not able to board planes headed to America. These common sense bills formalize them in statute.” The Office of Biometric Identity Management (OBIM) provides biometric identity services to DHS and other federal agencies that are vital to our nation’s security. OBIM operates the Department's repository of over 225 million unique identities that include fingerprint-based biometrics, face and iris holdings, and provides biometric matching, storing and sharing services across the U.S. Government. The office also supports DHS’s efforts to complete a biometric exit/entry program. Congresswoman McSally’s bill formalizes OBIM in statute. The second bill would formally authorize the Immigration Advisory Program (IAP), an important part of U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s layered security strategy. Specifically, IAP deploys CBP Officers to major last point of departure airports, to advise airlines against boarding foreign nationals that will be deemed inadmissible upon arrival to the U.S.
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today questioned General Waldhauser, the Commander of U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM) on the ability of the U.S. military to execute time-sensitive and targeted strikes on known terrorists in Africa, specifically to prevent terrorist activity carried out by Al Shabaab in Somalia and the Sahel region. As a Colonel in the Air Force, Congresswoman McSally was part of the initial cadre responsible for standing up AFRICOM and handling counter-terrorism operations in Africa under the Obama Administration. During the hearing, she described the frustration of watching “hundreds, probably thousands of Al Shabaab trainees being trained and graduated” and ramping up and preparing for an attack, “only to have to do a video teleconference with political appointees who would tell us that we had no permission to execute” attacks on confirmed targets. “That’s a perfect example of how not to do time-sensitive targeting when you have to put PowerPoint slides together and brief Washington D.C. on it,” she said. “I think of one in particular who was involved in the embassy bombings in Africa in 1998, and we were asked the question, ‘well what have they done lately’ as if they were now a Sunday school teacher or boy scout leader,” the Congresswoman said, highlighting one example. Congresswoman McSally asked the General, “We were only ultimately allowed to schwack one terrorist while I was there, while we worked up for dozens, and we watched hundreds, maybe thousands, being trained by Al Shabaab. Has something shifted, as far as decentralizing the decision-making so that you can actually go after some of these terrorists when they do pop up so that we can take them out?” General Waldhauser responded, “The bottom line is, we have the authorities that we need. The scenario that you described is not the way it is today, and I am very comfortable with how this is being done.” The Congresswoman followed up to ask if the change is a result of the Trump Administration’s new counter-terrorism policies. “Do you have additional authorities and decentralization over the last year?” General Waldhauser: “To be honest, we had some authorities under the previous administration, but they were for a specific period of time. What we have now aren’t bound by time--there are some bounding of geography and that type of thing, but we have the ability, and again to support, not just on our own, but a strategy for a federal government and president that we are trying to assist.” Click HERE or below to watch the full interaction below. Video of Rep. McSally Questions General Waldhauser on Combating Terror in Africa
03.05.2018	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that her office is accepting submissions for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition, an annual contest between high school students in every congressional district throughout the country for the chance to have their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “We have very talented young local artists right here in Southern Arizona—and above all else, this competition is an opportunity for us to admire and appreciate their work. This competition also determines which piece of art will hang on display in Congress and represent our community to the nation,” said Rep. McSally. “I encourage all high schoolers who love art to participate, and I look forward to seeing the submissions.” The Art Competition is open to high school students living in or attending high school in the Second District. Once all submissions are collected, a local panel of judges will choose one overall and two runner-up winners and announce them at a reception held at the UA Tech Park. The overall winner’s artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. The two runner-up winners will have their art displayed in Congresswoman McSally’s Tucson and Sierra Vista district offices. The submissions will also be posted on Rep. McSally’s Facebook page and the artwork that receives the most votes by Southern Arizonans online will receive an award and hang in Rep. McSally’s Congressional office in Washington, D.C. The deadline for submission is Wednesday, April 11 at 5:00 pm. Students can deliver submissions to the Tucson district office at 4400 East Broadway Blvd., Suite 510 or the Sierra Vista district office at 77 Calle Portal, Suite B-160. Guidelines for submission as well as a student release form to be included with the submission can be found HERE. Individuals with questions about turning in entries or the guidelines can call the Tucson district office at (520) 881-3588. Learn more about last year’s winner HERE and view all of last year’s submissions HERE.
03.05.2018	TUCSON– U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) this weekend participated in the 2018 Heritage Flight Training and Certification Course at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. During Heritage Flights, civilian pilots of historic military aircraft and Air Force pilots of current fighter aircraft practice flying in formation together. These flights raise public awareness of the Air Force mission and commemorate its history. The Congresswoman flew a remodeled P-51 Mustang, a World War II fighter-bomber that flew in the European and Pacific theatres during WWII, and then in the Korean War. She flew in formation with an A-10 Warthog on the right wing and an F-22 Raptor on the left wing. “Davis-Monthan is an amazing base and every year we host this Heritage Flight where these aircraft come together, train together, and then they go out for the rest of the season for other demonstrations to show the past, the present, and the future of aviation. I am very honored to participate,” said Congresswoman McSally. Click HERE to view all the photos from the event. Click HERE or below to watch Congresswoman McSally’s footage from the cockpit. Video of Cockpit Video of 2018 Heritage Flight Click HERE or below to view Fox11’s coverage of the Heritage Flight. Video of McSally Participates in 2018 Heritage Flight
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today paid her respects to Reverend Billy Graham, known as America’s Pastor. She attended the historic, bicameral memorial service in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda for the American Christian Evangelist who counseled every U.S. Presidents since Truman and preached to more than 215 million people in more than 185 counties during his lifetime, beginning with his first crusade in 1947. Billy Graham is only the fourth private citizen to “lie in honor” in the Capitol Rotunda. “Reverend Graham’s message reverberated around the world. He was a faithful servant of God, preaching the gospel and showing compassion and love to everyone that he met,” Rep. McSally said. “He spoke in person to over 200 million people and was an advisor and mentor to twelve U.S. Presidents. He truly is America’s Pastor and today America is honoring him with a privilege only offered to four people in our nation’s history. Of death, he said ‘I am looking forward to seeing God face to face’….he is now resting in God’s grace and united with Him, and I am sure that God said ‘well done, good and faithful servant.’” Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally’s remarks after attending the memorial service Video of Rep. McSally Reflects on the life of Bill Graham Click HERE or below to watch Congresswoman McSally salute Rev. Graham at the memorial service Video of U.S. Rep. McSally Salutes Reverend Billy Graham
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today questioned General Joseph Votel, Commander of U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) during a House Armed Services Committee hearing on the U.S. military’s strategic posture in the Middle East and South Asia. Her questioning highlighted the integral role of A-10s in combating the Taliban, specifically its generation of revenue. The Air Force recently announced that funding to jumpstart A-10 wing production was included in their FY19 budget request, thanks to the Congresswoman’s request. During the hearing, she also questioned the General on the buildup of aggression between Israel and Iran along Israel’s northern border. CENTCOM is “Very, Very Proud” A-10’s “Doing Great” in Fight Against Taliban Twelve A-10s arrived in Kandahar on January 19, the first time they’ve been deployed to Afghanistan in over 3 years. Rep. McSally inquired about their impact on the Resolute Support Mission. “The A-10 warthog was back in Afghanistan kicking butt in January. Can you comment on the types of missions that they are doing and I know it’s a little specific, but as part of the shift in strategy it seems like we are now going after more of the sources of revenue? Perhaps overall in attacking the poppy industry and the drug making facilities and how is the A-10 doing over there?” asked Congresswoman McSally. “The A-10s are doing great. They were in action within 24 hours of being on the ground here and I’ve had an opportunity to visit the squadron and meet the squadron commander, we are very very proud of what they are doing and they are doing the things we would expect the A-10s to do,” General Votel responded. “Part of our concept and why we are pushing advisor teams down to a lower level is so that we can bring capabilities like the A-10 to bear very effectively in support of the Afghan national defense forces. You are correct, one of the things that have been successful and we have tried to carry over from our Defeat ISIS campaign is going in after the revenue generation, and in this case, the narco-trafficking that is fueling the Taliban. This is a key focus for Gen. Nicolson on our forces at this point.” Click HERE or below to watch the full exchange. Video of U.S. Rep McSally Questions General Joseph Votel on the A-10&amp;#039;s Role in Fighting ISIS Iranian Aggression Against Israel in Syria Iran is establishing a military presence on Syria’s side of the Golan which, until very recently, was partially held by rebel forces seeking the removal of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The situation reached new heights in February when Iran shot down an Israeli F-16 fighter jet from inside the Syrian border in response to Israel’s strike on an armed Iranian drone intercepted in its airspace. Israel has shown that it will react militarily if hostile foreign forces continue to amass on its border. During the hearing, Congresswoman McSally said, “I’m really concerned about the build-up on Israel’s northern border, so southern Syria, of Iranian-backed militias and forces, Quds Forces commanding that, and the increased aggression we are seeing from there as the Assad regime seems to be shoring up controlling that area and the potential for escalation of a crisis with Israel. Can you share if you are seeing an increase in military capability with the escalation over the last few weeks and any concerns you have about that escalating into a full-blown crisis with Israel?” Click HERE or below to watch his answer. Video of U.S. Rep McSally Questions General Votel on Aggression Towards Israel&amp;#039;s Northern Border
02.17.2018	TUCSON, AZ—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today honored Chinese-American veterans while participating in the Chinese Cultural Center’s celebration of the Chinese New Year. Over 250 members of the community were present during the ceremony, held at Westin LaPaloma’s Grand Ballroom. Congresswoman McSally addressed the crowd and presented certificates of Congressional Recognition to six Chinese-American veterans, three of whom served in World War II, and three who served in the Korean War. “Two characteristics of people born in the Year of the Dog are loyalty and a strong sense of responsibility so it is fitting that we are honoring our Nation’s Veterans tonight, as these are qualities exemplified by the men and women who serve in our nation’s armed forces,” said Congresswoman McSally “We have a rich history of Chinese-Americans serving in our military, stretching all the way back to the Civil War. Over thirteen thousand Chinese-Americans fought for the U.S. in World War II—and it is incredible to honor three WWII veterans today who served our nation at such a pivotal time in our history. It is my honor to recognize these veterans in our community who have served our country bravely as we celebrate the Chinese New Year today.” Click HERE to view and download all pictures from the event. Congresswoman McSally honored the following veterans: World War II Veterans: Edward Chan U.S. Air Force - First Lieutenant European Theater Retired Major, U.S. Air Force Reserve Dr. Lincoln Chin U.S. Army - Air Force – Corporal European Theater Wing Gee Lee U.S. Navy – Seaman First Class Pacific Theater Korean War Veterans: Henry Don U.S. Army – Private First Class Raymond Lim U.S. Navy – Lieutenant Commander Gary Low U.S. Army Ranger – First Lieutenant
02.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today blasted the media for playing into North Korea’s propaganda campaign while covering Kim Jong Un’s sister at the Olympics. “Having been in the military myself, we spend a lot of time focusing also on information warfare and how our enemies use that against us as a domain. I was cringing with Kim Jong Un’s sister at the Olympics at not only how she was received, but also how she was treated by the—at best—naïve media and their coverage of her. She is the head of the Department of Propaganda and Agitation and responsible, as part of this brutal regime for the lack of human rights, the death, and the torture of many citizens. You know what this regime is like. And the fact that our media would play into this is just embarrassing and disgusting to me,” Rep. McSally said while questioning Admiral Harry Harris, Commander of United States Pacific Command (PACOM). Admiral Harris agreed that it was “clearly a charm offensive” and that it “behooves us not to be charmed.” He agreed with the Congresswoman that the media was being a tool of North Korea’s information warfare. Video of U.S. Rep McSally Questions Admiral Harris on North Korean Propaganda at the Olympics McSally also asked him how last week’s budget agreement, including $700b for FY18 and $716b for FY19 would impact the military’s fight against North Korea. Admiral Harris expressed his gratitude for what he dubbed an “outstanding” bill, and he expounded on what the funding specifically translates into on the Korean peninsula. “MK (“Mark”) 48 torpedoes; long-range anti-surface missiles; training for our Air Force and Navy fighter pilots; significant things like that that we’ve lost the opportunity to do over the last several years, and we’ll be able to recapture that,” he testified. Video of U.S. Rep McSally Questions Navy Admiral Harry B. Harris on the Budget&amp;#039;s Impact on Readiness
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after voting in support of the Bipartisan Budget Act: “Today I voted with President Trump and Secretary Mattis to halt sequestration and increase defense spending. My vote is for our men and women in uniform who are relying on this boost in defense resources to carry out their mission and to keep us safe. Eight years’ worth of anemic defense budgets and neglect under President Obama’s defense sequester have thrown our military into a full-blown readiness crisis—and Secretary Mattis has made it very clear that, unless we pass a budget and fund the troops they will not have the resources to maintain their operations and deter war. That’s why, from the outset, I demanded that this bill include $700 billion this year and $716 billion next year for our troops to fulfill our military’s request—and it does. This bill also dismantles another pillar of Obamacare: The ‘Independent Payment Advisory Board’—also known as the Death Panels and tasked with rationing Medicare. We cannot hold our military hostage while we tackle other long-term spending and move towards fiscal responsibility. This landmark increase in defense spending will finally start to give our troops what they need to keep us safe.”
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today attended a meeting at the White House with President Trump to discuss cracking down on MS-13, also known as La Mara Salvatrucha— a violent transnational Salvadorian gang with a chilling motto: “mata, viola, controla” – which means "kill, rape, control." According to the Department of Justice, MS-13 is one of the largest street gangs in the United States and has 10,000 members inside the U.S. – including Arizona. The roundtable discussion centered on how to combat the gang’s activities by securing the border, closing loopholes, and removing barriers to deporting lethal gang members. During the meeting, Congresswoman McSally highlighted the need for a border wall system and the dire need to close glaring loopholes. “This is very real for the people I represent. We have got to secure our border. That includes as you know a comprehensive border wall system and everything that our agents need in order to be able to secure our border. But as everyone has brought up today as well, if we perfectly seal the border, but don’t close these loopholes, then these dangerous criminal organizations are going to continue to take advantage of us,” McSally said. McSally went on to describe the rampant loophole abuse occurring daily in her district. “In my community that I represent, illegal crossers are not evading Border Patrol—they are looking for Border Patrol. They turn themselves in and then they make false asylum claims because the cartels told them exactly what to say. If they are an unaccompanied minor from Mexico or Canada, they are then released quickly into the interior of the United States and we can’t do anything about it. Most of them don’t show up for their future court dates. We know that transnational criminal organizations are taking advantage of the loopholes in our system. We’ve got to stop them at the border where I live—and that includes securing the border and closing these ridiculous loopholes,” McSally pointed out. Video of Rep. McSally Speaks at MS-13 Roundtable Hosted by President Trump DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen also pointed out two of the crippling loopholes that allow MS-13 to intentionally come across the border and effectively prevent CBP from deporting known gang members: “First, we have an inadmissibility problem, meaning that when they come across our border, I have to let them in. I cannot keep them out by virtue of them being in the gang. Once we catch them and detain them, I cannot remove them by virtue of them being in a gang.” MS-13 is known to regularly conduct activities in at least 40 states and the District of Columbia. Arizona is one of the gang’s transition points on the way to other areas, however, in just the past few months Border Patrol agents have arrested numerous previously deported members of MS-13. Just yesterday, Tucson Sector Border Patrol agents arrested 36-year-old Oscar Moreno-Mejia, a confirmed member of the MS-13 street gang with criminal history in California. Jill McCabe, a spokeswoman for the FBI in Phoenix, stated that "we see MS-13 using Arizona as a transition point, where they travel through Arizona on their way to other areas of the country."
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a letter to Secretary of Defense Mattis and U.S. Army leadership requesting a suspension of the order to transfer the four remaining AH-64 Apaches from Marana, Arizona. Her letter urges Army leadership to rescind authorization for the National Guard Bureau to transfer additional Apaches until interested members are able to have a classified discussion regarding the state of Army attack aviation readiness. “I have been engaged on this issue since I was first elected to Congress in 2015. I’ve worked closely with top Army leaders expressing my strong concern about the national pilot shortage and the Army’s abilities to provide and grow critical attack aviation capability for current and future operations. The letter I am spearheading today is a follow up to a proposal I sent to Army leadership last December offering an alternative interim solution that would retain the capability of over 500 qualified attack pilots and maintainers at minimal cost. Given the number of threats we face, the Army has to be smart about how to use its combat resources. We have the trained, experienced fighters and the equipment necessary to support the Army’s attack aviation needs right here in Arizona—it would be reckless to dismantle a deployable, combat-ready unit before the Army is fully ready to supply this capability as it stands up new attack battalions in Korea and Europe. Further, the Western Army Aviation Training Site (WAATS) should be used to train more pilots so we can close the gap on our pilot shortage more quickly and keep up with our treaty obligations to train pilots from partner nations. Planes should have pilots, and pilots should have planes. It’s very simple, and I strongly urge the Army to listen to reason. I’m leading this effort, even though it isn’t in my district because this is the right thing to do for our military,” said Congresswoman McSally. In the letter, the Congresswoman details why transferring the remaining Apache helicopters from the 1-285th Attack Reconnaissance Battalion (ARB) at Silverbell Army Heliport in Marana, Arizona, would be a waste military resources, undermine readiness, and compound the armed forces’ dangerous pilot shortage for years to come. Background Rep. McSally first began engaging on this issue with General Michael McGuire, The Adjutant General (TAG) of Arizona, immediately after she came to Congress in 2015. That year, she cosponsored two amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to prohibit transfer of AH-64 Apaches from the National Guard to the Active Component until Congress could review the decision. In February 2016, Rep. McSally questioned Army officials during a House Armed Services Committee hearing about operational impacts of reducing National Guard Apache units; the loss of advantage of joint training and proximity to active duty bases in Arizona; and the likelihood of success of drawing Guardsmen and women back into active duty to address the Army’s pilot shortage, as is the Army’s current plan. In March 2016 and January 2017, Rep. McSally led a staff delegation to Silverbell to showcase the capabilities of the 1-285th and the training capacity at WAATS. In April 2017, Rep. McSally personally petitioned General Mark Milley, Chief of Staff of the Army, to advocate for retaining Apaches in Arizona during his visit to Ft. Huachuca. Last month, after consulting with Gen. McGuire, Rep. McSally spoke personally with Army Secretary Mark Esper to urge him to consider alternative courses of action to transferring more Apaches from the National Guard while the Army stands up new ARBs in Korea and Europe. Rep. McSally then led a bipartisan letter with Rep. O’Halleran and other members of the Pennsylvania delegation to Secretary Esper and General Milley outlining such an alternative solution that would allow the National Guard to retain the six ARBs currently active in the National Guard, including the 1-285th in Marana, Arizona. The text of the letter is below, or click HERE to view the pdf of the letter. January 31, 2018 The Honorable Mark T. Esper Secretary of the Army 101 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0101 General Mark A. Milley Chief of Staff United States Army 200 Army Pentagon Washington D.C. 20310-0200 Dear Secretary Esper and General Milley, Thank you for your response to our proposal for an interim solution to retain six Attack Reconnaissance Battalions (ARBs) in the Army National Guard. We appreciate your engagement on this issue. Respectfully, we would like to highlight certain points included in your response which are subject to honest dispute and which underscore our continued concern about the impacts this decision may have on the readiness of the Total Force: Number of ARBs. While the Army is currently building ARBs 21 and 22 for the 11th CAB in accordance with NCFA guidance, they are programmed to build ARBs 23 and 24 for a 12th CAB by ~FY20. The Army has also conducted planning associated with creating an Armored Cavalry Regiment that includes attack aviation assets coinciding with the build of a 16th Armored Brigade Combat Team. Warrant Officer Shortage. According the Army's own G1 Aviation Dashboard from November 2017, the Army was 89% manned for all Warrant Officers, and 84% manned for AH specific Warrant Officers. As of the November report, the Army was short 204 AH-64 Warrant Officers. There are 47 Warrant Officers authorized for an ARB. If equated to ARBs, the Army has a shortage of 4.3 Battalions worth of Warrant Officer aviators. The Army also continues to make mention of its plan to address current and future shortages. This has been defined in multiple orders, and the plan is dependent on the success of utilizing Call to Active Duty, Retiree Recall, ARNG personnel in ADOS status, and aviator retention bonuses. With the exception of retiree recall, all of these programs are uncontrollable by the Army and, to date, all have been unsuccessful in achieving the goal of eliminating Warrant Officer shortages. One example is the recently released aviator bonus. The bonus had a historically low acceptance rate of ~10% and resulted in an increase of Unqualified Resignation submittals. As a result, the Army is currently revising the bonus, and time will tell of success of the next iteration. Shortage of ARNG AH-64–Specific Officers. One example of the misleading assertion that the that the Active Component is healthier than the ARNG can be seen with 1-285th ARB, currently stationed in both Arizona (AZ) and Missouri (MO). While MO has largely transitioned to its new assault aircraft structure, they have retained an AH company that was moved from AZ structure to MO structure. MO currently does not fill its company with qualified aviators and has used the authorizations to hold personnel awaiting flight school training. In turn, even with the loss of the company structure, AZ has the capability to fully man all three companies (2 x AZ/ 1 x MO) and carries the additional unauthorized personnel in an excess status. Essentially, the structure moved, but the people stayed—a fact not addressed in your response. Dwell Ratios of Units vs. Individuals. Per our understanding, while the Active Component currently has the force structure to maintain an appropriate dwell ratio for the ARBs, it continues to shuffle personnel between the ARBs to fill manning gaps. Often aviators will be deployed, return from deployment, and after only a brief stabilization, be processed for permanent Change of Station (PSC) to the next deploying unit. Thus, while the physical unit has adequate dwell between deployments, the individual does not. We feel this practice is a contributing factor to the increasing attrition rate of Active Component aviators. We would be interested to see a report on the deployment-to-dwell ratio by individual AH-64 aviators to support the claim in your letter. Additionally, your letter specifically states that it would take eight ARNG ARBs to continuously support a deployment requirement. Given the Army’s decision to accept the bare minimum National Commission on the Future of the Army (NCFA) requirement of retaining only four ARBs in the ARNG, how does the Army plan to ensure the success of the ARNG and its ability to meet deployment requirements with less than half of the required force structure that you claim is needed? Costs Associated with Retaining Six ARNG ARBs. The Army attributes the cost of keeping six ARNG ARBs to the cost of building up two brand new ARNG ARBs. However, with the AZ ARB specifically, we disagree with this cost assessment. The 1-285th is fully manned today. With a small allocation of training seats and the return of aircraft could deploy in short turn, with its unit infrastructure completely intact. Therefore, if the Army were to keep the 1-285th, the cost would only amount to normal annual operation and maintenance costs, not the costs of standing up a new unit. Further, AZ has the capability within the state today to man its ARB without any need for pass back to another organization. While it is true that personnel would be moved from other organizations, we feel the readiness benefits of keeping an RL-1 combat ready unit in the short term would outweigh inefficiencies. Lack of Availability of Training Quotas for ARNG at USAACE. We have been informed that the National Guard has not been allotted sufficient training seats at the U.S. Army Aviation Center of Excellence (USAACE) Ft. Rucker in line with codified regulations. Rather, records show that Active Component aviators are specifically prioritized over National Guard and Foreign Military Sales (FMS) training to the detriment of overall readiness. In fact, according to our state leaders, AZ ARNG units have not been allotted AH training seats in the past three years. The ARNG ARBs were told that training seats were not made available until an ARB stationing decision was made, so we would appreciate a further explanation and justification for why training seats would not be provided to Soldiers actively serving in their MOS and in the appropriate force structure, regardless of the component in which they serve in or what basing decision was being finalized. Ability of Ft. Rucker to Deliver Actual Aviator Requirements. We also take issue with the method by which Ft. Rucker reports its student throughput. Rather than assessing its requirements based on the number of aviators needed to man ARBs planned currently and in the near future, USAACE calculates its “requirements” based on the number of aviators it has the ability to train each year. In other words, it bases its success rate on the number of aviators it can graduate; not the number of aviators we need to graduate in order to solve the current pilot shortage. Additionally, despite having 110 AH-64s located at Ft. Rucker (30 over the 80 recommended in NCFA), there has been no significant increase to Ft. Rucker's student throughput; in fact, student throughput is roughly the same as previous years when Rucker had fewer airframes on hand. According to our calculations, the 10% of AH-64s slated for remanufacture from AH-64D models to AH-64E models does not account for this discrepancy. This raises concerns given that the Army has chosen to make Ft. Rucker its sole rotary wing training site over keeping the Western and Eastern Army Aviation Training Sites (AATS) open to alleviate these throughput challenges. This also raises concerns about whether, even with additional aircraft and consolidating training, Ft. Rucker is able to take on additional training loads to meet demand for Active Component and National Guard aviators, as well as ensuring the U.S. keeps pace with contract commitments to FMS buyers of U.S. rotary wing aircraft. Inefficiency of Mobile Training Teams Compared to AATS Locations. Further, we feel the use of Mobile Training Teams (MTTs) obfuscates the challenges Ft. Rucker faces in producing needed numbers of aviators. By the Army’s own metrics, MTTs are less efficient than WAATS: where WAATS has a 3:1 ratio of aviators to aircraft compared to Ft. Rucker’s 6:1 ratio, the MTT is currently tracking a 2:1 ratio. If the argument for standing down the AATS locations is that consolidating rotary wing training into one location is more efficient, the use of MTTs, which result in fewer aircraft available for training at USAACE, contradicts the premise of this argument. We agree that delaying a decision on attack aviation basing in the National Guard is indeed harmful to readiness. However, rushing to complete a flawed plan that could have a lasting impact on readiness will continue to increase risk in a high-threat environment. Further, this decision would not support the current Administration’s “peace through strength” initiative as referenced in the 2018 National Defense Strategy, which prioritizes “preparedness for war” today—not two years from today. As a result of these disputes in good faith, we request that the Army suspend the transfer order for the four remaining AH-64s from the 1-285th, ordered to be effective February 15, 2018, and rescind authorization for the National Guard Bureau to transfer additional Apaches until we can collectively view the following documents (detailed for the last 16 months) in a classified setting: Monthly Aviation Readiness Review (MARR) Strategic Portfolio Analysis Review (SPAR) G1 Aviation Dashboard with full details, including rank and air frame We also request, following the viewing of these documents, an in-person discussion that includes our respective state Army National Guard leaders as well as Active Component Army leadership, in order to resolve these disputes and have confidence in a way forward for attack aviation across the Total Force. Again, we sincerely appreciate your engagement on this vital attack capability. We look forward to your prompt response. Very respectfully, Martha McSally Keith Rothfus Member of Congress Member of Congress Tom O’Halleran Scott Perry Member of Congress Member of Congress CC: The Honorable James N. Mattis Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that Cochise County Sheriff Mark Dannels will attend the 2018 State of the Union (SOTU) address as her guest on Tuesday night. Sheriff Dannels has served for almost 34 years in law enforcement. Just this past May he was appointed Immigration and Border Security Chairman by the National Sheriff’s Association. In this national leadership position, he represents more than 3,000 Sheriffs in counties all across the United States and is responsible for speaking on their behalf and taking their concerns and perspective to the Department of Homeland Security and President Trump’s Administration. Sheriff Dannels also serves on the Board of Directors for the Southwest Border Sheriff Association, which represents the 24 border sheriffs and beyond, and is the President of the Arizona Sheriff's Association. “Sheriff Dannels is a national voice for sheriffs throughout America,” said Congresswoman McSally. “He is a leader with first-hand experience and credibility on how to secure our border and support law enforcement. I have been fortunate to work with Sheriff Dannels on a number of border and law enforcement initiatives, and am very thankful for his years of service and his continued dedication to our southwest border community. Arizona, and Cochise County, are fortunate to have such a solid champion on the local, state, and national level." “I am very honored to be here this week to witness history. As our President and Congress are shaping a plan to secure the border, it is very important that rural border communities are represented and their voice is heard in these decisions. As Sheriff of Cochise County with 33 years of law enforcement, the border isn’t just a concept—it’s our reality. Thank you to Congresswoman McSally inviting me to have a front-row view of our Commander in Chief lay out his plan to make America safe, strong, and proud,” said Sheriff Dannels. Sheriff Mark Dannels has testified on the status of border security during House Homeland Security hearings chaired by Congresswoman McSally, the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee—including an Arizona field hearing in May 2016. His perspective has informed several critical pieces of legislation, including a bill to intercept cartel spotters, legislation to reauthorize the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), and legislation to fund treatment programs to help people with mental health issues who currently end up in the Cochise County jail. Click HERE to watch Congresswoman McSally’s press conference with all Southern Arizona border sheriffs, including Sheriff Dannels, to discuss the best way to increase border security and address the needs of their communities.
01.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—In direct response to U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s consistent calls for funding for more A-10C Thunderbolt wings, the United States Air Force today announced that it would be including funding for additional wings in their FY19 budget request. This news comes days after the Air Force deployed a squadron of A-10s to Afghanistan—the first time in three years. Last year, the Air Force announced that it would have to permanently ground three of nine A-10 squadrons unless Congress funded new wings for 110 aircraft. To prevent this grounding, Congresswoman McSally ensured that $103 million to restart wing production was included in the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, signed into law by President Trump. In December, she led a bipartisan, bicameral letter to House and Senate leadership as well as high ranking appropriators requesting that they include funding for new wings for the A-10 fleet in any final FY18 spending package. Congresswoman McSally has been in communications with Air Force Secretary Wilson over the past several weeks, as recently as last Friday, to personally urge her to keep the entire A-10 fleet intact and include funding for the wings in their budget request for FY19. “The Air Force knows that the A-10 is a vital asset and critical in the fight against ISIS, the Taliban, North Korea, and Russian aggression in Eastern Europe. In fact, the Warthog is currently one of the most utilized aircraft across multiple theaters. I’m pleased to see that this aircraft’s indispensability is accurately reflected in the Air Force’s budget request for FY 2019,” said Rep. McSally. “We simply cannot afford to ground three A-10 squadrons. It would leave a huge hole in our capability and troops on the ground would be without cover. That’s why I fought to ensure that full funding to restart its wing production. I will continue to work towards funding for these wings until that production line is turned on.” Congress has clearly willed over recent fiscal years that the A-10C fleet be sustained in its entirety. This wing funding was a top Air Force Unfunded Priority List item specifically added into both the FY18 House and Senate defense authorization bills, the FY18 NDAA conference report (which has been signed into law by President Trump), and the FY18 House defense appropriations bill, which passed the House in July. The Congresswoman has also been urging House leadership and appropriators to include funding to restart the wings in any government funding agreement for FY2018.
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following video regarding the government shutdown and today’s vote to reopen the government: “The Democrats didn’t disagree with anything that was in the bill that the House passed last Friday: fund the government, fund our military, and fund children’s health insurance for 9 million kids that are vulnerable. Yet here we are today, and what they were against on Friday that are suddenly for today. In the past Chuck Schumer called a government shutdown idiocy, Nancy Pelosi called it legislative arson, and Kyrsten Sinema called it shameful. Since Friday, our troops have been in uncertainty. National Guard training in Arizona was canceled. Hundreds of people in our communities at our military bases were furloughed. This is not how our military should be spending their time. Our military should be training to make sure they can fight to keep us safe. It’s good to see Democrats have finally come to their senses and decide to open up our government and support our troops and support our kids. I hope we don’t see the same hostage-taking tactics from Democrats in the future.” To watch the Congresswoman’s full remarks, CLICK HERE or below. Video of Rep. McSally on the End of the Government Shutdown: “Democrats have Finally Come to their Senses”
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after Democrats voted against a bill to prevent the government shutdown and reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP): “I’m disgusted that Democrats violated the will of the American people and shut down the government—choosing illegals over our American troops and 9 million children throughout this country relying on CHIP for healthcare. This shutdown lies squarely on the Democrat’s shoulders, and instead of governing they opted for obstructionist antics and partisan politics. Under this government shutdown, over 2 million members of our military won’t get a paycheck. Meanwhile, the Democrats who shut down the government over a completely unrelated issue with only a fabricated deadline will pocket their pay. That’s morally reprehensible—which is why I swiftly introduced legislation to ensure that our military and federal law enforcement, including the agents and officers along the border, continue to get paid during a government shutdown—and Congress does not. This shutdown is entirely unnecessary. It is reckless. And I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to work with us to end this shutdown immediately.” Ahead of the government shutdown, Congresswoman McSally introduced legislation that would require the military and individuals performing national security activities within the Department of Homeland Security to continue to receive pay—and prohibit Members of Congress from receiving a paycheck— during a government shutdown.
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—Ahead of tonight’s impending funding deadline, U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation that would require the military and individuals performing national security activities within the Department of Homeland Security continue to receive pay—and prohibit Members of Congress from receiving a paycheck— during a government shutdown. It also would ensure that death benefits are paid to troops’ families who fall in the line of duty. “It is unconscionable that the Democrats would shut down the government—and then pocket their paychecks after snatching pay out of the hands of our troops and our agents and officers guarding our border. By shutting the government down over an unrelated issue, Democrats show that they are choosing those here illegally over the American heroes who are upholding our laws and protecting our country. This bill ensures that our military and federal law enforcement, including the agents and officers along the border, continue to get paid during a government shutdown. These brave Americans are willing to protect this nation with their lives—a priceless cost. The very least we can do is ensure they and their families can continue to pay for groceries and rent while politicians figure out this mess in DC,” said Congresswoman McSally. Under current law, if the government shuts down active-duty troops and other personnel essential for national security would be required to show up for duty, but they would not get paid. Payments for death benefits to families of military members killed in the line of duty would also not be allowed to be made until the shutdown came to an end. CLICK HERE to view the legislation.
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s bill to address over $580 million in backlogged National Park maintenance projects today passed out of the House Natural Resources Committee with bipartisan support. The 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Act will enable federal agencies, like the National Park Service (NPS), to partner with national service corps organizations in order to complete projects faster and more efficiently—at no additional cost to taxpayers. “This staggering backlog in park maintenance projects hampers Arizonans’ ability to fully enjoy and access the natural beauty of our state,” said Congresswoman McSally. “My bipartisan bill leverages existing resources in a smarter way to get these delayed and deferred maintenance projects moving. It also expands opportunities for youth and veterans who need service hours to volunteer to help our parks. This bill is a win for everyone—taxpayers, national park users, veterans, and even inner-city youth. I’m thankful for the Committee’s support of my bill and I will continue to shepherd this legislation through until it is public law.” “I applaud the House Committee on Natural Resources for passing our 21CSC Act, which would create more opportunities for Americans to serve. In Arizona and across the country, our national parks and public lands are in need of help as a backlog of critical projects grows. Our legislation would enable young people and transitioning veterans to serve their communities by enhancing our national parks and public lands, while spending no additional taxpayer dollars. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to follow the House’s lead by taking up and passing this important legislation,” said Senator McCain, who introduced a companion bill in the Senate. The 21st Century Service Corps was initially created as part of President Obama’s America’s Great Outdoors Initiative. The Department of Interior and the U.S. Forest Service established cooperative public-private partnership programs throughout the country. Volunteers completed a range of necessary and helpful projects, everything from trail maintenance to historic preservation to forest regeneration to frontline services for visitors. A recent report showed that public-private partnerships saved the National Park Service more than $50,000 per project on average, with one project achieving savings of over $220,000. Congresswoman McSally’s legislation codifies the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps program in law and increases the number of Federal agencies authorized to enter into these cost-saving cooperative agreements. The Natural Resources Committee unanimously passed the legislation out of the committee. It will next be evaluated on the House floor.
01.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – After joining President Trump for a bipartisan, bicameral meeting at the White House on Tuesday to discuss ways to secure our border and enforce our immigration laws, U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday rolled out a plan with House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-ID). Their plan has already earned support from President Trump and top Administration Officials. Their bill, the Securing America's Future Act, bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Click HERE for the full summary and more materials on the bill. Statement from the Press Secretary Supporting McSally Legislation "President Donald J. Trump is grateful to Chairman Goodlatte, Chairman McCaul, Congressman Labrador, and Congresswoman McSally for introducing immigration legislation that would accomplish the President’s core priorities for the American people. The President looks forward to advancing legislation that secures the border, ends chain migration, cancels the visa lottery, and addresses the status of the DACA population in a responsible fashion." Click HERE to view this statement on WH.gov. Secretary Neilsen Statement on Introduction of McSally’s Securing America's Future Act “I appreciate the leadership of Chairmen Goodlatte and McCaul, Representatives Labrador and McSally and key staff in crafting this bill. The legislation introduced today reflects many of the policy principles and priorities identified by DHS’s frontline personnel which the Administration has advocated for this past year. I look forward to working with Members as they consider this and other legislation that will help us secure our borders, provide necessary enforcement authorities, and end diversity visas and extended family chain migration. Collectively, these elements are significant factors when it comes to protecting Americans and the Homeland.” Click HERE to view her statement on DHS.gov. McSally Discusses Need for Border Security and Immigration Reform on FOX News and FOX Business: Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally discuss the legislation on Happening Now, Fox News with Jon Scott: Video of Rep. McSally Discusses Immigration Bill on Fox Happening Now Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally discuss the legislation on Fox Business with Stuart Varney: Video of Rep. McSally Discusses Immigration Fix on Varney &amp;amp; Co Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally discuss the legislation on Fox Business with Trish Regan: Video of Rep. McSally Discusses DACA and Border Security With Trish Regan Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally discuss the legislation on Fox News with Harris Faulkner: Video of Rep. McSally Speaks with Harris Faulkner After White House Immigration Meeting Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally discuss the legislation on Fox News with Shannon Bream and President of the Border Patrol Union, Brandon Judd: Video of Rep. McSally and NPBC President Brandon Judd Discuss WH Immigration Meeting With Shannon Bream
01.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally (R-Ariz.), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), and House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho) today introduced the Securing America's Future Act (H.R. 4760). This bill bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. The Securing America's Future Act includes numerous reforms to ensure the enforcement of our immigration laws in the interior of our country. The legislation aims to reduce the number of individuals who overstay their visas, requires employers to use the E-Verify system to ensure that they hire legal workers, and makes it easier to remove individuals who are gang members and other criminals. Additionally, the legislation cracks down on dangerous sanctuary cities by withholding federal grants and prevents fraud and abuse in the asylum system. The Securing America's Future Act reforms our legal immigration programs by ending chain migration, ending the Diversity Visa program, increasing the number of green cards available for skilled workers, and creating a new, workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers. The bill strengthens the security of our southern border by authorizing the construction of a border wall, investing in new technology, and improving, modernizing, and expanding ports of entry. The bill also calls for an additional 5,000 Border Patrol Agents and 5,000 Customs and Border Protection Officers and requires the use of a biometric Entry-Exit system at all ports of entry. Finally, the Securing America’s Future Act allows DACA beneficiaries to receive a 3-year renewable legal status, while ensuring that gang members, individuals who have criminal convictions, or convictions in juvenile court for serious crimes are not eligible for legal status. Below are statements from House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee leaders on the introduction of the Securing America's Future Act. Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman McSally: “Our unsecured border and broken immigration system threaten our country’s safety and prosperity; no one knows this better than Arizona. As if the most recent terrorist attacks don’t stand as reason enough, sophisticated drug cartels, human traffickers, and an opioid crisis all point to the need for action. Now is the time. “Our legislation finally strengthens America’s borders. It moves us towards a merit-based immigration system. It includes funds for necessary infrastructure, interior law enforcement, a biometric exit-entry system, and an e-verify system for employers so that our immigration laws are enforced. It cracks down on sanctuary cities and focuses on the public safety of our citizens like Kate Steinle who was killed by a man deported 5 times. And it also puts more boots on the border and supports our Border Patrol Agents and CBP officers on the frontlines. America is the most generous and welcoming nation in the world, and that will continue. But we won’t be taken advantage of any longer. This bill delivers on what the American people want and what our President has requested, and I urge my colleagues to join us and support it.” Click HERE or below to watch today’s press conference. Chairman McCaul: “Our current border security and immigration system is failing the American people. For too long drug smugglers, human traffickers, and transnational gang members like MS-13 have exploited our vulnerabilities at our borders. It’s time to end this crisis once and for all. This bill offers common-sense solutions that will finally secure our borders, better support our frontline defenders, strengthen interior enforcement, and get tough on those who break our immigration laws. With this President at the helm, we have the opportunity to provide the security and rule of law our founding fathers intended. I am proud to offer these reasonable solutions with my colleagues and look forward to finally solving these challenges in the near future.” Chairman Goodlatte: “Years of lax enforcement policies have wreaked havoc on our borders. Millions of people have been allowed to flout our immigration laws. We can’t let these dangerous and foolish policies continue. “With the introduction of the Securing America’s Future Act we have an historic opportunity to fix our broken immigration system. The only way to reduce illegal immigration is to address both enforcement of our immigration laws in the interior of our country and to secure our borders. This carefully crafted legislation, which is aligned with the White Houses’ immigration priorities, combines enforcement measures and increased border security to enhance public safety, ensure the door remains open to law-abiding immigrants, and restore the rule of law. “I thank Chairman McCaul and Representatives Labrador and McSally for working with me on the Securing America’s Future Act and we look forward to working with the Administration and Members of the House and Senate to see these important reforms implemented. “ Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Labrador: “The purpose of our legislation is simple: to help President Trump keep his promise to the American people to fix our broken immigration system. Our bill will modernize America’s immigration system for the next generation, enacting conservative reforms that will make our nation strong. These reforms include authorizing funding for the border wall, stronger interior enforcement, mandatory E-Verify, and ending chain migration and the diversity visa lottery. Our bill will also strengthen our economy and create jobs by transitioning to a merit-based legal immigration system that puts the needs of the American people first. “I want to thank my colleagues – Chairman Goodlatte, Chairman McCaul, and Representative McSally – for joining me in introducing this bill. Should it become law, it will be one of the most consequential conservative bills of our lifetime.” Original cosponsors of the Securing America’s Future Act also include Judiciary Committee Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and House Appropriations Committee Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman John Carter (R-Texas). Additional Resources: Bill Text Bill Summary Press Conference Op-ed from Chairmen Goodlatte and McCaul and Representatives Labrador and McSally Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally discuss her legislation with Trish Regan on Fox Business today: Video of Rep. McSally Discusses DACA and Border Security With Trish Regan Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally discuss this plan and their meeting with the President yesterday on Fox News with Harris Faulkner Video of Rep. McSally Speaks with Harris Faulkner After White House Immigration Meeting Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally take charge of yesterday’s White House meeting on this issue. During the meeting, President Trump discussed this very legislation that Rep. McSally has been working on for the past few months with House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and Representative Paul Labrador. Video of McSally takes charge of White House Immigration meeting, refuses to let Dems play politics w/ troops Click HERE or below to watch the Congresswoman discuss her meeting with the President and how this bill with specifically help agents and officers on the front lines with Border Patrol Union President Brandon Judd on Fox News with Shannon Bream: Video of Rep. McSally and NPBC President Brandon Judd Discuss WH Immigration Meeting With Shannon Bream
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday joined President Donald Trump in a bipartisan meeting with members of the House and Senate to discuss the path forward on border security and immigration reform. During the meeting, President Trump discussed the border security plan that Rep. McSally has been working on for the past few months with House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and Representative Paul Labrador. Congresswoman McSally pushed for real and lasting solutions that will strengthen America’s borders and fix the nation’s broken immigration system. Their bill will be introduced later today. Congresswoman McSally also took charge of the meeting to demand that American troops are not held hostage during negotiations over DACA. “The lives that are hanging in the balance are those of our military. They need the equipment and the funding to keep us safe,” said Congresswoman McSally. “We should not be playing politics on this issue to stop our military from getting the funding they need. We have the right people in the room to solve this issue…let’s roll up our sleeves and work together on this.” Watch her exchange with the President of the United States below. Video of McSally takes charge of White House Immigration meeting, refuses to let Dems play politics w/ troops Right after the meeting, Congresswoman McSally joined Harris Faulkner on FOX to discuss the takeaways. Watch her interview below: Video of Rep. McSally Speaks with Harris Faulkner After White House Immigration Meeting
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative McSally today led the House of Representatives in a moment of silence honoring the victims of the January 8, 2011 shooting in Tucson, Arizona. Click to watch the moment of silence below: Video of U.S. Rep. McSally Leads Moment of Silence on House Floor for Victims of January 8 Shooting Transcript Mr. Speaker, I rise today with my colleagues from Arizona and across the country to commemorate the seventh anniversary of the shooting that took place on January 8, 2011 in Tucson, Arizona. Congresswoman Gabby Giffords was meeting with her constituents when a gunman opened fire. He killed 6 people and injured 13 more, including the Congresswoman. Last year when I led this moment of silence, many people in this chamber could only imagine being the target of a gunman. This year, even more members of Congress have lived that reality. Majority Whip Steve Scalise narrowly escaped with his life, thanks to the quick action of brave Capitol police. Hateful violence against elected officials is not an attack on any particular individual. It isn’t an attack on a party. It is an attack on our representative government and the ideals that underpin our democracy. But I believe our nation can chart a new course. Where there has been division, there can be unity. Where there has been hatred, there can be understanding. Where there has been vitriol, there can be civil discourse. In the aftermath of the 2011 shooting, Tucson united to support the grieving, honor the victims, and commend our first responders. Just this morning my hometown dedicated the January 8 Memorial in downtown Tucson. And tonight, we remember those we lost: Christina Taylor Green Dorothy Morris Judge John Roll Phyllis Schneck Dorwan Stoddard Gabriel "Gabe" Zimmerman Mr. Speaker, I would now ask that the House rise and observe a moment of silence in remembrance.
01.03.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released 2017 Year in Review metrics outlining her accomplishments on behalf of Arizonans last year. Among the highlights include the fact that she passed more bills than any other member of Congress, responded to 192,584 constituent correspondence, and recovered $458,190 for constituents in the last year alone. “As we embark on 2018, let’s take a moment to look back on what we achieved for Arizona last year. My goal as I am deployed to DC is to solve problems for my constituents through casework and by putting forth common sense solutions that impact Southern Arizona and reflect its priorities,” said Rep. McSally. “I am here to help you. I urge those who have questions or need assistance to reach out to my office, and I look forward to another productive year delivering results for Arizonans.” Congresswoman McSally’s office stands ready to help constituents resolve problems with the federal government—whether its trouble with Social Security, Medicare, the IRS, or the VA. In addition to resolving issues with a federal agency, her office can also help constituents fly a U.S. flag over the Capitol, plan a visit to Washington DC, or even apply to a U.S. Service Academy, Congresswoman McSally’s office is ready to help and encourages constituents to call her office or send an email by clicking this link.
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON – Reps. Martha McSally (R-Ariz.), John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), and Robert Pittenger (R-N.C.) are calling on the Justice Department (DOJ) to investigate the Obama administration’s actions to thwart the arrest and prosecution of individuals running drug trafficking and money laundering operations to fund Hezbollah. “Recently uncovered evidence points very directly to a disturbing conclusion: that the Obama administration intentionally shielded the Iran-backed terrorist group, Hezbollah, from an ongoing investigation in order to secure the deeply flawed Iran Deal,” said Rep. McSally. “The American people deserve to know whether their President did indeed pick his political agenda over the safety of our country and our allies, allowing the world’s most dangerous terrorist group to continue to launder money and traffic illicit drugs to fuel their violence. This letter calls for an investigation into these incriminating facts. Our national security depends on it.” “Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran was a bad deal in itself – and new revelations of the illicit actions that were ignored to secure it are even worse. Unsurprisingly, the Obama administration put politics ahead of justice at the expense of national security. We’ve got to ensure that painfully misguided decisions like this won’t ever happen again,” Rep. Ratcliffe said. “Hezbollah is one of the most ruthless terrorist organizations in the world. The allegations that Obama’s administration derailed a major investigation into this barbaric terror group in order to secure the deeply flawed Iran Nuclear deal are shocking and infuriating. We need to get to the bottom of this. The American people deserve to know the truth,” Rep. Pittenger said. The call for an investigation comes on the heels a report released this week that the Obama administration undermined Project Cassandra, a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) campaign to target Hezbollah’s drug trafficking operations. Despite evidence that Hezbollah was running a $1-billion-a-year drug and weapons trafficking operation, laundering money and engaging in other criminal activities, Obama administration officials didn’t file criminal charges for fear of jeopardizing the prospects of securing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or “Iran Nuclear Deal.” The lawmakers, along with 18 of their colleagues, will formally call on the DOJ to launch an investigation to answer several questions surrounding the matter in January. The full text of the letter is available here or below. January 2, 2017 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions, We are deeply disturbed by recent reports that illustrate the Obama Administration’s efforts to undermine Project Cassandra, a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) campaign to target drug trafficking operations by the Iranian-backed terrorist group Hezbollah. We write to inquire about the steps your Justice Department will take to address the consequences of this misguided decision. In 2008, the DEA found evidence that Hezbollah expanded its operations into drug trafficking and other criminal activities. Over the next eight years, DEA Agents used every tool in their disposal to track Hezbollah’s illicit networks, culminating in the opportunity to file criminal charges against individuals and entities that profited from drug trafficking. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration allegedly instituted several roadblocks to prevent holding Hezbollah accountable for fear of jeopardizing the prospects of securing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (“Iran Nuclear Deal”) with the Iranian regime. According to testimony presented to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, by an Obama-era Treasury official, Katherine Bauer, “under the Obama administration … these [Hezbollah-related] investigations were tamped down for fear of rocking the boat with Iran and jeopardizing the nuclear deal.” Contrary to the narrative of proponents of the Iran Nuclear Deal that the agreement would change Iran’s behavior, Iran has responded by continuing its destabilizing foreign policy activities, while its proxy, Hezbollah, continues to provide weapons and training to anti-American militias. The result is the further undermining of America’s national security interests, the safety of the American people, and the security of our allies – including Israel. Given the Trump Administration’s desire to hold the Iranian regime and its proxies accountable, we urge you to conduct a full investigation into the decision-making of the Obama Administration Justice Department as it relates to Project Cassandra. As you conduct this investigation, several questions remain: Are you aware that the Obama Justice Department declined DEA requests to file criminal charges against Abdallah Safieddine, Hezbollah’s Envoy to Iran? Are you aware that the Obama Justice Department declined DEA requests to file criminal charges against the Lebanese Canadian Bank and its associates? Which individual(s) within the Obama Justice Department were responsible for delaying prosecutions of key Hezbollah entities in the hope of securing Iran’s approval of the Iran Nuclear Deal? If that guidance or directive came from outside the Justice Department, who and where did it come from? What steps will your Justice Department take to ensure improved interagency cooperation to address the Hezbollah threat moving forward? We respectfully request answers to these questions in writing as well as a briefing on this matter at your earliest convenience. The security of the United States and the safety of the American people and our allies depend on a thorough investigation and corrective action to ensure that the Obama Administration’s misguided policy is never implemented again. We appreciate your prompt consideration and look forward to your response on this matter. Our national security depends upon it.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation that would prevent the 9th Circuit from penalizing Arizona and other western states for going the extra mile to comply with the Clean Air Act. Her one-sentence bill will uphold the EPA’s long-standing practice of allowing states to implement contingency measures early under the Clean Air Act. “The Ninth Circuit gets 79% of its decisions overturned—and it’s no wonder, if all of their decisions are as unreasonable as this one,” said Rep. McSally. “States should not be penalized for going above and beyond to comply with the Clean Air Act—but that is exactly what this court ruling would do. No state should be punished for taking extra steps to be compliant—but even more unjust is the fact that this ruling puts those states, like Arizona, at a disadvantage. It’s unfair that the CAA would apply differently to different states. This common sense, one sentence bill prevents an unnecessary downward spiral.” A recent decision in the Ninth Circuit has thrown a long-standing EPA practice into question. For over 20 years, the EPA has allowed state and local governments to implement contingency measures early, that is, before such measures are required or “triggered” as a matter of law. Under the Clinton, Bush and Obama Administrations, the EPA allowed states early implementation of contingency measures, considering it “illogical to penalize nonattainment areas that are taking extra steps to ensure attainment of the NAAQS.” However, the Ninth Circuit court’s recent decision, Bahr v. EPA, has undermined the EPA’s long-standing approach, ruling that the EPA cannot approve contingency measures if they were implemented prior to an area failing to comply or attain a NAAQS. Because of this court decision, states and territories located in the Ninth Circuit—which include Arizona—may face the disapproval of contingency measures. Disapproval of contingency measures triggers federal sanctions under the Clean Air Act and can create significant negative impacts on economic development. It would lead to tighter controls on business and industry, and even the loss of highway funds. This legislation proposes a simple, one-sentence fix to address the issues raised in Bahr. Specifically, it would enable contingency measures to be implemented early. Moving forward, it would ensure that a consistent policy is implemented across the country. This legislation preserves and does not alter the duty of a nonattainment area to comply with a NAAQS. States will still need to ensure that SIPs contain all measures that are required in order to demonstrate that they will attain a NAAQS by the applicable deadline.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on House passage of the conference report to H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Congress voted today to put our economy in afterburner. The status quo is not putting American families first. Right now lobbyists get loopholes, special interests get handouts—and families get penalized. Today’s landmark legislation lowers taxes across the board, increases the standard deduction, and doubles the child tax credit for hard-working Arizona families so they can save and plan. Job creators will be able to invest more of their own money into hiring more people and rewarding their employees. This bill also preserves the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit which I fought for in order to protect those facing costly child care. All told, a typical family of four earning $73,000 should see a $2,059 tax cut next year. This bill also includes a provision that I dedicate to the memory of Loren Thorson, a veteran from Green Valley who was committed to protecting seniors from hidden tax hikes threatening their lifelong savings. It was Loren who alerted me to a little known but widely felt tax increase in Obamacare, and the need to extend the Medical Expense Deduction and shield seniors from even more taxes on their medical bills. In response, I introduced the Halt Tax Increases on Seniors and the Middle Class Act to extend the medical expense deduction and worked to include it in these tax cuts today. I wish Loren were still with us today to see how his tireless work will now impact the lives of every American family facing medical expenses. It’s time we respect Arizonans time and return their money. When we last reformed the tax system—over 30 years ago—it unleashed an explosion of growth and jobs in America. Let’s do it again.” To read Congresswoman McSally’s op-ed fully outlining her support for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, CLICK HERE. Rep. McSally with Loren Thorson when she presented him with a Congressional Record honoring him for his role in shaping the Halt Tax Increases on Seniors and the Middle Class Act. To read her op ed in the Green Valley news on the importance of the medical expense deduction in Arizona, CLICK HERE.
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to the President’s speech outlining his national security strategy: “Today we heard what our country has longed to hear from a Commander-in-Chief for the past eight years: a bold, proactive strategy to keep America safe and strong in an increasingly dangerous world. I commend President Trump for taking his duty seriously and delivering a plan to Congress in his first year—unlike the previous Administration, which ignored this legal requirement and only presented a national security strategy twice during two full terms in office. President Trump has already been leading with the pillars of this strategy by destroying ISIS safe havens in Iraq and Syria, protecting our nation’s border, and standing up to North Korea—as well as revisionist powers like China and Russia. As Chairwoman of the Border Security Subcommittee, I applaud him for rightly prioritizing regaining control of our own borders and revamping our flawed immigration system. As a retired Colonel and combat pilot, I appreciate his commitment to rebuild our neglected military so we remain the best in the world. And as a member of Congress, I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration to implement the vision and strategy he outlined today. This President is focusing with resolve on the grave threats this nation face and the importance of protecting America and our clearly-defined interests Not only is his approach refreshing for the American people, it is absolutely necessary.”
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a bipartisan, bicameral group of 20 lawmakers in sending a letter request to Senate leadership and high ranking appropriators urging them to include funding for new wings for the A-10 fleet in any final FY18 spending package. The A-10 wing production line was shut down because the Obama Administration unsuccessfully attempted to mothball A-10s and cripple the fleet. These requested funds would jumpstart the production line again. Currently, 110 A-10 aircraft—one-third of the fleet—are in desperate need of wing set replacements or the Air Force will be forced to start grounding them. A requirement to start to finish re-winging the fleet was fully funded in the FY18 House and Senate National Defense Authorization Acts (NDAAs), the FY18 NDAA conference report, and the House-passed defense appropriations bill. However, Senate Appropriations neglected to include it in their funding bill, regardless of the fact that the Air Force has re-geared up the A-10 depot line in order to sustain the A-10 fleet indefinitely. “Now that the Air Force has confirmed that it plans to maintain the A-10 fleet well into the foreseeable future, the remaining 110 wing sets must be delivered as soon as possible. The A-10 remains the only aircraft in the U.S. military specifically designed for Close Air Support (CAS) and Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR). If one-third of the A-10 fleet were to be grounded, it would create a significant capability gap at a time when our service members are facing increasing threat environments,” the lawmakers write in the letter. “We urge you to fully fund this Air Force UPL list item as authorized/requested in any final spending package for FY18 in order to keep these battle-tested aircraft in the air and in the fight.” As of August 30th of this year, the Warthog had dropped roughly 20 percent of all munitions—more than any other aircraft—in the fight against ISIS. The lawmakers point out that the A-10 is currently one of the U.S. military’s most utilized aircraft across multiple theaters, crucial in contingency operations against North Korea, Russian aggression in Eastern Europe, and ISIS in the Middle East. Thanks to Rep. McSally’s tireless efforts, Congress has taken clear and concrete steps to preserve the remaining A-10 fleet over the last several years. Since Congresswoman McSally was elected to the House of Representatives, she has effectively canceled the A-10’s retirement and fully funded the fleet. She also worked to successfully establish a requirement for the Air Force in FY18 NDAA to maintain no less than 1,970 fighter aircraft, and the A-10 is a vital part of maintaining this force. “The funding amount authorized for new A-10 wings in the House, Senate, and conference NDAAs and requested in the House defense appropriations bill would allow the revival of a wing production line and begin the process of supplying these remaining aircraft with the new wings they need to keep flying safely in the future.” Politico’s Morning Defense reported on Congresswoman McSally’s letter this morning. The full letter text follows. View a PDF of the letter HERE. December 15, 2017 Senator Thad Cochran Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen Chairman, Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman, House Appropriations Committee The Capitol, Room S-128 The Capitol, Room H-305 Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 Senator Patrick Leahy Representative Nita Lowey Vice Chairman Ranking Member Senate Appropriations Committee House Appropriations Committee The Capitol, Room S-128 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 Chairman Cochran, Chairman Frelinghuysen, Vice Chairman Leahy, and Ranking Member Lowey: We write to express our grave concern regarding the Senate Appropriations Defense Subcommittee’s omission of the Air Force’s Unfunded Priority List request for funding to restart A-10C Thunderbolt II wing production in its fiscal year 2018 (FY18) funding bill. The A-10C is currently one of the most utilized aircraft across multiple theaters, and this requirement was fully funded in the FY18 House and Senate National Defense Authorization Acts (NDAAs), the FY18 NDAA conference report, and the House-passed defense appropriations bill. We ask that this same level of funding be secured in any final FY18 spending package in order to prevent a critical capability gap in the operational fleet. As you may know, the Air Force has taken the A-10C out of “sunset status” (after “mothballing” the equivalent of five squadrons, leaving only nine deployable squadrons in the inventory) in the face of growing security threats and increased operational tempo in the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and the Korean Peninsula. The A-10 “Warthog” has continued to be instrumental in U.S. contingency operations around the globe, including just south of the demilitarized zone (DMZ) for critical anti-armor capabilities against North Korea, deploying to Eastern Europe and the Baltics in the face of Russian aggression, conducting missions in the South China Sea in the face of illegal Chinese military expansion in the region, and fighting the Islamic State (ISIS). In fact, as of August 30th of this year, the Warthog had dropped roughly 20 percent of all munitions—more than any other aircraft—in the fight against ISIS, and had flown 14 percent of all sorties deployed since counter-ISIS operations began in 2014. Furthermore, the A-10 is uniquely designed for life-saving missions like Close Air Support (CAS) and Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR). The former protects troops in harm’s way while the latter involves rescuing downed pilots or other isolated personnel from enemy territory before they become prisoners of war. A-10 pilots specifically train for these missions because only the A-10 has the lethality, loiter time, and survivability to succeed in each of these mission sets. Congress has taken clear and concrete steps to preserve the remaining A-10C fleet over the last several years. In FY16, Congress: fully funded the fleet, prohibited the use of any funds to retire any additional A-10s; required the Air Force to maintain a minimum of 171 combat-coded A-10s; and directed the Air Force to commission an independent assessment of the required capabilities and mission platform to replace the A-10. The FY17 NDAA and defense appropriations bill continued this trend by: preserving the current fleet of 283 A-10s; again requiring a minimum of 171 combat-coded A-10s; mandating adequate maintainers and a regular depot schedule; protecting A-10s in the boneyard from premature destruction; and asking for a plan in conjunction with the FY18 budget request to prevent any A-10s from becoming unflyable due to wing deterioration. Congress also required the Air Force to conduct a comparison or “fly-off” between the F-35A and the A-10C in CAS, CSAR, and Forward Air Control-Airborne (FAC-A) missions. This provision prevented any retirements until the full operational test and evaluation (OT&E) process for the F-35A is complete and an analysis is done by the Air Force on mission gaps. This exercise has yet to occur. The FY18 NDAA also established a requirement for the Air Force to maintain no less than 1,970 fighter aircraft. The A-10 is a vital part of maintaining this force. However, 110 A-10C aircraft—one-third of the fleet—are in desperate need of wing set replacements in order to safely continue mission assignments into the coming years. 173 A-10s have already received new wings. But, as the Air Force was considering whether to decommission the A-10 fleet, the contract for wing production was allowed expire before the remaining 110 wing sets could be completed. In September, Gen. Ellen Pawlikowski, commander of Air Force Materiel Command, said the Air Force would be forced to start grounding some A-10s beginning in 2018 because their wings will have reached the end of their service life. Yet, in October, Gen. Pawlikowski also confirmed that the Air Force has “re-geared up” the A-10 depot line in order to sustain the A-10 fleet “indefinitely.” Now that the Air Force has confirmed that it plans to maintain the A-10 fleet well into the foreseeable future, the remaining 110 wing sets must be delivered as soon as possible. The A-10 remains the only aircraft in the U.S. military specifically designed for CAS and CSAR. If one-third of the A-10 fleet were to be grounded, it would create a significant capability gap at a time when our servicemembers are facing increasing threat environments. The funding amount authorized for new A-10 wings in the House, Senate, and conference NDAAs and requested in the House defense appropriations bill would allow the revival of a wing production line and begin the process of supplying these remaining aircraft with the new wings they need to keep flying safely in the future until we have a proven, tested replacement for its capabilities. Congress has clearly willed over recent fiscal years that the A-10C fleet be sustained in its entirety. Further, this wing funding was a top Air Force Unfunded Priority List item specifically added into both the FY18 House and Senate defense authorization bills, the FY18 NDAA conference report (which has been signed into law by President Trump), and the FY18 House defense appropriations bill, which passed the House in July. As such, we urge you to fully fund this Air Force UPL list item as authorized/requested in any final spending package for FY18 in order to keep these battle-tested aircraft in the air and in the fight. Sincerely, Martha McSally Johnny Isakson Member of Congress United States Senator David A. Perdue Walter B. Jones United States Senator Member of Congress Mike Turner Mike Coffman Member of Congress Member of Congress Vicky Hartzler Austin Scott Member of Congress Member of Congress Ruben Gallego Paul Cook Member of Congress Member of Congress Colleen Hanabusa Carol Shea-Porter Member of Congress Member of Congress Tom O’Halleran Thomas Suozzi Member of Congress Member of Congress Matt Gaetz Don Bacon Member of Congress Member of Congress Jim Banks Earl L. “Buddy” Carter Member of Congress Member of Congress Adam Kinzinger Kyrsten Sinema Member of Congress Member of Congress Cc: Senator Richard Durbin Ranking Member, Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Representative Kay Granger Chairwoman, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Representative Peter J. Visclosky Ranking Member, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Senator Mitch McConnell Senate Majority Leader Senator Chuck Schumer Senate Minority Leader Representative Paul Ryan Speaker of the House Representative Kevin McCarthy House Majority Leader Representative Nancy Pelosi House Minority Leader
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— President Trump today signed the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which authorizes defense spending at $634 billion and contains every single provision that Congresswoman McSally tirelessly fought to include for our troops and Arizona. Her measures include full protection and upgrades for the A-10, EC-130, missile defense, and increases for other defense assets throughout the state—including boosts to space-based missile defense and procurement of additional F-35 Lightning joint strike fighter jets and AH-64E Apache attack helicopters. “American men and women are fighting to keep our country safe on the ground, sea, and in the air—but they are armed with decaying equipment, dwindling numbers, and feeble resources. Our military has consistently told us what they need to get the job done, and I am thankful our Commander-in-Chief recognizes the importance of partnering with Congress to give our armed forces the resources necessary to accomplish their mission,” said Rep. McSally. “Arizona is spearheading our national defense efforts. Our state is on the cutting edge of developing critical missile defense capabilities to protect America from a North Korea nuclear attack. Southern Arizona is home to cyber operations out of Ft. Huachuca’s NETCOM and the one-of-a-kind A-10 for Close Air Support. The only training location in the world for the F-35A joint strike fighter variant is right here at Luke Air Force Base. By investing in Arizona’s major defense assets, this bill stops the bleeding of our readiness crisis and invests in our troops so our military can continue to be the world’s premier fighting force.” The legislation increases the military’s end strength across all branches, prevents A-10s from being indefinitely grounded by beginning to re-wing the fleet, goes above and beyond the President’s request for missile defense pipelines, increases funding for RDT&E of electronic warfare—one of the key missions of Ft. Huachuca—and provides the biggest pay raise for the troops in eight years. It also includes Rep. McSally’s legislation to help prevent suicides and stop non-consensual pornography in the military. The final bill includes the following provisions, championed by Congresswoman McSally, and now enshrined in law: Statewide Impacts for Arizona Defense Industry Authorizes procurement of 90 F-35s (20 more than the President’s request) Provides for procurement of 71 AH-64E Apache helicopters (10 more than the President’s request) Adds $4.4 billion above the President's request to meet critical missile defense needs Improves Foreign Military Sales process to ensure our partners can procure U.S. defense products that support our strategic objectives and industry Authorizes additional funding for critical munitions in war reserves by improving manufacturing capacity of the munitions industrial base and accelerating long range precision fires programs Provides additional funding for guided multiple launch rocket systems tooling for increased capacity Provides for future continued Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) critical capacity by prohibiting retirement of the U-2 and RQ-4 Global Hawk, authorizing an additional $60 million for 6 Extended Range (ER) Improved Gray Eagle (IGE) Air Vehicles, and increasing funding for development of ISR sensors General Provisions addressing military personnel and readiness Approves a 2.4% pay raise for our troops. It also extends special pay and bonuses for service-members Increases the size of Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard. These increases include the Chief of Staff of the Army’s unfunded requirement to grow the active Army by 10,000, the Army National Guard by 4,000, and the Army Reserve by 3,000 Includes the PRIVATE ACT, a bill authored by Rep. McSally to clarify when sharing intimate photos is a military crime Provisions impacting Arizona’s major military installations Ft. Huachuca Full funding for the missions at Ft. Huachuca Increased funding for total Army personnel at Ft Huachuca Increased funding for Research, Development, Testing, & Evaluation to promote future growth for the missions at Ft Huachuca $30 million for a Ground Transport Equipment Building at Ft Huachuca Davis-Monthan Air Force Base Full funding for the A-10 fleet, including a $103 million Air Force Unfunded Requirement for new A-10 wing production, $17.5 million for other necessary upgrades, and $6 million for safety inspections Full funding for the EC-130H “Compass Call,” $108M to build two new aircraft, and a directive to the Air Force to report their plan to upgrade the aircraft for future threats $22 million for a General Instruction Building at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base Luke Air Force Base Secures 20 additional F-35s for continuation and expansion of Fifth Generation future airpower Includes full funding for F-16 training mission Full funding for the missions at Luke AFB Marine Corps Air Station Yuma and U.S. Army Yuma Proving Ground Provides robust funding for the Marine Corp’s premier aviation training missions, including international partner training Includes funding to continue critical counter-unmanned aerial systems testing Amendments successfully offered by Congresswoman McSally Apache Amendment: Requires the Army and National Guard to brief Congress on a plan to address the shortage of about 230 active duty attack helicopter pilots NETCOM Amendment: NETCOM out of Ft Huachuca currently monitors 60% of Army Networks and is responsible for the entire Department of Army networks. This amendment consolidates the Army’s communications network into a single network that is secure, integrated, and standards-based—addressing security vulnerabilities Suicide Prevention Amendment: Extends a suicide prevention program that supports our National Guard and reserves military members through 2018 Gender Double Standards Amendment: Directs the Secretary of Defense to review instances where men and women in the military are held to double standards and brief the House Armed Services Committee on any differences the Secretary recommends retaining.
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today commended the President on his decision to relocate the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. “By relocating our embassy to Jerusalem, President Trump is doing what our country should have done two decades ago: fulfill our promise to our ally and formally recognize the Jewish State of Israel’s undivided capital,” said Rep. McSally. “Jerusalem is our ally’s capital, so that’s where our embassy should be. I applaud the President’s decision, which sends a strong and clear message to the international community that we are beginning a new chapter in our alliance, one in which America keeps our promises towards Israel and doesn’t waffle about where our true allegiance lies. The era of reneged commitments is finally over.” In 1995, Congress passed the Jerusalem Embassy Act, a law requiring America to move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem or provide an explanation every six months outlining why doing so is not in the national security interests of the US. Since then, every president has exercised this waiver, citing national security interests. Rep. McSally is a cosponsor of legislation introduced by her Arizona colleague, Congressman Franks, that would not only require the U.S. to relocate the embassy by 2019 but also to recognize the sovereign status of an undivided Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and eliminate executive authority to waive funding limitations until the U.S. embassy in Jerusalem has officially opened. Since day one in Congress, McSally has worked to strengthen U.S. support for Israel. Not only has she personally visited Israel to hear first-hand from top Israeli and Palestinian officials about the region’s most pressing national security issues, she also introduced a resolution expressing solidarity with the Israeli people, authored legislation to prevent the discrimination of Israeli-produced goods, and advocated for increased missile defense spending for Israel throughout the national defense authorization process—including the Iron Dome weapons system. Her state and district play a vital role in the alliance. David’s Sling, a missile defense system that is a major technology upgrade for the small country was co-developed by Israel’s Rafael Advanced Defense Systems and American defense contractor, Raytheon, which is located Tucson, Arizona.
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that the Douglas Port of Entry is another step closer to modernization. U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) has awarded a Tucson-based architectural firm, Line and Space, with the contract for the feasibility study to evaluate necessary upgrades and expansions of the port. “GSA’s selection of a contractor shows that this feasibility study is on track and that the Douglas Port of Entry modernization project is progressing. After years of fighting to move this project forward, I am pleased to announce another step towards completion. Right now our Customs and Border Protection Officers are doing the best they can with an outdated and inadequate facility, but they are dealing with steep increases in two-way traffic and if this project is not completed, our port won’t be able to meet the minimum requirements to keep up. Modernizing our port and building a new one in Douglas is not just good for our local economy—it is necessary for our security. I won’t stop until this project is a reality,” said Congresswoman McSally. Built in 1933 and last renovated over twenty years ago, the Douglas Port of Entry has experienced a steady increase in traffic and is inadequately equipped to keep up with the demand. The City of Douglas has been attempting to secure the approval of a new Commercial Port of Entry since 2012—but once Congresswoman Martha McSally took up the cause on her first day in office, she has effectively driven the project forward. Rep. McSally worked with the Trump Administration to successfully secure funding for the feasibility study, which is a necessary step to move the modernization and expansion of the port forwards. The modernization project is expected to be completed within the next five years because she successfully pressed U.S. Customs and Border Protection to include it in their Five-Year Plan. "We are pleased to see that the General Services Administration is moving forward with the feasibility study that will look at the investments needed to modernize the existing port of entry and the urgent need to relocate commercial traffic to a new port of entry. Having Congresswoman McSally carrying the message on behalf of Douglas and the binational community helps us move forward with confidence. Thanks to Congresswoman McSally for her work—we look forward to what this means for our city, economy, and security,” said Robert Uribe, Mayor for the City of Douglas.​ Under the terms of the contract, Line and Space will be tasked with preparing a list of building improvements necessary to modernize the Raul Hector Castro Land Port of Entry port with the project team and will develop a project priority that meets the mission requirements for the CBP and GSA. The Contractor will review maintenance service request logs, GSA building evaluation reports, facility condition assessments and any available technical studies with the project team.
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today joined Stuart Varney on Fox News to discuss the jury’s verdict on Kate Steinle and what it means for border security and sanctuary cities. “This is a shocking decision. This man came illegally to the United States five times, one time, at least, through Arizona. In the sanctuary city of San Francisco he had a detainer and federal officials begged ‘please, this man is a danger, hand him over to us’ and the city refused to,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Kate Steinle was killed because the laws on the books were not enforced. The dangerous policies of sanctuary cities, like San Francisco, are not safe for Americans and their families.” The Congresswoman pointed to legislation she supports to cut off federal grants to sanctuary cities that do not enforce federal laws, as well as Kate’s Law, named after Kate Steinle, which will increase the penalties for deported aliens who try to return to the United States. McSally also talked about the need to enforce border security. “We absolutely need to be increasing our border security to include physical infrastructures where necessary and additional technology so border patrol can do their job and stop the entry of illegal felons like him,” McSally said. Watch their exchange by clicking HERE or below: Video of McSally on Kate Steinle: Sanctuary Cities Are Dangerous
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Acting Secretary Elaine Duke agreed today with U.S. Representative Martha McSally that the Diversity Visa Lottery Program poses significant security concerns and should be eliminated. During a Homeland Security Committee hearing, Rep. McSally questioned the Acting Secretary on what changes need to be made to the U.S. immigration system in light of Sayfullo Saipov’s terror attack in New York City on October 31. During the hearing, Congresswoman McSally outlined her position on the problematic program. “Many vulnerabilities have been talked about today that radical Islamic terrorists can use and will use to hurt Americans and attack our way of life…one of those vulnerabilities was used just 30 days ago. We are an immigrant-friendly country—we admit one million immigrants each year. No other country that routinely admits immigrants hands out their visas based on chance and lottery,” said Congresswoman McSally. “We also see that the Diversity Program is rife with fraud,” responded Secretary Duke. “Today it would be better, but I agree with your sentiments on it that this is not the best use of our immigration system. Now we have biographics and the ability to search social media, but it is still one that would introduce risk.” “I recently introduced legislation to eliminate the lottery program and convert a portion of them to merit-based visas, which I believe is the right thing to do. President Trump has called for the elimination of this program. Do you all agree that the program should be eliminated?” the Congresswoman asked. “Yes, I support that,” Secretary Duke responded. McSally pointed to newly released State Department data showing that since 2007 nearly 29,000 foreign nationals from Syria, Sudan, and Iran—three countries designated by the U.S. as state-sponsors of terrorism—have become legal immigrants through this lottery program. The program’s fraud was highlighted earlier this month when the Justice Department stripped four Somali immigrants of their citizenship because they defrauded the program and lied about being a family. The October 31st attack was also not the first time that Americans have been killed at the hands of an individual who gained entry to the United States through the diversity visa lottery program. Congresswoman McSally’s legislation, the Protecting America and American Workers Act, which she introduced earlier this month, will completely eliminate the Diversity Visa Lottery Program by removing 26,000 visas altogether and converting the remaining 24,000 to merit-based employment visas—specifically EB1, EB2, and EB3 visas. McSally also questioned the Secretary on the MILITARY ACCESSIONS VITAL TO NATIONAL INTEREST (MAVNI) program designed to allow aliens to serve in the military were being appropriately vetted to prevent espionage and other risks to our national security. To view the full interaction, click below. Video of DHS Secretary Duke Agrees with Rep. McSally: Diversity Visa Lottery Program is “Ripe for Fraud”
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally released the following statement today after the House passage of H. Res. 630—a measure she cosponsored to crack down on sexual harassment and require Members of Congress and their staff to regularly complete anti-harassment training: “Employers across this nation are required by various laws to prevent sexual harassment by providing mandatory training—and yet Members of Congress aren’t required to do the same thing to ensure safe work environments? The double standards and special treatment need to stop. Sexual harassment is intolerable in our military, it is intolerable in our schools, it is intolerable in private sector workplaces, and it should be intolerable in Congress. Members of Congress should never be above the law. Those who craft our laws must lead by example, and that’s what this resolution is about.”
11.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Representative Martha McSally last week introduced legislation to eliminate the visa program that allowed Sayfullo Saipov of Uzbekistan, an ISIS sympathizer, to enter the United States and kill eight people in a New York City terrorist attack on October 31. Her bill does away with the Diversity Immigrant Visa Program entirely and instead creates 24,000 additional employment-based visas. “In a world of advancing and intensifying globalized terror, it makes no sense that the United States forgoes our right to choose who we admit and instead blindly picks people randomly without regard to whether they have sponsors, skills, or a support system. Saipov proved again that it is dangerous to continue this flawed program,” said Congresswoman McSally. “America is a nation of immigrants, but we should welcome immigrants based on merit—not chance. By ending this program and instead creating more employment-based visas we can make our country safer while still opening our doors to people who will work hard towards a better future for their families and our country.” The Diversity Immigrant Visa Program, created by the Immigration Act of 1990, makes 50,000 visas available annually using a lottery system intended to provide visas to natives of countries that are under-represented among immigrant admissions to the United States. However, now a large number of accepted entrants come from countries designated as State Sponsors of Terrorism and nations where ISIS, al-Qaeda, and other terrorist organizations are operational. This program was used by Sayfullo Saipov of Uzbekistan, who is charged with plowing a truck into a crowd of pedestrians just a few blocks from the World Trade Center after being radicalized by ISIS. The terrorist attack carried out by Saipov in New York is not the first time Americans have been killed at the hands of an individual who gained entry to the United States through the diversity visa lottery program. It isn’t even the first time a terrorist from Uzbekistan entered because of this program. Additionally, the diversity visa lottery program was in the news again earlier this month when the Justice Department stripped four Somali immigrants of their citizenship because they defrauded the program and lied about being a family. Congresswoman McSally’s bill, The Protecting America and American Workers Act, will completely eliminate the Diversity Immigrant Visa Program by removing 26,000 visas altogether and converting the remaining 24,000 to merit-based employment visas—specifically EB1, EB2, and EB3 visas. CLICK HERE to view the legislation.
11.19.2017	TUCSON, AZ—U.S. Representative Martha McSally, Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee on the House Committee on Homeland Security, today released the following statement on the passing of Border Patrol Agent Rogelio Martinez: “The senseless death of Border Patrol Agent Rogelio Martinez, who was murdered along our southwest border in Texas, should be a wakeup call to our country that we must have the resolve to secure our border and protect Americans from deadly threats like these. We must provide our Border Patrol Agents with the strategy, tools, and resources they need to carry their crucial mission to keep our borders secure and our communities safe. They are on the frontlines, and they need us to have their back. My thoughts and prayers tonight are with the grieving family of Agent Martinez. He paid the ultimate price while serving to keep us safe. His partner is in serious condition and needs our prayers as well.”
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which passed the House with her support: “Our 74,000-page tax code is costly, complex, and unfair. Special interests get special breaks and lobbyists get loopholes—but families get penalized. This is the once-in-a-generation opportunity for Washington to fix this broken tax code. Our plan cuts taxes, rewards hard work, respects Arizonan’s time, and remembers whose money this really is. Under this plan a typical family of four in Arizona will keep an additional $1,182 each year, and a family of four making $55,000 won’t face any federal taxes at all. Parents raising kids will keep more of their pay, making childcare more affordable and allowing them to save for college and plan for retirement. Employers will be able to compete and win by spending less time and money on paying and filing taxes—and more time and money on growth, bigger wages, and new hires. Arizonan families deserve a healthy economy and bigger paychecks—and that’s why I support the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.”
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on her vote in support of the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report: “Southern Arizona is a major hub of military power. Our bases are indispensable for our national security and vital to our local communities. The final defense bill the House passed today correctly prioritizes and supports our state’s assets. It restarts much-needed A-10 upgrades and authorizes $103 million to begin re-winging the Warthog fleet, increases funding for the missions at Ft. Huachuca, and provides additional resources for Raytheon’s missile defense systems. Every single provision I fought for on behalf of Arizona is secured in this conference report, and I urge the Senate to also approve it so we can get it to President Trump’s desk.” To view the full list of provisions for Southern Arizona, CLICK HERE. Next, the legislation will head to the President’s desk.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, legislation to overhaul the American tax code for the first time in 31 years and deliver historic tax cuts for Americans: “There is no question that we need to cut taxes. Our complex, burdensome, and outdated tax code is binding the hands of hardworking Americans and holding them back. The plan we unveiled today to cut taxes will give Americans a break. We need to cut our corporate tax rate from the highest in the industrialized world so American companies can compete and more jobs stay here. It’s time we reduce small business rates and simplify the code so job creators can redirect their resources into running their business, hiring more people and paying them bigger paychecks. We need to help struggling families afford child care and keep more of their hard-earned dollars so they can make ends meet, save for retirement, and put their kids through college. Americans need tax relief. Under this plan, a family of four living in Sierra Vista and making $59,000 per year will get a $1,184 tax cut. A single mother working at a local restaurant in Tucson and making $30,000 a year to support herself and her daughter will get a tax refund of $1,000—that's $700 more than she receives today. Small business with less than 50 employees will be taxed at no more than 25%—the lowest marginal rate since World War II. Americans deserve a tax code that is transparent, fair, and simple. This is the moment to move forward on deep tax cuts—and we need to seize it.” To read the full bill, click HERE. For summary materials, click HERE.
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the Administration declared the opioid crisis a nationwide public health emergency: “Opioid addiction is a nationwide epidemic that’s tearing our communities apart. Prescription painkillers, the very ones sitting in home medicine cabinets and on bathroom counters, are killing thousands of Americans each year. Although their use often starts out harmlessly, these powerfully addictive substances are abused by 6.5 millions of Americans each year and cause more deaths than car accidents. We have felt this acutely in my district in Southern Arizona—Pima County had an overdose rate almost twice as high as any other county in Arizona. When the prescriptions run out or can’t be found, these addicts then turn to illegal drugs. Over 80 percent of heroin users started out on prescription opioids. I applaud the Administration for calling our nationwide opioid epidemic what it really is: a public health emergency. Today’s announcement is a necessary step—but it cannot be the final one. Congress and the President must work together to combat this emergency from all sides. I have and will continue to find legislative solutions to interrupt this deadly cycle and halt its spread.” On June 5, 2017, Governor Doug Ducey declared the opioid epidemic a public health emergency in Arizona following the release of data showing that overdose deaths in the state increased by an alarming 74 percent over the past four years. Congresswoman McSally spearheaded legislation included in the 21st Century Cures Act, which, paired with the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act that she supported, will provide grants, give treatment and prevention, and support law enforcement in communities around the nation to combat this crisis. In May 2017, she voted for an increase of $781 million for fighting the opioid epidemic.
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative McSally this week supported Congressional action to ramp up pressure on Iran and North Korea. In a show of bipartisanship, the House overwhelmingly passed measures to hold Iran and North Korea accountable for their aggression and support of terrorism by imposing financial and secondary sanctions on the regimes and their proxies to target ballistic missile development and illicit activity. One measure, the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions Act, includes the toughest sanctions Congress has ever levied on North Korea and is named in recognition of Otto Warmbier, the American student who was senselessly tortured and brutalized under Kim Jong-Un’s dictatorship to the point of death. “Iran and North Korea—brutal regimes that show complete disregard for the value of human life— have made it abundantly clear that they are focused on developing nuclear weapons to threaten the safety of the United States and our allies, including South Korea, Japan, and Israel. These bills, passed by the House this week with my support, will increase economic pressure and tie the hands of their enablers— aiming to cut off their funding sources. Congress and the President must work together in a bipartisan fashion to protect the United States and our allies. This is an important first step,” said Rep. McSally. The House passed the following bills with overwhelming bipartisan support: The Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions Act—imposes the toughest sanctions Congress has ever levied on North Korea to cut off its ability to finance its weapons programs. This bill prevents financial institutions from knowingly facilitating transactions or providing financial services to individuals or entities that transact with persons in North Korea. The Iran Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act—requires a comprehensive investigation to identify and sanction the companies, banks, and individuals involved in Iran’s regime program and penalizes those who violate international restrictions and trade weapons with Iran. Hezbollah International Financing Prevention Amendments Act—sanctions regimes, like Syria, that provide weapons to Hezbollah, and restricts Hezbollah’s ability to fundraise and recruit. Sanctioning Hezbollah’s Use of Civilians as Defenseless Shields Act—sanctions Hezbollah commanders who allow the use of human shields and sanctions any institution or individual who provides material support to human rights abuse. House Resolution 359—urges the European Union to designate Hezbollah as a terrorist organization and apply pressure on its members.
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity today passed Congresswoman McSally’s bill to increase veterans’ access to skills training programs. The bill equips warfighters to pursue careers in high-demand occupations. “Businesses want to hire veterans, but the number of underemployed veterans is on the rise. My bill addresses this imbalance by making it easier for veterans to take advantage of pre-apprenticeship programs in skills-based fields,” said Rep. McSally. “Our veterans have already earned these education benefits. They should be able to use them in a way that best fits their career needs—and that addresses our nationwide shortage of workers in highly technical fields. I will continue to shepherd this measure through the legislative process until we can make this solution a reality for our heroes coming home.” Earlier this month, Congresswoman McSally testified before the subcommittee outlining how her bill will help unemployed and underemployed veterans by allowing them to use their Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits for pre-apprenticeship programs the Department of Labor has already approved. The Veterans’ Entry to Apprenticeship Act unanimously passed out of the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity and will next be evaluated by the full committee.
10.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—The House of Representatives today passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to protect global supply chains against terrorist activity. Her bill reauthorizes and modernizes The Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)’s flagship global supply chain security program, for the first time in eleven years. C-TPAT is recognized throughout the world as the premier cargo pre-vetting program, and by improving the program Rep. McSally’s legislation will help companies and ports of entry meet the dynamic threats facing the global supply chain, while ensuring that C-TPAT participants receive tangible benefits for their partnership with CBP, such as being expedited at ports of entry. This, in turn, will cut down on wait times and improve cross-border commerce. “In the past eleven years, our economy has become more global while terrorists have become more sophisticated. C-TPAT is an innovative solution that boosts our national security while benefiting our economy. This highly successful program enhances cross-border commerce, reduces wait times and inspections for pre-vetted companies at our overburdened and undermanned ports of entry, and boosts our global supply chain’s national security. These important upgrades reflect our modern world, and I am thankful the House acted in bipartisan support of my bill,” said Rep. McSally. Video of McSally Bill to Increase Security and Decrease Wait Times at Ports of Entry Heads to Senate Under C-TPAT, companies can choose to partner with CBP to meet high-security standards in exchange for pre-vetted privileges such as shorter wait times and fewer inspections at ports of entry. While the Safe Port Act of 2006, which first established the program, set a strong foundation for the current success of C-TPAT Rep. McSally’s legislation not only codifies its current structure but also makes three critical updates to the program: Requires CBP to formally liaise with industry stakeholders when implementing new security criteria and provide benefits to all participants at various stages of the CBP vetting and site visit validation process. Reduces redundant inspections on pre-vetted cargo and provides CBP with a mechanism to suspend or expel participants from the program if they fail to abide by security requirements or pose a threat to national security. Establishes a process for CBP, with Congressional oversight requirements, to continuously vet participants to ensure compliance security measures. This legislation is Rep. McSally’s ninth bill to the pass the House of Representatives since the start of the 115th Congress in January—building on her track record as one of the top most effective members of Congress. For the full bill text, click HERE.
10.20.2017	TUCSON–U.S. Representative Martha McSally tonight will kick off a National Anthem tour. This weekend alone the Congresswoman will sing the National Anthem at three events. She will sing at the Empire High School vs. Tanque Verde High School Football Game in Tucson, then in front of 1,500 people at the Bisbee 1000 Great Stair Climb on Saturday before participating in the event and meeting with the Bisbee mayor to discuss the Bisbee City Hall Fire. She will end the weekend singing at the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce’s Noches de Exitos Gala where she will also honor the 2017 Businessman and Businesswoman of the year. This weekend marks the beginning of her tour which honors the stars and stripes through Francis Scott Key’s song. In the coming months, Congresswoman McSally will sing for businesses, schools, community organizations, sporting events, athletic activities, and veterans groups. “Our National Anthem is particularly moving for me. As I sing it, I reflect on the sacrifice that our service members have made for our flag. This anthem brings us together. In a time of polarization, we can choose to work together to make our country strong,” said Rep. McSally of her tour. Keep an eye out for upcoming National Anthem events. ​
10.17.2017	TUCSON –During a ceremony for Southern Arizona veterans, U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced the 2017 Congressional Veteran of Distinction: Air Force veteran Stuart S. Carter. Mr. Carter was selected from nominations from throughout Southern Arizona by a local panel of veterans and other community members. A Sierra Vista resident who has dedicated himself to service, he was recognized for his work helping handicapped veterans through VeloVets, a program he founded. “Many of us know that our service members display courage and bravery on the battlefield—but as this award shows, there are countless veterans who continue to demonstrate valor when they return home to their communities,�? said Rep. McSally. “We have many unsung heroes in our midst, and that’s why we created this award in 2015: to shine a spotlight on these inspiring men and women. Stuart Carter is one such local hero. His work helping disabled veterans through VeloVets is only one example of the many ways he dedicates himself to serving others in his community. Now it’s our turn to applaud him for his lasting impact.�? Stuart Carter, known as “Stu,�? served in the United States Air Force, rising from the rank of Airman Basic in 1971 to Lieutenant Colonel before retiring from active duty in 2001. In addition to garnering accolades for his time in combat (which included serving in Operation Desert Storm in Saudi Arabia), Stu continues to make a lasting impact in his home of Sierra Vista. Although himself 70% disabled, Stu is a tireless athlete dedicated to helping other handicapped veterans build self-esteem and fitness. After founding and directing the 130-member US Air Force Cycling Team, Stu founded VeloVets to share his love of and experience in cycling to help other veterans to help them improve their health and well-being. Stu designs and modifies bikes for handicapped veterans who cannot ride a traditional bike. Rep. McSally also recognized two runners up. Runner up Mike Ramsey retired from the US Air Force as a Senior Master Sergeant in 2007 after a 25-year career, attaining the designation of 1st Sergeant. He has participated in an average of over 100 outreach events per year for the last 5 years and enrolled almost 1300 new Veterans for VA benefits during that time. Runner up Bob Graham served in the Air National Guard’s 162nd Fighter Wing in Tucson from 1971 to 2007. Since retiring he has dedicated himself to serving other veterans, including co-developing one of the first Veterans Court in the Tucson area to better address the unique rehabilitative needs of veterans who encounter problems in the justice system. By becoming a Veteran Program Manager for the US Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Services for Veteran Families grant, Bob helps provide supportive services and rapid re-housing for homeless veterans and their families. Since the award began in 2015, Rep. McSally has recognized more than forty outstanding veterans in Southern Arizona with the Veterans of Distinction accolade. This year the tradition continues. Twenty veterans were nominated for this award. Click HERE to view and download all photos of the event.
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted to provide an additional $36.5 billion in emergency funding for hurricane and wildfire relief. H.R. 2266, the Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act of 2017, passed the House with a vote of 353-69. This measure includes $576.5 million for urgent and immediate life-saving wildfire suppression activities to combat the fires blazing across western states, in direct response to Rep. McSally’s request to the Administration. “This year’s natural disaster destruction has been unprecedented. Catastrophic wildfires have and continue to ravage communities across our western states, including Arizona,” said Rep. McSally. “The measure the House passed today with my initiative and support will direct vital emergency funds to the agencies responsible for bringing relief and getting communities back on their feet. I commend the Administration for quickly responding to our appeal for action and requesting the appropriation of this disaster relief. To all the displaced families in our country: we stand with you. Help is on the way.” On October 4 Congresswoman McSally and other members of the Congressional Western Caucus sent this letter urging OMB to address the funding crisis at the United States Forest Service in order to provide necessary wildfire relief—and to prevent future wildfires with adequate forest management. Within hours OMB responded to her letter by formally requesting additional relief funding, initiating the process for the House to take action to appropriate more disaster funding. The funding bill passed by the House closely matches the funding request the Administration submitted to Congress, in response to the Western Caucus’ appeal. The $36.5 billion in emergency funding includes: $576.5 million for the Departments of Agriculture and Interior to continue wildfire suppression efforts $18.7 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF) $16 billion for debt relief for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to make necessary insurance claims payments to individuals. A provision revising the Disaster Nutrition Assistance Program (DNAP) so low-income residents in Puerto Rico can receive the same emergency nutrition assistance that other hurricane-affected states already receive. Rep. McSally’s leadership on this disaster relief builds upon her previous efforts this year to support western states battling wildfires. She authored two amendments that were successfully included in the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act which passed the House on September 14 to increase funding to mitigate wildfire hazards and prevent them in the future. Her first amendment increases funding for the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) Forest Management Program. Her second amendment increases the Forest Service’s National Forest System Hazardous Fuels account by $3 million to mitigate wildfire hazards and lessen the damage of catastrophic fires. Click HERE to view the disaster relief legislation passed by the House today.
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Representative Martha McSally today testified before the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs in support of her bill to increase veterans’ access to skills training programs. Specifically, her legislation, the Veterans’ Entry to Apprenticeship Act, will allow veterans to use the post-9/11 GI Bill benefits they have earned to cover costs of pre-apprenticeship programs that are approved by the Department of Labor and proven to increase the likelihood of gainful employment. “Having served in the United States Air Force myself for 26 years, I know how difficult it can be to navigate the job search as a private citizen,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “Our veterans are seeing daunting rates of underemployment and our national skills-based workforce is shrinking. We must find creative solutions to bolster the resources we already offer our veterans. Expanding job training opportunities for veterans not only makes sense for our veterans but is also a win for businesses.” View Rep. McSally’s testimony before committee Video of Testifies On Bill to Expand Job Training Opportunities for Veterans Although Bureau of Labor Statistics shows that unemployment rates of veterans have decreased overall since 2011, their rate of underemployment is actually increasing. However, businesses and organizations want to hire veterans. According to a 2016 report by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Hiring Our Heroes program, veterans were ranked third on employers' list for priority recruitment. Meanwhile, America faces a growing shortage of qualified skills-based and trade-based workers. The Veterans’ Entry to Apprenticeship Act would address this disconnect by empowering veterans to learn about new careers, acquire new, trade-based skills, qualify to meet minimum standards for other federal apprenticeship programs, and get a leg-up on apprenticeship applications. The bipartisan bill now has 13 cosponsors and awaits further action by the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the House voted to pass the fiscal year 2018 budget resolution: “The budget passed by the House today with my support is a framework that will rebuild our military and provide the vehicle for once-in-a-generation tax relief for hard-working Americans. I have long highlighted how devastating sequestration has been for military readiness and repeatedly called for a reversal of the across-the-board cuts established in 2011. America faces complex national security threats. We must invest in our troops, especially here in Southern Arizona, where Davis-Monthan and Fort Huachuca play an indispensable role in our country’s defense. This bill provides $70 billion or 13% more than called for by sequestration and provides for a 5% increase in defense spending over the next three years. It ensures that Southern Arizona’s uniquely critical air assets and missions stay operational to support our troops fighting ISIS and combating aggression from North Korea and Russia. This budget also initiates the process to accomplish long overdue, pro-growth tax relief. By streamlining our unnecessarily complex code to make it fairer and simpler, this tax reform will create more jobs, grow paychecks, and liberate American companies to compete globally. Middle-class families and small businesses living pay-check to pay-check deserve a tax break. With this tax relief, they will be able to keep and invest more of their earnings. Families in Southern Arizona know that putting together a budget means making hard decisions. This budget is far from perfect, and I disagree with many of its assumptions and aspirations which are not actually enacted by this legislation. As we move along in the budget process, I will continue to work to protect the priorities of Southern Arizonans.”
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Homeland Security Committee today passed the Border Security for America Act, landmark legislation that will provide infrastructure, technology, and manpower, to gain and maintain full operational control and situational awareness of the border and ports of entry. U.S. Rep. Martha McSally, as Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Subcommittee, successfully included provisions to conduct thorough threat assessments, equip and train front-line agents with technology, increase transparency and prevent corruption, thwart drug smuggling at ports of entry, and ensure CBP abides by the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). “As one of only nine members of Congress who represent communities along our southern border, I have witnessed first-hand the security threats we face from transnational criminal organizations. Southern Arizonans want smart solutions to border security that make the best use of their tax dollars. That’s what this bill does,” said Representative McSally. “This multifaceted approach ensures we have trained and equipped agents and sector by sector solutions including: manned and unmanned aircraft, maritime assets, physical barriers, fixed and mobile towers, sensors, tunnel detection, and other surveillance and detection capabilities to increase situational awareness and operational control of the border. It also includes legislation that I have crafted based on direct feedback from constituents and law enforcement agents in Arizona. This bill will make our country and state safer and address long-standing concerns along our southwest border.” “Congresswoman McSally’s role has been pivotal in working to secure our southwestern border,” said House Homeland Security Chairman McCaul. “As Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, she understands that in order to enhance our security, we must properly train and equip CBP officers and agents with the skills they need to be successful in the field. She is a true leader and I greatly value her contribution to the Committee and this landmark legislation.” Click HERE or below to watch Rep. McSally’s statement on her amendment in committee Video of McSally Offers Amendment to Border Security Act The following three bills authored by Rep. McSally were included as provisions in the Border Security for America Act: The Border Security Technology Accountability Act that passed in the House on January 31, 2017 to improve the management and accountability of new border technology projects and curb waste, fraud, and abuse and increase transparency at DHS. Specifically, it requires DHS to implement Acquisition Program Baselines before moving to the next phase of the acquisition cycle, and to submit a testing and evaluation plan and use independent verification for new border security technologies. The Southwest Border Security Threat Assessment Act which was introduced on July 26, 2017. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a full assessment of the threats coming across the Southern Border. This bill passed in the House last Congress. Her legislation to address critical staffing shortages along the border by giving Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the discretionary ability to expedite their hiring process for well-qualified applicants who have already proven themselves trustworthy in the military and in law enforcement. This legislation was passed by the House on June 7, 2017. The following two amendments offered by Rep. McSally were successfully included: Amendment to provide front-line agents with the technology and training they need to succeed in the field, add 550 Office of Professional Responsibility special agents to investigate corruption and misconduct within CBP, and call on CBP to conduct high-throughput non-intrusive inspection demonstration projects at three ports of entry. Amendment to clarify that the bill does not exempt CBP from abiding by the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), building on her efforts to ensure transparency and accountability in the federal government. The following border provisions were also included, which Rep. McSally has led efforts to support: Funds and expands the Border Security Capability Deployment Program Authorizes funding for Operation Stonegarden, the border security grant program, at $110 million Requires the U.S. Border Patrol to patrol as close to the border as possible Authorizes the following capability deployments for the Tucson sector: (A) Tower-based surveillance technology. (B) Increased flight hours for aerial detection, interdiction, and monitoring operations capability. (C) Deployable, lighter-than-air ground surveillance equipment. (D) Ultralight aircraft detection capabilities. (E) Advanced unattended surveillance sensors. (F) A rapid reaction capability supported by aviation assets. (G) Man-portable unmanned aerial vehicles. (H) Improved agent communications capabilities.
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–The U.S. House of Representatives today passed Congresswoman Martha McSally’s bill to finally allow the City of Tucson to take full ownership of Udall Park. Her bill, The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act of 2017, resolves a 28- year old land exchange between the City of Tucson and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), permitting the City of Tucson to fully utilize Udall Parks’ 172.8-acre parcel of land and implement planned expansion and improvements. “When I'm out and about in my district and people come to me with issues like this I ask, ‘does it literally take an act of Congress to fix?’ In this case, the answer is yes,” said Rep. McSally on the House Floor. “Udall Park is a cherished urban park in the heart of Tucson. However, unresolved disputes over this land have directly impeded the City from taking advantage of opportunities to supplement park funding, approve certain community events or look to other commercial ventures like local farmers markets on small portions of the park that would benefit the city. Federal red tape should not stand in the way of communities developing local parks. It is common-sense.” Click below to watch Rep. McSally speak in support of her bill on the House Floor.| Video of House Passes Rep. McSally Bill to Grant City of Tucson Full Ownership of Udall Park This July, Tucson City Manager Michael Ortega traveled to Washington, DC to testify before the House Committee on Natural Resources on the City of Tucson’s support for this legislation, at Congresswoman McSally’s invitation. In his testimony, he explained how a reversion clause in the 1989 agreement with BLM has prevented the City of Tucson from having full autonomy and ownership for Udall Park to the City of Tucson—and how Rep. McSally’s legislation, the Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act, will address the problem. “I want to thank Representative McSally and the entire Arizona Congressional delegation for working with the City to complete this land transfer nearly 28 years in the making,” said Tucson City Manager Michael Ortega. “The existence of the reverter has directly impeded the City from taking advantage of commercial opportunities to supplement park funding, approve certain community events or look to other commercial ventures on small portions of the park that would benefit the city in general,” he said while testifying before the committee. “This is a unique situation, unlike any other reverter elimination being proposed anywhere on BLM administered lands. H.R. 1547 is needed to complete what should have been completed almost 28 years ago, and to provide an enhanced recreational and economic future for the citizens of Tucson and its environs.” "Passage of this bill allows the city to plan for enhanced amenities at Udall Park, a popular destination for families on the east side of town," said Tucson Mayor Jonathan Rothschild. "My thanks to the bill's authors, Senator Flake, Senator McCain and Representative McSally, and the rest of the Arizona Congressional delegation for their bipartisan support of the bill." Background In 1989 the City of Tucson and BLM entered into an agreement to exchange 297 acres of land adjacent to Saguaro National Park for 173 acres of BLM owned land in northeast Tucson known as Udall Park. The agreement specifically outlined that the terms and conditions of this land conveyance would include a legislative “fix” to remove any and all encumbrances on Udall Park. Unfortunately, this legislation never came to fruition due to staff changes at BLM, key individuals in the office of the City, and the Senate. Consequently, the City has been prevented from utilizing Udall Park to its fullest extent. Rep. McSally goes LIVE outside the Capitol after the Udall Park Completion Act unanimously passes the House. Click below to watch. Video of Udall Park Passes House Transcript of Rep. McSally’s Full Remarks on the House Floor Thank you Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my bill, H.R. 1547, the Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act of 2017. Udall Park is a cherished urban park in the heart of Tucson. The City has invested millions of dollars in park facilities, including construction of very large community recreation and senior centers, a large swimming pool, a walking track and multiple athletic fields and picnic areas. In 2011, the Mayor and Council approved a Master Plan Update that calls for plans to invest even more money into the park by way of additional athletic fields and expanded recreational programming. However, unresolved disputes over this land have directly impeded the City from taking advantage of opportunities to supplement park funding, approve certain community events or look to other commercial ventures like local farmers markets on small portions of the park that would benefit the city in general. The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act resolves this historic land exchange agreement between the City of Tucson and the Bureau of Land Management at Udall Park. In 1989 the City of Tucson and BLM entered into an agreement to exchange 297 acres of land adjacent to Saguaro National Park for 173 acres of BLM owned land in northeast Tucson known as Udall Park. This agreement specifically outlined that the terms and conditions of this land conveyance would include a legislative “fix” to remove any and all encumbrances on Udall Park. Unfortunately, this legislation never came to fruition due to staff changes at BLM, key individuals in the office of the City, and the Senate. And as a result, the City has been prevented from utilizing Udall Park to its fullest extent. Recently this issue came to a head over disputes on a small commercial lease located at Udall Park. Federal red tape should not stand in the way of communities developing local parks. It is common-sense. Udall Park is a beautiful place for our Southern Arizona community to gather, but this long-standing land dispute has prevented the City of Tucson from improving the park and growing it to its full potential for too long. When I'm out and about in my district and people come to me with issues like this I say, “does it literally take an act of Congress to fix?” let me say this again, “does it literally take an act of Congress to fix?” In this case, the answer is yes. I appreciate as we testified before the House Natural Resources Federal Lands Subcommittee, Ranking Member Hanabusa stated, no kidding, during a hearing in July, “if it takes an act of Congress to get this done.... then that’s what we’ve got to do.” I’m with the Ranking Member. It is time to finally take action and get this thing finished. My legislation would formally complete a long overdue agreement on land that has already been exchanged at fair market value. The Act directs conveyance of the Federal reversionary interest in Udall Park to the City, as the parties intended when the exchange was made. This bill will allow Tucson to finally take ownership of Udall Park. In closing, I want to thank Chairman Bishop, Chairman McClintock and the members of the Natural Resources Committee for working with me to move this legislation forward. I look forward to seeing this issue through and ensuring that this land transfer is completed. I encourage all members to support this legislation and yield back the balance of my time.
09.30.2017	SIERRA VISTA–U.S. Representative McSally (AZ-02) will become the first member of Congress to hike the 800-mile Arizona Trail, which spans from the U.S. - Mexico Border in Cochise County to Utah. Planning to hike it in segments in the months ahead, today she led members of Cochise County on a 3.6-mile kick off hike at the start of the Arizona Trail near the southwest border in Coronado National Memorial. In embarking on this journey, the Congresswoman will highlight the significance of the Arizona Trial, the importance of public lands for Arizona’s local and state economies, and the need to ensure that these lands have the resources that they need to stay open and accessible to the public. "Known as the backbone of Arizona, the Arizona Trail stretches across our beautiful state and showcases our state’s breathtaking and internationally renowned landscapes," said Rep. McSally. "Congress designated the Arizona Trail as a National Scenic Trail in 2009 and I want to be the first member of Congress to hike the entire amazing 800-mile trail. I’m hiking to show our district, our state, and our nation that these treasures matter, that outdoor recreation is important—and most of all—to demonstrate the pride we have in our home of Arizona. Elected officials have a responsibility to help protect our lands for future generations. I’m willing to demonstrate that I take this responsibility seriously." Click HERE or below to watch video of Rep. McSally near the U.S. Mexico Border hike the Arizona Trail Video of U.S. Rep. McSally to Become First Member of Congress to Hike 800-Mile Arizona Trail The Arizona Trail stretches 800 miles across the entire length of the state to connect deserts, mountains, forests, canyons, wilderness, history, communities, and people. The Arizona Trail was the dream of Flagstaff schoolteacher Dale Shewalter who envisioned a cross-state trail in the 1970s. Mr. Shewalter hiked the trails to examine the feasibility of connecting them all. At his encouragement, the Arizona State Parks and the Kaibab, Coronado, Coconino, and Tonto National Forests, the Bureau of Land Management, and National Parks Service joined together to create one trail. In 2009 it was designated as a National Scenic Trail and in 2011 Dale Shewalter’s vision was realized and the Arizona Trail was finally complete. Today, this non-motorized trail showcases Arizona's diverse vegetation, wildlife, and scenery, as well as unique historic and cultural sites. Hikers, mountain bikers, and equestrians travel from all over to Arizona for the experience. The kick-off hike took place entirely within Coronado National Memorial, one of three National Park Sites within the Southeast Arizona Group. These public lands are major assets to Southern Arizona’s local community, boosting tourism and growing the local and national economy. A National Park Service Report shows that 195,366 visitors to the Southeast Arizona Group in 2016 spent $11,453,700 in communities near the park. That spending supported 168 jobs in the local area and generated $13,304,200 for the local economy. McSally Track Record of Support for Public Lands A long-time outdoor recreational enthusiast, hiking the Arizona Trails is Rep. McSally’s newest initiative to support Arizona’s scenic and world-renown landscape. Throughout her time in Congress, Rep. McSally has consistently and effectively advocated for public lands in Arizona. In the last two Appropriations measures passed by Congress, Congresswoman McSally successfully fought to include increased funding for the National Parks Service (NPS). In the FY 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill, Rep McSally successfully advocated to increase NPS by $81 million and in the FY 2018 Omnibus that passed the House on September 14, Rep. McSally successfully offered an amendment to increase the NPS by $9.692 million to help address longstanding deferred park maintenance needs. She has introduced two measures to help address Arizona’s growing $580.2 million maintenance backlog. In June she partnered with Senators McCain and Flake to introduce bipartisan legislation to facilitate partnerships between NPS and national service corps organizations in order to complete projects faster and more efficiently. In March she introduced legislation to direct NPS to re-evaluate its current strategy of prioritizing maintenance projects and to submit its findings to Congress. Last Congress, she introduced legislation to designate Chiricahua National Monument as a national park and is continuing to move that effort forward in the 115th Congress. To view and download all photos of the hike, CLICK HERE to access the Flickr Album.​
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Representative Martha McSally is one of the top 10 most effective members of Congress, according to a study released today by the Center for Effective Lawmaking. The Center today released its ranking of the most effective members of the 114th Congress based on the findings of a data-driven process developed by UVA and Vanderbilt professors to measure who is actually getting things done in Congress. “It is an honor to be listed as one of the most effective Members of Congress,” said Rep. McSally. “My goal as I am deployed to Washington DC is to solve problems for my constituents by putting forth common sense solutions that impact Southern Arizona and reflect the concerns and priorities of my constituents. I am humbled to be recognized in this academic study.” The Center for Effective Lawmaking is co-directed by Craig Volden, professor of public policy and politics and associate dean for academic affairs at Batten, and Alan Wiseman, Cornelius Vanderbilt Professor of Political Science at Vanderbilt. Together they have developed a metric of effectiveness to evaluate members of Congress based on the bills they sponsor, how far the bills progress through the lawmaking process, and the significance of the legislation. “Representative McSally hit the ground running in her first term in Congress. In the 114th Congress, she introduced 20 substantive bills, nine of which passed the House. Two of those, including the Border Jobs for Veterans Act of 2015, became law. On the whole, she was one of the top ten most effective lawmakers in Congress, a very rare feat for a member in her first term. Such active lawmaking and successful results do not appear to be a fluke. In the current 115th Congress, McSally has sponsored 21 pieces of legislation so far, seven of which have passed the House. In recent Congresses, only about 10% of all bills introduced pass the House and only 3-4% become law. At the Center for Effective Lawmaking, we are keeping an eye on Rep. McSally as a model for how to get things done in Congress,” said Center for Effective Lawmaking’s Co-Director, Craig Volden who is a professor of public policy and politics and the associate dean for academic affairs at the University of Virginia’s Frank Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy. This data-driven approach, known as the Legislative Effectiveness Score (LES) has been used to systematically track every bill introduced in Congress since 1974—more than 150,000 bills. Click HERE to view the scores of each Arizona lawmaker. ​
09.26.2017	TUCSON – The Office of U.S. Representative Martha McSally is seeking nominations for Southern Arizona’s Congressional Veterans of Distinction Award. The award recognizes veterans in the Second District who continue to exemplify the principles at the core of our military: duty, service and a commitment to a cause greater than any one individual. The Veterans of Distinction Award is open to any resident of Arizona’s 2nd Congressional District who has served in our armed forces. Individuals looking to nominate veterans in the 2nd District should print and fill out a nomination form, which can be found at mcsally.house.gov or by clicking HERE.Nomination forms and any additional materials must be received at either the Tucson or Sierra Vista offices in person, by US Mail, faxed to (520) 322-9490, or emailed to Ryan.Brock@mail.house.gov. The deadline is Friday, October 6, 2017. A local panel of veterans and other community members will review the nominations. Candidates and award winners will be announced at a reception to be held on Tuesday, October 17, 2017 at 4:30PM at the Lindsey Auditorium at Southern Arizona Veterans Affairs Health Care System. NOMINATION FORMS: https://mcsally.house.gov/sites/mcsally.house.gov/files/VoD%202017.pdf
09.21.2017	Washington, D.C. ­– U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) and Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) today sent letters to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and International Boundary Water Commission (IBWC) calling on the agencies to address the unmitigated raw sewage flowing from Naco, Sonora, Mexico, which has been plaguing the cities of Naco, Arizona and Bisbee, Arizona for years. “This week I toured the sewage spill at the border in Naco and saw first-hand sewage flowing north from Mexico onto my constituents’ private lands and pooling dangerously close to drinking water sources,” said Representative McSally. “It is simply unacceptable, and it must be stopped. I stand with Senator McCain and Senator Flake to call on the EPA and the IBWC to do their jobs and intervene. Sewage is flowing faster than the bureaucracies are responding. They need to speed up their solution.” Sewage overflows and broken collection mains in Mexico have caused untreated wastewater to flow north under the U.S. border fence and into Greenbush Draw in Rep. McSally’s district, near municipal water sources. Sewage has been pooling 300 yards from wells maintained by the Arizona Water Company, which provides drinking water to Bisbee. Video of Rep. McSally Tours Sewage Spill in Naco Rep. McSally Tours Sewage Spill in Naco, AZ “This flow of sewage poses a health, safety, and economic risk to Arizona’s vulnerable border towns, and we are greatly concerned about the lack of response of the federal agencies tasked with the oversight of this issue,” write Representative McSally and Senators McCain and Flake. “Between the flooded farms of Naco, Arizona and the broken pipeline in Nogales, Arizona, it is clear to us that coordination and communication between federal organizations and the communities they serve must be improved.” In the respective letters to the EPA and IBWC, McSally, McCain, and Flake requested information on what measures each agency plans to take to monitor spills, respond to immediate issues, and mitigate future impact. Click HERE to read their letter to the EPA and HERE to read their letter to the IBWC. The full text of both letters is below. *** Letter to EPA Acting Regional Administrator Alexis Strauss: Dear Acting Regional Administrator Strauss, We write to address reports that the cities of Naco, Arizona and Bisbee, Arizona have been subject to years of unmitigated raw sewage flowing from Naco, Sonora, Mexico, an issue that is yet to be resolved. This flow of sewage poses a health, safety, and economic risk to Arizona’s vulnerable border towns, and we are greatly concerned about the lack of response of the federal agencies tasked with the oversight of this issue. We believe that this uncontrolled effluent is positioned to contaminate the agriculture, livestock, and drinking water supply of these communities. We seek more information about the situation in question and what the EPA has done to address the environmental impact of this spill. Please answer the following questions: What responsibility does the EPA have in the monitoring and mitigation of such spills? How long has the EPA been aware of the effluent spill in Naco, Arizona and Bisbee, Arizona? What steps have been taken by the EPA to resolve this issue in the many years that the spill has breached Arizona’s borders? What steps has the EPA been taken to assist the community in their rehabilitation of the impacted areas? Has the EPA worked with other relevant agencies or conducted internal investigations to study the public health, safety, and economic implications of this spill? Arizona’s border communities are uniquely situated to rely on organizations, like yours, to coordinate even their most essential functions, such as sanitation or flood mitigation. The economic impact of slow-moving bureaucracy can not only be damaging, but devastating, to our constituents. Between the flooded farms of Naco, Arizona and the broken pipeline in Nogales, Arizona, it is clear to us that coordination and communication between federal organizations and the communities they serve must be improved. We look forward to reviewing your answers and working towards a solution for all parties involved. Sincerely, John McCain United States Senator Jeff Flake United States Senator Martha McSally United States Representative Letter to IBWC Commissioner Ed Drusina: Dear Commissioner Drusina, We write to address reports that the cities of Naco, Arizona and Bisbee, Arizona have been subject to years of unmitigated raw sewage flowing from Naco, Sonora, Mexico, an issue that is yet to be resolved. This flow of sewage poses a health, safety, and economic risk to Arizona’s vulnerable border towns, and we are greatly concerned about the lack of response of the federal agencies tasked with the oversight of this issue. Given the International Boundary and Water Commission’s (IBWC) responsibility to monitor and coordinate such international projects, we seek more information about the Commission’s history with this issue and what responsibility they hold for this incident. Please answer the following questions: 1. What mandate does the IBWC have in the management of sewage lines like the one that is currently overflowing into Arizona communities? 2. How long has the IBWC been aware of this spill? 3. With what frequency does the IBWC monitor the status and maintenance of this sewage line, and have measures been taken in the past to prevent such spills? 4. What steps have been taken to assist the community in their rehabilitation of the impacted areas? 5. Has the IBWC worked with other relevant agencies or conducted internal investigations to study the public health, safety, and economic implications of this spill? 6. What measures can the IBWC take in the immediate future to mitigate impact on these communities, and what must be done to ensure that this does not happen in the future? Arizona’s border communities are uniquely situated to rely on international organizations, like yours, to coordinate even their most essential functions, such as sanitation or flood mitigation. The economic impact of slow-moving bureaucracy can not only be damaging, but devastating, to our constituents. Between the flooded farms of Naco, Arizona and the broken pipeline in Nogales, Arizona, it is clear to us that coordination and communication between the IBWC and the communities it serves must be improved. We look forward to reviewing your answers and working towards a solution for all parties involved. Sincerely, John McCain United States Senator Jeff Flake United States Senator Martha McSally United States Representative
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced she has been selected by Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to join an informal group of Republican members to help address border security and identify solutions for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. As Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, representing a district in Southern Arizona that includes eighty miles of U.S.-Mexico Border, Congresswoman McSally was a logical choice. Representative McSally released the following statement about the selection: “Since taking office, I’ve made it a top priority to improve our border strategy and make our communities safer. I have witnessed first-hand the challenges to securing our border and look forward to collaborating on a multifaceted approach including infrastructure, personnel, and technology. In regards to DACA, I have long stated that it is the duty and responsibility of Congress to address the future of this program legislatively. We were robbed of the opportunity to do so when President Obama overstepped his authority and issued his June 2012 memorandum. President Trump is right to call on Congress to act, and I believe this is a historic opportunity bring clarity for the 800,000 individuals whose status in the United is currently subject to the political winds of different administrations that come to power. I am honored to be selected and look forward to getting to work.” Earlier this month Congresswoman McSally led a group of lawmakers in writing a letter to Speaker Ryan requesting the House take up legislation to address the future of DACA.
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Representative Martha McSally successfully included five amendments with significant wins for Southern Arizona in the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act which passed the House today. The five amendments she authored will fund wildfire prevention, improve access to National Parks, support seniors, and reimburse state and local governments for public safety costs they incur housing and caring for criminals. “When I met with all four Arizona border sheriffs less than two months ago, they expressed their need to be reimbursed for the cost of taking care of business that is clearly the federal government’s responsibility. Since 2009, Arizona counties have absorbed more than $310 million incarcerating unlawfully present individuals who have committed crimes in the United States. I promised the Sheriffs I would fight on their behalf, and today the House passed my amendment to increase funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP)—the grant program that reimburses state and local governments for these costs. Arizona taxpayers shouldn’t have to foot the bill for protecting our nation from drug cartels and human trafficking, which diverts our Sheriff’s resources away from other law enforcement priorities. “While this consolidated appropriations bill is not perfect and is the first step in the process to get a final bill signed into law, I worked with the Appropriations Committee to improve the bill with some of Southern Arizona’s priorities. With my amendments, the bill contains added funds to mitigate wildfire hazards. It will help tackle backlog of deferred or delayed National Parks Service maintenance projects throughout the nation and in Arizona. It allocates funding for critical, cost-effective and person-centered services to help older adults age in place in their homes and communities for as long as possible. I am committed to supporting our border communities, protecting our national parks, supporting and caring for seniors, and ensuring Arizona has the resources to fight wildfires, and my amendments in this bill are wins on all those fronts.” Watch Rep. McSally present one of her amendments on the floor below: Video of Five McSally Amendments Included in Appropriations Spending Bill A summary of each of her amendments is below: SCAAP Amendment: Increases State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) by $10 million. This grant program reimburses states and localities for the costs of incarcerating unlawfully present individuals who have committed crimes in the United States. In July, Congresswoman McSally convened a meeting with all four Sheriffs serving along Arizona’s southwest border during which the sheriffs asked for financial assistance. This amendment is a direct response to that request. NPS Maintenance Amendment: Increases the National Park Service's Facility Maintenance and Operations account by $9.692 million to help address longstanding deferred park maintenance needs. The National Parks Service currently has an $11.9 billion dollar backlog, which is a figure that has increased steadily since 2009. Arizona has $565 million in delayed or deferred projects, one of the largest backlogs of any state in the country—that includes $12.9 million at Saguaro National Park and $10.3 million at Chiricahua National Monument. USFS Hazardous Fuels: Increases the Forest Service’s National Forest System Hazardous Fuels account by $3 million to mitigate wildfire hazards and lessen catastrophic fires and their threat to public and firefighter safety, and damage to property. : Increases funding for the Older Americans Act (OAA) Title III B supportive services account $14.2 million. This would benefit services like the Pima Council on Aging which has a long history of developing programs to improve the lives of older residents in Tucson and throughout Pima County. BLM Forest Management Amendment: Increases funding for the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) Forest Management Program, which manages and conserves 58 million acres of forest and woodland in 12 western States and Alaska. The Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act will fund the Federal government through the end Fiscal Year 2018.
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today joined members of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus and Governors John Hickenlooper (D-CO) and John Kasich (R-OH) in speaking with the media about their support for common sense health care solutions to stabilize the health insurance marketplace and lower premiums for American families and businesses. The Members and Governors called on Congress and the President to set aside partisanship to provide relief to the American families, individuals and small businesses suffering in an uncertain marketplace. “We refuse to stand by and watch partisan finger-pointing while the individual health care market is on the brink of collapse. Without certainty and stability provided by Congress, insurers will be forced to set 2018 premiums even higher, said Congresswoman McSally(AZ-02). “I am focused on finding common ground and identifying and negotiating real solutions for Americans to this real and urgent problem, which is why I co-led the Problem Solvers Caucus bipartisan working group to put forward a plan to stabilize the individual market and provide immediate relief to constituents, families, and small businesses. I came to Congress to fight for my constituents in Southern Arizona and get things done. Together we call on the Senate and the President to do the same.” “I am proud to stand with my fellow Problem Solvers on both sides of the aisle and Governors Hickenlooper and Kasich to show that, even in these polarized and challenging times, it is possible for people across the political spectrum to actually come together for the good of the American people, “ said Co-Chair Josh Gottheimer (NJ-5). “For too long health care had been approached as a purely partisan battle, but we are working to reset the conversation in a bipartisan way and provide relief to the individuals, families and small businesses who have been suffering from uncertainty and climbing premiums as the fate of CSR payments hangs in limbo.” Co-Chair Rep. Tom Reed (NY-23) added, “It is a great day for America when we put aside our political differences and put Americans first. The Problem Solvers Caucus, in conjunction with Governors Kasich and Hickenlooper, demonstrated to our colleagues that only by working together, can we solve America’s problems. Looking forward, we are already working on tax reforms that will remove the shackles from American business and unleash the innovation and optimism that drive America.” Video of Problem Solvers Caucus &amp;amp; Governors Hickenlooper &amp;amp; Kasich Announce Bipartisan Health Care Solution Rep. McSally outlines bipartisan health care solution Other members of the Problem Solvers Caucus further voiced their support: “As a doctor, when I see patients in the exam room, I never see them as Democrats or Republicans. I see a patient who needs help,” said Congressman Ami Bera (CA-7). “Americans deserve quality, affordable health care – and representatives that work together to find solutions. Today, Democrats and Republicans, as well as two governors, are putting the American people before partisanship and demonstrating that good ideas cut across party lines when we work together to find common ground. Every doctor swears an oath: to do good, to do no harm, and to help patients make the best health care decisions for their own circumstances. I believe Congress should take that same oath.” “I am pleased that Governor Hickenlooper and Governor Kasich are promoting a bipartisan healthcare plan,” said Congressman Jared Polis (CO-2). “I believe bipartisanship is key to making any progress on hhealth care I am proud to be part of the Problem Solvers Caucus, a bipartisan group of Members of Congress that have been working on ways we can improve the healthcare system. I’m thrilled to know that many of our bipartisan solutions are echoed by Governor Hickenlooper and Governor Kasich, and I look forward to working with them to make healthcare affordable and accessible for all.” “Fixing the country’s health care system has to include the ideas of Republicans and Democrats and the Governors across the country who will implement major policy changes. Americans are demanding the two parties put workable solutions on the table. I’m proud to a part of the Problem Solvers Caucus that has an actionable plan that can be signed into law to improve our health care system and lower medical and insurance costs for all. This effort is picking up new momentum and it is time to act.” – Rep. Lance (NJ-7) “I appreciate the bipartisan leadership shown by Governors Kasich and Hickenlooper, who understand the challenges of ensuring that their constituents have access to affordable, quality healthcare,” said Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52). “Their support for our efforts in the Problem Solvers Caucus is welcome as we work to pass bipartisan healthcare solutions through Congress to strengthen the individual marketplaces and keep premiums down.” "Governors Hickenlooper and Kasich made the clear case today that Congress needs to act very quickly to prevent health insurance from becoming even less affordable for millions of Americans when Affordable Care Act (ACA) premiums lock in for 2018 later this month,” said Congressman Dan Lipinski (IL-3). “The Problem Solvers Caucus healthcare plan will prevent a 20% increase in premiums for benchmark plans by guaranteeing cost-sharing reduction (CSR) funding and help lower rates an additional 10% with a stabilization fund. In addition, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that by guaranteeing CSR payments we will prevent a $194 billion increase in our federal debt. Congress needs to do the right thing for Americans and pass this bipartisan, commonsense plan.”
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to protect global supply chains against terrorist activity today unanimously passed out of the Homeland Security Committee. For the first time in 11 years, Rep. McSally’s bill reauthorizes and modernizes the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) — a global supply chain security program led by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). CTPAT has over 12,000 participants and is recognized throughout the world as the premier cargo pre-vetting program. Rep. McSally’s testimony highlighted how this opt-in program intercepts terrorist activity by ensuring businesses met high-security standards, while also cutting down on traffic at ports of entry by expediting pre-vetted companies. “Reducing wait times and inspections for participants who enhance the global supply chain greatly enhances cross border trade and economic growth while reducing the workload on the already overworked officers of CBP,” said Rep. McSally while testifying in committee. “C-TPAT achieves this in a way that also strengthens our national security through rigorous initial and recurrent background checks and site visits. I am proud to sponsor the reauthorization of this highly successful program in order to expand its reach and increase its benefits to private industry.” Video of McSally Bill to Protect Global Supply Chains From Terrorist Activity Passes Committee ​ CTPAT was first established by the Safe Port Act of 2006. Under this flagship program, companies voluntarily partner with CBP to enhance security throughout their supply chain. CBP works with them to protect the supply chain, identify security gaps, and implement specific security measures and best practices. Congresswoman McSally’s legislation not only codifies the structure of the current program but also makes sure that C-TPAT remains a true partnership between CBP and private industry. The bill makes three crucial updates to the program to ensure it is ready to meet the dynamic threats currently facing the global supply chain. First, it requires CBP to formally liaise with industry stakeholders when implementing new or updated security criteria and provide tangible benefits to all participants at various stages of the CBP vetting and site visit validation process. Second, it reduces redundant inspections on pre-vetted cargo and provides CBP with a mechanism to suspend or expel participants from the program if they fail to abide by security requirements or pose a threat to national security. Third, it establishes a process for CBP, with Congressional oversight requirements, to continuously vet participants, review their security measures, and conduct site visits to their facilities to ensure compliance with and continued dedication to security measures. The bill is headed to the House floor.
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today officially announced that the Douglas Port of Entry (POE) is one step closer to modernization. The General Services Administration (GSA) has informed Congresswoman McSally’s office that the feasibility study for the modernization of the port was funded in the Fiscal Year 2017 allocation, and the two agencies will begin the study this fall. “GSA is taking a major step towards making the Douglas modernization project a reality—and that is significant news not just for Douglas, but for Arizona and for our nation,” said Congresswoman McSally. “The Douglas POE was built in 1933 and it needs to be modernized. This port of entry is responsible for processing billions of commercial goods between the U.S. and Mexico, welcoming millions of visitors, and screening and apprehending illegal substances. 90% of the hard drugs smuggled into the United States come through the ports of entry. Upgrading, expanding, and modernizing the Douglas Port of Entry is crucial for our economy and our security.” Congresswoman McSally successfully pushed CBP to include modernization of the Douglas POE their Five-Year Plan, and throughout her time in Congress she has called on GSA to fund this feasibility study which is necessary to move the project forward. The feasibility study will analyze the possible comprehensive modernization and processing capacity of the Douglas POE, and make recommendations for optimal steps towards modernization. Tentative completion for the feasibility study is set for summer 2018. "I can’t thank Congresswoman McSally enough for the relentless support she has given our efforts to improve the border crossing experience at Douglas. Having her ready to go to the mat for us greatly improves our chances of success in accomplishing our two port solution. We must fix our existing port and move the commercial truck traffic out of downtown and relocated to a new state of the art facility to the west of the city. We are very excited to have stellar congressional representative being such an integral part of our border community's efforts that carry far-reaching positive economic effects. Douglas is a key gateway for trade and tourism and our port of entry is a critical asset for our bi-national community, for Arizona and for our nation,” said Robert Uribe, Mayor for the City of Douglas. “Today’s news is a victory for Douglas, Arizona. This feasibility study is an essential requirement moving us closer to an updated and expanded Douglas Port of Entry. Our port of entry is a vital artery of trade that boosts our local economy and moves goods from Mexico, one of the world’s fastest growing economies—but it needs improvements,” said Chairwoman of the Cochise County Board of Supervisors, Ann English, who represents the city of Douglas. “We are thankful for Congresswoman McSally’s effective efforts to upgrade the port since taking office, including her many visits to the area to see first-hand the need first hand. I am thankful Rep. McSally is our ally in Congress.” Since arriving in Congress in 2014, Rep. McSally has tirelessly advocated to improve and expand the Douglas Port of Entry in committee hearings (click HERE and HERE) and in multiple letters sent to CBP (click HERE and HERE).
09.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a group of lawmakers in writing a letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan requesting the House take up legislation to address the future of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. The letter expresses their disagreement with how President Obama established this program by usurping Congressional law making authority, and resolves that Congress is responsible for determining the future of the program—not the President. “These individuals’ status in the United States should not be left to the political winds of different administrations that come to power,” the lawmakers said in the letter. “Congress has a responsibility and a duty to address this problem legislatively and was robbed of the opportunity to do so when President Obama issued his June 2012 memorandum. We are willing and ready to find a solution no matter what action is taken by President Trump in the coming days and encourage you to work with us as soon as possible to do so.” Congresswoman McSally was an early cosponsor of the Recognizing America’s Children (RAC) Act, legislation that would provide three clear pathways to legal status for those currently protected under DACA: higher education, service in the armed forces, or work authorization. Additionally, she has questioned Secretary Kelly on whether or not DHS would protect the DACA holders, emphasizing their role in American society. In the letter, the lawmakers point out that individuals protected under DACA have come forward and entrusted the government with their biometric data, and many have gone on to attend school, embark on careers, and serve in the military. “It would be wrong to go back on our word and subject these individuals to deportation,” the letter concludes. A PDF of the letter can be viewed HERE. The full letter text follows. September 1, 2017 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker of the House H-232, United States Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, As you are aware, due to potential legal action being led by Texas State Attorney General Ken Paxton and attorneys general from nine other states, President Trump is currently facing a September 5 deadline to phase out the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Created in 2012 by President Barack Obama, the DACA program provides prosecutorial discretion to defer removal action against people who entered the United States illegally as children. Since its inception, the federal government has approved approximately 795,000 initial DACA applications and 924,000 renewals. DACA recipients have contributed both to the U.S. economy and our society. Since being approved for DACA status, an overwhelming majority of these individuals have enrolled in school or found employment. Most have also increased their average earnings and many have served in the military, opened businesses or purchased homes. We did not support the way that President Obama established this program and usurped Congressional law making authority. However, these individuals have come forward and provided the federal government with their personal information and biometrics. It would be wrong to go back on our word and subject these individuals to deportation. In February, President Trump stated that DACA recipients are “incredible kids” and that he was going to “deal with DACA with heart.” We are encouraged by previous statements made by the White House. Regardless, these individuals’ status in the United States should not be left to the political winds of different administrations that come to power. Congress has a responsibility and a duty to address this problem legislatively and was robbed of the opportunity to do so when President Obama issued his June 2012 memorandum. We are willing and ready to find a solution no matter what action is taken by President Trump in the coming days and encourage you to work with us as soon as possible to do so. Respectfully, Martha McSally Don Bacon Carlos Curbelo Scott Taylor Mario Diaz-Balart David G. Reichert John J. Faso Dan Newhouse Jeff Denham David G. Valadao
08.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today met 150 business leaders in Tucson to provide a congressional update. The event was hosted by the Tucson Hispanic Chamber--the largest Latino business organization in the State of Arizona and one of the top ten Hispanic Chambers in the nation. “I am thankful for the district work period this August which provides an extended opportunity to meet with many of my constituents, answer their questions, listen to their concerns, and share my perspective on the latest policy updates from DC,” said Rep. McSally. “These business leaders and I have a shared goal: to build the economic vitality of Southern Arizona. That’s what we spoke about today.” The Congresswoman answered questions on topics including the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus health care plan, cross border trade, improving border infrastructure, modernizing the Douglas Port of Entry, her seven bills that have already passed the House this Congress, the breach of the sewage line in Nogales, tax reform, investing in workforce development, and preventing a government shutdown. In the last three weeks alone, Congresswoman McSally has had over 60 official meetings and forum discussions with her constituents. She has met with businesses, schools, veterans, advocacy groups on all sides, early learning centers, senior centers, and other diverse groups of constituents in the community. With Juan Ciscomani of the Arizona Mexico Commission
08.17.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today sent a letter strongly urging U.S. Department of the Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to take stakeholders’ input and public comments into account before making recommendations to rescind, reduce, or alter several of Arizona’s National Monuments. “Arizona has more National Monuments than any other state. In addition to the pristine and unique geological formations, extensive forests and diverse wildlife found at these Monuments, these National Park units attract thousands of visitors annually providing economic activity and jobs in our state,” wrote Congresswoman McSally in the letter. “As you consider the remaining Arizona Monuments under review, I request that you place the highest level of care on state and local stakeholders’ input and the public comments you received before making your recommendations.” On April 26, 2017 the President issued an Executive Order directing Secretary Zinke to conduct a thorough review of certain National Monuments designated under the Antiquities Act and make recommendations about their designations. The Executive Order required the Secretary to particularly focus on lands that were created after January 1, 1996 that are larger than 100,000 acres. The Secretary began reviewing National lands in April 2017. On August 4, 2017 he issued his first recommendation on an Arizona National Park. Of the 27 National Monuments currently under his review, Ironwood Forest, Vermilion Cliffs, and the Sonoran Desert in Arizona have not yet received a recommendation from Secretary Zinke. To view a PDF of the letter, click HERE. The full letter text follows. August 17, 2017 The Honorable Ryan Zinke Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Zinke, In response to the President’s April 26, 2017 Executive Order directing you to review National Monument designations, I request that you carefully consider the impact of your recommendations on Arizona. Arizona has more National Monuments than any other state, and the President’s Executive Order which directs you to recommend rescissions, reductions, or alterations to National Monuments over 100,000 acres created since 1996, will have a particularly profound impact in Arizona and on my constituents. As you are aware, four National Monuments in Arizona—Ironwood Forest, Vermilion Cliffs, Grand Canyon-Parashant, and Sonoran Desert—were included in your initial review. In addition to the pristine and unique geological formations, extensive forests and diverse wildlife found at these Monuments, these National Park units attract thousands of visitors annually providing economic activity and jobs in our state. You have recently made recommendations concerning several of the 27 National Monuments under review, including the Grand Canyon-Parashant National Monument in Arizona, and I appreciate your thoughtfulness. As you consider the remaining Arizona Monuments under review, I request that you place the highest level of care on state and local stakeholders’ input and the public comments you received before making your recommendations. Sincerely, Martha McSally Member of Congress
07.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today joined with colleagues to release a bipartisan plan produced by a working group that she co-led to stabilize the individual health insurance market and provide relief to individuals, families and small businesses in the wake of inaction from Congress. “I came to Congress to fight for my constituents and get things done. While there is a lot of attention on areas of disagreement on healthcare, I am committed to working to find areas of agreement and governing,” said Rep. McSally. “For the last several weeks, I have led a bipartisan working group with fellow members of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus to find solutions we can agree upon to stabilize the individual market while also providing immediate relief to constituents, families, and small businesses. This is not about saving or killing the Affordable Care Act (ACA), or scoring political points. This is about identifying and negotiating real solutions to real urgent problems and helping the people who have been harmed most by the ACA.” Without action from the Senate, some insurance companies have begun pulling out of the individual market altogether. In Arizona, 14 of the 15 counties already have only one option, and choices will continue to dwindle. At least 25,000 individuals in 38 states are at risk of having no options for coverage in 2018. Insurers are finalizing their offerings for 2018 over the next few weeks, and without certainty and stability provided by Congress, many will be forced to set 2018 premiums even higher—or exit the individual market. Premiums are already set to rise for 2018, but without further action, they will increase an average of 20% more. Additionally, the employer mandate, requiring those with 50 of more employees working 30 hours or more a week to provide health insurance or pay a penalty, and the medical device tax have had a negative effect on economic growth and small businesses. Providing immediate relief to small businesses was an important part of these bi-partisan discussions. The plan put forward by the Problem Solvers Caucus is the product of collaborative negotiations over the past several weeks. The plan will provide relief by: Providing oversight and stability to Cost-Sharing Reductions (CSRs) by bringing them under the Congressional funding authority and funding them; Creating a “stability fund” that states can use to support high costs of those with pre-existing conditions, which can provide certainty and reduce premiums; Providing relief from employer mandate by increasing the threshold to 500 employees and making the 40 hour work week standard; Providing flexibility to states so they can find innovative ways to improve coverage without increasing the federal deficit; Repealing the destructive Medical Device Tax; Offsetting the costs of these proposals to ensure that this plan does not add to the federal deficit. Click here to read the full plan. In response to the plan put forward by Rep. McSally, the following community leaders stated: "As the President of Arizona's largest Latino business organization, I appreciate the leadership of Congresswoman McSally and the bipartisan committee when the Affordable Care Act negotiations had failed,” said Lea Márquez Peterson, President of the Tucson Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. “Our letter to Senators McCain and Flake spoke about the unaffordability of health insurance for our nation's small businesses. We asked for a solution specific to the private marketplace. We believe this is a great starting point for solving our nation's health insurance challenges. I commend Congresswoman McSally on leading discussions that have resulted in a solution for Arizona businesses." “The Tucson Metro Chamber applauds Congresswoman Martha McSally for her efforts to lead a bi-partisan problem-solving group to address healthcare issues,” said Michael Varney, President and CEO of the Tucson Metro Chamber of Commerce. “A recent survey of Tucson-area businesses demonstrated that the subject of healthcare is a major challenge facing employers across our region. Partisan conflict in Washington, D.C. has long dominated the discussion of this topic. Solutions will only be found when reasonable people gather to explore possibilities for compromise. We look forward to hearing more about the progress of this visionary group of Congressional representatives.”
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced a bill to increase security and cut down wait times at ports of entry. The Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) is a global supply chain security program led by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to improve the security of private companies' supply chains against terrorist activity. “In Arizona, we understand both the vital economic importance of cross-border commerce as well as the need to secure the border against terrorists. This program helps with both,” said Rep. McSally. “Beating terrorists takes teamwork. CBP’s partnership with entities throughout the global supply chain helps ensure high standards of security, and it also streamlines cross-border commerce by pre-vetting companies, allowing their cargo to be expedited through our overburdened and undermanned ports of entry. It’s been eleven years since this program first began, and it is time for it to be updated to reflect our modern global economy.” C-TPAT was established under the SAFE Port Act of 2006. Under this global supply chain security program, companies voluntarily partner with CBP to enhance security throughout their supply chain. CBP works with them to protect the supply chain, identify security gaps, and implement specific security measures and best practices. After vetting these applicants, CBP visits their site to validate the implementation of security criteria. Once companies prove they meet CBP’s security standards, they have shorter wait times and fewer inspections at ports of entry. More than 1.6 million cars and 3.8 million people crossed into the United States from Mexico at the Raul H. Castro Port of Entry in Douglas. Pre-vetting companies helps streamline the process at these ports. This bill reauthorizes C-TPAT for the first time in 11 years. It ensures that the program is updated to meet the dynamic threats currently facing the global supply chain and that C-TPAT participants receive tangible benefits for their partnership with CBP in ensuring a secure supply chain.
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the Make America Secure Appropriations Act which the House passed today by a vote of 235—192. This national security appropriations package includes the appropriations bills for defense, military construction and veterans, energy and water, and the legislative branch. “As a 26-year veteran of the Air Force, I am committed to ensuring that our military has the resources it needs to be prepared at all times and that our veterans receive proper care. This bill restores readiness shortfalls, gives our troops a pay raise, and invests in equipment and training for our troops to counter ISIS and other threats. It also provides funding for better and increased access to care for our veterans. This bill supports Southern Arizona’s defense assets by fully funding the A-10 fleet, the Tomahawk missile line at Raytheon, crucial intelligence missions at Ft Huachuca. It also increases army end strength by 10,000 personnel. There are many dangerous threats facing our nation today. This bill ensures we have the tools, resources, equipment, training, and morale to address these challenges.” The bill appropriates the full funding for the NDAA, passed last month, which includes provisions for Southern Arizona, advocated by Congresswoman McSally. To see that full list, click HERE. The measure also includes McSally’s amendment to appropriate an additional $2 million to the Therapeutic service dog training program, which awards competitive grants to nonprofit organizations that provide service dogs to wounded warriors. Highlights of the legislation include: Defense: A total of $658.1 billion for the Department of Defense, including $584.1 billion for base budget and $73.9 billion to support our troops, restore readiness, and provide the resources necessary to defeat ISIS and counter challenges around the world. Fully funds a 2.4% pay raise for the troops Funds critical support for our troops to combat terrorists and continue the train and equip programs to defeat ISIS, supports the Afghan Security Forces, and provides necessary funding for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Fund $150 million for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative and additional support for our allies to deter against Russian aggression Includes $705 million for Israeli missile defense and continues security assistance for Jordan Military Construction / Veterans Affairs: $88.8 billion in total discretionary funding, including $638 million to house, train, and equip our troops and provide care for 21.4 million veterans Provides $69 billion for VA Medical Care, including: $8.4 billion for mental health care; $7.3 billion in homeless veteran treatment, $186 million in suicide prevention; $316 million for traumatic brain injury; $50 million for opioid abuse prevention Energy & Water: $9.6 billion for Energy Programs within the Department of Energy $1.2 billion for the Bureau of Reclamation for water management, storage, and protection of water resources in the West Allows the Administrator of the EPA and Secretary of the Army to withdraw from the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today took steps to address a break in the Nogales International Outfall Interceptor (IOI) pipeline that has left the border community exposed to over 10 million gallons of untreated sewage waste. She joined with Representative Grijalva (AZ-03) and Senators McCain and Flake to urge the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) to work with the City of Nogales to resolve the sewage pipeline break. “This is a critical issue for residents and businesses of Nogales, Arizona and Nogales, Sonora. It directly impacts water quality, environmental quality and their quality of life,” said Rep. Martha McSally. “This sewage break did not have to happen. The city, the county, and the state of Arizona have long expressed concern over the management of this pipeline, which is why I have introduced legislation to relieve the city of Nogales from the unfair burden of paying for the operation and maintenance of this pipeline. This break illustrates how important it is to resolve this quickly so that Southern Arizonans are not put at risk again. I applaud Governor Ducey for acting quickly and providing funds to address this emergency.” “As lawmakers, one of our most basic responsibilities to our constituents is to promote their welfare and protect their well-being. The emergency situation in Nogales merits immediate action as it has now escalated to a level where the health and safety of its citizens are at risk. I join my colleague, Rep. McSally in calling for the International Boundary and Water Commission to quickly repair the IOI pipeline, take precautions to prevent future breaks, and immediately protect public health,” said Rep. Grijalva. The Nogales International Outfall Interceptor (IOI) is the main pipeline that delivers over 10 million gallons of untreated sewage waste to the Nogales International Sanitation Project. Roughly ten million gallons of sewage waste flow across the border from Mexico for treatment. In March, Congresswoman McSally introduced bipartisan legislation, the Nogales Wastewater Fairness Act, to reduce the financial burden on Nogales associated with the cost of maintaining and operating the International Outfall Interceptor (IOI). Today, the lawmakers sent a letter to IBWC urging action and answers to their questions regarding the cause of the break, the long term solution, and any subsequent public health risks. In the letter, the lawmakers write that “the IBWC has an obligation to manage international infrastructure negotiations and operate the Nogales International Sanitation Project, and we seek guidance from your agency on what led to this issue and the next steps in managing the situation. The critical nature and proximity to the City of Nogales make this break a matter of urgent concern and we hope to receive prompt answers to our questions.” Congresswoman McSally also called IBWC Commissioner Edward Drusina today to learn more about action the agency is taking to address the problem and discuss long term solutions to maintain the pipeline and prevent future leaks. A PFD of the letter can be viewed HERE. The full letter is below. July 27, 2017 Mr. Edward Drusina Commissioner International Boundary and Water Commission U.S. Section 4147 North Mesa, Suite C-100 El Paso, Texas 79902 Dear Mr. Drusina, We write to you concerning the news of a dangerous break in the Nogales International Outfall Interceptor (IOI), the main pipeline that delivers sewage waste to the Nogales International Sanitation Project. We fear that the breach, which leaves the Potrero Creek vulnerable to over 10 million gallons of untreated sewage flowing through this pipeline every day, poses a hazard to the countless communities that live downstream of the pipeline. Consequently, the lack of cooperation and consensus between federal government and state and local officials could have widespread implications on the welfare and safety of Nogales’ citizens. The city, the county, and the State of Arizona have long expressed concern to us over the management of this pipeline. We introduced legislation again this year, the Nogales Wastewater Fairness Act, which would transfer the unfair financial burden of maintenance and capital upgrades of the IOI pipeline from the City of Nogales, Arizona to the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC). Given that the IBWC has an obligation to manage international infrastructure negotiations and operate the Nogales International Sanitation Project, we seek guidance from your agency on what led to this break and the next steps in managing the situation. The break’s critical nature and proximity to the City of Nogales make it a matter of urgent concern, so we hope to receive prompt answers to our questions. We would like an answer to the following questions as soon as possible: What was the cause of the breakage, and what could have been done to avoid such breakage from occurring? What are the next steps for the IBWC in response to this event? Has this breakage put the citizens of Nogales at a health and safety risk? Given the critical nature of this infrastructure to both the City of Nogales, Arizona and the City of Nogales, Sonora, what role does the IBWC have to play in the management and maintenance of this pipeline? What emergency management plan does the IBWC have in place in order to address situations such as this? How has the IBWC worked with the City of Nogales, Arizona in an effort to respond to this emergency and mitigate risk for such events happening again? What steps are being taken to ensure that a break such as this does not occur again? We look forward to working with the City of Nogales, Santa Cruz County, Arizona Department of Emergency and Military Affairs (DEMA), and our colleagues in Congress to quickly repair the IOI pipeline and move legislation that prevents such breaks from occurring in the future. Sincerely, __________________________ __________________________ John McCain Jeff Flake United States Senator United States Senator __________________________ __________________________ Martha McSally Raúl Grijalva United States Representative United States Representative
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation directing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a full analysis of the current and potential threats along our nation’s southern border. The last complete mile-by-mile assessment conducted by DHS was in 1993, over two decades ago. “DHS’s current state of situational awareness along the border is inadequate and they certainly have not achieved anything close to operational control. In order for our nation to effectively secure the border, we must first assess the threats that exist, understand and identify the gaps in our defenses and then develop a plan to address those gaps with a blend of more manpower, technology, and infrastructure,” said Congresswoman Martha McSally, Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “The Southwest Border Security Threat Assessment Act will prod DHS to determine the answers to those fundamental questions.” The Southwest Border Security Threat Assessment Act would require the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a new Southwest Border Threat Analysis within 180 days of the bill being signed into law, mandating that accurate assessments be made of the current and potential threats, as well as the measures that need to be taken to counter them. The bill also requires the U.S. Border Patrol to design a new strategic plan based on DHS’s threat analysis. Rep. McSally has made establishing a better, more effective border strategy a top priority. In her capacity as Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, Congresswoman McSally has questioned U.S. Customs and Border Protection on their situational awareness and operation control. She has authored several bills to channel resources to the border, address staffing shortages, modernize ports of entry, and improve the accountability of border projects. The Congresswoman also led over 20 members of Congress on a tour of the Southern Arizona border. Read the full bill text HERE.
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s bill to expand and improve Udall Park today passed out of the House Natural Resources Committee with bipartisan support. The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act would complete a 28- year old land exchange between the City of Tucson and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), allowing Tucson to finally expand and improve the park to its full potential. “It shouldn’t take an act of Congress to establish a farmers market in Udall Park, but this time it does. Federal red tape has held up the Udall Park land exchange for 28 years, preventing the City of Tucson from taking control of the land so that it can develop the park and grow it as a place for our local community to gather,” said Rep. McSally. “Passage of this bill today is an important step forward, and I will continue to move this bill through the legislative process so that we can resolve this issue once and for all.” The bill’s passage out of the Natural Resources Committee comes less than two weeks after Congresswoman McSally and Tucson City Manager Michael Ortega testified in support of the legislation in Congress. Click HERE to watch their testimony. On May 16, 1980, the City of Tucson leased over 172 acres from BLM for the creation of what would become Udall Park. On June 26, 1989, the City of Tucson entered into negations to transfer 297 acres of rural land recently purchased for $4 million to BLM for the title of the land currently used for Udall Park. Those negotiations were finalized later that year on October 4, 1989. The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act removes a reversion clause contained in the 1989 agreement, providing full autonomy and ownership for Udall Park to the City of Tucson. Next, the Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act will be sent to the House floor for a vote. To watch the Natural Resources Committee question BLM on why they refused to resolve the issue despite their authority and jurisdiction, and why Congress has to step in to resolve it, click below: Video of Natural Resources Committee Questions BLM on Udall Park
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representatives Martha McSally (R-AZ) today released the following statement on The Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, legislation passed with overwhelming bipartisan support to increase economic and political sanctions on Iran, Russia, and North Korea: “Iran, Russia, and North Korea are our top adversaries—threatening our national security, disrupting global stability, and defying the principles of freedom, justice, and equality that America stands to protect. The bill that we passed today with my strong support is one of the toughest sanctions packages Congress has ever passed—and also one of the most necessary. These countries are dangerous. It’s time these bad actors face consequences. Additionally, this sanctions package empowers Congress to review and disapprove of any sanctions relief extended to Russia. Congressional review in this matter is essential and appropriate.”
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today chaired a Homeland Security Committee hearing to examine look the role that technology plays in helping to predict, deter, detect and interdict illicit activity along the Southwest border. The hearing featured testimony from security officials from U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Border Patrol, and U.S. Government Accountability Office. “Putting more technology on the border will increase our chances of apprehending dangerous individuals and interdicting lethal drugs like heroin and fentanyl that cause so much death and pain for our fellow American citizens,” Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security subcommittee, said during the hearing. “Technology is a crucial force multiplier, and part of a multi-layered approach of the ‘right mix of infrastructure, personnel, and technology’ that we have used for at least 20 years. Congress expects the Border Patrol, the Office of Field Operations, and Air and Marine to be able to quickly identify, and justify the technological needs required to secure the border. “ Watch her full opening statement below: Video of McSally Opening Statement DETER, DETECT, AND INTERDICT: TECHNOLOGY’S ROLE IN SECURING THE BORDER During her questioning, Congresswoman McSally focused on evaluating the efforts underway to increase situational awareness along the border, specifically in the Tucson sector. “Air Assets are a critical part of the technology to build situational awareness at the operational and tactical level on the border, and air is critical in the Tucson sector but we’ve lost our air capability. 50% of marijuana comes through the Tucson sector, and in the hot summer we have deaths in the desert and air assets are critical to get to people before it is life threatening. What has the impact been of decreasing air assets and flight hours in the Tucson sector?” asked Congresswoman McSally. CBP Officials acknowledged the Tucson sector is a “critical cog” in securing the Southwest border, and Acting Deputy Chief of U.S. Border Patrol, Scott A. Luck, shared plans to test additional unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to fill security gaps. They plan on testing UAVs next month in Arizona. Watch the questioning below: Video of McSally Questions CBP on Aerial Assets to Secure Border in Tucson Congresswoman McSally also questioned officials on the status of technology or programs to improve the situational awareness of Border Patrol Agents and CBP officers on the ground. Watch that interaction HERE.
07.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S Representative McSally today celebrated a casework victory: a wounded veteran received keys to his brand new-home, customized to meet his specific needs. Marco DeLeon served as a Sergeant (E5) in the AZ Army National Guard from 2007-2014. On Thanksgiving Day 2009, Marco incurred severe injuries from an IED explosion while on patrol in Iraq. He was diagnosed with a spinal cord injury that left him handicapped. For two years, Marco DeLeon tried in vain to receive a grant from the VA to modify his home to meet his handicap needs. Within one month of learning of his situation, Congresswoman McSally’s office successfully secured Specially Adapted Housing Grant totaling $77,000 for the DeLeons. Today, Marco DeLeon received keys to his new home which was customized just for him. “Marco DeLeon is an American hero. He made a tremendous sacrifice for our country and the least we can do is ensure his needs are met,” said Congresswoman McSally. “I am deeply grateful that our office was able to secure this grant for his new home, and that he will be able to live and move more comfortably now. If you are a veteran in need assistance, please to reach out to my office. We are here to help.” Watch Marco DeLeon give a tour of his new home with Rep. McSally below: Video of U.S. Rep. McSally Helps Wounded Warrior Receive Life-Changing Housing Grant
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representatives Martha McSally (R-AZ) released the following statement on Senator John McCain: “Senator John McCain is one of the bravest men I know—a hero, a warrior, and a survivor. He survived the Vietnam War after being shot down then held as a prisoner of war for five and a half years. I am confident he will defeat this foe as well. Senator McCain has been a personal mentor for me. I have been honored to serve alongside him in the Arizona delegation in Congress, and I look forward to continuing to do so. My thoughts are with him and his family, and my prayers are for his health and full recovery.”
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the FY 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), comprehensive legislation that funds United States defense efforts and includes important Southern Arizona provisions that Congresswoman Martha McSally fought to include. The bill fully funds the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call, restarts much-needed upgrades and the production of new wings for the A-10 fleet, funds missions at Ft Huachuca, and supports Raytheon’s missiles. “Now that we’ve prevented the A-10 Warthog’s retirement, it’s time to invest in this aircraft so that it can keeping doing what no other airplane can: provide close air support to American troops in combat and keep them alive. This bill provides funding for the Air Force to re-wing the remainder of the A-10 fleet, which will prevent 110 A-10s from being indefinitely grounded,” said Congresswoman McSally. “We have many national security treasures in Southern Arizona, including Davis-Monthan Air Force Base and Ft Huachuca—not to mention the Apache helicopters at Marana and Raytheon’s missile production line. These defense assets are vital to our local economy and national security, and I am pleased that NDAA invests in all of them because of our efforts. I will continue to work to protect them throughout the legislative process.” Click below to watch Rep. McSally discuss NDAA: Video of NDAA Passes the House Congresswoman McSally also successfully offered amendments to NDAA that extend a suicide prevention program in the National Guard, improve Ft Huachuca’s NETCOM security, demand a plan to address the shortage of Apache helicopter pilots, and address gender double standards in the military. “The Southern AZ Defense Alliance (SADA) is thankful for Congresswoman McSally’s leadership in supporting and protecting Southern Arizona’s national security assets in the FY18 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which passed out of the House today,” said Amber Smith, President of SADA. “She has been an effective and vocal advocate for Davis-Monthan Air Force Base and for the US Army’s Fort Huachuca, and her efforts have resulted in significant wins today that will upgrade aircraft at DM, support current missions at Ft Huachuca, and increase total Army personnel.” "The leadership and members of the Fort Huachuca 50 are truly grateful for Congresswoman McSally's continued support for the base and its missions. We are optimistic that the Senate version of the NDAA will maintain the same level of support. We are particularly delighted with the potential construction of facilities at Davis-Monthan AFB. This will enable the Intelligence School to conduct superior training in the Tucson metropolitan area and highlights the interdependency we have between all of our bases in southern Arizona,” said Tom Finnegan, Co-Chair of the Arizona Governor’s Military Affairs Commission and member of Ft Huachuca 50. Congresswoman McSally has been an outspoken advocate for the A-10 during her time in Congress, her amendments preventing the A-10 and EC-130H’s retirement were included in both previous NDAA bills. Currently, 110 A-10 aircraft are in need of re-fitted wings, or else these planes will start to be grounded beginning in FY 2018. In addition to fully funding the A-10 fleet, this bill includes $103 million for new wings, $17.5 million for other necessary upgrades, and $6 million for safety inspections. The final bill included the following provisions, championed by Congresswoman McSally: Davis-Monthan Air Force Base Full funding for the A-10 fleet, $103 million for new A-10 wings, $17.5 million for other necessary upgrades, and $6 million for safety inspections Full funding for the EC-130H “Compass Call” and a directive to the Air Force to report their plan to upgrade the aircraft for future threats $22 million for a General Instruction Building at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base Ft Huachuca Full funding for the missions at F Huachuca Increased funding for total Army personnel at Ft Huachuca Increased funding for Research, Development, Testing, & Evaluation to promote future growth for the missions at Ft Huachuca $30 million for a Ground Transport Equipment Building at Ft Huachuca Raytheon Funding for 100 Tomahawk missiles and $79 million to modernize the missiles Provides 18 SM-3 missiles more than the President asked for in his budget request An extra $50 million to buy more interceptors for Israel’s Iron Dome Amendments successfully offered by Congresswoman McSally Apache Amendment: Requires the Army and National Guard to brief Congress on a plan to address the shortage of about 230 active duty attack helicopter pilots NETCOM Amendment: NETCOM out of Ft Huachuca currently monitors 60% of Army Networks and is responsible for the entire Department of Army networks. This amendment consolidates the Army’s communications network into a single network that is secure, integrated, and standards-based—addressing security vulnerabilities Suicide Prevention Amendment: Extends a suicide prevention program that supports our National Guard and reserves military members through 2018 Gender Double Standards Amendment: Directs the Secretary of Defense to review instances where men and women in the military are held to double standards and brief the House Armed Services Committee on any differences the Secretary recommends retaining General provisions addressing military readiness Includes the PRIVATE Act, a bill authored by Rep. McSally to clarify when sharing intimate photos is a military crime Increases the size of Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard commensurate with the threats we face. These increases include the Chief of Staff of the Army’s unfunded requirement to grow the active Army by 10,000, the Army National Guard by 4,000, and the Army Reserve by 3,000 Fully funds the 2.4% pay raise our troops are entitled to under law while blocking the President’s ability to reduce troop pay. It also extends special pay and bonuses for service-members Directs the Army to report on its proposal to transition the Apache battalion at Marana to a different helicopter
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today testified before the House Natural Resources Committee on her bill to expand and improve Udall Park. The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act would complete a 28- year old land exchange between the City of Tucson and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). As Congresswoman McSally’s invitation, Tucson City Manager Michael Ortega also came to Congress to testify on the City of Tucson’s support for this legislation. This hearing marked an important step forward in advancing the bill through Congress so that the City of Tucson can fully utilize the 172.8-acre parcel of land the park sits on. “Udall Park is a beautiful place for our Southern Arizona community to gather, but the City of Tucson has been unable to improve and expand the park to its full potential,” said Congresswoman McSally as she testified during the hearing. “My legislation would formally conclude the long overdue land agreement. Federal red tape should not stand in the way of communities developing local parks. It’s common-sense.” Watch Rep. McSally’s testimony before the committee below. Video of U.S. Rep. McSally Testifies on Her Bill to Protect &amp;amp; Improve Udall Park “Udall Park is a highly developed and very popular urban park, used by City and surrounding Pima County residents alike…. The existence of the reverter has directly impeded the City from taking advantage of commercial opportunities to supplement park funding, approve certain community events or look to other commercial ventures on small portions of the park that would benefit the city in general,” said Tucson City Manager Michael Ortega while testifying before the committee. “This is a unique situation, unlike any other reverter elimination being proposed anywhere on BLM administered lands. H.R. 1547 is needed to complete what should have been completed almost 28 years ago, and to provide an enhanced recreational and economic future for the citizens of Tucson and its environs.” Watch Tucson City Manager Michael Ortega’s testimony before the committee below. Video of Tucson City Manager Ortega Testifies on U.S. Rep. McSally&amp;#039;s Bill to Protect and Improve Udall Park On May 16, 1980, the City of Tucson leased over 172 acres from BLM for the creation of what would become Udall Park. On June 26, 1989, the City of Tucson entered into negations to transfer 297 acres of rural land recently purchased for $4 million to BLM for the title of the land currently used for Udall Park. Those negotiations were finalized later that year on October 4, 1989. The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act removes a reversion clause contained in the 1989 agreement, providing full autonomy and ownership for Udall Park to the City of Tucson. Next, the House Natural Resources Committee is expected to markup the legislation and consider it for passage.
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally, in direct response to meetings with border Sheriffs in Arizona, this week introduced legislation to reauthorize the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) which will ensure that the federal government reimburses state and local governments for incarcerating unlawfully present individuals who have committed crimes in the United States. “Arizona is on the front lines of protecting our nation and communities from drug cartels and human trafficking. The federal government cannot pass off the cost of incarcerating these criminals onto states like ours,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Arizona Sheriffs along our southwest border are doing a praiseworthy job, but they need more support from the federal government. Since 2009, Arizona counties have absorbed more than $310 million for these types of expenditures. Taxpayers along the border should not have to foot the federal government’s bill—diverting local resources away from other law enforcement priorities. This bill would help set this right.” Last week, Congresswoman McSally, Chairwoman of the Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Subcommittee, convened a meeting with all four Sheriffs serving along Arizona’s southwest border to solicit their perspectives. In addition to calling for a blend of methods to secure the border and support the ports of entry, the Sheriffs expressed their need to be reimbursed for the cost of taking care of business that is clearly the federal government’s responsibility. “SCAAP provides critical dollars to Arizona’s counties that help pay for the cost of housing and caring for the inmates while they are in our custody,” wrote Cochise County Sheriff Mark Dannels in a letter supporting this legislation, authored by the Arizona Sheriffs Association. “Arizona’s counties continue to struggle under the fiscal strain of anemic growth in rural areas and cost-shifts from the State of Arizona…any financial assistance the federal government can appropriate to help pay for the costs of caring for these inmates will allow Arizona’s Sheriffs to concentrate on other important priorities, such as drug interdiction and search and rescue.” “The taxpayers of Pima County are shouldering this burden because the federal government has not seen through its responsibility to provide a secure border. I am thankful to Congresswoman McSally for quickly acting to address the needs and concerns of our community,” said Pima County Sheriff Napier. “All 15 Arizona Sheriffs absorb millions of dollars each year housing ‘criminal illegal aliens’ who have victimized our citizens by committing State Crimes. We don't get those dollars back,” said Leon Wilmot, Yuma County Sheriff. “Reauthorizing SCAAP would be a significant help to the Arizona Sheriffs, and I am grateful for Congresswoman McSally’s leadership on this matter, which is important to border communities like ours.” By law, the federal government is responsible for incarcerating individuals who are unlawfully present and have committed crimes during their time in the United States. When that is not possible, the law requires the federal government to reimburse state and local governments for that cost. SCAAP is the grant program that makes those reimbursements, and this bill reauthorizes the program through fiscal year 2021. Funding for SCAAP has fluctuated greatly since it was originally authorized in 1986, peaking at $565 million in fiscal year 2002, and most recently dropping to $210 million in fiscal year 2017. On April 4th Rep. McSally and thirty-four other members of Congress authored a letter asking Congressional appropriators to ensure that sufficient funds were allocated to SCAAP so local law enforcement could be rightfully reimbursed. Read that letter HERE.
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today recognized Southern Arizona’s First Responders of Distinction on the House Floor. Earlier this week, Rep. McSally recognized the nominees from throughout Southern Arizona and presented awards to the winners. “There are outstanding First Responders in my district who serve Southern Arizona in truly extraordinary ways,” said Congresswoman McSally in a speech to the House of Representatives. “These individuals organize community races, develop emergency preparedness training, log hundreds of volunteer hours, launch public education campaigns, and provide meals for disabled seniors. That’s why I created the First Responders of Distinction Award—to shine a spotlight on individuals who make these contributions for our community.” Congresswoman McSally’s remarks highlighted First Place winner Lieutenant Mertie Stompro Jr. of the Sierra Vista Police Department and Davis-Monthan Air Force Base 355th Civil Engineering Squadron Fire Emergency Services, the Team Award Winner. Watch and read her full remarks below. Video of McSally Shines Spotlight on First Responders of Distinction on House Floor Congresswoman McSally honors First Responders of Distinction on House Floor. Click above to watch. Click HERE for photos of Monday’s awards ceremony honoring the 2017 First Responders. Transcript: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding individuals in my congressional district who I was proud to award as First Responders of Distinction earlier this week. We all benefit from the sacrificial work of our First Responders, whether we have personally experienced it as they respond to our emergency, or whether we indirectly benefit from it by enjoying the safety they help provide. The everyday acts of heroism by First Responders in our community often go uncelebrated. They keep our streets safe, put their lives on the line during emergencies, provide assistance whenever needed, and save lives. Above and beyond even that standard of greatness, there are outstanding first responders in my district who serve Southern Arizona in truly extraordinary ways. These individuals organize community races, develop emergency preparedness training, log hundreds of volunteer hours, launch public education campaigns, and provide meals for disabled seniors. That’s why I created the First Responders of Distinction Award—to shine a spotlight on individuals who make extraordinary contributions to our community. This year we reached a significant number of nominations and I was pleased to recognize each one for the role they play. Our winner in the individual category goes to Lt. Mertie Stompro who has served in the Sierra Vista Police Department for 20 years. His many leadership roles include Team Leader for the Sierra Vista PD Tactical Unit and founding member of the SVPD Special Response Team. Mertie distinguished himself as the Sergeant overseeing firearms training for the department. He developed force-on-force training to simulate real-life scenarios that officers face in the community. His steadfast approach to challenging officers in the training environment has greatly improved the skill level and preparedness of all ranks within SVPD. In his spare time, Lt. Stompro has coordinated an annual “Foot Pursuit 5K” race that has become the largest organized race in the Sierra Vista area and fosters positive interaction between law enforcement and the community. Last year, the race raised $6,000 for the annual “Christmas with a Cop” event sponsored by the Police Officer’s Association of Sierra Vista. In this photo, you can see Lt. Strompro engaging with a child at “Christmas with a Cop”, which gives 100 under-privileged children in Cochise County the opportunity to spend $100 on whatever they wish to purchase. For the last two years during National Bike and Walk to School Week he has come into work before his shift and transforms one of the armored vehicles into the Batmobile, driving “Batman” and “Ghostbuster” around each school in the Sierra Vista neighborhood to interact with the kids. Lt. Stompro has also worked tirelessly over the last several years to develop emergency preparedness training exercises in the local schools and has developed a lasting partnership with the Sierra Vista Unified School District. He took the lead in developing exercises to coordinate efforts in the event of an active shooter situation. Lt. Mertie Stompro embodies the Sierra Vista Police Department’s mantra of “Service with Honor” and we are fortunate to have him in our community. Our Team Award Winner for 2017 is the Davis-Monthan Air Force Base 355th Civil Engineering Squadron Fire Emergency Services, pictured here receiving their award. D-M’s Fire Emergency Services firefighters provide fire, rescue, emergency medical and combat support in 25 operating bases year round. In the past year, D-M’s Fire Emergency Services hosted over 500 firefighters from 12 neighboring departments, three local fire academies, and local law enforcement agencies in joint SWAT/Rescue Task Force Training. In the last year, they have provided more than 150 hours of fire prevention education supporting over 300 children at Borman Elementary and Sonoran Science Academy. Additionally, they have volunteered 250 hours to: Habitat for Humanity, Tanque Verde Little League, STARBASE, Pima Interagency Training Committee, AZ Center for Fire Service Excellence, PSESI and numerous other organizations. Despite being 30% undermanned, they protect $50 billion dollars in assets and 14,000 personnel. Even with the diverse demands, D-M’s Fire Emergency Services was able to combine their experience, hard work, and talent to garner the prestigious milestone of Commission on Fire Accreditation International, an honor only 230 departments in the world have ever earned. Mr. Speaker, these are just two examples of the heroic and extraordinary First Responders that we are blessed to have serving us in Arizona’s 2nd Congressional District. We will never fully be able to repay these individuals for the way they have shaped and improved Southern Arizona, but we can applaud them and offer our sincerest gratitude. I would also like to thank all who nominated individuals for recognition and thank our panel of judges for making this award possible.
07.11.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today hosted her office’s second annual Congressional First Responder of Distinction Award Ceremony. The award recognizes local, county, state, and federal first responders—fire, police, and emergency medical personnel—in the Second District who go above and beyond to serve Southern Arizona. “First Responders make enormous sacrifices for our community here in Southern Arizona – putting their lives on the line and working day and night to keep us safe,” said Congresswoman McSally. “I have tremendous respect for all that our First Responders do, and I was proud to recognize some of the most committed at our award ceremony today. I congratulate all of those First Responders who were nominated and thank our panel of judges for making this award possible.” Congresswoman McSally’s office received a large number of nominations for this year’s award. Nominations included First Responders from the Arizona Department of Public Safety, Arizona Ambulance Transport, Sierra Vista and Tucson Fire Departments, Tucson and Douglas Police Departments, Frye, Mountain Vista, and Golder Ranch Fire Districts, U.S. Border Patrol, and the Pima County Sheriff’s Department. Awards were chosen by a panel of judges from the Southern Arizona First Responder community who reviewed each nomination. The list of recognized First Responders follows: First Place: Mertie Stompro, Patrol Lieutenant with the Sierra Vista Police Department Team Award: Davis Monthan Fire and Emergency Services Honorable Mention: Roberto Vasquez, Tucson Fire Department Captain Honorable Mention: David Bruster, Tombstone Fire Chief First Place Winner: Mertie Stompro Jr. Patrol Lieutenant, Sierra Vista Police Department Lt. Mertie Stompro has served in the Sierra Vista Police Department for 20 years. His many leadership roles include Team Leader for the Sierra Vista PD Tactical Unit and founding member of the SVPD Special Response Team. Recently Mertie distinguished himself as the Sergeant overseeing firearms training for the department. His steadfast approach to challenging officers in the training environment has greatly improved the skill level and preparedness of all ranks within SVPD. In his spare time, Lt Stompro has coordinated an annual “Foot Pursuit 5K” race that has become the largest organized race in the Sierra Vista area and fosters positive interaction between law enforcement and the community. Last year, the race raised $6,000 for the annual “Christmas with a Cop” event sponsored by the Sierra Vista Police Officer’s Association. Lt. Stompro has worked tirelessly over the last several years to develop emergency preparedness training exercises in the local schools and has developed a lasting partnership with the Sierra Vista Unified School District. Team Award Winner: Davis Monthan Air Force Base Fire & Emergency Service 355th Squadron DM FES firefighters provide fire, rescue, emergency medical and combat support in 25 operating bases year round. In the past year, DM FES hosted over 500 firefighters from 12 neighboring departments, three local fire academies and local law enforcement agencies in joint SWAT/Rescue Task Force Training. In the last year they have provided more than 150 hours of fire prevention education supporting over 300 children at Borman Elementary and Sonoran Science Academy. Additionally, they have volunteered 250 hours to: Habitat for Humanity, Tanque Verde Little League, STARBASE, Pima Interagency Training Committee, AZ Center for Fire Service Excellence, PSESI and numerous other organizations. Despite being 30% undermanned, they protect $50 billion dollars in assets and 14,000 personnel. Even with the diverse demands, DM FES was able to combine their experience, hard work, and talent to garner the prestigious milestone of Commission on Fire Accreditation International, an honor only 230 departments in the world have ever earned. Honorable Mention: Roberto Vasquez Captain, Tucson Fire Department Captain Vasquez has been with Tucson Fire Department since August 2004. He created a public education program called “The Do Something Campaign,” to educate the public on the small things that can be done to keep children safe. Part of this campaign included public education videos which continue to air today. On his days off, Captain Vasquez was part of a recent renovation of the First Responders display at the Children’s Museum. In addition, he volunteers his time in the community packing food boxes during the Thanksgiving and holiday season, and at Banner Diamond Center on Christmas Eve, wrapping presents for children. Coworkers note that he lives by the values he professes and motivates other leaders around him. Honorable Mention: David Bruster, Tombstone Fire Chief/EMT As Tombstone Fire Chief, David Bruster has been responsible for significant changes within the Tombstone Fire Department. David is dedicated to working with the “Healthy Tombstone committee”, he provides many hours of fire education to local schools, and he delivers meals to disabled seniors and has developed training of new cadets to become firefighters. David’s enthusiasm and perseverance to promote continued education within the volunteer firefighter group in Tombstone has led to 7 of his crew completing EMT training. David has worked tirelessly to raise money and apply for grants to replace protective equipment, including: SCBA systems, tanks, air packs, helmets, gloves, turnout coats and a mask and fill station compressor. Additionally, he was able to negotiate the purchase of a newer fire truck to replace an old truck that was in disrepair and unsafe for the department. To view more photos of the event, click HERE.
07.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally released the following statement on the death of recent University of Arizona graduate Bakari Henderson while he was vacationing with friends in Greece: “My thoughts and prayers are with the family and loved ones of Bakari Henderson, whose life was senselessly and brutally cut short this weekend. The loss of our recent University of Arizona graduate is truly tragic and shocking, and I offer my deepest condolences to all who knew him.”
06.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally led a bipartisan meeting with other Representatives of southern border communities and Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross, to discuss the upcoming renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Alliance (NAFTA). The representatives encouraged the administration to use this opportunity to work towards a fairer playing field that will help further economic growth and harness job creation. Their priorities included agriculture, infrastructure, e-commerce, cargo inspections—and others related to cross-border economic activity. “Mexico is Arizona’s number one trading partner, and we have over 100,000 jobs in Arizona because of cross-border economic activity. We want to make sure that as we renegotiate NAFTA that they hear our united voice to do no harm and increase economic growth and opportunities for border communities like ours,” said Congresswoman McSally. Video of U.S. Rep. McSally Hosts Meeting Commerce Secretary to Include S. AZ Priorities in NAFTA 2.0 On May 18, the Trump administration formally notified Congress of its intent to renegotiate NAFTA, beginning a 90-day window for Congress to provide input. Greater Nogales Santa Cruz County Port Authority, the U.S. – Mexico Chamber of Commerce, and the Border Trade Alliance all testified this week before the United States Trade Representative regarding this intent to renegotiate NAFTA in response to USTR’s Federal Register notice published May 23, 2017, requesting public comment. Trade with Mexico and Canada is a big component of our economy in Southern Arizona. Cross-border commerce supports more than 1 in 5 jobs in Arizona. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s International Trade Administration, trade with Mexico accounted for 40 percent of our state’s exports to foreign markets in 2015, totaling $9.2 billion. Arizona’s bilateral relationship with Mexico directly supports more than 100,000 Arizona jobs.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Representative Martha McSally successfully secured funding for Southern Arizona’s defense assets in the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which the House Armed Services Committee passed last night. Because of Rep. McSally’s efforts, FY 2018 NDAA fully funds and starts replacing the wings of the A-10 fleet, funds and upgrades the EC-130H fleet, funds critical missions at Ft. Huachuca and also funds critical defense missiles built by Raytheon. The final bill includes Rep. McSally’s amendment demanding a plan to address the shortage of active duty attack Apache helicopter pilots and keep pilots at the Silverbell Army Heliport in Marana, Arizona. “Southern Arizona is home to defense assets that are vital to our national security, and I fought hard to ensure this bill reflects their importance and invests in their long-term future,” said Congresswoman McSally. “These funding provisions to re-wing A-10s and upgrade EC-130Hs will help ensure that Close Air Support and Airborne Electronic Attack assets stay in the air to support our troops fighting ISIS and combating aggression from North Korea and Russia. This bill also supports the critical missions at Ft. Huachuca. These defense initiatives will provide our military with the tools necessary to complete their missions and I will continue to fight for them all the way through the legislative process.” "I appreciate Rep. McSally’s leadership, including her push to re-wing the A-10 fleet. This aircraft is vital to our defense efforts abroad and needs some crucial upgrades. Because of her leadership, important missions at Davis-Monthan and Ft Huachuca will be funded,” said House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry (TX-13). “At the Congresswoman’s invitation, I visited Southern Arizona in October to see first-hand these defense assets. I was very impressed with these bases and the operations they conduct.” “We would like to congratulate Congresswoman McSally for the coordination and persistence in keeping key missions at Ft Huachuca fully funded and fighting to include funding for new construction projects to support our strategic missions. We also thank her for her amendment requiring the Army Staff to report on the plan to consolidate networks that will increase security and better support commands. This funding is critical for Ft Huachuca’s operations, and we are fortunate to have Congresswoman McSally advocating for our local defense assets in Congress,” said Kevin Peterson, President of Ft Huachuca 50. FY 2018 NDAA includes the following in its provisions: Davis-Monthan Air Force Base Full funding for the A-10 fleet, $103 million for new A-10 wings, $17.5 million for other necessary upgrades, and $6 million for safety inspections Full funding for the EC-130H “Compass Call” and a directive to the Air Force to report their plan to upgrade the aircraft for future threats $22 million for a General Instruction Building at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base Ft Huachuca Full funding for the missions at Fort Huachuca, including increases in total Army personnel and Research, Development, Testing, & Evaluation to promote future growth for the missions at Fort Huachuca $30 million for a Ground Transport Equipment Building at Fort Huachuca Raytheon Includes funding for 100 Tomahawk missiles and $79 million to modernize the missiles 18 SM-3 missiles more than the President asked for in his budget request An extra $50 million to buy more interceptors for Israel’s Iron Dome General provisions addressing military readiness Includes the PRIVATE Act, a bill authored by Rep. McSally to clarify when sharing intimate photos is a military crime. Increases the size of Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard commensurate with the threats we face. These increases include the Chief of Staff of the Army’s unfunded requirement to grow the active Army by 10,000, the Army National Guard by 4,000, and the Army Reserve by 3,000 Fully funds the 2.4% pay raise our troops are entitled to under law while blocking the President’s ability to reduce troop pay. It also extends special pay and bonuses for service-members Directs the Army to report on its proposal to transition the Apache battalion at Marana to a different helicopter In addition to appropriating funds for EC-130Hs, new wings and upgrades for the A-10 fleet for long-term flying, and critical missions at Ft. Huachuca, Rep. McSally successfully offered three amendments. Apache Amendment: Requires the Army and National Guard to brief Congress on a plan to address the shortage of about 230 active duty attack helicopter pilots. NETCOM Amendment: NETCOM out of Ft Huachuca currently monitors 60% of Army Networks and is responsible for the entire Department of Army networks. This amendment consolidates the Army’s communications network into a single network that is secure, integrated, and standards-based—addressing security vulnerabilities. Gender Double Standards Amendment: Directs the Secretary of Defense to review instances where men and women in the military are held to double standards and brief the House Armed Services Committee on any differences the Secretary recommends retaining. This is the third NDAA bill in which Rep. McSally has successfully fought for crucial funding for the A-10, Compass Call, and Ft. Huachuca. In addition to preventing the premature retirement of the A-10 and fully funding both fleets and missions at the Fort, Rep. McSally worked with congressional leadership to include $20 million for new A-10 wings in the final FY 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill.
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced she has successfully secured full funding for the A-10 fleet, $103 million for new A-10 wings, $17.5 million for other necessary upgrades, and $6 million for safety inspections. This funding to support the A-10 Warthog was included in both the House Defense Appropriations bill, released today, and approved by the House Armed Services Committee today with a final vote on the entire Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) expected later today or tomorrow morning. "The A-10 Warthog, which I flew, is a one-of-a-kind aircraft that is critical on any battlefield to keep our troops alive and rescue anyone trapped behind enemy lines. It is currently in the demilitarized zone protecting against North Korea aggression, destroying ISIS in the Middle East, and regularly deployed to Europe to support NATO and allies in the face of Russian aggression. It is crucial to keep the A-10 fully funded and upgraded until there is a proven, tested, replacement,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Today I secured two more victories with both the House Armed Services and Defense Appropriations Committees, including full funding for the entire A-10 fleet and additional funds to strengthen the wings of the A-10s that require it to fly well into the future." Currently, 110 A-10 aircraft are in need of re-fitted wings, or else these planes will start to be grounded beginning in FY 2018. Throughout her time in Congress, Rep. McSally has consistently advocated for necessary funding to keep the A-10 fleet operational. Last June, Rep. McSally successfully added an amendment to defense funding legislation for new A-10 wing upgrades and worked with congressional leadership to include $20 million for new A-10 wings in the final FY 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill. Rep. McSally also effectively prevented the proposed premature retirement of the A-10 fleet under the Obama Administration. Davis-Monthan Air Force Base located in Rep. McSally’s district houses 83 A-10 Warthogs.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to close the skills gap in our workforce passed out of the Natural Resources Committee today by unanimous consent. H.R. 2053 will support schools, like the University of Arizona, that have mining programs which train and educate the next generation of mining and mineral experts. “Mining is fundamental to our economy and our national defense—supporting construction, electronics, and even advanced weaponry. However, our country has a shortage of mining engineers and very little resources are currently invested in institutions like the University of Arizona that train them,” said Congresswoman McSally. “By directing existing resources to support these universities, my bill will enable mining schools to hire the faculty they need to fill the skills gap in the mining workforce. I am pleased it passed committee today and will continue to push it through until this becomes a law.” Federal funding has dried up for mining engineering faculty since the United States Bureau of Mines was disbanded. Without federal funding, critical research has tapered off, making it difficult for new professors to conduct the research necessary to gain tenure. H.R. 2053, the Mining Schools Enhancement Act, will address the root of this problem by directing the federal government to distribute 70 percent of existing funding already made available through the Applied Science Tech Transfer Program at the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement to accredited mining schools. There are currently only fourteen mining programs in the nation, including the University of Arizona. Directing resources to these institutions to support research with allow these universities to tenure more faculty to train students to fill the mining skills gap. The House Natural Resources Committee passed the Mining Schools Enhancement Act with bipartisan support. To view the legislative text, CLICK HERE.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement regarding the decision by the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers to propose a rule to repeal the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule and substantially redefine it to be consistent with Supreme Court decisions and long-standing practice: “WOTUS is a sweeping regulation written by unelected bureaucrats that would give the EPA jurisdiction over any type of body of water on private land—lakes, ponds, creeks, and even desert washes. I have heard from countless small businesses, farmers, and ranchers that this rule prevents them from doing their job, which is why I led dozens of my colleagues in Congress in writing to the Administration in February urging the President to reverse this rule for the sake of Southern Arizona and communities throughout the United States. I am pleased with the EPA’s decision to repeal the harmful WOTUS rule—and I know that Americans across the country are relieved by this news.” Since coming to Congress, Congresswoman McSally has consistently fought to reverse the WOTUS rule. On February 17, 2017, she led a letter signed by 40 members of Congress to President Trump urging him to take action against the WOTUS rule and other overreaching regulations. The President responded by issuing an executive order directing the EPA to reevaluate this rule. The EPA’s proposed new rule fulfills the President’s request and codifies a repeal of WOTUS. The text of the letter can be found HERE.
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) today introduced the bipartisan Veterans’ Entry to Apprenticeship Act. The bill would allow veterans to use their educational benefits to enroll in pre-apprenticeship programs and would provide returning veterans with a smooth transition to the civilian workforce. “As a veteran, I know first-hand the difficulties our returning service members face as they transition to civilian life. This bill will make it easier for them to obtain jobs using the benefits they earned,” said Congresswoman Martha McSally. “Stable, good-paying tradecraft and manufacturing jobs in our community remain vacant because there aren’t enough people with the skills to fill them. Allowing GI bill use for these training programs benefits our returning troops and their families, as well as local businesses. It only makes sense. Thanks to Rep. Gabbard for working with me on this commonsense legislation.” Currently, GI Bill benefits cannot be used to cover the cost of Department of Labor approved pre-apprenticeship programs. In certain industries, many veterans face barriers to entry into apprenticeship programs because they lack pre-apprenticeship training. These programs teach the skills and techniques necessary to prepare individuals for apprenticeship training and careers in the skilled trade industry. The Veterans’ Entry to Apprenticeship Act allows veterans to use their educational benefits under the GI Bill to learn critical workplace skills. “Our service members develop valuable skills and experience while serving our nation, and should be able to access opportunities to further develop those skills and set themselves up for success as they transition into civilian life. Veterans still face many obstacles as they go through this transition,” Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard, Co-Chair of the Congressional post-9/11 Veterans Caucus previously stated. “This bill works to make that transition smoother by enabling our veterans to use their GI Bill benefits for apprenticeship programs in the skilled trade industry. While there is much to be done, this bill will help reduce the still too high numbers of unemployed veterans, and address the shortage of skilled workers in our country.” The shortage of skilled workers in the United States in recent years is expected to grow, which explains why more apprenticeship programs are launching across the country—in fact, 1,700 new apprenticeship programs were established last year. With an increasing number of post-9/11 veterans looking to enter the workforce and an estimated 453,000 unemployed veterans in 2016, this bill will make it easier for service members to pursue careers in occupations that require an apprenticeship. This bill builds on Rep. McSally’s track record of supporting veterans. Last week the House passed the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Act to improve services to veterans by protecting whistleblowers and streamlining the process to remove, demote, or suspend any Veterans’ Affairs employee for poor performance. Rep. McSally’s first bill, the Border Jobs for Vets Act was signed into law on October 16, 2015. It fills vacancies at ports of entry and along the border with veterans by ensuring separating service members are aware of hiring opportunities for Customs and Border Protection positions.
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally and Senator John McCain today introduced bipartisan legislation to help facilitate restoration projects on public lands, such as Saguaro National Park. The 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Act will enable federal agencies, like the National Park Service (NPS), to partner with national service corps organizations in order to complete projects faster and more efficiently, saving taxpayer dollars. “Arizona’s breathtaking scenic scopes are renown throughout the country and the world— but our state also has one of the largest backlogs in park maintenance projects,” said Congresswoman McSally (R-AZ). “This backlog is restricting access for Arizonans and tourists at our parks and public areas. This isn’t a problem that money alone can fix, we need to think innovatively and pragmatically to address this growing problem. My bipartisan bill leverages existing resources in a smarter way to get these projects moving. This would be a win for veterans, youth, local communities, and our national parks.” “In Arizona and across the country, young people are growing increasingly interested in service programs focused on bettering our national parks and public lands,” said Senator McCain. “However, while more people each year are applying for service opportunities, they are being turned away – even though our federal agencies need their help to complete a growing backlog of critical projects. Our legislation would solve this problem by creating more opportunities for young people and returning veterans to serve their community while spending no additional taxpayer dollars.” “There are few things more American than enjoying the outdoors,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), a co-lead of the legislation. “Unfortunately, there is a mounting backlog of National Parks Service projects that are impeding our ability to enjoy these vast open spaces. This bipartisan bill effectively joins service with stewardship, and in doing so, it will make our country a better place.” There is $580.2 million in delayed or deferred restoration projects throughout Arizona, and National Parks in Congressional District 2 are hampered because of it. Maintenance projects requiring attention at Saguaro National Park amount to approximately $12.9 million, while Chiricahua National Monument in Cochise County faces roughly $10.3 million in needed restoration projects. In 2013, President Obama signed a Memorandum of Understanding encouraging federal agencies like the National Park Service to partner with national service corps organizations to fill available positions on national service restoration projects. The 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Act codifies this program under law and expands it to allow additional federal agencies to use corps volunteers to complete projects. Specifically, this bill would provide service hours and support workforce development and vocational education programs for veterans, underprivileged youth, inner-city kids, and those looking for work who are involved in these conservation and service corps. Enlisting corps to do priority work often has proved to be more cost-effective for federal agencies. A recent report showed that public-private partnerships saved the National Park Service more than $50,000 per project on average, with one project achieving savings of over $220,000.
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today responded to the shooting at the Congressional Baseball practice this morning, which left Majority Whip Steve Scalise, members of Capitol Police, and congressional staff injured. In a video address, Rep. McSally answers a series of questions about today’s shooting, including the unique significance of this shooting to Arizona’s second congressional district, deeper implications for the country moving forwards, and whether or not the shooting impacts how members of Congress continue to fulfill their responsibilities. Video of Rep. McSally&amp;#039;s Remarks on Today&amp;#039;s Shooting:We Need Unity Now, Vitriolic Political Rhetoric Must End
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally tonight questioned Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Joe Dunford during a House Armed Services Full Committee Hearing evaluating how the President’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2018 addresses the military readiness crisis with respect to the military threat of North Korea and the crucial war-fighting capability of the A-10. Rep. McSally asked Secretary Mattis to describe what military action would look like in North Korea, should diplomacy fail. “It would be a war like nothing we’ve seen since 1953,” said Defense Secretary Mattis. General Dunford added that although the U.S. would win a war against North Korea, there would be significant casualties in South Korea as well, saying “Seoul would get destroyed. 25 million people, 300,000 Americans—we won’t be able to mitigate that.” In light of Mattis and Dunford’s testimony on the gravity of a potential war with North Korea, Rep. McSally asked about the priority status of the A-10 Warthog. One A-10 squadron is permanently stationed in South Korea and many others are tasked to deploy to the region during any major contingency. “One the capabilities we would need in that scenario against North Korea is the mighty A-10 warthog. I was pleased to see in the President’s request fully funding the remaining 283 aircraft, which is nine operational squadrons—but we don’t have the funding to re-wing the remaining 110, otherwise, they’ll be grounded soon. Last week Air Force generals testified they are willing to cut 30% of the fleet down to six squadrons. “If we were to provide the funding to re-wing the remaining 110, would you appreciate having those nine squadrons, given the threats we are facing?” asked Rep. McSally. Mattis replied, “Absolutely…that would increase our war-fighting capabilities.” Dunford agreed, and added, “there are more requirements than we have capability and capacity with just the current squadrons.” Watch the exchange below: Video of McSally Questions Mattis on North Korea and role of A-10s Background: In a hearing last week, Deputy Chief of Staff Air Force Lt. Gen. Harris testified that President’s budget request provided $17.5 million for the A-10 and that the Air Force is committed to keeping the A-10 flying through 2030. However, he also testified that the Air Force is only committed to funding a minimum of six A-10 squadrons. Throughout the entirety of her time in Congress, Rep. McSally has resolutely fought to keep the A-10 as a war-fighting asset, successfully advocating to fully fund the A-10 fleet in both the 2016 NDAA and 2017 NDAA.
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –The House of Representatives today unanimously passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s amendment to the Financial CHOICE Act. Her amendment will direct the Department of the Treasury to review the impact of existing regulations on community banks. “In the last decade, Arizona has lost 70 percent of its community banks. The compliance costs of regulations handed down from Washington have made it difficult for small community banking institutions to lend capital to farmers, ranchers, and small businesses that rely on cross-border commerce. Without access to capital, they can’t grow, hire, and increase wages. The impact has rippled through our state’s economy, hurting communities along the southwest border,” said Rep. McSally. “We must prevent illicit activity, but the Administration needs to closely examine any unintended regulatory impact so community financial institutions aren’t forced to close their doors.” Video of U.S. Rep. McSally Speaks on the Floor in Support of Her Amendment to Support Border Banks The federal government’s indiscriminate application of anti-money laundering regulations has led banks to simply close the accounts of customers participating in cross-border commerce due to added compliance costs. More than 1,900 community financial institutions in the U.S. have closed their doors over the past decade. Rep. McSally’s amendment directs the Department of Treasury to analyze the impact of these regulations and submit a report to Congress on its findings. “As more and more banks in our region were forced to close their doors, businesses like mine had difficulty accessing the capital we need to grow. This also impacts the choices my employees have for their banking needs.,” said Jaime Chamberlain, President of Nogales, Ariz.-based J-C Distributing Inc, a company that imports and distributes Mexican fruits and vegetables. “This puts our companies and our communities at a competitive disadvantage with the rest of the nation and it forces local companies and our foreign partners to look for funding outside of the United States. I am thankful for Rep. McSally’s amendment to put these regulations under the microscope and evaluate the blow they have had to businesses along the border.” Her amendment was included in the Financial CHOICE Act, legislation that the House passed today to reform Dodd-Frank’s regulatory labyrinth to address many of its harmful consequences on the financial industry, provide relief to community lenders so they are freed to supporting businesses and jumpstart economic growth. “Over the past few years, banks in Arizona, particularly Southern Arizona, have been struggling with the onslaught of regulations coming out of Washington,” said Paul Hickman, President and CEO of the Arizona Bankers. “Whether it be money-laundering regulations or those contained in Dodd-Frank, the overzealous regulatory approach is making it more and more difficult to provide the basic banking services our economy depends on. I want to thank Congresswoman McSally for her important amendment that will provide some scrutiny of regulations specifically impacting banking institutions along the border as well as her vote for final passage of the Financial CHOICE Act. These actions will help promote more favorable banking options for businesses and individuals.” House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling, Arizona Bankers Association, Electronic Transactions Association, and Fresh Produce Association are in support of Rep. McSally’s amendment. Click HERE for the text of the amendment.
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today questioned Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly on priorities for Southern Arizona during a full Homeland Security committee hearing on the President’s FY2018 Budget request. Rep. McSally urged the Secretary to prioritize modernizing the Douglas Port of Entry and construction of a new commercial port of entry project. “The Administration needs to include ports of entry in large infrastructure projects. It’s not just about roads and bridges, it’s about our ports of entry that are vital for economic development and security,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “The Douglas Port of Entry, built in 1933, is woefully inadequate. 7.6 million people and 3.2 million cars went through the port, generating 4 billion dollars in economic activity. Where is modernizing and building a new port on your priority list?” Secretary Kelly agreed that all ports of entry needs to be upgraded and that fast movement of goods must be facilitated. Watch the exchange below. Video of McSally Questions DHS Secretary on Prioritizing Douglas Port of Entry Rep. McSally also questioned Secretary Kelly on the Department of Homeland Security’s plan to address Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). “These children were brought here at no fault of their own. In Arizona, there are 57,000 of them. They came forward to the government, they gave their personal information—where they live, their biometric data and finger prints—they graduate from high school and served in our military,” said Rep. McSally. “Uncertainty brings fear to my constituents in this position. Can you assure me that they will be protected?” Secretary Kelly stated that the Department of Homeland Security is “not targeting DACA recipients.” To watch the exchange from the hearing, click below. Video of McSally Questions DHS Secretary on Status of DACA The Secretary also expressed support for Rep. McSally’s legislation that passed in the House today. This legislation will alleviate staffing shortages at the border and ports of entry, saying “I support anything that would speed up the process…and the vetting to put more men and women to work.” Watch that exchange below: Video of Secretary Kelly Expresses Support for McSally Poly Bill
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to address critical staffing shortages along the border today passed the House of Representatives. The bill gives Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the discretionary ability to expedite their hiring process for well-qualified applicants who have already proven themselves trustworthy in the military and in law enforcement. “All of the technology and infrastructure deployed along the southern border is useless if we don’t have a well-trained agent or officer present to intercept a drug load, screen cargo, or speed legitimate transit through a port of entry. CBP has invested $200 million in port of entry infrastructure in Arizona alone over the last eight years, but there isn’t enough staff to open every available lane,” said Rep. McSally, Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “By giving CBP the discretionary ability to hire qualified, vetted individuals who already have earned public trust, this bill will increase the security of our nation and facilitate cross-border commerce and tourism –so vital to the Arizona and national economy. I am pleased to see it pass the House.” “Our national security depends on ensuring there are the right number of well-trained agents and officers on our frontlines. This commonsense, bipartisan solution expedites the hiring process for those who have previously taken an oath and put their lives on the line for our country, allowing CBP to more effectively carry out their mission of safeguarding America's borders and ports of entry,” said Homeland Security Committee Chairman McCaul. Video of Rep. McSally Speaks on the House Floor in Support of the Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act CBP is critically understaffed and well below its congressionally mandated staffing levels by more than 1,000 Officers and 1,800 Border Patrol Agents. The Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act of 2017 will allow CBP to alleviate this immediate staffing shortage by quickly, yet judiciously, hiring CBP officers and Border Patrol agents from a trustworthy pool of applicants. It carves out three narrowly tailored exemptions for state and local law enforcement officers who have already passed a polygraph examination, Federal law enforcement officers who have already passed a stringent background investigation, and veterans with at least three consecutive years in the military who have held a clearance and passed a background investigation. This bill is Rep. McSally’s seventh bill to pass the House so far this Congress. This measure builds on Rep. McSally’s previous work to provide necessary resources to secure the border, including legislation to conduct a full assessment of border threats, and her first bill signed into law, the Border Jobs for Veterans Act, to fill the vacancies at our ports of entry with qualified, trained service members. Read the full bill text HERE.
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today was joined by Emmy-nominated actress Kate Mara (“House of Cards,” “Megan Leavey”), The Humane Society of the United States, Humane Society Legislative Fund, and Care2 in speaking at a rally outside the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and delivering over 134,000 petition signatures urging the agency to restore online records of inspections and violations of the federal Animal Welfare Act and Horse Protection Act. The agency deleted thousands of USDA compliance records in February. “Public access to these USDA reports is critical to transparency and accountability. These records are necessary to implement federal laws and state laws, like those that require companies to work with breeders who have clean inspection reports. The American people should be able to use this information to make informed consumer decisions,” said Rep. McSally. “I led over 100 members of the House in authoring a letter calling on the Administration to restore online access to these thousands of USDA reports. Today 314,000 people and a wide coalition stand together to demand these reports be reposted.” Click below to watch Rep. McSally and Kate Mara share about the purpose for the rally outside USDA Click below to watch the rally outside of the USDA Background The USDA, without warning, deleted online access to thousands of reports published by the USDA detailing animal welfare inspection results for more than 9,000 licensed facilities that use animals, including puppy mills, zoos, circuses, roadside operations and animal research facilities. Rep. McSally authored a bipartisan letter signed by 101 House members calling on the Administration to restore online access to these thousands of reports published by the USDA. It’s been four months since the records were purged. Since then the Administration has re-posted a small batch of documents related to animal welfare inspections, but the majority of records have not been re-posted. Today’s actions build on Rep. McSally’s leadership for humane treatment of animals, including her legislation to end inhumane cosmetic animal testing which she introduced this week.
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to phase out and ultimately end the practice of testing the safety of cosmetics on animals in the United States. The Humane Cosmetics Act will prohibit selling or transporting any cosmetics in interstate commerce if any component of the final product was developed or manufactured using animal testing. “The cruelty animals are subjected to during cosmetics testing is unacceptable—from lethal dose tests to irritation and force-feeding tests. Not only are these tests inhumane, but modern technology makes them unnecessary and overly expensive,” said Rep. McSally (AZ-02). “The cosmetics industry is already using alternative cutting edge testing methods that are safer, cheaper, and don’t hurt animals. It’s time the United States join the ranks of over 30 other countries in the developed world to stand against this vile practice. The inhumane treatment of animals serves no place in our society.” “Congress should permanently end the painful and unnecessary process of testing cosmetics on animals in this country,” said Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA). “The cosmetics industry already has safer, more cost-effective methods of testing that do not harm animals. American companies face no economic risk from this legislation, which would also show moral leadership.” “As a world leader in the humane treatment of animals, America is united in the belief that no company should profit off of the cruel practice of cosmetic animal testing,” said Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Ed Royce (R-CA). “For years, alternative methods to cosmetic testing have existed and are proven to be a viable, cost-effective option. Passing the Humane Cosmetics Act will give Congress a rare, bipartisan opportunity to end the unnecessary suffering of animals while incentivizing the use of technologies that allow American businesses to still remain competitive.” “Ending the use of animals for testing of cosmetics is an issue that both sides of the aisle can get behind, which is why I am so excited that the Humane Cosmetics Act has been introduced,” said Bellamy Young, who stars as President Melody "Mellie" Grant in the ABC drama TV show, Scandal. “The pain and suffering endured by guinea pigs, rabbits, mice and other animals at the hands of the cosmetics industry is fundamentally unacceptable to the American people who care deeply about the humane treatment of all animals. I sincerely hope lawmakers rush to co-sponsor the HCA, so the U.S. can join 37 other nations that have already passed laws to ban or limit these archaic, unnecessary experiments on animals.” The Humane Cosmetics Act will bring U.S. cosmetic policy in line with more than 30 countries that have already implemented bans on animal testing and the sale of animal-tested cosmetics—including the European Union, Israel, Norway, Switzerland, and India. In fact, of the 13 biggest importers of American cosmetics, 8 countries have bans in place or legislation under consideration. To sell their products to these countries, American cosmetic companies already have to comply with animal testing bans. 700 cosmetic brands in North America don’t test products or ingredients on animals, and instead use other affordable, proven methods of testing and innovate with thousands of ingredients already proven safe for use. The legislation has been endorsed by 195 companies in the cosmetic industry, and the Humane Cosmetics Act is supported in equal measure by Republicans and Democrat cosponsors. Rep. McSally has been a voice for the humane treatment of animals throughout her time in Congress, most recently calling on the Administration to restore online access to thousands of USDA reports on animal welfare inspection results.
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally on Wednesday will be joined by Emmy-nominated actress Kate Mara (“House of Cards,” “Megan Leavey”), The Humane Society of the United States, Humane Society Legislative Fund, and Care2 in delivering over 134,000 petition signatures to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) urging the agency to restore online records of inspections and violations of the federal Animal Welfare Act and Horse Protection Act. In February 2017, the USDA, without warning, deleted online access to thousands of reports published by the USDA detailing animal welfare inspection results for more than 9,000 licensed facilities that use animals, including puppy mills, zoos, circuses, roadside operations and animal research facilities. Rep. McSally authored a bipartisan letter signed by 101 House members calling on the Administration to restore online access to these thousands of reports published by the USDA. The Administration has re-posted a batch of documents related to animal welfare inspections, but the majority of records have not been re-posted. “The public has a right to know if regulated entities have abused animals or failed to meet basic welfare standards. Lack of access to Animal Welfare Act and Horse Protection Act documents not only undermines those federal laws, but also interferes with state and local laws meant to protect animals and consumers,” said Rep. McSally. “We should be increasing government transparency, not shielding those cited for violations of these key animal welfare laws.” Media is encouraged to attend. Please RSVP to Kelly Schibi at kelly.schibi@mail.house.gov or at 202-313-2501. What: U.S. Rep. McSally to Attend Rally at USDA Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally Kate Mara The Humane Society of the United States Humane Society Legislative Fund Care2 Where: U.S. Department of Agriculture Jamie L. Whitten Building, outside entrance facing National Mall 1400 Jefferson Dr. S.W. Washington, DC *it will be streamed on Facebook Live here. When: Wednesday, June 7 1:30 – 2PM ET
06.05.2017	MEXICO CITY, MEXICO—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following video discussing her bipartisan delegation trip to Mexico City to attend the 53rd United States-Mexico Inter-Parliamentary Group (IPG). The IPG is responsible for fostering dialogue between members of the United States and Mexican legislative bodies on issues of bilateral importance. It was previously chaired by Congressman Jim Kolbe of Arizona. Rep. McSally, whose district includes over 80 miles of the southern border and who serves as Chairwoman of House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, is the only member from the Arizona Delegation in attendance and one of only eleven members of Congress invited to the 53rd IPG meeting. Lawmakers from both the U.S. and Mexico meet to discuss challenges facing the two nations—specifically migration and human security, U.S/Mexico economic and trade relationships, security cooperation, and a 21st century southwest border. Video of Rep. McSally Discusses Delegation Trip to Mexico Transcript I’m in the Chamber of Deputies, the equivalent of the House of Representatives here in Mexico. I am honored to be the only member of the Arizona delegation invited to participate in this Inter-Parliamentary Group. This is a long-standing group that, actually, Congressman Jim Kolbe from my district used to chair in the past. We have had a very productive conversation so far across both parties and with many parties on the other side, discussing opportunities for us to grow our economies, provide more opportunity for those that we represent, and solidify our partnership in other areas like cross border security and other things. It’s been a great dialogue so far and we look forward to partnering to help the people I represent and find some common ground.
06.01.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that her office is accepting nominations for the second annual Southern Arizona Congressional First Responder of Distinction Award. The award recognizes local, county, state, and federal first responders—fire, police, and emergency medical personnel—in the Second District who go above and beyond to serve Southern Arizona. “Our first responders selflessly serve our communities and keep up safe day in and day out,” said Rep. McSally. “They put their lives on the line during emergencies, provide assistance whenever needed, keep our border secure, and save lives. This award is meant to honor them for their commitment, integrity, duty, and servant leadership. I hope you will join me by nominating candidates for recognition.” A panel of first responders and community members will review the nominations to determine award winners. All winners and nominees will be recognized at a ceremony on July 10, 2017 at the Public Safety and Emergency Services Institute (4355 East Calle Aurora, Tucson). Qualified nominees must: Be honorably serving in the local, county, state or federal law enforcement agency or fire department Demonstrate a commitment to serving their community through their professions or through volunteerism or other civic duties Demonstrate the perseverance and determination necessary to execute difficult tasks while still exhibiting a spirit of excellence in all they do Nominations can be dropped off at the Tucson or Sierra Vista office or submitted by email to Lindsay.Dearing@mail.house.gov or fax at (520) 322-9490. The deadline for nominations is Tuesday, June 27, 2017. Nomination forms and details can be found HERE.
05.30.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally will host a jobs fair on Saturday from 10:00AM to 2:00PM at Sahuaro High School in Tucson. The jobs fair, which is open to the public, will include representatives of employers from throughout Southern Arizona. “I’m committed to creating an environment that leads to more jobs and opportunity for Southern Arizonans,” said Rep. McSally. “Last year hundreds of people looking for a job or new career came out to connect with local employers looking to fill job openings. This year we have more than 30 employers participating and I look forward to a great event this Saturday.” Employers participating in this Saturday’s jobs fair include Raytheon Missile Systems, GEICO, Jim Click Automotive, TARGET, Honeywell, The University of Arizona, Customs and Border Protection, the Southern Arizona VA Health Care System, Hydronalix, Tucson Unified School District, Pima County, Tucson Airport Authority, Goodwill Southern Arizona, and more. No prior registration is need for job-seekers. Individuals with questions or employers interested in participating should call the Congresswoman’s Tucson district office at 520-881-3588.
05.27.2017	TUCSON—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke at the unveiling of a memorial for fallen Captain Amy Svoboda at the Pima Air & Space Museum to commemorate the twentieth anniversary of her untimely death in an A-10 crash. Captain Amy Lynn Svoboda was the Air Force’s first female combat pilot killed on a mission. She served alongside Rep. McSally in the 354th Fighter Squadron Bulldogs at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. On May 27, 1997 during a tactical training mission on the Barry Goldwater range, Captain Svoboda lost her life in a tragic accident. Today— on the twentieth anniversary of her passing—her family and friends gathered to remember her life and unveil a memorial in her honor, which is the newest addition to the Pima Air & Space Museum’s Joyce M. Corrigan Women in Flight Gallery. “Amy was quickly well-respected as a pilot and officer and well-liked by so many. Her positive personality was infectious, and her dedication to excellence was a model to us all. She specifically inspired me as an example of how to be a woman warrior without losing herself in the tough environment of a fighter squadron,” said Rep. McSally. “Those of us who served with her continue to be inspired by her example and legacy. Generations of young girls will fly in the jet stream she forged as a pioneering aviator. Thank you Amy, for your willingness to fight for our freedoms. We will not forget the price you paid.” Earlier this week Rep. McSally delivered remarks on the House Floor to honor Captain Svoboda’s life. Watch her full remarks below. Video of Rep McSally Honors Fallen Fellow Bulldog Captain Svoboda on the Floor
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— The House of Representatives today passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to crack down on nonconsensual pornography in the military. H.R. 2052, the Protecting the Rights of IndiViduals Against Technological Exploitation, or PRIVATE, Act will define when private photo sharing is a military criminal act—which is not clear in current law. The measure—introduced just last month, has broad bipartisan support with over a hundred cosponsors and passed on a vote of 418-0. “As the only female Republican veteran in the House of Representatives— the first woman in the U.S. to fly in combat and to lead a squadron—I have personally experienced, confronted, and overcome sexist behavior in the military. Our service members should not have to watch their backs among the individuals who are supposed to be their teammates,” said Rep. McSally. “The military needs to clean this up. By strengthening and modernizing the UCMJ, this bill enables the military to hold perpetrators accountable, and I am thankful the House has joined me in taking such swift action.” “As a Marine Corps combat veteran, I find it abhorrent that some service members are willing to compromise unit cohesiveness by sharing non-consensual explicit photographs of fellow service members. The PRIVATE Act seeks increased protection for members who are victimized by other service members. I strongly support this bill and thank Rep. McSally for her work on this important issue. Together, we must continue to work to prevent these deplorable acts from occurring in the future," said Rep. Mike Coffman, chair of the Subcommittee on Military Personnel of the House Armed Services Committee. Video of Rep. McSally&amp;#039;s PRIVATE Act passes the House unanimously Background: On Saturday, March 4th it was discovered that individuals linked with the private Facebook group “Marines United” were posting nude, intimate photos of women as well as personal information, such as their names and duty stations, without their consent or knowledge. Less than one week later it was discovered that this was not an isolated activity— sharing intimate photos without consent is a problem that pervades all branches of the military. The Naval Criminal Investigative Service investigation is still ongoing. The Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) has two broad articles to address unprofessional conduct. The PRIVATE Act would strengthen the UCMJ by defining when non-consensual sharing of private, intimate media is a crime by clarifying the intent. This will allow commanders greater flexibility to prosecute members of the military who participate in this shameful act, as well as protect whistleblowers who tip off media or law enforcement. View the legislative text of the bill HERE. View the Hill’s coverage of the PRIVATE Act HERE.
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Spokeswoman for U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02), Communications Director Kelly Schibi, released the following statement today: “The man who has been a father figure in Rep. McSally’s life for the last twenty years took a turn for the worse this morning in his battle against cancer and his health is rapidly deteriorating. Rep. McSally has to urgently fly back to Tucson this afternoon. She regretfully will have to reschedule the health care telephone town hall for the next available date. Due to this emergency, the Congresswoman will also miss votes on Wednesday and Thursday. Rep. McSally has already informed the Speaker of this unfortunate circumstance. She appreciates her constituents’ understanding during this difficult time.”
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a hearing as Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Committee to evaluate visa overstays and the impact on national security. As reported Monday in USA Today, the Department of Homeland Security released a report yesterday revealing that nearly 740,000 people overstayed their visa at some point in 2016, and close to 630,000 of them were still in the country at the end of last year. That’s twice as many overstays as people apprehended at the land border. “With this year’s number of border apprehensions at record lows, visa overstays are a much, much bigger problem than it has been historically. We have to keep the DHS focused on both problem sets – illicit traffic that crosses the land border and the growing problem of visa overstays,” said Rep. McSally in her opening statement. “Visa overstays have historically been the primary means for terrorist entry into the United States, and we must place greater emphasis on the visa process as a counterterrorism tool.” Video of McSally Opening Statement 5 23 17 During the hearing, Rep. McSally highlighted the role that penalties play in deterring visa overstays. She questioned John Wagner, Deputy Executive Assistant Commissioner, U.S. Customs and Border Protection about the discrepancy between penalties for illegally crossing the border after deportation— a felony, versus overstaying a visa which results in bars for admission to the country for a set amount of time. Rep. McSally also questioned what resources would be necessary to implement the federally mandated biometrically-based entry-exit system—a method of tracking the arrival and exit of foreign visitors, which was a recommendation of the 9/11 Commission. To watch that exchange, click HERE.
05.20.2017	TUCSON –U.S. Representative Martha McSally today that Michael Fisher, a junior at City High School in Tucson, took first place in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Michael’s colored-pencil drawing “Bottles,” will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year and he will be invited to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception along with other Congressional district winners. “Congratulations to Michael and all the participants of this year’s competition for their hard work and exceptional pieces of art,” said Rep. McSally. “This year’s submissions reflected Southern Arizona’s vibrant and diverse culture, and the amount of creative pieces of art we saw highlights the immense talent of our young artists.” First place winner Junior Michael Fisher with his drawing, “Bottles” next to Rep. McSally This year, 66 students from 12 high schools in the Second District participated in the art competition. Second place went to Kathleen Goodwin, a senior at Walden Grove High School for her photograph, “Modern Myth,” and third place when to Skye Medina, a ninth grade student at City High School for her charcoal drawing entitled “Portrait.” Their paintings will be displayed in the Tucson and Sierra Vista offices respectively. The winners were selected by a panel of local art experts: Sheila McGinnis, Jenea Sanchez, and Michelle Rouch. Rep. McSally with Congressional Art Competition winner Michael Fisher, second place winner Kathleen Goodwin, third place winner Skye Medina, and winner for craftsmanship and technique, Michaela Everett. Rep. McSally also announced the winner of a new award, the “People’s Choice” award, selected by constituents who voted for their favorite submission on Rep. McSally’s Facebook page. The artwork that received the most votes was “Arizona Canyons” – a watercolor by Pauline Barrera who is a senior at Flowing Wells High School. Her art work will be displayed in Rep. McSally’s office in Washington, DC. Rep. McSally with People’s Choice winner, Pauline Barrera. To view all the submissions, click HERE. To view photos of the event, click HERE.
05.19.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally will announce the winners of her third annual Congressional Art Competition at a reception on Saturday, May 20 at the UA Tech Park. Rep. McSally will reveal the overall winner, whose artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. “We received many truly remarkable pieces of art, showing what talented and promising young artists we have in Southern Arizona,” said Rep. McSally. “This year is unique because Southern Arizonans selected one of the winners that will be honored. I look forward to recognizing all the winners on Saturday as well as all the artists who participated for their hard work.” Students from 12 high schools across Southern Arizona submitted 66 art pieces in this year’s competition, and a panel of independent judges selected the winner. Rep. McSally will also announce two runner-ups, whose artwork will be displayed in the Tucson and Sierra Vista district offices. This year, Rep. McSally will also announce the winner of a new award, the “People’s Choice” award, selected by constituents who voted for their favorite submission on Rep. McSally’s Facebook page. This winner’s art work will be displayed in her office in Washington, DC. What: Congressional Art Competition Reception Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally Where: UA Tech Park Room 9070 9070 S. Rita Road Tucson When: Saturday, May 20 2PM *Winners will be announced at approximately 2:30PM
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor to commemorate National Police Week and honor Arizona’s fallen law enforcement officers who paid the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty last year. Video of U.S. Rep. McSally Recognizes Fallen Arizona Officers for National Police Week Transcript Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate National Police Week and to applaud our 900,000 law enforcement officers nationwide. Last year Arizona lost some of our finest—men who paid the ultimate sacrifice to keep our communities safe. Officer David Glasser of Phoenix PD was killed in the line of duty last May, leaving behind his wife and two children. Senior Officer Leander Frank of Navajo Nation PD was killed in a head-on collision responding to a call last August. He is survived by his wife and children. Officer Darrin Lee Reed of Show Low PD was shot in the line of duty this past November— just weeks away from his retirement. He leaves behind his wife, his son, and his daughter. We can never fully express our gratitude or repay the debt for their service. I would also like to honor those who serve along our border. While not every community in America has the proximity to the border that my district does in Southern Arizona, we all benefit from the courage of CBP officers and Border Patrol agents. Last August we lost Border Patrol Agent Manuel Alvarez who is survived by his wife and four children. Just over a week ago we lost CBP Officer Edgard Garcia. Officer Garcia was well-loved by our Tucson community, and we continue to mourn his death and remember the impact of his life. We owe these men for their ultimate sacrifice. We also owe a debt of gratitude to those who are serving us today and every day. With that, I yield back.
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) hosted Rabbi Thomas Louchheim as the Guest Chaplain to lead the opening prayer for the House of Representatives on Wednesday, May 17. To watch the Rabbi’s opening prayer followed by Rep. McSally’s remarks, click below: Video of .S. Rep. McSally Welcomes Guest Chaplain Tucson Rabbi Louchheim After Rabbi Louchheim completed the prayer, Rep. McSally spoke on the House recognizing his years of service to the Tucson community. “I have personally witnessed Rabbi Louchheim’s compassion and leadership in the faith community in Southeastern Arizona. I am honored to welcome him to the House of Representatives today —and to personally thank him for offering this morning's prayer,” said Rep. McSally in a statement on the House Floor. Rabbi Louchheim serves as Rabbi at Congregation Or Chadash in Tucson, Arizona. Rep. McSally with Rabbi Thomas Louchheim and Rev. Patrick J. Conroy, chaplain for the House of Representatives. Transcript of Rabbi’s Prayer Loving God, each day raise up these good women and men who are serving our country with honor. Renew in them the faith, hope, and love that brought them to this vital work. Rekindle in them the passion that first called them to serve. May you, our elected Representatives from every state in our great nation, be granted today the courage of your convictions, and may your eyes, your ears and your hearts be open to possibilities not yet imagined. Compassionate God, may our fellow Americans remember that these, your servants, are each made in the divine image. They are our brothers and sisters in a family bridging all philosophical lines. May we treat them with respect, for we know not the hard battles they must fight. May Your blessings be on our Military and Diplomats serving overseas: Keep them safe from harm, keep their souls strong, and strengthen them to serve with honor and courage. May our prayers for kindness and justice, freedom and peace be answered in our own day. Amen. Transcript of Rep. McSally’s Floor Remarks Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Rabbi Thomas Louchheim, who led us in the opening prayer. He is the rabbi at Congregation Or Chadash in Tucson, Arizona. Rabbi Louchheim moved to Tucson with his wife, Marcia, in 1989, and he has been a pillar in our community ever since. Having served as the rabbi at Temple Emanu-El and as an executive for Handmaker Hospice, he is a strong advocate for peace and religious harmony. He worked closely with the Muslim community in the aftermath of September 11, and he has continued to promote understanding by organizing annual Muslim-Jewish Peace Walks. He founded the first Jewish-Christian-Muslim scriptural study group in our community and has contributed to interfaith literature. In a world where religion too often divides us, Rabbi Louchheim has shown that we are all stronger together. Rabbi Louchheim's influence extends past Southeastern Arizona. In fact, his influence reaches beyond this Earth. The rabbi is the namesake for the only space object in the universe named after a rabbi -- Asteroid 9584 Louchheim. I was honored to join Rabbi Louchheim in a Holocaust Remembrance walk last year and I have personally witnessed his compassion and leadership in the faith community in Southeastern Arizona. I am honored to welcome him to the House of Representatives today —and to personally thank him for offering this morning's prayer.
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to reports that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein has appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel to oversee the Department of Justice’s investigation into Russia’s attempts to influence the 2016 election. “The Justice Department’s naming of former FBI Director Robert Mueller today as special counsel to oversee the ongoing investigation into Russia’s meddling in our election is the right decision at this time. Director Mueller is someone who is free of politics, most recently demonstrated in 2011 when the Senate voted 100-0 to extend his term as FBI Director for two years. He has a long and distinguished career in law enforcement and a tremendously in-depth understanding of the Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. I look forward to an expeditious conclusion to this investigation in order to provide answers to the questions the American people are asking and I think former Director Mueller is a great choice to do just that.”
05.15.2017	Tucson, AZ—The office of U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) released the following statement from District Director CJ Karamargin in response to recent threats made against the Congresswoman: “Our community should be deeply disturbed by these threats of violence. Threatening to shoot a member of Congress between the eyes and stating that her days are numbered is sickening. It is especially sickening here in southeastern Arizona because we know, perhaps better than any congressional district in the country, what happens when threats of violence become acts of violence. The January 2011 shooting of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords was followed by a national discussion about the importance of civility and respectfulness in our public debates. The vicious threats made against Congresswoman McSally are a sobering reminder of just how important that discussion continues to be. We can disagree about issues and policies. We should have robust debates about the future of our country. But threats of violence cross a clear line. These threats against Congresswoman McSally should be a wake-up call for us all. On behalf of Congresswoman McSally, our office would like to thank the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Tucson for their swift response to these threats. They are true professionals and we all feel safer as a result of the steps they’ve taken.” CJ Karamargin has served as Rep. McSally’s District Director since she took office in January 2015. Prior to working for Congressman McSally, CJ Karamargin served as Communications Director for Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords from January 2007 to July 2011, including the day she was shot on January 8, 2011.
05.11.2017	KIEV, UKRAINE—U.S. Representative Martha McSally released the following video discussing the purpose of her bipartisan delegation trip to Eastern Europe: Video of Rep. McSally Expresses Support for Eastern Europe Allies Experiencing Oppression from “Thug” Putin
05.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Representative Martha McSally released the following statement on the firing of FBI Director James Comey: "The timing of this decision to fire FBI Director James Comey is deeply concerning, especially in light of the ongoing Department of Justice's investigation into Comey's handling of the Clinton email scandal. That investigation--along with the FBI and House and Senate Intelligence Committee's probes into Russian meddling--must continue. While FBI Director James Comey has been situationally attacked by both sides of the political spectrum, it is important for our national security and institutional integrity that all these investigations are completed without political interference."
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today released the following statement upon passage of the American Health Care Act (AHCA): “Today I had a binary decision: to support the ACA or to begin moving towards an improved system that works. I voted yes to the AHCA in order to start that process. “This is not a perfect bill, but it is better than a failed system. As this legislation has taken shape, I have tirelessly advocated for my constituents. I have voiced concerns, identified constructive improvements, prevented destructive additions, and ultimately secured victories for the vulnerable in our communities totaling $165 billion. I authored a measure preventing members of Congress from exempting themselves or their staff from the AHCA. Lawmakers are not above the law. “I will continue to work with state and local stakeholders and closely monitor this bill throughout the legislative and implementation process to ensure that my constituents have access to the care they need, that the most vulnerable are protected, and that Southern Arizona is better off in the future.” Rep. McSally successfully negotiated to include $60 billion in Medicaid for the elderly and disabled, $90 billion for tax credits for individuals aged 50 to 64, and $15 billion for expecting and new mothers, newborns, those who struggle with mental illness and those who wrestle with substance abuse. Rep. McSally has also worked to protect individuals with pre-existing conditions, including cosponsoring the Upton Amendment which provides an additional $8 billion to allow people with pre-existing conditions who have not maintained continuous coverage to acquire affordable care. H.R. 2192, her bill to strike exemptions for members of Congress and their staff in the AHCA, passed out of the House today. To learn more about Rep. McSally's work to improve the AHCA, click HERE and HERE.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—The House of Representatives today unanimously passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to prevent Members of Congress and their staff from being exempt from the State waiver provisions of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) as amended. “Any law we pass that applies to our constituents must apply equally to Members of Congress as well. Anything short of that is hypocrisy. Congress must abide by the laws it passes and should be treated no differently than other hardworking Americans,” said Rep. McSally. “My measure eliminates double standards by preventing Members of Congress from exempting themselves from American Health Care Act.” Video of McSally Urges House to Pass Bill Striking AHCA Exemptions for Members of Congress Due to Senate procedural rules within the Budget Reconciliation process, the MacArthur Amendment to the American Health Care Act would exempt Members of Congress and their staff. Rep. McSally’s legislation, H.R. 2192, is a standalone two-page bill that would repeal this exemption for Members of Congress should the American Health Care Act become law. The measure passed the House by a vote of 429-0. To read the full bill text CLICK HERE.
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of H.R. 244, the FY 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill to fund the Federal government for the current fiscal year. “This bill fully funds Southern Arizona’s critical defense missions—including the A-10, the EC-130H, and important missions at Fort Huachuca. I also successfully fought to include $20 million in this bill towards re-winging the entire A-10 fleet. In addition, this measure includes funding for critical munitions produced by Raytheon in my district. It provides an increase of $290 million for co-production of U.S.-Israeli missile systems like Iron Dome and David’s Sling and supports the Tomahawk missiles used against Syria,” said Rep. McSally. “Not only does this bill strengthen our local military assets, it increases defense funding by $25.7 million. It also provides important funding to secure our border, combat the opioid crisis, and address the outstanding maintenance log for Arizona’s National Parks. No bill is perfect, but this bill includes important priorities that I have championed that impact our troops and our community and I am proud to vote for it.” H.R. 244 fully funds the largest pay raise for the troops in six years and ensures the Armed Forces have the training and equipment they need to fight ISIS and other terror threats. The measure includes $1.5 billion—the largest increase to border security in more than a decade, which would fund infrastructure, innovative technology, and more Border Patrol agents. Additionally, the spending bill provides an increase of $781 million for the fight against the nation’s opioid epidemic. Pima County has the tenth highest rate of opioid overdoses in the country. This bill funds implementation of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which Rep. McSally voted for last Congress to enhance treatment and prevention tools for local communities. The measure also increases funding for the National Parks Service by $81 million. Arizona has one of the largest backlogs in delayed or deferred restoration projects throughout our state. H.R. 244 specifically includes funding to address these maintenance backlogs. The bill passed the House with a vote of 309-118.
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to address staffing shortages along the border today passed the Committee on Homeland Security. The legislation is Rep. McSally’s fifth bill related to national or border security to be favorably reported from the committee since January. “All of the technology and infrastructure deployed along the southern border is useless if we do not have a well-trained agent or officer present to make an arrest, interdict a drug load, screen cargo from a country of concern or speed legitimate transit through a port of entry,” said Rep. McSally, Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “My commonsense, bipartisan bill expedites the hiring process for certain, well-qualified applicants who have already proved themselves trustworthy in the military and in law enforcement — boosting our national security with trained manpower and bringing good jobs to our local economy. I’m pleased to see this bill move out of committee and I’ll continue working to bring it up for a vote by the full House.” Video of McSally Bill to Address Staffing Shortages Along Border Passes Committee Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is critically understaffed and well below its congressionally mandated staffing levels by more than 1,000 Officers and 1,800 Border Patrol Agents. The Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act of 2017 will allow CBP to alleviate the immediate staffing shortage along the border by quickly, yet judiciously, hiring CBP officers and Border Patrol agents from a pool of applicants that already maintain the public’s trust and put their lives on the line for our security and safety on a daily basis. It carves our three narrowly tailored exemptions for state and local law enforcement officers who have already passed a polygraph examination, Federal law enforcement officers who have already passed a stringent background investigation, and veterans with at least three consecutive years in the military who have held a clearance and passed a background investigation. Rep. McSally has made establishing a better, more effective border strategy a top priority. This measure builds on Rep. McSally’s previous work to provide necessary resources to secure the border, including legislation to conduct a full assessment of border threats, and her first bill signed into law, the Border Jobs for Veterans Act, to fill the vacancies at our ports of entry with qualified, trained service members. Read the full bill text HERE.
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House Floor during a Special Order to highlight the issue of non-consensual pornography in the U.S. Military, specifically the sharing of nude photos on the Marines United Facebook group, which was discovered in March. Rep. McSally, the only female Republican veteran in the House of Representatives, discussed her own experience overcoming bias in the military. She also highlighted the PRIVATE Act, legislation she recently introduced to address the non-consensual sharing of private images. Her bill gives the military the tools to crack down on perpetrators and prevent this behavior in the future by defining when private photo sharing is a military criminal act—which is not clear in current law— while protecting whistleblowers. The legislation currently has broad bipartisan, with 27 cosponsors from both sides of the aisle—many of whom joined her on the House Floor this evening and applauded her leadership to crack down on this problem. Video of U.S. Rep. McSally Speaks on the House Floor Against Non-Consensual Photo Sharing in Military Transcript Thank you. I want to thank my colleague, and yes, I just came over from a hearing on the Armed Services Committee, the first panel with some victims, the second panel with the Superintendents of the different military academies. As the only female veteran on my side of the aisle, having been at the academy graduate myself, I felt it was important for me to be there and to continue to lead on these issues that are near and dear to my heart. I know there's been much discussion already, I want to say thank you for helping to organize this and manage it and thank you to all the people who came down to speak on this very important issue. As was likely mentioned before, we came upon this issue on Saturday, March 4, with the Marines United Facebook page group. It was discovered individuals linked with this private group were posting nude, intimate photos of women as well as personal information, their names, duty stations, without their consent or knowledge. The next day, NCIS started to launch an investigation and one week later discovered, unfortunately, this was not isolated activity. Sharing intimate photos without consent is a problem that now we are seeing in other branches of the military. Such degrading behavior from troops in uniform is disgusting. As a veteran and former commander myself, it is infuriating. In some ways, it is not surprising, but it is intolerable and we rise on both sides of the aisle to say we are standing together to help in our part to stop this. Our service members enlist to serve this country and protect it from our enemies. They not should have to watch their backs among individuals that are supposed to be their teammates. Sharing explicit photos of fellow service members undermines women, destroys trust and morale, decreases the effectiveness of our armed forces, and embarrasses America. United States troops must be warriors. What it means to be a warrior is to embody courage, commitment, honor, trust, respect. All the services have their core values—that is on and off duty. That what it means to stand up—we stand in the gap for others. We are not the perpetrators but we are supposed to be the protectors, those embodying and leading in those values that we hold dear. This widespread problem has highlighted the difficulty in prosecuting active military members who share photos of their teammates without their consent. This action is harmful and it destroys the bonds of trust in our unit that are so critical for our warfighting capability. To look at the Uniform Code of Military Justice—which I am familiar with having been a commander and now a retired Colonel-- we have a couple of articles, article 133 and 134. Article 133 is"conduct unbecoming an officer." Article 134 is anything that is prejudicial to good order and discipline. As a commander we used this as a catch-all article when we cannot prosecute someone under another article, we go to article 134 because we knew their behavior was degrading good order and discipline. Civilian law faces challenges in prosecuting this crime. Only 35 states and the District of Columbia have statutes against sharing private, intimate digital media without consent. These state laws vary in the proof, elements, and punishment of the crime. Furthermore, the Marines recently created a regulation with which they can charge these Neanderthals who commit these with violations. However, creating a regulation isn’t the same as creating strengthening the law. That’s why I introduced the PRIVATE Act—a bipartisan bill. My bill provides a clear, unambiguous charge that gives commanders a sharper tool in the UCMJ to use when targeting this behavior. It clearly defines this behavior as a crime, and addresses the issues of intent and free speech. These actions are also a symptom of a larger issue; why we must change the culture that promotes this behavior. While these blatantly disrespectful actions have been committed by a specific subset of our military, this is indicative of a larger, cultural problem, and I just came from speaking about that in our Academy hearing This is not the first time this behavior and culture has been addressed, nor will it be the last. Myself as the first woman in the US to fly in combat and to lead a squadron, I have personally experienced, confronted, and overcome sexist behavior in the military. I’ve been there, I’ve seen it, I’ve lived it, quite frankly I’m sick of it. We need to do what we can to stop it. We must confront the underlying issues that inculcate resentment towards women in our services. We need to address this topic now, and send a clear message that this behavior has no place in our military. The issue is developing at the speed of broadband, but solutions are often stuck at the speed of bureaucracy. I met with the Commandant of the Marine Corps, General Neller, immediately after this the news broke. We had a very productive conversation, and I look forward to continuing to continuing to work with him to address this issue. We also can’t allow this to turn into victim blaming, though. According to one victim who tried to have the video removed: “I went to the police to get them to take it down and they told me because I didn’t live in North Carolina they couldn’t do anything,” Wayne said. “I went to his command and they said, ‘Why don’t you not make sex tapes?’” This is not a matter of free speech on the internet. This is a matter of military members who have infringed on the rights and the duty and the basic respect of others. We can’t afford to let another military member become a victim of this crime. I appreciate everyone stepping up for this Special Order today. I appreciate the bipartisan support of the PRIVATE Act. It's not going to solve this by itself but it will give commanders another tool and I promise that I am going to be leading on this issue to protect our troops and make sure we have the best, most respected, most trustworthy fighting force. Thank You.
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today attended the Commander-in-Chief Trophy Celebration in the Rose Garden. Each year, the President awards the Commander-in-Chief's Trophy to the season's winner of the American college football series among the teams of the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and U.S. Air Force Academy. The Air Force Falcons defeated the Army and Navy teams last season, as well as in 2016. Prior to the past two years, they last won the trophy in 2002. “As the only member of Congress to graduate from the U.S. Air Force Academy, I was honored to be in the Rose Garden today to help present Commander-in-Chief trophy to the Air Force Falcons. I also appreciate the President’s acknowledgment of my tireless efforts to save the A-10,” said Rep. McSally, former Air Force A-10 squadron commander. During the speech, President Trump recognized Rep. McSally’s work to defend the A-10 and her own service in the Air Force. President Trump recognizes Rep. McSally: Video of President Trump Recognizes Rep. McSally at Commander in Chief Ceremony Rep. McSally joins the President holding Air Force Falcons helmet: Video of Rep McSally Joins President Trump holding Air Force Falcons helmet at Rose Gardens
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) this week introduced bipartisan legislation to boost national security and alleviate the shortage of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers and Border Patrol agents along the border. The bill will provide the Commissioner of CBP with discretionary authority to expedite the hiring of existing law enforcement officers and veterans who meet CBP background checks and experience standards. "Fully staffing our CBP officers at our ports of entry and Border Patrol agents between the ports of entry is vital for security and economic growth of our communities and nation. Rep. McSally, Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security subcommittee. “These shortages have grown worse over the last several years. These common sense discretionary tools will give the CBP Commissioner the ability to transition those who have taken an oath and put their lives on the line for us already into these critical positions more expeditiously while continuing to provide safeguards against corruption." Less than five years ago, a Congressional mandate required CBP to implement a polygraph test for all CBP officer and Border Patrol agent applicants. However, over two-thirds of CBP applicants fail their polygraph test resulting in dangerously low numbers of CBP officers and Border Patrol agents—the lowest since 2009. There are currently shortages of over 1,400 CBP officers and over 1,700 Border Patrol agents. Hiring delays have economic and national security ramifications. A recent study found that every batch of 33 CBP officers hired could lead to an increase in GDP of $61.8 million and employment gains of 1,053 jobs in the U.S. While CBP examines ways to address their polygraph problem and reduce the number of failures, this legislation provides three, narrowly tailored exemptions to alleviate the immediate shortage of CBP officers and Border Patrol agents, which are as follows: Current state and local law enforcement officers with at least three consecutive years of experience that have already passed a polygraph examination and are not under investigation or found guilty of misconduct. Federal law enforcement officers with at least three consecutive years of experience that pass a stringent background investigation and are not under investigation or found guilty of misconduct. Members of the armed services, the armed forces reserve, and veterans with at least three consecutive years in the military who have also held a secret, top secret, or top secret/sensitive compartmented information clearance and passed a stringent background test. “I believe that the current CBP polygraph testing system is flawed,” said Art Del Cueto, President of the Border Patrol Union in Tucson. “For example, one applicant for Border Patrol had worked in intelligence for the United States government while he was stationed in Afghanistan. However, he did not pass his CBP polygraph test because he ‘probably had communications with potential terrorists outside the country.’ That’s pretty dumb. Of course a man working intel for the military in the Middle East was in contact with potential terrorists! Should that disqualify him from a job with CBP?” The Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act of 2017 builds on Rep. McSally’s previous work to provide necessary resources to secure the border, including her first bill signed into law, the Border Jobs for Veterans Act, to fill the vacancies at our ports of entry with qualified, trained service members. The full text of the bill can be viewed HERE. To view the Homeland Security study the legislation references, click HERE.
04.27.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today in a letter called on U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Acting Commissioner Kevin McAleenan to accelerate the Douglas Port of Entry (POE) modernization project and to include the construction of the new commercial port of entry in their five-year plan. The Port, which was built in 1933 and last renovated over twenty years ago, has experienced a steady climb in activity and now accounts for nearly $4 billion in trade through two-way truck traffic. “Last year, more than 1.6 million cars and 3.8 million people crossed into the United States from Mexico at Douglas POE. Additionally, Department of Justice statistics show that approximately 90% of the illicit drugs smuggled into the United States come through the ports of entry. Despite these economic opportunities and security challenges, the Douglas POE is severely outdated, overburdened, congested and woefully inadequate,” said Rep. McSally in the letter. “Security conditions at the border have changed and our commerce and tourism volumes demand a new approach so the POE is no longer the biggest obstacle for continued economic growth.” Rep. McSally also urged CBP to prioritize the construction of the new commercial port of entry due to reports from both the General Services Administration and the Arizona Department of Transportation that the inadequate size and capabilities of the current Douglas POE will prevent CBP from carrying out its mission within the next five years. “I applaud the efforts of Customs and Border Protection Office of Field Operations personnel who manage the port for doing the best they can, but this increased activity coupled with high volume pedestrian traffic can no longer be accommodated by the current port of entry,” Rep. McSally continued in the letter. “As such, the immediate modernization of the current port and the relocation of commercial operations to a new facility is the best way to meet current and future demands.” “Modernizing and expanding the Douglas Port of Entry will not only benefit Douglas and Cochise County, but our state and the entire nation by helping move goods from Mexico, one of the world’s fastest growing economies,” said Chairwoman of the Cochise County Board of Supervisors, Ann English, who represents the city of Douglas. “I thank Congresswoman McSally for her efforts. Since taking office, she’s been our biggest and strongest supporter and has made several visits to the area to see first-hand the need for this port of entry. I am thankful our community has her as an ally in Congress.” “I would like to thank Representative McSally for her support in Congress and for pressing U.S. Customs and Border Protection to upgrade the Douglas Port of Entry in this letter. Her support is essential in seeing this project move forward. The City of Douglas has put together a team of both public and private sector individuals focused on advocating for the need to improve the border crossing experience at Douglas. Our port of entry is the gateway for billions of dollars of trade and millions of visitors and it is outdated and overburdened,” stated Robert Uribe, Mayor for the City of Douglas. “We need to make it easier for our visitors to cross and shop in our stores, eat in our restaurants and do business in Douglas and Arizona. After an initial assessment, we are now looking at both short and long term actions to make our border crossing second to none” added Uribe. Background Since arriving in Congress in 2014, Rep. McSally has tirelessly advocated to improve and expand the Douglas Port of Entry in committee hearings and in letters sent to CBP. She successfully pushed for Customs and Border Protection to include the modernization project in their Five-Year Plan. To view a PDF of the letter, click HERE. The full letter text follows: April 27, 2017 The Honorable John Kelly Secretary Department of Homeland Security 3801 Nebraska Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20374 Kevin McAleenan Acting Commissioner U.S. Customs and Border Protection 1300 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, D.C. 20004 Dear Secretary Kelly and Acting Commissioner McAleenan, The City of Douglas, Arizona and Cochise County are heavily dependent on cross border commerce and tourism for their economic wellbeing. Last year, more than 1.6 million cars and 3.8 million people crossed into the United States from Mexico at the Raul H. Castro Port of Entry (POE) in Douglas. Additionally, Department of Justice statistics show approximately 90% of the illicit drugs smuggled into the United States come through the ports of entry. Despite these economic opportunities and security challenges, the Douglas POE is severely outdated, overburdened, congested and woefully inadequate. The Douglas POE was built in 1933 and last major improvements were made in the mid-1990s. Over the past 20 years, the security conditions at the border have changed and our commerce and tourism volumes demand a new approach so the POE is no longer the biggest obstacle for continued economic growth. In 2014, the Douglas port of entry processed more than 64,000 commercial trucks in two-way traffic, a number that has been growing at an annualized rate of more than 5% per year since 2010. The significant growth in traffic is anticipated to continue over during the next decade. However, in 2007, the General Services Administration (GSA) determined through a feasibility study, that there is needed expansion. Additionally, in 2013, the Arizona Department of Transportation found that the current Douglas POE will prevent CBP from carrying out its mission within the next five years. I applaud the efforts of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Office of Field Operations personnel who manage the port for doing the best they can, but this increased activity coupled with high pedestrian traffic can no longer be accommodated by the current port of entry. As such, the immediate modernization of the current port and the relocation of commercial operations to a new facility is the best way to meet current and future demands. During a Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee hearing I chaired last year, Eugene Schied, Acting Executive Assistant Commissioner for CBP’s Office of Enterprise Services announced that the modernization of the POE in Douglas was placed on CBP’s five-year land port of entry construction plan. I am writing to urge you to accelerate the modernization of the Raul H. Castro Port of Entry and to include construction of the new commercial port of entry in the five-year plan. I look forward to discussing the next steps in this process and invite you both to visit Douglas and see firsthand the shortfalls and deficiencies of the current POE and the need for a new commercial port.
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today introduced a measure that would prevent Members of Congress from exempting themselves from the American Health Care Act (AHCA). “In America, lawmakers are not above the law. Members of Congress should be treated no differently than other Americans struggling to afford healthcare,” said Rep. McSally. “Representatives should have to abide by the very same options for coverage as their constituents, and anything short of that is simply hypocrisy. Congress must live by the rules it creates.” To comply with procedural requirements, Rep. McSally’s simple, two-page bill would repeal the section exempting members of Congress and congressional staff from these waivers if American Health Care Act becomes law. Rep. McSally has worked closely with Republican leadership who committed that this bill will be voted on in conjunction with the AHCA. To view the full text of the bill, CLICK here.
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement regarding the Sawmill Fire in Southern Arizona, which doubled in size this afternoon and will be elevated to the status of Type I Incident on Thursday morning, April 27. “My thoughts and prayers are with all who are impacted by the Sawmill Fire raging through over 40,000 acres across Pima and Cochise counties. I have been in conversation with Governor Ducey and I stand ready to provide assistance and work to channel federal resources to Southern Arizona to contain the Sawmill Fire. Once contained, I plan to do everything in my power to ensure the proper resources are available for a swift recovery from this devastating incident. I applaud the three hundred brave men and women in the firefighting force who are putting their lives on the line to keep our communities safe, and I am encouraged by the way the community is coming together to meet each other’s needs. My office will continue to provide assistance to constituents, monitor the situation, and offer support to the frontline fight against this fire.” For more information on the Sawmill Fire, please contact Fire Information at (505) 750-4636.
04.12.2017	TUCSON—U.S. Representative Martha McSally today took questions at a student town hall with Cienega High School’s senior class of roughly four hundred and fifty students. The Congresswoman answered student’s thoughtful questions on a wide range of topics including U.S. military involvement in Syria, the high cost of a college education, and the consequences of our $18 million national debt. Rep. McSally also discussed the importance of leadership, education, and her journey into military service and public service. “I enjoyed the opportunity address Cienega High School’s senior class students today. Many students asked me questions on a broad range of issues and I appreciated our robust discussion about current events. This next generation is the future, and I encouraged these youth to continue to remain informed and engaged members of our democracy,” Rep. McSally said about her visit. When she addressed the students, Rep. McSally told them about her time as an instructor pilot and how she would tell students before they went on their solo flight “to not do anything dumb, dangerous, or different.” As students approach graduation in five weeks, the Congresswoman gave them the same advice, urging them not to endanger their future and to use good judgment in these final weeks of school. Principal of Cienega High School Nemer Nassey said, “450 seniors gathered in our student union today to listen Congresswoman McSally. In her opening, the Congresswoman discussed her journey to Congress and her role in the U.S. House of Representatives. Our students seized the opportunity to ask Representative McSally some difficult questions about current events, which she answered thoroughly. It was a positive experience for our students and we are so thankful she took the time to visit our school today.” Darcy Mentone, Director of Communications and Public Affairs for the Vail Unified School District said, “It was a tremendous honor to have Congresswoman Martha McSally address the Cienega High School senior class this morning and answer their many questions about current events. When Mrs. Wright had her students wrote letters to their Congresswoman, the last thing she expected was an in-person visit to answer student questions. The Vail School District is fortunate to have such an engaged lawmaker representing us.” Representative McSally also encouraged the high school seniors to stay informed and involved in civic engagement. For photos of the event, please click HERE to download. For brief footage of the event, click HERE.
04.07.2017	TUCSON, AZ—U.S. Representative Martha McSally tomorrow will host a Veterans Workshop to connect veterans in the 2nd Congressional district with the benefits they need and the care they deserve. Located at Empire High School, the event will feature representatives from veterans’ service organizations to participate in a three hour workshop designed for one-on-one interaction. “Veterans deserve top-notch care, but it can be difficult for veterans to navigate the bureaucratic maze to get the help they need. Tomorrow’s workshop will provide veterans with a unique opportunity to have representatives and experts from various agencies in one location to answer their questions and provide assistance, with one-on-one attention. I hope to see many fellow veterans at tomorrow’s event,” said Rep. McSally. After U.S. Representative McSally provides opening remarks, organizations will be on hand to help veterans enroll for healthcare at the VA and create claims for benefits. McSally’s District staff will be available to help veterans request assistance with any federal agency, including help with requesting copies of military records NOTE: Press is encouraged to attend. Please RSVP to Kelly.Schibi@mail.house.gov WHAT Veterans Workshop—Connecting Veterans to Care and Benefits WHO U.S. Representative Martha McSally joined by representatives from AZ Department of Veterans Services SAVAHCS—Tucson VA Medical Center VA Regional Office Disabled American Veterans Vietnam Veterans of America Veterans of Foreign Wars American Legion U of A Veterans Center WHERE Empire High School 10701 E Mary Ann Cleveland Way Tucson, AZ 85747 WHEN Saturday, April 8 1:00 – 4:00pm
04.07.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally is inviting local high school students and their parents or guardians to attend “Academy Day” on Saturday, April 8th to learn more about attending a U.S. service academy. At the event will take place at Empire High School in Tucson. Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, US Coast Guard Academy, and University of Arizona R.O.T.C. will answer questions and provide more information about the nomination and application process. “One of my highest honors as the Representative for Arizona’s Second District is nominating outstanding youth from our district for appointment to a U.S service academy. As the youngest of five children with a single mom after my father suddenly passed away, the U.S. Air Force Academy provided a unique chance to earn a degree and pay back in service to my country. It’s important to me that other qualified youth across my district can take advantage of this opportunity to meet their full potential and serve this nation. I encourage any youth or parent interested in learning more about the quality education offered at our service academies to join us tomorrow,” said Rep. McSally. Nominations from Members of Congress are required for four U.S. service academies: the U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. More information about requesting a nomination can be found at https://mcsally.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations or by calling the Tucson District office at (520) 881-3588. WHAT Academy Day WHO U.S. Representative Martha McSally joined by representatives from U.S. Air Force Academy U.S. Merchant Marine Academy U.S. Military Academy U.S. Naval Academy University of Arizona R.O.T.C. WHERE Empire High School Auditorium 10701 East Mary Ann Cleveland Way Tucson, AZ 85747 WHEN Saturday, April 8th 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) issued the following statement on the U.S. Military Strikes in Syria: “Tonight the United States responded to the atrocities of the Assad regime with measured, yet decisive military action—launching approximately sixty Tomahawk missiles at the Syrian airbase used for recent chemical attacks. I’m proud that I have successfully advocated in Congress to keep the Tomahawk missile line at Raytheon in Tucson open so that this weapon was ready and available when our armed forces needed it. The use of banned and deadly chemical weapons to murder innocent men, women, and children is evil and deserves a just response."
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) today introduced legislation to protect troops from nonconsensual sharing of intimate media by other military members. The Protecting the Rights of IndiViduals Against Technological Exploitation, or PRIVATE, Act gives the military the tools to crack down on the perpetrators and prevent this behavior in the future by defining when private photo sharing is a military criminal act—which is not clear in current law— while protecting whistleblowers. U.S. Representative Jackie Speier (D-CA) and numerous other members of the House Armed Services Committee have cosponsored the legislation. “Such degrading behavior from troops in uniform is disgusting, infuriating, and intolerable. Our service members enlisted to serve this country and protect it from our many enemies—they should not have to watch their backs among the individuals who are supposed to be their teammates. Sharing explicit photos of fellow service members undermines women, destroys trust and morale, decreases the effectiveness of our armed forces, and embarrasses America. United States troops must be warriors that embody courage, commitment, and honor— on and off duty,” said Rep. McSally. On Saturday, March 4th it was discovered that individuals linked with the private Facebook group “Marines United” were posting nude, intimate photos of women as well as personal information, such as their names and duty stations, without their consent or knowledge. The next day, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service launched an investigation. Less than one week later, it was discovered that this was not an isolated activity— sharing intimate photos without consent is a problem that pervades all branches of the military. “Nonconsensual pornography is not about sex, or fun, or boys will be boys. This is about Marines deliberately trying to degrade, humiliate, and threaten fellow Marines,” Congresswoman Speier said. “What makes these acts even more despicable is that many predators have gleefully acknowledged that the vast majority of their victims have no way to fight back. This bill will fix that appalling legal failure, and is an important step to ensuring that our brave service-members have legal recourse against foul online misogyny. I look forward to working with Congresswoman McSally to ensure that this gets included in the National Defense Authorization Act for 2018 and becomes law.” “As the first female to fly in combat and lead a squadron, I have personally experienced, confronted, and overcome sexist behavior in the military. The military needs to clean this up. By strengthening and modernizing the UCMJ, this bill enables the military to hold perpetrators accountable for their inhumane behavior,” said Rep. McSally. View the legislative text of the bill HERE. View the Hill’s coverage of the PRIVATE Act HERE.
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to close the skills gap in our workforce by supporting schools, like the University of Arizona, that have mining programs which train and educate the next generation of mining and mineral experts. “Our nation has a shortage of mining engineers, but very little resources are currently invested in institutions like the University of Arizona that train them. That just doesn’t make sense. How can we train more engineers without hiring qualified experts to do so?” said Congresswoman McSally. “This bipartisan bill addresses that problem by directing existing resources to support these universities so they can hire the faculty they need to fill the skills gap in the mining workforce. Mining is fundamental to our economy and our national defense—supporting construction, electronics, and even advanced weaponry. We must make mining a priority.” The Mining Schools Enhancement Act directs the federal government to distribute 50 percent of existing funding already made available through the Applied Science Tech Transfer Program to accredited mining schools, including the University of Arizona, to enhance and support those educational programs and involve more undergraduate and graduate students in this critical research. “I applaud Congresswoman McSally’s leadership in introducing legislation to support ABET-accredited mining programs,” said University of Arizona President Ann Hart. “The UA Department of Mining and Geological Engineering is training the next generation and providing cutting edge research in environmentally sustainable mining and mineral use, which helps us fulfill our land-grant mission.” The University of Arizona is one of only fourteen mining programs in the country. To view the legislative text, CLICK HERE.
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today participated in a vital House Armed Services Committee hearing about the implications a long-term continuing resolution (CR) would have on our armed forces. During the hearing, Rep. McSally questioned General David L. Goldfein, Chief of Staff of the Air Force on the impact that a CR would have on flying operations, specifically Air Force readiness. Their exchange highlighted how the CR would ground pilots at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. “That impact of another year long CR on our Air Force would be unprecedented,” said Rep. McSally, former A-10 pilot and squadron commander, during the hearing. “Pilots need to be ready to go anywhere in the world on twenty four hours’ notice. The cumulative effect of missing training throughout the year does have a degradation effect. We are a thousand fighter pilots short and we are grounding pilots then expecting them to stay. That’s insane.” During the hearing General Goldfein testified that squadrons will be grounded in June. Rep. McSally questioned him on what that would mean for EC-130Hs, Angel Thunder (one of the largest and most realistic joint service, multinational, interagency combat search and rescue exercises), and the Bulldogs, the squadron she used to command, asking “When the Bulldogs come home in the summer they are going to be grounded. No flying, no upgrades, no training. They’re going to be done?” Gen. Goldfein confirmed, “If you do not have a unit on your base that is directly preparing to go to into conflict, you will have the equivalent of a no-fly zone over your base.” Video of McSally Questions Gen Goldfein on CR Impact on Air Force Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee Mac Thornberry was clear in his opening statement: "There is widespread agreement that funding cuts under the Budget Control Act, plus a series of continuing resolutions, coupled with the pace of required deployments have damaged the U.S. military. I believe that the damage has gone far deeper than most of us realize, requiring more time and more money to repair than is generally expected...The most important thing now is to repair the damage. We have the chance to begin doing so by passing a full appropriations bill for this year, acting favorably on the supplemental request, and then enacting adequate authorization and appropriations for fiscal year 2018." In his prepared testimony, General Mark Milley, Chief of Staff of the Army also highlighted the devastation of a continuing resolution: "This is no time, in my professional view, to increase risk to our national security. A yearlong CR, or a return to the BCA funding will do just that. It will increase risk to the nation, and it will ultimately result in dead Americans on a future battlefield." BACKGROUND-- The current continuing resolution, or appropriations legislation that funds the government, will expire on April 28. To prevent a shutdown, Congress must pass an appropriations bill or another continuing resolution. Continuing resolutions do not permit changes to funding--for example, it would not support an increase in defense funding, despite deploying more troops to more locations.
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor in recognition of Equal Pay Day. Video of Rep McSally Recognizes Equal Pay Day 2017 Rep. McSally discussed her recent work launching and leading the Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce to understand and addressing the barriers women face in the workforce. Transcript: Mr. Speaker, since the passage of the Equal Pay Act in 1963, it has been illegal for an employer to pay a woman less than a man for the same work. But the unfortunate reality is that today, over 50 years later, women are still making less than men. This is unacceptable. Labor Department statistics site, when comparing median salaries for annual full-time jobs, women are making $0.81 on the dollar compared to men. Some of this is from blatant bias and discrimination—which is illegal and unacceptable— but most of the pay gap comes from factors like women going into lower-paying career fields, seeking flexibility since they are often the primary caregivers for children and parents, or not being able to afford child care. Here in the House, I am working on putting forward ideas and solutions to empower women to close the pay gap. Last year, I joined my colleagues to create and lead a Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce that is examining the challenges women still face and working to expand opportunity and improve outcomes for all women. Mr. Speaker, I’ve been fighting my whole life for women’s rights and equality. I know we still have work to do and I am committed to making equal opportunity for women a reality. After all, this is America, where we pick the best man for the job, even if it’s a woman – and that means making sure she’s getting paid what she deserves. I yield back the balance of my time.
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today chaired a Homeland Security Committee hearing to examine the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS)’s counter network strategy to degrade and dismantle Transnational Criminal Organizations (TCOs)—also known as drug cartels—along our border. Specifically, the hearing evaluated the coordination between the DHS’s three joint task forces. The hearing featured testimony from directors and commanders of all three joint task forces, including DHS Joint Task Force—West’s Commander Paul Beeson. “It takes a network to defeat a network,” said Rep. McSally, Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security subcommittee. “Obscene profit margins power the cartels’ ability to be creative, nimble and entrepreneurial as they smuggle vast quantities of illicit drugs across the border. We should begin with the development a counter-network approach that looks at disrupting every level of cartel operations. Beyond our strategic approach to counter the cartels, we need to be properly organized to fight them as well.” Video of McSally Opening Statement for BMS Hearing 4.4.17 In one exchange with Director Ayala of the Investigations Joint Task Force, Rep. McSally asked, “Can you share with us your perspective on the presence of TCOs within the 50 states? We have a pretty significant presence of cartel activity and operatives.” “They are everywhere. We have TCOs in every city across the United States and we are working to minimize the impact in all those cities,” Director Ayala responded. “Our strategy is to pursue every element of TCOs from a network point of view, whether they are in China or coming up through the southern border, we are looking at all the sources of supply, distribution, transportation networks and putting that together, looking at supply chain investments and seeing how we can look for vulnerabilities to pursue enforcement against them.” To understand the effectiveness of the joint task force structure in responding to cartels, Rep. McSally asked each task force director to describe a situation where the structure was responsive to cartel operation. Chief Beeson described a recent situation in Arizona. “Most recently in Arizona a capacity was needed by the team to further their investigative efforts. That capacity request came into Joint Task Force West, it was then sourced out to Joint Task Force I and they have been able to meet the request and get that resource down to Arizona. Prior to the task force, that request may not have been met,” said Commander Beeson. Watch the exchange HERE. Watch Rep. McSally’s other rounds of questioning HERE and HERE. Today’s hearing was the second hearing Rep. McSally chaired in the 115th Congress as the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. The first inspected the threat posed by drug cartels and can be watched HERE. Last Congress, Rep. McSally chaired seven subcommittee hearings, including a field hearing in Sahuarita, that examined issues such as border effectiveness measurements, manning and infrastructure needs, the threat of visa overstays, and Border Patrol’s “defense-in-depth” strategy.
04.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that her office is accepting submissions for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. This annual competition is an opportunity for young artists to showcase their talent and gain national recognition. “We have many talented young artists in our district, and this competition allows us to recognize and applaud their artwork. The winning art piece will represent the Second District of Arizona in our national Capitol and hang on display for members of Congress, dignitaries, and thousands of visitors to admire throughout the year,” said Rep. McSally. “Last year’s competition was a tremendous success, with nearly 100 pieces of art submitted by students from more than 16 schools, and I look forward to admiring this year’s submissions.” The Art Competition is open to high school students living in or attending high school in the Second District. After all submissions are collected, a local panel of judges will choose one overall and two runner-up winners and announce them at a reception held at the UA Tech Park. The overall winner will be selected to have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol along with the winning pieces from districts across the country and will be invited to attend a reception in Washington, D.C. The two runner-up winners will have their art displayed in Congresswoman McSally’s Tucson and Sierra Vista district offices. The submissions will also be posted on Rep. McSally’s Facebook page, and the artwork that receives the most votes by Southern Arizonans online will receive an award and hang in Rep. McSally’s Congressional office in Washington, D.C. The deadline for submission is Friday, May 5th at noon. Students can deliver submissions to the Tucson district office at 4400 East Broadway Blvd., Suite 510 or the Sierra Vista district office at 77 Calle Portal, Suite B-160. Guidelines for submission as well as a student release form to be included with submission can be found HERE. Individuals with questions about turning in entries or the guidelines can call the Tucson district office at (520) 881-3588.
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – During her questioning in the House Armed Services Committee hearing today, U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) strongly pushed back against the implication that the U.S. Military, due to alleged relaxed Rules of Engagement (ROE), is responsible for increased civilian casualties in the fight against ISIS. With the credibility of her 26 years in the Air Force and in-depth understanding of the targeting process and ROE, she unraveled the flawed logic and put the blame where it belongs—on ISIS. During the hearing, Rep. McSally told CENTCOM Commander General Joseph Votel that the Obama administration’s overly restrictive targeting rules actually strengthened the Islamic State, leading to more civilian deaths by these terrorists. McSally, a retired Air Force colonel and A-10 pilot, pointed out that ISIS is violating the laws of armed conflict by killing civilians and using human shields. “ISIS knows that they can use human shields to avoid being hit. It's their air defense system,” said Rep. McSally, a former Air Force A-10 squadron commander. “If we allow more terrorists to live to fight another day because of this policy, then we are actually opening up the opportunity for more civilians to be killed by these terrorists.” Contrary to allegations, testimony from Gen. Votel confirmed that the U.S. Military continues to operate under ROE established by the Obama Administration. Gen. Votel testified that ISIS is exploiting the United States’ sensitivity to civilian causalities and he shares Rep. McSally’s concern that additional restrictions could lead to more civilians killed by ISIS terrorists. Rep. McSally honed in on the long-term hazard of ceding to ISIS’s strategy of hiding behind human shields. “We take every possible step to reduce civilian casualties,” she said. “However, when we hold off attacking legitimate targets because of this near certainty standard, from my view, we actually allow the terrorist free reign to continue to kill civilians, tens of thousands of them.” Video of McSally: Blame for Civilian Casualties Belongs to ISIS To watch the full questioning, click HERE.
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today led a hearing as the Chairwoman of the Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce to learn how the private sector is currently empowering women to overcome barriers to success. “As part of this working group’s mission to dig into the root causes of the barriers that women face, we want to study what businesses have already done to ensure that their female employees can achieve their full potential. Wherever women succeed, businesses will succeed,” stated Rep. McSally in her opening statement. “The private sector is the innovation engine of our economy and more private sector businesses and organizations than ever are recognizing that training, promoting, and retaining women is essential to their continued competitiveness—and their bottom line. That’s why our focus today is businesses on the cutting-edge of empowering women and producing opportunity for them to succeed.” Members heard testimony from policy experts, business leaders and CEOs on the effective practices they have implemented for their female employees, such as increasing workplace flexibility, providing caregiving options, or addressing residual bias. Gap Inc. became the first Fortune 500 Company to announce that they pay female and male employees equally for equal work in 2014. Debbie Maples, VP of Global Loss Prevention & Corporate Security at Gap, stated, “Gap Inc.’s mission is to advance women in the workplace. We recognize that employees need flexibility to balance work and life responsibilities. Based on our experience with these efforts, the benefits of implementing flexible work programs are undeniable: production turnover dropped by 50%, employee engagement scores improved by 13%, and several hundred thousand dollars in savings were realized by reduced employee turnover costs. At Gap Inc., we know that our business succeeds when everyone has the chance to stand as equals and thrive.” Brian Barkdull, CEO of American Southwest Credit Union, which serves the Sierra Vista area in Rep. McSally’s district, stated, “We have always had about an 85-90% female workforce. What I have learned over the years is that life happens: day care issues, sick kids, doctor appointments, sports events, band, dance practice, classroom presentations, maternity-related events, or community participation. What is our culture? We accommodate. We have high quality service standards and demanding strategic initiatives, so we continually strive to find the right balance for our workforce.” Kymberlee Dwinell, Director of Global Diversity & Inclusion at Northrop Grumman Corporation, which employees 300 in Sierra Vista and Fort Huachuca, Arizona shared, “Developing, maintaining and growing a diverse workforce is critical to our success and a priority for our company. Companies with three or more women in senior management functions scored higher in key factors of leadership, accountability and innovation than companies with no women at the top across nine standard criteria of organizational excellence. It’s clear that private sector support of women in the workforce, especially in leadership roles, is important for a successful business. Companies like Northrop Grumman understand the value of providing additional support to women in the company, as well as young girls across the world. Diversity is truly a strategic asset.” Dr. Donna Ginther, Professor of Economics at the University of Kansas, stated “Women have made tremendous progress in the workforce, but that progress has stagnated, in part because of the lack of policies to support women and mothers who work. The United States lags behind other developed economies in the policies we have to support women in the workforce. One of the keys to growing women’s wages and improving the economic outcomes is creating an environment that enables women to participate in the labor market while they have children.” “This isn’t about women being victims and this is not about women needing more assistance than men. The takeaway from this hearing is that companies have found that if they fully engage with their employees and provide them what they need, like increased flexibility, then companies will be more profitable and companies will increase their value,” stated Rep. McSally in closing. Rep. Martha McSally launched the Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce in July, 2016. The group has held two hearings so far examining the barriers women face in the workforce. A video announcing the creation of the working group can be found here.
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today addressed 18,000 pro-Israel activists from across the country at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC)’s annual policy conference. AIPAC works with Congress and the Executive Branch to strengthen, protect and promote the U.S.-Israel relationship in ways that enhance the security of the two nations. Rep. McSally’s remarks focused on the national security necessity of a strong U.S—Israel relationship, and how her home of Tucson, Arizona plays a key role in the alliance. David’s Sling, a missile defense system that is a major technology upgrade for the small country was co-developed by Israel’s Rafael Advanced Defense Systems and American defense contractor, Raytheon, which is located Tucson, Arizona. “As a retired Air Force Colonel A-10 warthog pilot who deployed six times to the Middle East and Afghanistan, I have dedicated my life to protecting our country and our allies. I am a supporter of a close U.S.–Israel alliance, and I couldn’t be more proud that my district and state play a crucial role in ensuring that Israel comes to the fight better equipped than ever before,” Rep. McSally said to the crowd of 18,000. “David’s Sling is a comprehensive, multi-tiered missile defense system that ensures that both civilians and critical infrastructure are protected from the full spectrum of attacks. A crucial component of the David’s Sling system, the stunner interceptor, was developed by Raytheon in my district in Tucson, Arizona. Israeli purchases contribute to a major portion of the $2.1 billion dollars of economic benefit Raytheon brings to Arizona each year, helping Arizona develop new technologies that boost our economy and keep all our citizens safe.” Watch Rep. McSally’s full remarks by clicking HERE. Rep. McSally has been a strong supporter of Israel since day one of her service in Congress. Her actions in support of Israel include, but are not limited to, introducing a resolution expressing solidarity with the Israeli people, authoring legislation to prevent the discrimination of Israeli-produced goods, and advocating for increased missile defense spending for Israel throughout the national defense authorization process.
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation that would enhance penalties for “spotters” who transmit information about the position and surveillance efforts of the U.S. Border Patrol or destroy border controls. “Spotters are fundamental to the operation of drug cartels, but there is currently no law that specifically prohibits or penalizes them for assisting drug cartels along the border. During multiple trips to the border, I’ve seen firsthand where these scouts operate and heard frustrations from ranchers and Border Patrol about the lack of consequences they face,” said Rep. McSally (R-AZ). “By implementing penalties, this bill will prevent experienced spotters who are caught from quickly returning to action and deter many others from joining a criminal cartel operation. We have to improve our border strategy in order to make our communities safer, and that’s exactly what this legislation will do.” The Transnational Criminal Organization Illicit Spotter Prevention and Elimination Act would increase penalties for transmitting information about the position or surveillance efforts of Border Patrol or destroying United States border controls by increasing fines and imposing a maximum prison time of 10 years. Arizona Senator John McCain today introduced identical companion legislation in the Senate. “Across our southern border, so-called ‘spotters’ sit on mountains to direct drug cartels and human traffickers as they attempt to skirt our laws and illegally cross over the U.S.-Mexico border,” said Senator McCain (R-AZ). “Our legislation would help to dismantle a central part of these cartels’ communications and logistics networks by enhancing penalties for spotters. I thank Congresswoman McSally for her leadership on this issue in the House, and I am pleased to be working together to secure the border and protect Arizona communities.” “This bill will strengthen consequences for those who jeopardize our residents’ safety so that law enforcement is more equipped to stifle drug cartel operations,” said Cochise County Sheriff Mark Dannels. “I’m glad to see efforts being made by our Members of Congress to take spotters out of action for good and improve security along our border.” “Consequences for illegal activity are a critical element of the U.S. Border Patrol enforcement model,” stated Tucson Sector Border Patrol Chief Felix Chavez. “We expend great efforts to prevent, identify and arrest those that assist smuggling organizations in moving their illicit cargo. Any legislative action that will add to consequences will certainly help secure our nation.” The bill follows Rep. McSally’s continued efforts as Chairwoman of House Homeland Security Committee’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee to conduct oversight on and bolster security of the U.S. southern border, which include authoring the following key pieces of legislation: The Border Jobs for Veterans Act (signed into law last October) The Border Security Technology Accountability Act (passed the House in January 2017) The Southwest Border Security Threat Assessment Act (passed the House in April 2016) The full bill text can be found HERE.
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives last week passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to require a stress test of U.S. government protection and prevention programs against terrorist travel. The bill, H.R. 1302 the Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act, incorporates and addresses key findings of the Homeland Security Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, on which Rep. McSally served as a member. “The last major government exercise on terrorist travel occurred in 2009. Obviously, the threat environment has changed considerably and relying on information gathered during an exercise that took place nearly a decade ago is simply unacceptable and puts American lives at risk.” said Rep. McSally on the House floor. “My bill would require that the executive branch, in coordination with State and local governments, conduct an exercise to evaluate the nation’s preparedness against all phases of foreign fighter planning and travel. We must identify weaknesses at home and abroad that may be exploited by terrorists and foreign fighters in order to ascertain how to best address those weaknesses.” The Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel investigated U.S. security vulnerabilities and the threat posed by ISIS for six months and released a report containing 32 key findings and over 50 recommendations to make Americans safe. The findings reveal that Americans leave the country to train overseas with terrorist groups as foreign fighters. The ability of these hardened fighters to return to the United States is a legitimate security threat to the homeland that must be addressed. By directing the executive branch to conduct stress test to evaluate the nation’s preparedness against all phases of foreign fighter planning and travel, H.R. 1302 will reveal how partners at all levels of government—and abroad—are currently responding to these scenarios. The bill also requires the Administration to share the findings— and recommendations on how to best address these weaknesses—with Congress and federal law enforcement and intelligence officials. The House unanimously passed H.R. 1302, the Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act, which is Rep. McSally’s fourth bill to pass the House during the 115th Congress.
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Representative Martha McSally (AZ-02) today released the following statement after the American Health Care Act was pulled from consideration on the House floor: “The Affordable Care Act is still failing families in Arizona, and so the mission has not changed. Since I was first elected to Congress, I have been committed to fighting for the best healthcare possible for Southern Arizonans, and I have never ceased to do that. Throughout this process I submitted detailed proposals, negotiated with House Leadership and the White House, and ultimately added two amendments to the bill that looked out for the vulnerable: our seniors, the disabled, expecting and new mothers, newborns, those who struggle with mental illness and those who wrestle with substance abuse. Whatever the legislative vehicle going forward, I will continue to strive towards better healthcare for my constituents.” To learn more about Rep. McSally's work this week on the AHCA, click HERE and HERE.
03.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, U.S. Representatives Martha McSally (AZ-02) worked with House Republican Leadership and the Trump Administration to further improve the American Health Care Act (AHCA). She successfully negotiated to provide states, through the Patient and State Stability Fund, with supplemental funding so they have the ability to obtain additional resources that will provide new mothers and those struggling with mental and substance abuse disorders access to care while the nation transitions to the new health care system. House leadership and the White House has agreed to incorporate these changes into the AHCA. Representative McSally said, “The amendment we successfully negotiated today is another important win for families. It secures an additional $15 billion to offer crucial care for mothers and their newborns, and for those who struggle with mental health disorders and substance abuse. The Affordable Care Act simply isn’t working, and this victory is another step in the right direction. By giving the states support to implement a smooth and stable transition, this amendment will prevent individuals who need healthcare the most from slipping through the cracks. We aren’t landing a helicopter, we are landing a 747, and we need a lot of runway to ensure a smooth transition to a system that lowers costs, expands choice, and increases quality of care. This amendment lengthens that runway.” Speaker Ryan stated, “Today we accepted this additional amendment to the AHCA which includes funds for mental health, maternity, and substance abuse care. I am thankful for Rep. McSally’s idea and leadership on this initiative. Her involvement continues to improve this bill.” Inclusion of this language builds on changes that Rep. McSally fought to include in amendments to the AHCA earlier this week that provide a smoother transition to the post-Affordable Care Act healthcare system and additional resources for our most vulnerable citizens. Additionally, these changes are another step towards fixing our broken mental health care system—a multi-year effort that saw a major leap forward with passage of the 21st Century Cures healthcare reform package that included a major piece of Congresswoman McSally’s Mental Health and Safe Communities Act. The provisions included help expand assistance to individuals with co-occurring substance abuse and mental health disorders, provide support to mentally-ill offenders re-entering the community, and improve training for law enforcement to better identify and respond to instances involving mental illness.
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Martha McSally (AZ-02) and Will Hurd (TX-23), Chair and Vice Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee today sent an oversight letter asking for specific details of the Administration’s request for $999 million to plan, design, and construct the first installment of a border wall between the United States and Mexico. Addressed to Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly, and Director Office of Management and Budget Mick Mulvaney, the letter lays out a series of detailed questions to DHS in order to provide the lawmakers with further clarity regarding the President’s recent supplemental appropriations request, which was sent to Congress on March 16, 2017. The two lawmakers, whose districts collectively represent 880 miles— nearly half— of the U.S-Mexico border, seek specific details of the location of the proposed wall, definitions of adequate natural barriers, and a breakdown of the investments in supplemental technology, infrastructure, and alleviating personnel backlogs. “As Representatives of the communities that make up our southern border, we recognize the need for robust border security and infrastructure to ensure public safety and increase cross border commerce,” the lawmakers write. “However, we also have an obligation to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars and as such have a number of questions.” “While we have both publicly stated in the past that we believe physical barriers to be one of many tools required to gain operational control of the border,” continued the lawmakers, “we also believe that an expenditure this large, and submitted with limited details, deserves additional scrutiny to ensure funds are being used effectively in pursuit of our shared goal of securing the southwest border.” The full text of their letter is below. View a PDF of the letter HERE. March 21, 2017 Dear Secretary Kelly and Director Mulvaney, As the Chair and Vice Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, and Members of Congress whose districts represent nearly half of the U.S-Mexico border, we write today regarding the President’s recent supplemental appropriations request to Congress. As Representatives of the communities that make up our southern border, we recognize the need for robust border security and infrastructure to ensure public safety and increase cross border commerce. To that end we are pleased with the request for funding to increase the number of Border Patrol Agents, investments in infrastructure, and supplemental technology. However, we also have an obligation to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars and as such have a number of questions regarding the single largest dollar amount in the request, which is, “$999 million for planning, design, and construction of the first installment of the border wall.” While we have both publicly stated in the past that we believe physical barriers to be one of many tools required to gain operational control of the border, we also believe that an expenditure this large, and submitted with limited details, deserves additional scrutiny to ensure funds are being used effectively in pursuit of our shared goal of securing the southwest border. As such, we have the following questions and ask for a response to the subcommittee by April 18, 2017. What methods will DHS use to determine which areas along the border need physical barriers? When constructing new barriers, will DHS consider existing manmade and natural barriers? To what extent will Sector Chiefs and the Joint Task Force commanders have input on the methods used to achieve operational control of their relevant AORs? To what extent will Governors, local law enforcement, ranchers, and other stakeholders have input on the methods used to achieve operational control of the southern border? In light of the request for proposal’s specific call for 30 foot concrete barrier, what steps will be taken to protect agent safety and ensure there are no impediments to agent’s ability to visually identify threats? What are DHS’ plans to alleviate the current hiring backlog of both Customs and Border Protection officers and Border Patrol agents? What steps, if any, does the Department plan to take to address the high rate of polygraph failures during the onboarding process for these employees?
03.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today declared her support for an amended version of the American Health Care Act of 2017 (AHCA). After weeks of advocating for specific changes to the legislation on behalf of her constituents, Rep. McSally successfully negotiated for revisions to the legislation that are victories for Southern Arizona—including billions in increased resources for states to provide robust coverage for the most vulnerable. “The Affordable Care Act (ACA) has been an unmitigated disaster in Arizona—leaving us without real choices statewide. The exchanges for 14 of the state’s 15 counties are devoid of competition because they are left with only a single insurer selling coverage. However, the transition to a new system will take time and those on Medicaid and ACA exchanges deserve continuity and stability during the transition,” stated Representative McSally. “Over the past weeks, I have proposed detailed, specific changes to the AHCA that would provide better coverage and a stable transition for seniors, the disabled, children, and middle class families. Through lengthy negotiations with House leadership and the executive branch, I am pleased to have played a role in moving this bill in the right direction. I’m thankful leadership heard my concerns and worked with me to adopt these recommendations to ease the transition to a system that increases choice and access while bringing down health care costs. AHCA is not perfect and I still have concerns, but I will continue to work closely with Senators McCain and Flake, Governor Ducey, local stakeholders, and constituents to strengthen the AHCA while supporting other thoughtful bills throughout the legislative process.” Speaker Ryan said, “I appreciate Rep. McSally’s support on the AHCA. Her unwavering commitment to her constituents and her tenacity throughout the negotiating process has led to positive changes and I believe this is a better bill as a result of her involvement.” Rep. McSally and Rep. MacArthur sent a letter today to leadership requesting that three crucial provisions be included in the AHCA which would directly benefit her constituents in Southern Arizona. This culminates weeks of discussions with House leadership, Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, Vice President Pence, and others. As a direct result of her advocacy, a revised version of the bill was filed tonight which included all three provisions. The text of the letter can be found here and below. The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker of the House H-232, United States Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker, As we work to finalize the House version of the bill that will be the first step in replacing the Affordable Care Act (ACA) with a better system that increases choice and access while bringing down the cost of health care, we have some concerns with the American Health Care Act (AHCA) in its current form. As you are aware, the ACA has had an especially harmful impact on our states and has nearly destroyed the market for individual health insurance plans. Neither Arizona nor New Jersey residents have real choices and their insurance premiums have increased to an unacceptable degree - Arizona being the highest in the nation over the past year. It is clear that our healthcare system must be repaired. We write to bring to your attention a few issues in the AHCA that are of great concern to us and our constituents. The transition from the ACA Medicaid expansion to the Medicaid system with more state control and flexibility, as well as the individual market stabilization measures in the AHCA, will already be complex and take time. In order to prevent unnecessary hardship to low- and middle-income people, and to states, the Medicaid expansion not be moved up—as some have suggested—and remain at December 31, 2019, and that individual enrollment in expansion not states be frozen between now and December 31, 2019. Making the transition before 2020 will make it more difficult for states and beneficiaries to adapt and potentially leave some people on the edge of poverty and at risk of falling through the cracks. To ensure that the most vulnerable in our communities continue to have access to the health care they need, we request that states be given additional resources to provide robust traditional Medicaid coverage. The AHCA’s per-capita caps are supposed to increase by the consumer price index for medical care (CPI-MED), but we believe this is inadequate—especially for elderly and disabled Medicaid enrollees. The per-capita allotments to states for elderly and disabled Medicaid enrollees should be increased by CPI-MED +1%. This will give additional resources to states and provide added flexibility to adjust to the new per-capita cap system and continue to provide high-quality care through their Medicaid programs. The new tax credits created by the AHCA are simply too small for older Americans ages 50-64. These individuals, many living on fixed lower incomes, cannot afford to pay additional amounts to purchase quality health insurance. We understand that other initiatives in the AHCA and administrative actions by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) are intended to bring down the cost of plans, but this gap between the ACA subsidies and the AHCA tax credits is too large for ages 50-64. As is, we are concerned that many in this age bracket could lose coverage and access to health care, likely increasing their vulnerability and decreasing their health. As such, the tax credits provided for ages 50-64 must be increased, ideally by at least $2000 per year, which will cost around $85 billion over ten years. We must find a way to accomplish this. Thank you for your work on the AHCA. Please carefully consider the impact of this legislation, and work to address the concerns we have communicated in our many meetings and in this letter. We sincerely hope that you will continue improving this legislation so that it can truly offer Arizonans, New Jerseyans, and all Americans additional choices, lower costs, and increased access to high quality, affordable health care.
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to help address the National Park Service’s growing billion-dollar maintenance backlog. The legislation, the National Park Service Transparency and Accountability Act, directs the National Park Service to re-evaluate its current strategy of prioritizing maintenance projects and to submit its findings to Congress. “Natural beauty is all around us in Arizona,” said Congresswoman McSally. “The problem is that a backlog of needed restoration projects on our public lands is restricting Arizonans and tourists from accessing our parks and public areas. Unfortunately—this billion-dollar backlog has only been growing. Obviously, the National Park Service strategy to tackle their staggering amount of maintenance and service requests is not working. My good governance legislation is an important step towards addressing systemic problems and ensuring that limited resources are invested wisely on all park units— not only on the ‘Crown Jewels’ of the park system.” From FY2009 to FY2015 the National Park Service’s backlog increased from $10.2 billion to $11.9 billion, and Arizona has one of the largest backlogs in the nation. There is a $580.2 million in delayed or deferred restoration projects throughout the Grand Canyon State. In Rep. McSally’s district specifically, maintenance projects requiring attention at Saguaro National Park amount to approximately $12.9 million, while Chiricahua National Monument in Cochise County faces roughly $10.3 million in needed restoration projects. In a recent study the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that review and further evaluation of the National Park Service’s current strategy could lead to a greater reduction in the current backlog. The National Park Service Transparency and Accountability Act codifies the recommendations put forward by the GAO and requires the National Park Service to submit its findings to Congress. The bill follows Rep. McSally’s continued efforts since taking office to address this backlog. To view the legislative text, CLICK HERE. To view the GAO study the legislation references, CLICK HERE.
03.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today reintroduced bipartisan legislation, The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act, to help expand and improve Tucson’s Udall Park. The bill resolves a long-standing land disagreement between the City of Tucson and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) that has impeded Tucson’s ability to fully utilize the 172.8-acre parcel of land it sits on. “Resolving this land conflict is important for our local community,” said Rep. McSally. “This legislation is a commonsense solution that can help Tucson expand Udall Park and improve its facilities going forward. I am determined to continue to work with city leaders and my colleagues from the Arizona delegatation in the House and Senate to overcome bureaucratic obstacles and bring closure to this long-standing issue. I am thankful to partner with Senator Flake to move towards resolution.” “The City of Tucson’s ability to fully use Udall Park is being hampered by BLM’s foot dragging. This bill removes federal red tape and completes a 25-year-old land exchange. I look forward to working with Rep. McSally to cut this red tape,” stated Senator Flake. "Udall Park is an iconic place in Tucson where thousands of families enjoy outdoor activities at no cost. Appropriately, it is named after a great conservationist and public servant, Mo Udall. Completing this land transfer from the federal government allows us to better plan for expansion and enhance amenities at the park," said Tucson Mayor Jonathan Rothschild. "I want to thank the bill's authors, Senator Flake, Senator McCain and Representative McSally, along with the Arizona Congressional delegation for their bi-partisan support of the bill." "I want to thank the Arizona Congressional delegation for working with the City to protect Udall Park for its use by our citizens. We are committed to adding improvements to the park that will further our community's experience with it. This legislation provides the clarification needed for us to move ahead," stated Councilmember Paul Cunningham. Background On May 16, 1980, the City of Tucson leased over 172 acres from BLM for the creation of what would become Udall Park. On June 26, 1989, the City of Tucson entered into negations to transfer 297 acres of rural land recently purchased for $4 million to BLM for the title of the land currently used for Udall Park. Those negotiations were finalized later that year on October 4, 1989. The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act removes a reversion clause contained in the 1989 agreement, providing full autonomy and ownership for Udall Park to the City of Tucson. Read the full bill text HERE.
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today testified before the Defense Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations to advocate for the A-10 Warthog. Her testimony showcased the unique strengths of the A-10 and highlighted the need for full funding to preserve the fleet in fiscal year 2018. “I am thankful for the opportunity to testify on the importance of funding the A-10 before the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee today,” said Rep. McSally. “The A-10 is the only plane that has the lethality, loiter time, and survivability to provide premier Close Air Support, Combat Search and Rescue support, and Forward Air Control-Airborne capabilities for the Air Force. We must provide sufficient funds for the critical wing upgrades that are necessary to keep the aircraft in action.” “Congresswoman McSally has a unique background and a deep understanding of defense issues,” Chairwoman Kay Granger said. “The Defense Appropriations Subcommittee is grateful for her testimony today. She is a tireless advocate for our military and the A-10. Her insight is invaluable as we work to rebuild our military to be stronger than ever.” Rep. McSally’s testimony today follows her tireless efforts to save the A-10 from premature retirement. In particular, she has fought for necessary wing upgrades, successfully adding amendments with this provision to defense funding legislation.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for 2017. The bill had bipartisan support, passing 371 to 48. This legislation provides important funding for pilots, aircraft, and base operations, among countless other important aspects of military readiness. It also fully funds the missions at Fort Huachuca and the entire A-10 fleet, allowing for critical upgrades to extend the service life of the aircraft. Watch Rep. McSally speak in support of this legislation on the House floor below. Video of U.S. Rep. McSally Speaks in Favor of Passage of Defense Funding “I am proud to see a bipartisan majority in the House pass this important funding measure today,” said Rep. McSally. “As a 26 year veteran of the Air Force, I know firsthand how important it is to supply our military with the resources that they need to keep our country safe. This legislation does so by addressing our critical readiness situation, keeping our military on the cutting edge of new technology, and supporting our warfighters with the pay raise they deserve. I am also especially glad to see that this legislation recognizes the value of the A-10 and will supply the necessary funding to keep these planes in service.” Rep. McSally’s support for this piece of legislation today follows her long-standing commitment to funding our military and defending the A-10. She has repeatedly called on Congress and the President to fund the A-10, introduced an amendment for the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations Act to supply necessary resources for the aircraft, and led efforts to finance wing upgrades for the fleet.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday introduced bipartisan legislation, the Nogales Wastewater Fairness Act, to reduce the financial burden on Nogales associated with the cost of maintaining and operating the sewage pipeline known as the International Outfall Interceptor (IOI) and the accompanying Nogales Sanitation Project (NSP). The IOI, located along the U.S.-Mexico border, is responsible for treating wastewater from both the U.S. and Mexico sides of the border. Senator John McCain introduced a companion bill in the Senate. Under an outdated 1953 financial agreement between the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) and Nogales, the city bears a disproportionate share of the costs associated with operating and maintaining the IOI. Rep. McSally’s bill finally addresses this longstanding problem. “The city of Nogales has shouldered an unfair burden in paying for the operation and maintenance of this pipeline for too long. The legislation that I introduced yesterday will not only resolve this issue for the city of Nogales, but will also benefit many of my constituents across Southern Arizona,” said Rep. McSally. “I will continue to work with leadership at all levels—from city officials in Nogales to my colleagues here in the House and Senate—to see this bill through.” “At its core, the 1953 financial arrangement between Nogales and IBWC is outdated and unfair,” said Senator McCain. “Nogales residents should not have to pay for runoff and sewage not under their control. Our bill finally brings fairness to the people of Nogales who are dealing with out of touch bureaucrats mismanaging a crumbling infrastructure.” “The Nogales Wastewater Fairness Act will ensure that the City of Nogales is not unfairly burdened by the costs of the Nogales Sanitation Project (NSP),” Rep. Grijalva said. “For too long, the people of Nogales have faced unnecessary health risks from uncontrolled waters and pollutants flowing through the Santa Cruz River. The NSP is a vital update to the International Outfall Interceptor that will help the City of Nogales address this situation. Working with my colleague Congresswoman McSally and Senators McCain and Flake in this important cause will help ensure passage of this needed legislation.” The full bill text can be found HERE.
03.06.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally continued her efforts to engage with local healthcare stakeholders by holding a roundtable discussion in Tucson today. Approximately 20 participants representing a wide-range of healthcare interests – including individuals from local hospitals, community health centers, and insurance agencies – took part in the two hour event. “The way ahead for healthcare is an important issue for my constituents. This has been a focus of mine during my tenure in Congress and I am grateful to have had another opportunity to engage with thought leaders in my community,” said Rep. McSally. “It is imperative that we ensure that our healthcare system works for all Americans, with lower costs, increased choice, and better access to quality and affordable healthcare for all.” “We’re appreciative that Congresswoman McSally has pulled together a variety of perspectives on the Affordable Care Act,” President of the Tucson Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Lea Márquez-Peterson said. “She is aware that most of our businesses in Southern Arizona are small businesses. Thanks to this important discussion I believe we have a direct conduit to the debate occurring on the Affordable Care Act.” “I thank Congresswoman McSally for being well prepared about this complex issue,” said Chic Older of the Arizona Medical Association. “It is important to talk to people who actually put their hands on patients and I truly appreciate her taking a hard look at this challenge.” Christina Corieri of Governor Doug Ducey’s Office said, “Governor Ducey takes this issue seriously and it’s great that Congresswoman McSally does as well.” Organizations represented at today’s roundtable include St. Mary’s Hospital, National Association of Health Underwriters, Copper Queen Community Hospital, Arizona Medical Association, Tucson Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, CBIZ Benefits and Insurance Services, Inc., BlueCross BlueShield of Arizona, Arizona Alliance of Community Health Centers, Governor Doug Ducey’s Office, Banner University Hospital, HealthSouth Tucson, Arizona Healthcare and Hospital Association, Tucson Medical Center, Pima Council on Aging, Better Business Bureau, Tucson Metro Chamber, and Children’s Action Alliance. Today’s roundtable builds upon Rep. McSally’s numerous conversations and meetings with constituents and healthcare leaders in the community. Rep. McSally has fielded countless constituent questions about healthcare in recent weeks at town halls, visited healthcare facilities, met with providers, participated in ride-alongs, and held a mental health roundtable in January of last year.
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the Naval Criminal Investigation Service’s investigation into reports that some Marines used a private Facebook page to distribute nude photos of female Marines. “The recent report of the degradation of female Marines is deeply disturbing. These actions destroy the bonds of trust that are critical for our Armed Forces to operate. I support the actions taken to investigate and hold accountable those found responsible for these disgraceful actions. This problem highlights the need to change the culture of how we treat women in the military. Our women who have volunteered to serve their Nation in combat should not have to fear those they should trust the most.” To view Rep. McSally speak on this on MSNBC, CLICK HERE.
03.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the rise of anti-Semitic hate crimes in Tucson and across the nation. “I am shocked and saddened by the recent wave of bomb threats directed at the Tucson Jewish Community Center and similar facilities across the country. These threats, along with the horrendous acts of vandalism that have hit other communities over the past few weeks, are clear expressions of hatred and discrimination. There is no place in our community or country for such anti-Semitic acts. At the Holocaust History Center here in Tucson, the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington and at the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial and Museum in Jerusalem, I have seen what can happen when anti-Semitic violence isn’t taken seriously. For this reason, I am calling on federal, state and local law enforcement to work together to find and prosecute the individuals behind this wave of criminal intolerance that is threatening the safety and security of our communities. Tucson has long prided itself as an open-hearted, welcoming community – a literal oasis in the desert where people of different faiths and backgrounds have come to live their lives, raise their families and pursue their idea of the American dream. Every Tucsonan has a stake in making sure we remain that way. And all of us must remain vigilant in making sure that a bomb threat at a community center or the desecration of a Jewish cemetery doesn’t metastasize into something far more menacing.”
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to require a stress test of U.S. government protection and prevention programs against terrorist travel. The bill implements a recommendation made by the Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, on which Rep. McSally served. The Task Force investigated U.S. security vulnerabilities and the threat posed by ISIS for six months and released a report last Congress containing 32 key findings and over 50 recommendations to keep Americans safe. “The last major test of our security systems aimed at preventing terrorist travel was done in 2009. Since then, ISIS’s rise and spread across the globe has created new challenges for law enforcement, and we must be able to ensure we are prepared,” said Rep. McSally. “This was a top recommendation from a task force I served on focused on combating foreign fighter travel. We should not delay in moving this critical legislation forward and taking the necessary steps to ensure we are doing all we can to keep Americans safe.” The last major government exercise on terrorist travel was conducted by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in 2009. The test focused primarily on terrorists attempting to infiltrate the United States. In their Task Force recommendations, Rep. McSally and her colleagues found that law enforcement today should also be addressing the threat of Americans leaving the country to train overseas with terrorist groups as foreign fighters. Last Congress, Rep. McSally introduced similar legislation, which passed the House on June 11, 2016.
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed an amendment sponsored by U.S. Representative Martha McSally to enhance Congressional oversight of regulations that did not comply with federal law. Rep. McSally’s amendment was added to the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome (SCRUB) Act, which passed the House today 240 to 185. “In 2016 alone, the Obama Administration added 97,110 pages to the Federal Register. That’s over 75 times more than the Bible—without any of the good news. These rules and regulations accumulate with no relief and touch every aspect of life all the way down to record keeping for contact lenses, vending machine food labeling, and walk-in freezer testing,” said Rep. McSally on the House floor. Watch Rep. McSally lead debate on her amendment below The SCRUB Act establishes a new “regulatory review” commission responsible for identifying duplicative and obsolete regulations for repeal. Rep. McSally’s amendment requires the commission to consider for removal rules and regulations for which Congress did not receive an accompanying report as required by the Congressional Review Act. “This prudent step will help give Congress the opportunity to—where appropriate—make use of the Congressional Review Act disapproval process to expedite the rollback of flawed rules and regulations that are choking our economy,” Rep. McSally said on the House floor. Rep. McSally’s amendment follows similar legislation she introduced last month to require federal agencies to catalog regulations enacted in violation of the Congressional Review Act.
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after President Trump signed an executive order related to the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. “During my time in Congress I have heard regularly from small business owners, farmers, and ranchers about how burdensome the WOTUS rule has been. Today’s executive action is the first step to relieving these stakeholders from an overreaching, one-size-fits-all Washington mandate. Just a few weeks ago, I led an effort encouraging President Trump to limit the harm this regulation was inflicting on communities in Arizona and across the United States. I am pleased to see him following through on that request.” Congresswoman McSally has been engaged in numerous efforts to reverse the WOTUS rule. On February 17, 2017, she lead a letter signed by 40 members of Congress to President Trump urging him to take action against the WOTUS rule and other overreaching EPA regulations. The text of the letter can be found HERE.
02.22.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today returned from touring border operations in the Rio Grande Valley along with a delegation of Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials and lawmakers. Included in the delegation were U.S. Border Patrol Chief Ronald Vitiello, House Speaker Paul Ryan, and Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul. The delegation began the day with a helicopter examination of the region followed by a boat tour of the Rio Grande River. The delegation later toured the Rio Grande Valley's first centralized processing center and met with local leaders to hear about their experiences and challenges near the border. “Each section of our 2,000 mile southern border is different, with varying terrain and unique challenges facing law enforcement officials,” said Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “The cartels and other threats across the border will adapt accordingly depending on the region. That’s why our strategy needs to be equally as nimble and responsive to detect incursions and intercept them before they happen. It was helpful for me to hear about the challenges Border Patrol agents experience in the Rio Grande Valley. I look forward to using these experiences to help establish a comprehensive strategy that keeps our entire border safe.” Last week, Rep. McSally chaired her first hearing this year as Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee on the cartel threat. The hearing featured testimony from security officials from the U.S. Coast Guard, Department of State, and Department of Homeland Security, including Tucson Sector Border Patrol Chief Paul Beeson. In one exchange with Chief Beeson, Rep. McSally described a barrier breech she had seen in which cartel members, with the aid of spotters, used welding equipment to create a gate in the border fence that could be used repeatedly without getting noticed by agents. “Do you think this level of sophistication is the new normal for cartel operations? Are there additional tools or authorities we need to give you in order to detect and interdict these types of operations so they don’t go on for years before they are detected?” she asked. “They are very sophisticated in their approach,” Chief Beeson responded. “They have the benefit of time. They have plenty of time to wait and seek the right opportunity to engage in their illegal opportunity. They use scouting networks. They utilize encrypted communications.” Chief Beeson went on to discuss improving situational awareness while continuing collaboration with local law enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations units, and intelligence gatherers. Watch the exchange HERE.
02.21.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today made available on her website a Grant Assistance Guide to help constituents locate and apply for sources of federal funding. The guide provides detailed assistance at each step of the grant application process, from determining eligibility, to finding a grant, and submitting an application. It also provides instructions about requesting letters of support from Rep. McSally’s office. “Applying for a grant can be a daunting task for any organization,” said Rep. McSally. “This step-by-step guide is meant to walk individuals through each stage of locating and securing federal funding and provides helpful tips to improve an application’s competitiveness. As always, my staff stands ready to assist Southern Arizonans with any aspect of this process.” Access the full Grant Assistance Guide HERE. Since taking office, Rep. McSally’s office has lent support to numerous successful local grant requests, including an $8.5 million grant for the Tucson Fire Department to hire 54 firefighters and a $4.61 million grant for the city of Willcox to begin upgrading its sewage treatment plant. Constituents seeking additional assistance to apply for federal funding can call the Tucson District Office at (520) 881-3588.
02.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally recently was appointed the Vice Chair of the Readiness Subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee. The subcommittee is responsible for the single largest account within the Department of Defense’s budget and oversees such issues as military readiness, training, logistics and maintenance, and military construction. “I’m honored to be appointed to a leadership role on the House subcommittee that provides oversight of our military readiness,” said Rep. McSally. “The atrophying of our military over recent years has created a readiness crisis – putting our troops and national security at risk. I stand ready to use the experience I gained through 26 years in the military to help restore our readiness and ensure our troops have what they need to complete their mission.” “I’m pleased to announce Congresswoman McSally’s appointment to serve as Vice Chair of the Readiness Subcommittee,” said Congressman Joe Wilson, who serves as Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee. “Her extensive military experience that includes commanding a fighter squadron and overseeing operations abroad will be of great value to this committee as we work to ensure our troops have the training and equipment they need to keep Americans safe.” In addition to her Vice Chair role on the Readiness Subcommittee, Rep. McSally serves on the Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee and Military Personnel Subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee. She served 26 years in the U.S. Air Force, including six assignments to the Middle East and Afghanistan, and oversaw counterterrorism missions for the continent of Africa. Last week, Rep. McSally questioned top Pentagon officials about the readiness of the F-35 and its role in carrying out Close Air Support missions. Watch her questioning below.
02.17.2017	Actions Follow U.S. Rep. McSally-Led Bipartisan Letter with 101 Signers TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) re-posted a batch of documents related to animal welfare inspections. The actions follow a letter sent by Rep. McSally this week calling on USDA to restore all animal welfare inspection reports after they were removed abruptly from a government website on February 3. “This is an encouraging sign, and I commend USDA for taking steps to restore transparency,” said Rep. McSally. “The inhumane treatment of animals serves no place in our society. I will continue to work with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to see all records re-posted online where they can be available again to the public.” Rep. McSally’s bipartisan letter, sent on Tuesday, was signed by 101 House members (including Rep. McSally).
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led an effort calling on President Donald Trump to address costly regulations that are hurting Arizonans and Americans across the country. In a letter signed by 40 members of Congress, the lawmakers urge President Trump to take action against overreaching Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations that are driving up energy bills, hurting businesses and farmers, and eliminating jobs. “We write to express our continued and serious concerns regarding the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan (CPP), Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS), and Ozone Standard of 70 parts per billion(ppb) Rules,” the lawmakers write. “(W)e urge you to use any and all tools to limit the harm of these costly and burdensome rules.” Last Congress, Rep. McSally worked with Southern Arizona rural energy and community stakeholders to persistently advocate for flexibility and reduced burdens in meeting the Obama Administration’s environmental rules. Local utility officials have expressed concerns that new energy mandates could eliminate 245 high-wage jobs in the Second District and expose 350,000 rural residents to dangerous energy reliability issues. In May 2015, Rep. McSally called on the EPA to modify its proposed rule to give Arizona needed flexibility in meeting the new mandates and, in June 2015, she voted in support of House passed legislation to protect Arizona residents from electricity shortages and rate spikes as a result of the new mandates. Rep. McSally also voted in support of legislation to overrule the Obama Administration’s Waters of the U.S. Rule, which she stated would, “hurt growth while doing nothing to protect our water supply.” That bill was later vetoed by President Obama after passing both chambers of Congress. To view a PDF of today’s letter, click HERE. The full letter text follows. February 17, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We write to express our continued and serious concerns regarding the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan (CPP), Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS), and Ozone Standard of 70 parts per billion(ppb) Rules. On August 3, 2015 the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized its Clean Power Plan rule. The original intent of the Clean Air Act was for individual states to regulate their own electricity systems. This new regulation is tantamount to a federal government power grab that would impose onerous carbon emissions standards at and outside the fence line of existing power plants. The CPP would require approximately a 30% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by the year 2030; a goal that will have a negligible impact on global temperatures. These costs will ultimately be borne by consumers, many of whom could see double-digit percentage increases in their monthly electric bill. Additionally, on August 28, 2015 the EPA published its final rule revising the definition of navigable waters and asserting jurisdiction over nearly all areas with water features, including man-made drainage ditches and small streams. The intent of WOTUS was to clarify what waters are controlled by federal regulations; however the EPA has only made it harder for businesses to comply with the law which will negatively impact job growth in farming, building trades, and beyond. Furthermore, on October 1, 2015 the EPA established a new National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ground-level ozone that was set at 70ppb. This regulation does not adequately account for background ozone, which is naturally occurring ozone or ozone originating outside of the control of a specific state. These new standards represent a threshold that is simply too high for many jurisdictions across the country and will damage the economy by requiring even further reductions in emissions. During the promulgation and finalization of these rules, many of our constituents have expressed their concerns to us how their livelihood in our states will be negatively impacted. Unfortunately, the 60 day period for the Congressional Review Act (CRA) has expired and Congress will not be able to make use of the CRA to stop or revise these rules. As such, we urge you to use any and all tools to limit the harm of these costly and burdensome rules. We appreciate your consideration of this important matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely,
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today chaired a Homeland Security Committee hearing looking at the threat posed by cartels. The hearing featured testimony from security officials from the U.S. Coast Guard, Department of State, and Department of Homeland Security, including Tucson Sector Border Patrol Chief Paul Beeson. “Smuggling drugs and people is a billion dollar business and the individuals in charge have one goal in mind: make as much money as possible delivering illicit narcotics and people across the border and into the United States,” Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security subcommittee, said during the hearing. “As we increase our focus this Congress on securing the border, we have to be clear-eyed about the dangerous and sophisticated threat that we face from our adversaries on the other side.” Watch her full opening statement below In one exchange with Chief Beeson, Rep. McSally described a barrier breech she had seen in which cartel members, with the aid of spotters, used welding equipment to create a gate in the border fence that could be used repeatedly without getting noticed by agents. “Do you think this level of sophistication is the new normal for cartel operations? Are there additional tools or authorities we need to give you in order to detect and interdict these types of operations so they don’t go on for years before they are detected?” she asked. “They are very sophisticated in their approach,” Chief Beeson responded. “They have the benefit of time. They have plenty of time to wait and seek the right opportunity to engage in their illegal opportunity. They use scouting networks. They utilize encrypted communications.” Chief Beeson went on to discuss improving situational awareness while continuing collaboration with local law enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations units, and intelligence gatherers. Watch the exchange HERE. Watch Rep. McSally’s other rounds of questioning HERE and HERE. Today’s hearing was the first hearing Rep. McSally chaired in the 115th Congress as the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. Last Congress, Rep. McSally chaired seven subcommittee hearings, including a field hearing in Sahuarita, that examined issues such as border effectiveness measurements, manning and infrastructure needs, the threat of visa overstays, and Border Patrol’s “defense-in-depth” strategy.
02.16.2017	Legislation Requires Agencies to Report on Regulations that Failed to Comply with Oversight Laws WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to mandate federal agencies report to Congress about regulations that did not comply with the Congressional Review Act (CRA). According to the text of the CRA, regulations that did not comply with mandated reporting requirements may be subject to overrule by Congress with majorities in both chambers. “Congress has a Constitutional responsibility to provide oversight of the executive branch,” said Rep. McSally. “Many agencies going back years have completely disregarded laws that guide lawmakers in their oversight role, making that job significantly harder. Today’s legislation would require federal agencies to catalog which regulations did not comply with the Congressional Review Act so that Congress can determine what, if any, additional actions are needed.” Under the Congressional Review Act, Congress can overrule regulations from the executive branch with simple majorities in both chambers through what’s called disapproval resolutions. The CRA details that regulations subject to overrule from Congress include only those going back 60 legislative days from when they were introduced or when their lawfully required reports were sent to Congress, whatever date comes later. The Require CRA Compliance Act requires all agencies to conduct a full inventory of rules and guidance that have been submitted since the CRA was signed into law, prioritizing major and significant regulations. The bill also requires agencies to submit a full account to Congress in three tranches over a 90-day period detailing which rules did not include the required report, thus making them eligible for disapproval from Congress. To read the full bill text, click HERE.
02.15.2017	100 Bipartisan House Members Sign McSally-led Letter Urging Restoration of Animal Welfare Reports WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today urged President Trump to restore online access to thousands of reports published by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The reports, which were previously available on the USDA’s website, detail animal welfare inspection results for roughly 9,000 licensed animal facilities, including dog and cat breeding facilities, laboratories, zoos, circuses, airlines, and Tennessee walking horse venues. The USDA removed the reports from its website on Friday, February 3. “The public has a right to know if regulated entities have subjected animals in their care to abuse or otherwise failed to meet basic welfare standards,” the lawmakers write in the letter. “Public access to information can guide consumer decision-making and plays an important role in deterring regulated entities from violating the law.” The letter was signed by 101 bipartisan House members (including Rep. McSally). “We should be increasing government transparency, not diminishing it and shielding those cited for violations of these key animal welfare laws,” the lawmakers continue. “We hope you will immediately restore what was removed from USDA’s website regarding the AWA and HPA, and resume posting inspection reports, annual reports, and other animal welfare related documents so that the public can access them in an efficient and timely way.” A PDF of the letter can be viewed HERE. The full letter text follows. The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We are writing today in response to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service’s (APHIS) decision to remove from its website key documents regarding enforcement and oversight of the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) and Horse Protection Act (HPA), including inspection reports for all regulated entities and annual reports submitted by research laboratories. We join a broad coalition of organizations – from animal welfare groups to pet store chains, biomedical research groups, and accredited zoos and aquariums – in urging the agency to restore comprehensive online, searchable access to these documents immediately in order to maintain ongoing transparency. Congress passed the Animal Welfare Act and the Horse Protection Act decades ago, and in recent years Congress has provided tens of millions of dollars for enforcement of these laws. USDA annually inspects approximately 9,000 licensed facilities including commercial dog and cat breeding facilities, laboratories, zoos, circuses, airlines, Tennessee walking horse shows, and other operations. The work product of USDA employees executing these enforcement programs – invaluable information about both compliant and non-compliant licensees – is valued by lawmakers; the media; a variety of industries that use animals in commerce, exhibition, and research; the animal welfare community; and the general public. These are two of our nation’s most important and broadly supported animal welfare programs. The public has a right to know if regulated entities have subjected animals in their care to abuse or otherwise failed to meet basic welfare standards. Public access to information can guide consumer decision-making and plays an important role in deterring regulated entities from violating the law. Public release of inspection reports and laboratory annual reports increases pressure on entities to abide by the rules. Access to these records has enabled the public to learn about many animal-care violations including by puppy mills, roadside zoos, and training barns engaged in cruel horse soring. It has also provided accountability for research facilities that violate the law, and allowed assessment of how many animals are used (often with taxpayer funding) for research that causes unrelieved pain. Lack of access to AWA and HPA documents not only undermines these federal laws, but also interferes with state and local laws meant to protect animals and consumers. For example, seven states currently prohibit the sale of dogs from breeding operations with a history of serious AWA violations. Without ready access to inspection reports, dog sellers in those states will have no practical way to comply with these laws, and state and local law enforcement efforts will be severely impeded. While the agency has indicated that the public can access these documents by submitting a request under the Freedom of Information Act, history has shown that such requests can take months, and even years, to fulfill. We should be increasing government transparency, not diminishing it and shielding those cited for violations of these key animal welfare laws. We hope you will immediately restore what was removed from USDA’s website regarding the Animal Welfare Act and Horse Protection Act, and resume posting inspection reports, annual reports, and other animal welfare related documents so that the public can access them in an efficient and timely way. Sincerely,
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation, the Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act, a bill to reverse a tax hike contained in the Affordable Care Act. The idea for the bill came from a constituent, Green Valley resident Loren Thorson, who sadly passed away last year. Last Congress, the bill passed the House 261 – 147 with 25 Democrats supporting. “First, Obamacare raised taxes on middle class families,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Now, seniors are being handed the bill for the failing law’s unsustainable costs. Americans deserve better. My thanks to Congresswoman Sinema for joining again in this fight to protect Arizonans. I look forward to working with her to get this bill through Congress.” “Arizonans continue to struggle with increasing health care costs,” said Congresswoman Sinema. “This commonsense legislation allows Arizona seniors and hardworking families to deduct more of their out-of-pocket health care expenses, a relief sorely needed during tough economic times. I will continue working with Congresswoman McSally and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to lower health care costs for Arizonans.” “Many Arizona seniors already face high out of pocket medical costs. Increasing this tax deduction threshold on them will only cost them more,” said Dana M. Kennedy, AARP Arizona State Director. “AARP is proud of the bipartisan work of Representative McSally and Representative Sinema to preserve this important medical deduction and help ensure seniors in Arizona with high health care costs do not also get hit with tax hikes.” Background Before the Affordable Care Act, the IRS allowed Americans with high health care costs to deduct certain out-of-pocket expenses from their taxes. Before 2017, seniors could deduct out-of-pocket medical costs that exceeded 7.5 percent of their Adjusted Gross Income (AGI). Starting this year, however, the law increased the threshold to 10% of a person’s AGI – effectively lowering how much can be deducted at the end of the year and increasing how much seniors will pay in taxes. The tax hike took effect on Americans under 65 starting in 2013. According to recent data from the IRS, more than 8.5 million people use this deduction, with 84 percent earning less than $100,000 per year and 49 percent earning less than $50,000 per year. Currently seniors make up 56 percent of all claimants of the medical expense deduction. The Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act reverses this increase on both seniors and Americans under 65. Read the full bill text HERE.
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally on Thursday at 10:00 a.m. ET will lead a hearing titled: “A Dangerous and Sophisticated Adversary: The Threat to the Homeland Posed by Cartel Operations.” This is the first hearing Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, will lead in the 115th Congress. “The cartels sending drugs across our border are nimble, innovative, and dangerous,” said Rep. McSally. “Their members put extensive energy and focus into finding ways to go over, under, around, and through our border defenses. This hearing will examine the threat posed by cartel operations to DHS’ border security efforts and the security of the Homeland.” Thursday’s hearing will be live-streamed HERE. Last year, Rep. McSally led a hearing that revealed Border Patrol only has 56% situational awareness of the border. Across the border, Mexican drug cartels conduct extensive counter-surveillance against U.S. agents and use innovative techniques to successfully smuggle illicit loads across the border.
02.10.2017	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally on Tuesday will hold a telephone town hall with thousands of AZ-02 residents, her second in a week. Constituents will have the opportunity to call in to ask their questions and hear about the latest legislative efforts in Congress. During last week’s hour-long call, Rep. McSally spoke with over 3,400 Southern Arizona residents about issues such as the Administration’s latest actions, health care reform, retirement programs, and border security. Members of the media are encouraged to listen-in. What: Telephone town hall Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally When: Tuesday, February 14 5:30 p.m. AZT Participant Dial-in Phone Number: (877) 229-8493 PIN: 114341 *Note: the phone number for constituents and members of the media is the same. Rep. McSally regularly holds telephone town halls to communicate with constituents while she is in Washington, D.C. Through this tool, she has reached over 25,000 constituents to discuss issues affecting Southern Arizona.
02.09.2017	Program Seeks to Inspire S. AZ Young Women CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD AN APPLICATION TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced her office is accepting applications for the Young Women’s Leadership Program. At the one-day event, which is open to high school girls living or attending school in the Second District, women leaders from around Southern Arizona will speak with participants about achieving more in their education and careers. “I’m passionate about this program because it shows girls in our community that their opportunity is limitless,” said Rep. McSally. “A role model can be a powerful thing, and we have so many incredibly accomplished women in Southern Arizona. Sharing their stories of perseverance and success can inspire the next generation of young women leaders to set their goals high and let nothing stand in their way.” In its second year of operation, the Young Women’s Leadership Program will provide participants the opportunity to engage with their peers and guests in candid discussions while sharing insights, advice, and stories. Last year’s event included women leaders in the fields of business, emergency response, education, and more. Participants and speakers from the 2016 YWLP Applications for the event, which will be held on April 22, can be found HERE or by visiting mcsally.house.gov. A panel of women leaders from the Second District will review the applications and select participants for the program. Applications can be turned in via fax at (520) 322-9490, emailed to Nancy Heiser at Nancy.Heiser@mail.house.gov, or delivered to the Tucson or Sierra Vista district offices. The deadline for applications is Friday, April 7 at 5:00 p.m.
02.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after Air Force Chief of Staff General David Goldfein stated at a media breakfast that the Air Force will retain all A-10 aircraft until at least 2021. “I welcome Gen Goldfein’s comments today about retaining all our A-10s until at least 2021. Air Force leadership clearly recognize that the previous decision to mothball the A-10 was a mistake and that this aircraft can continue to play a critical role in strengthening our national security. My provision in last year’s NDAA requiring an A-10/F-35 fly-off before any A-10 can be retired aligns with this timeline. I also applaud his comments about developing the requirements for a suitable replacement to follow the A-10. We need to start a serious discussion about what will preserve the A-10’s crucial capabilities in future Close Air Support scenarios, and I look forward to contributing to that discussion.”
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally tomorrow will hold a telephone town hall with thousands of AZ-02 residents about the top issues affecting Southern Arizona. Constituents will have the opportunity to call in to ask their questions and hear about the latest legislative efforts in Congress. Members of the media are encouraged to listen-in. What: Telephone town hall Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally When: Tuesday, February 7 1:00 p.m. AZT Participant Dial-in Phone Number: (877) 229-8493 PIN: 114341 *Note: the phone number for constituents and members of the media is the same. Rep. McSally regularly holds tele-town halls to communicate with constituents while she is in Washington, D.C. Since taking office, she has held over 30 town hall type events throughout Southern Arizona at various work places, non-profits, government offices, and senior centers.
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the Treasury Department announced new sanctions on Iran. “It’s about time we got serious about holding Iran accountable for its dangerous and destructive behavior. These sanctions send a strong message that Iran cannot continue to test ballistic missiles, build nuclear capabilities, and fund terrorism with impunity. Reversing the feckless Middle East policies of the last eight years will not happen overnight, but this is a good start.
02.02.2017	First Hearing on Cartel Threat to be Held Feb. 16 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced her appointment to chair the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, a position she has held since February 16, 2016. Last year, Rep. McSally chaired seven subcommittee hearings, including a field hearing in Sahuarita, that examined issues such as border effectiveness measurements, manning and infrastructure needs, the threat of visa overstays, and Border Patrol’s “defense-in-depth” strategy. “For Southern Arizonans, the border is an ever-present part of daily life,” said Rep. McSally. “It brings incredible economic opportunity, but also significant threats to public safety, such as those posed by smugglers and cartels. I am honored to once again chair a subcommittee that has such importance to the people I represent. I will continue in my role as chairwoman to fight for improved manning and infrastructure at our ports and for a smarter, more effective strategy that places our focus at the border and keeps our communities safe.” “I am honored to announce Rep. Martha McSally as Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee for the 115th Congress,” said Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee Michael McCaul. “As the first female fighter pilot to fly in combat, Rep. McSally brings a unique perspective on how to better protect the American people. I look forward to working alongside Congresswoman McSally to help resolve the challenges at the border and better secure our homeland." Rep. McSally’s short time as Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee already has produced key revelations about our border strategy. Her first hearing held on March 1, 2016 revealed that Border Patrol has situational awareness of only 56% of the border. Her questioning during a hearing she held on April 16, 2016 elicited testimony from a top Customs and Border Protection (CBP) official that the Douglas Port of Entry is a top infrastructure priority for the Administration and would be included in CBP’s five-year infrastructure plan. At a field hearing she chaired on May 9, 2016, Southern Arizonans testified about the experiences of local residents living along the border. The hearing featured two panels of witnesses representing a wide spectrum of views, including local law enforcement, Border Patrol, local government, business owners, non-profits, ranchers, and border residents. Rep. McSally is scheduled to chair her first subcommittee hearing of the 115th Congress on February 16th. The hearing will focus on the threats posed by cartels along the southern border.
02.01.2017	Think Tank Recommends, “fielding a viable replacement CAS capability before eliminating the capability the A-10 provides…” WASHINGTON, D.C. – The RAND Corporation recently released a report prepared for the U.S. Army affirming U.S. Rep. McSally’s persistent arguments for retaining the A-10 aircraft. After analyzing Air Force plans and alternative options, the defense research organization in its report recommended fielding a viable Close Air Support replacement before eliminating the capability the A-10 provides, a key requirement for which Rep. McSally has fought. “This report presents yet another finding that retiring the A-10 without a tested, proven replacement would endanger troops’ lives,” said Rep. McSally. “As I’ve persistently argued, the A-10’s one-of-a-kind munition payload, survivability, and ability to loiter over a battlefield make it uniquely suited for Close Air Support. We must have an A-10, F-35 fly-off before any A-10 can be retired. We also must develop requirements for what will eventually replace the Warthog, which needs to be operational before eliminating any A-10 aircraft.” Last year’s NDAA, which was signed into law on December 23, 2016, included a provision authored by Rep. McSally to mandate an A-10, F-35 fly-off before any A-10 can be retired. The legislation details what capabilities a fly-off must test, including Close Air Support and Combat Search and Rescue, two missions currently performed by the A-10. The RAND report follows an analysis from the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) released in August 2016 highlighting the serious capability gaps that would occur under the Air Force’s proposals to prematurely retire the A-10 Warthog. The full RAND report can be read here: https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RR1233.html Highlights include: Recommendation “…we recommend fielding a viable replacement CAS capability before eliminating the capability the A-10 provides to minimize risk to ground forces.” (pg. 22) Affordability “The A-10 is inexpensive relative to the multirole fighters that are the most likely alternatives.” (pg. 16) Comparison to F-35 “Aircraft operating at higher altitudes are less visible, which could affect the morale of both friendly and enemy troops. Visibility works the other way, as well: Higher operating altitudes suggest that the ability of F-35 pilots may be less able to develop a detailed picture of an ongoing ground battle than A-10 pilots have been, which can be a concern when friendly troops are operating in close proximity to the enemy may.” (pg. 17) “However, the lower loiter time of the F-35A means that the aircraft will spend less time on station than the A-10 can. Also, the F-35A would normally carry less ordnance than the A-10 does. These points mean that the F-35A brings less firepower to the ground battle than the A-10 and that, once the aircraft is on station, it takes longer for ordnance to impact targets.” (pg. 17) Unique, in-demand attributes “During interviews we conducted, many ground commanders expressed a preference for the 30mm cannon over precision bombs because the cannon is highly accurate (80 percent of rounds within a 20-ft radius at 4,000-ft range), is better able to hit moving targets than even precision bombs, and produces less collateral damage than bombs.2 Also, many missions involved a show of force, in which aircraft flew low and slow over the U.S. ground forces to deter adversary activity.” (pg. 20) Action against ISIS “Active only since November 2014 against the militant state, A-10s have performed 11 percent of U.S. Air Force ground-attack sorties. Only the more-numerous F-16s, which have been targeting ISIS months longer, have a higher percentage of total attacks.” (pg. 13)
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the selection of Ronald D. Vitiello as Chief of the U.S. Border Patrol. Rep. McSally serves as the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “Chief Vitiello brings vast experience at nearly all levels of the Border Patrol. I look forward to working with him to build a smarter, more effective border strategy that increases our situational awareness and operational control and keeps our border residents safe.”
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Three bills sponsored by U.S. Representative Martha McSally today passed the House of Representatives, her first bills to clear the chamber in the 115th Congress. Two of the bills, The DHS Support for Fusion Centers Act and The CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing Act, increase information sharing between federal, state, and local officials about terrorist threats. The third bill, the Border Security Technology Accountability Act, requires critical accountability mechanisms for new border acquisition programs, ensuring they meet cost and timeline projections. All three bills passed the House today with unanimous support. “Southern Arizonans want to see action, not just talk, on their priorities like keeping our country and communities safe,” said Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “Today’s bills are a direct result of meetings and hearings I’ve held with security officials in Arizona and nationally. They help ensure local law enforcement have the information needed to prepare and protect against known threats, while ensuring taxpayer dollars are used as efficiently and effectively as possible to improve border security. I look forward to working with my Senate counterparts to advance this legislation and send it to the President’s desk.” Rep. McSally today led debate on the House floor on her three bills. Watch CSPAN footage below. The CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing Act puts in place information sharing practices between DHS and local law enforcement agencies related to attacks using chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear agents. The DHS Support for Fusion Centers Act requires federal intelligence officials assess the personnel needs at regional fusion centers and determine if additional access to classified information is needed. The Border Security Technology Accountability Act requires that new border technology programs: Implement Acquisition Program Baselines before moving to the next phase of the acquisition cycle; Adhere to internal controls identified by the Comptroller General of the United States, and; Have a plan for testing and evaluation as well as use independent verification and evaluation resources.
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s border security executive order. Rep. McSally serves as the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “For years, Southern Arizonans have called for the federal government to step up and secure our border – and this order is a strong start in the right direction. They untie the hands of our Border Patrol Agents and allow them to do their jobs. They also mandate the release of regular border effectiveness data, which is critical to fully understanding the problem. When it comes to barriers, they are important where appropriate, but only part of the equation. What we need is a comprehensive strategy to grow situational awareness, build operational control, and dismantle the cartels and their networks. As Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, I will continue to work to place the necessary resources at the border and advocate for a smarter, more effective strategy.”
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced two bills, the CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing Act and the DHS Support for Fusion Centers Act, to better prepare local communities against terrorist attacks. The bills’ introduction comes one day ahead of the Corporate Security Symposium, a daylong event being held in Tucson tomorrow for local business representatives to hear from Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials about the evolving terror threat. “Information about known terror threats does little good if it never reaches local officials,” said Rep. McSally. “There’s just too much at stake to allow a failure to work together to put our communities at risk. That’s why I’m introducing this legislation to help ensure local law enforcement have the tools, information, and personnel they need to keep us safe.” The CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing Act puts in place information sharing practices between DHS and local law enforcement agencies related to attacks using chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear agents. The DHS Support for Fusion Centers Act requires federal intelligence officials assess the personnel needs at regional fusion centers and determine if additional access to classified information is needed. Tomorrow’s Corporate Security Symposium is being hosted in Tucson thanks to Rep. McSally’s persistent advocacy efforts. Over 200 representatives from the business community are expected to attend. Watch Rep. McSally’s recorded welcome message HERE. Both of today’s bills passed the House in the 114th Congress. To view the legislative text for the CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing Act, click HERE. To view the legislative text for the DHS Support for Fusion Centers Act, click HERE.
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced its nomination of former Congresswoman Heather Wilson to serve as Secretary of the Air Force. “I have known Heather Wilson for years and have sought her guidance and advice many times in the past. She is a principled, servant-leader who has demonstrated her intellect, integrity and talent in the military, in Congress, and in the private sector. She is immensely qualified to serve as Secretary of the Air Force and I commend her nomination.”
01.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally and Senator John McCain today introduced legislation to improve the management of new border technology acquisitions. The legislation, which passed the House unanimously last Congress, ensures that new border technology programs are equipped with basic cost-control mechanisms, such as acquisition baselines and a plan for meeting schedule and performance goals. “This bill is a no-brainer. These important accountability tools should be standard practice across the federal government to ensure taxpayer dollars are used as efficiently as possible,” said Congresswoman McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “Especially with a mission as critical as securing our border and keeping our country and communities safe, we have to make sure every resource goes toward completing that mission, not waste. My thanks to Senator McCain for working with us again on this important legislation.” “New technologies such as video and radar surveillance are critical to securing our borders,” said Senator McCain. “However, widespread mismanagement and a lack of accountability within our federal bureaucracy has prevented us from using these technologies to stop illegal immigration, put an end to human trafficking, and reduce crime in communities in Arizona and across the Southwest. We owe it to the people of our state to responsibly manage their tax dollars by efficiently implementing border security technologies, and this bill is an important step in that direction.” In the 114th Congress, the Border Security Technology Accountability Act passed the House unanimously on July 27, 2015. It passed the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee on October 15, 2015. Specifically, today’s legislation requires that new border technology programs: Implement Acquisition Program Baselines before moving to the next phase of the acquisition cycle; Adhere to internal controls identified by the Comptroller General of the United States, and; Have a plan for testing and evaluation as well as use independent verification and evaluation resources. View the full bill text HERE.
01.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today recognized two Southern Arizona young women on the House floor for serving as role models in their communities. Macy Maine from Buena High School and Hannah Mason from Pusch Ridge Christian Academy both recently were given the 2016 Brilliant, Beautiful and Bold Role Model Award from the Girls Rule Foundation. The award only went to four recipients this year and recognizes standout young women leaders who are making a difference. Watch the speech below Transcript Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize two Southern Arizona young women for their achievements and for serving as role models in their communities. Macy Maine, a senior at Buena High School, and Hannah Mason, a senior at Pusch Ridge Christian Academy, were recently given the 2016 Brilliant, Beautiful and Bold Role Model Award from the Girls Rule Foundation. The award recognizes only a handful of young women across the state who are making a difference. Macy was given the award for her active engagement in the community. She represented her high school as an American Legion Arizona Girls State delegate, is an All-American Cheerleader, and represented her city at the Power Up Teen Leadership Conference. She is a frequent volunteer and hopes to enter public service. Hannah has been a selfless leader for her family and community. After a car accident took the life of her father and severely injured her older sister, Hannah stepped up to care for her family. She helped her sister through multiple surgeries while continuing to excel at school and remain active in the community. She hopes to enter medical school one day. Mr. Speaker, I congratulate both Macy and Hannah for being inspirational role models to their peers, and wish them best of luck as they continue to pursue their dreams.
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after voting to provide a waiver for General James Mattis to serve as Secretary of Defense. Current law prohibits a regular commissioned officer of the Armed Forces from serving as Secretary of Defense within seven years of service without an exception passed by Congress. “This is the first time in 67 years this type of waiver is being considered, and I do not take it lightly. As a 26-year Air Force veteran, I am especially aware of the importance of the principle of civilian control of our military. While I am disappointed that the transition team restricted General Mattis from appearing before the House Armed Services Committee yesterday, I was able to speak with him over the phone to discuss my concerns. Given the many threats we currently face and the importance of providing stability at the head of our military, I believe providing this waiver today is right and appropriate.”
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after voting for a concurrent resolution setting forth the congressional budget for fiscal year 2017, which will guide the legislative process to repeal and replace the failing Affordable Care Act. “Southern Arizonans deserve access to affordable, quality health care that provides them with choice and meets their needs. Obamacare, which was flawed from the beginning, is collapsing under its own weight – and nowhere have families and individuals been hit harder than Arizona, where premiums are rising faster than anywhere in the country. Today’s vote is the first step to repealing the failing Affordable Care Act and replacing it with legislation that brings down costs, increases competition, and ensures Americans have access to quality health care. Like many I’ve spoken to in Southern Arizona, I have concerns about providing for the transition to a better health care system, and throughout this week, I have engaged with House leadership and my colleagues to voice and address those concerns. As we move forward, my focus will be on providing continuity and certainty for my constituents to ensure they have access to the health care they need during this transition.”
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Two days ahead of the sixth anniversary of the January 8, 2011 shooting, U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to designate a permanent January 8th National Memorial. Following the bill’s introduction, she led a press conference in the Gabriel Zimmerman Meeting room in the U.S. Capitol along with members of the Arizona delegation to discuss the significance of the legislation and memorial. “What happened six years ago wasn’t just an attack on our community, but an assault on civil discourse and representative government,” said Rep. McSally. “I’m honored to introduce this legislation and lead this effort on behalf of Southern Arizonans for whom, this memorial means so much.” To watch portions of the press conference, click below\ January 8th National Memorial Act will establish the January 8th National Memorial as an Affiliated Area of the National Park Service (NPS). The designation will allow the National Park Service to list the January 8th National Memorial as a part of NPS and will recognize the significance of the memorial. Additionally, the bill will allow NPS to engage in activities on the memorial’s grounds as well as include the memorial in any NPS informational materials produced. Arizona Senators John McCain and Jeff Flake are expected to introduce companion legislation in the Senate. To view the bill text, click HERE. Yesterday, Rep. McSally led a moment of silence on the House floor to honor the 13 victims wounded and 6 killed on January 8, 2011. This Sunday, she will participate in Tucson's January 8th Memorial Foundation Human Embrace event at Hi Corbett Field, which begins at 2:00 p.m.
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led the House of Representatives in a moment of silence honoring the victims of the January 8, 2011 shooting in Tucson. The moment of silence comes a day before Rep. McSally announced she will introduce legislation to designate a permanent January 8th National Memorial. Watch the moment of silence below Transcript Mr. Speaker, I rise today along with my colleagues from Arizona and around the country to commemorate the sixth anniversary of the January 8th, 2011 shooting in Tucson that killed six people and wounded thirteen more. Six years ago this week, Congresswoman Giffords was sworn into office, just like we were 3 days ago. Six years ago this week, she headed home to her district, just like we all will tomorrow. And 6 years ago on Sunday, she was engaging in one of the most fundamental activities of representative government by meeting with her constituents to hear their thoughts, concerns and ideas...just like we will all do in the days ahead. As representatives, we each carry out this critical discourse when home in our districts. Its exercise is vital to our free society, which is why this shooting wasn’t just an attack on Tucson, but this body and on our very democratic foundations. The attack marked the first time in our country’s history that an assassination attempt was made on a Congressional Member while she was meeting with constituents. It also is remembered as the first assassination of a congressional staffer, Gabe Zimmerman, in the line of duty. As we remember those we lost, we also reflect on the renewed sense of compassion and civility that emerged from this tragedy. This weekend in Tucson, we will commemorate how our community came together to support those grieving and provide an example of courage and unity that the entire country could follow. It is in that spirit of unity that we stand here for a moment of silence to remember the six lives cut tragically short that day: Nine year old Christina Taylor Green Dorothy Morris Judge John Roll Phyllis Schneck Dorwan Stoddard And Congressional staffer Gabriel "Gabe" Zimmerman
01.04.2017	Press Conference to Be Held Friday in the U.S. Capitol’s Gabe Zimmerman Room WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally will lead members of the Arizona Congressional delegation to introduce legislation this Friday designating a permanent national memorial to honor the victims of the January 8, 2011 shooting in Tucson. The shooting took the lives of six individuals and wounded thirteen more, including former U.S. Representatives Gabrielle Giffords and Ron Barber. “Six years ago, our community changed forever when 19 people were shot as Representative Giffords met with her constituents,” said Rep. McSally. “This attack on our democracy resulted in six deaths, including the first assassination of a congressional staffer, Gabe Zimmerman, in the line of duty. While the pain and grief for those we lost will always be with us, we also remember how Tucson came together to show courage, compassion, and unity in the face of this tragedy. Our community’s response stood as an example of love for the entire country, and in designating this memorial, we move one step closer to permanently enshrining that spirit and the memory of those killed. My thanks to Senators John McCain and Jeff Flake and my Arizona House colleagues for partnering with me in this effort. I look forward to working with them to move this legislation forward.” "As we mark six years since the senseless shooting in Tucson that claimed the lives of six innocent Arizonans and injured 13 others, we continue to pray for the families and friends of all those impacted by this terrible tragedy," said Senator McCain. "The spontaneous memorials that sprang up around our community in the wake of this act of violence clearly conveyed the spirit of solidarity among all Arizonans in the face of such evil. I'm proud to support our community's effort to build a permanent memorial that will honor the heroism and perseverance of all those killed and wounded, including my friend Gabby Giffords, and thank the brave first responders, law enforcement and community leaders who risked their own lives for the sake of others." “January 8th is a day none of us will forget, both for the tragic violence we witnessed as well as for the strength shown by the Tucson community. A permanent memorial will help teach the community about the heartbreak and bravery we saw that day,” said Senator Flake. "The Tucson shootings of Congresswoman Giffords and eighteen others were an attack on democracy in the United States,” said Ross Zimmerman, father of former Rep. Giffords staffer Gabe Zimmerman, and a member of Tucson's January 8th Memorial Foundation. “It was an important event in our country's history. I appreciate the work of Congresswoman McSally and the entire Arizona Congressional delegation to introduce this legislation and designate a memorial that will become part of the National Park System." Rep. McSally’s legislation will establish the January 8th National Memorial as an Affiliated Area of the National Park Service (NPS). The designation will allow the National Park Service to list the January 8th National Memorial as a part of NPS and will recognize the significance of the memorial. Additionally, the bill will allow NPS to engage in activities on the memorial’s grounds as well as include the memorial in any NPS informational materials produced. A press conference will be held Friday, January 6th following the bill’s introduction. The event will be live-streamed on Rep. McSally’s Facebook page. Please RSVP for the press conference to Patrick Ptak at (202) 603-3100 or Patrick.Ptak@mail.house.gov. What: Press Conference for introduction of January 8th National Memorial Legislation Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally Members of the Arizona Delegation Representatives from Tucson's January 8th Memorial Foundation Where: Gabriel Zimmerman Meeting Room (HVC-215) U.S. Capitol When: Friday, January 6 10:00 a.m. ET/8:00 a.m. AZT
12.16.2016	TUCSON – With temperatures falling and a widespread freeze expected Sunday, the Office of U.S. Representative Martha McSally has taken action to expedite the delivery of blankets to Tucson. The 10,000 blankets are being delivered through the Homeless Blanket Program, a congressionally funded program administered by the Department of Defense. The blankets were originally not scheduled to arrive in Tucson until middle to late January. “As freezing temperatures become more frequent, we want to make sure our community is as prepared as possible to help those in need,” said Rep. McSally. “After hearing about reports of delayed blankets from Councilmember Fimbres’ office, I directed my staff to look into the situation and see what could be done. I’m very pleased to say the blankets requested by the Salvation Army of Southern Arizona will be delivered before the New Year, not in January as originally planned. I also want to recognize the tremendous response from our community and the efforts of so many individuals to donate blankets in the near-term. Southern Arizonans proved once again there’s no community more caring and willing to step up and help than ours.” “This shows when our community has challenges, Tucson comes together, doesn’t scapegoat or place blame. We roll up our sleeves and solve them,” Tucson Councilmember Richard Fimbres said. “I want to thank Congresswoman McSally for her swift action in getting our allotment of blankets back on track. I also want to thank members of our community, who stepped up to donate blankets and help our most vulnerable and most needy citizens. The timing of this couldn’t be better since we received reports of upcoming cold weather changes.” “We are happy to report that 10,000 disaster blankets requested from the Department of Defense for The Salvation Army Hospitality House will be arriving December 27th,” said Salvation Army Tucson Area Coordinator Major George Rocheleau. “When word went out on local TV stations that we had a shortage of blankets, the community responded. The Salvation Army would like to thank Congresswoman McSally for her leadership to get this delivery expedited and everyone in the community for their unselfish response in ensuring that anyone in need of a warm blanket is provided with one. Thank you for Caring and Sharing.” “Our organization that serves homeless people is very appreciative of Congresswoman McSally stepping up, pushing the right buttons, and getting this moving so we can get blankets delivered sooner,” said Art Gage, Co-chair of Tucson Pima Collaboration to End Homelessness. “It’s been great to see a lot of different organizations coming together and dealing with this immediate problem to get it fixed.”
12.02.2016	Bill Includes Funding for Missions at DM, Fort Huachuca, S. AZ. Defense Suppliers WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), comprehensive defense legislation that contained numerous Southern Arizona priorities tirelessly championed by U.S. Representative Martha McSally. The legislation contains full funding for the A-10 and EC-130H Compass Call, two aircraft stationed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, as well as provisions to retain and help expand missions at Fort Huachuca. “Today’s bill is a win for Southern Arizona and our national defense,” said Congresswoman McSally. “The legislation includes provisions I advocated for to protect Southern Arizona’s critical military assets, including the A-10 and EC-130H and missions at Fort Huachuca, as well as language I authored to mandate an A-10/F-35 fly-off. It also increases end strength, preserves our most vital aircraft, includes the largest pay raise for troops in six years, and funds weapon systems, like the Tomahawk missile produced in Southern Arizona, we need to take on ISIS and other emerging threats. Providing for the common defense is the most important obligation we have to the American people. I’m proud to see this legislation begin to reverse the atrophying of our armed services and ensure our military has the training, resources, and manpower it needs to keep Americans safe.” “On behalf of the DM50, I want to thank Congresswoman McSally for her efforts to preserve Southern Arizona’s all-important military assets in this legislation,” said Bob Logan, President of the DM50. “Both of Davis-Monthan’s signature flying missions, the A-10 and EC-130H, are given full authorization in this bill. We also recognize her work to protect Southern Arizona’s growing defense industry, including one of the area’s largest employers in Raytheon Missile Systems that is receiving orders to build additional missiles for multiple platforms. These are important victories for everyone in our community, and we appreciate Congresswoman McSally’s leadership to keep our valuable defense assets strong at Davis-Monthan AFB and in Southern Arizona.” "While we are still in the process of reviewing the Bill for issues affecting Fort Huachuca, we are thrilled that it recognizes our consistent efforts to preserve and replenish water resources in Southern Arizona,” said Kevin Peterson, President of the Huachuca 50. “We look forward to continued support from CM McSally on enhancing critical capabilities and advocating for new missions for the Fort." “The Southern AZ Defense Alliance (SADA) appreciates the leadership of the Arizona congressional delegation regarding the passage of the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), including that of US Rep. Martha McSally in her service on the US House Armed Services Committee,” said Larry Lucero, President of SADA. “Her steadfast support for the USAF Davis Monthan Air Force Base and for the US Army’s Fort Huachuca is greatly valued, including preserving current missions but also creating the possibility of bringing additional missions to these great military installations in Southern Arizona.” In addition to providing full funding for the aircraft stationed at Davis Monthan Air Force Base and missions at Fort Huachuca, today’s legislation includes a provision authored by Rep. McSally to mandate an A-10, F-35 fly-off before any A-10 can be retired. The legislation details what capabilities a fly-off must test, including Close Air Support and Combat Search and Rescue, two missions currently performed by the A-10. More about that fly-off can be read in Rep. McSally’s op-ed HERE. Additional Southern Arizona priorities contained in today’s legislation include: Provisions to retain and help expand missions at Fort Huachuca, including the laboratory and testing evaluation center, Electronic Proving Grounds, and Remotely Piloted Aircraft; Language to address pharmacy wait times at military medical treatment facilities; Language to facilitate growth capabilities within the electromagnetic spectrum, a key Fort Huachuca priority; Funding for 196 Tomahawk missiles to be produced by Raytheon Missile Systems; Provisions supporting Raytheon’s Joint Air to Ground missiles; And an amendment to streamline the hiring of veterans as Customs and Border Protection Officers and Agents along the border.
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today hammered the Administration’s arbitrary Iraq and Afghanistan troop level restrictions, known as Force Management Levels, and their impact on completing the mission. Questioning former military generals and a member of a government watchdog agency during a House Armed Services Committee hearing, Rep. McSally referenced her own experience commanding an A-10 fighter squadron and leading CODELs to Afghanistan to highlight flaws in the Administration’s current troop policy. “I led a CODEL back to Afghanistan, and have been there myself in uniform, and have deep concerns seeing what we’re talking about here first-hand – with also commanders and others spending a tremendous amount of time to find workarounds and measure the jerry-rigging in order to comply,” she said. Responding to the question of what the alternative to establishing “random numbers” would be, Rep. McSally said: “It would be to set strategic objectives in these theaters, identify what we’re trying to do, and figure out what we need to get the mission done – and then that ends up being the number.” In 2015 and 2016, Rep. McSally led a Congressional delegation of women lawmakers to Afghanistan to meet with U.S. service members and commanders on the ground and receive mission briefings on military operations in the region. In her questioning, she highlighted the practice of commanders using temporary workarounds, such as placing units on Temporary Duty Assignment (TDY), in order to deploy units to combat zones while staying below force level caps. “When I was there in the spring, we had entire units TDY’ed to Helmand Province to help stop the bleeding there. You don’t go TDY to Helmand Province, you go TDY to Nellis Air Force Base. To be calling TDY to a combat zone, to be out there addressing the combat situation is ridiculous and that’s what these random force management levels have created.” Closing out her questioning, Rep. McSally requested from the Government Accountability Office an analysis of the costs of hosting critical capabilities, such as Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) and Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR), outside of countries where they are needed to include financial costs and the risk to troops’ lives.
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation sponsored by U.S. Representative Martha McSally to help local communities better treat mental health. The legislation, a part of Congresswoman McSally’s Mental Health and Safe Communities Act, includes provisions to provide support to mentally-ill offenders re-entering the community, expand assistance to individuals with co-occurring substance abuse and mental health disorders, and improve training for law enforcement to better identify and respond to instances involving mental illness. “For too long, our failed mental health care system has left families and communities with nowhere to turn. Today, that changes,” said Rep. McSally. “The House-passed legislation includes provisions I sponsored to help communities better respond to mental health crises and provide better treatment options for families and individuals struggling with mental illness. These provisions were the result of months of hard work and the bipartisan support of a diverse group of lawmakers and organizations, including mental health advocates and law enforcement. Today’s landmark bill also overhauls our mental health system for the first time in 50 years. I’m proud to see these important reforms pass the House and will continue to work to get them passed in the Senate and signed into law.” “One way we can help those with mental illness get the treatment they need is by ensuring that families, law enforcement and our criminal justice system are equipped to respond to mental health crises and provide treatment to mentally ill individuals in need of help,’” said Sen. John Cornyn, who introduced the Mental Health and Safe Communities Act in the Senate. “Fixing our mental health system is more important than ever, and I’m glad these bipartisan reforms are included in the 21st Century Cures legislation.” Rep. McSally’s legislation that passed the House today was originally included in the Mental Health and Safe Communities Act, which she introduced on October 8, 2015. The bill has bipartisan support in the House and has been endorsed by a wide array of organizations including mental health and law enforcement advocates. Since taking office, Rep. McSally has placed a strong focus on helping families and communities better respond to mental health issues. In January, she held a roundtable with over 30 representatives from Southern Arizona non-profits, hospitals, mental health and veterans organizations, and law enforcement to discuss addressing mental health. She participated in a ride-along with a Pima County Sheriff’s deputy to view the department’s mental health programs first-hand. She has visited the Arizona Superior Court Mental Health Court to meet with Judge Danelle Liwski and toured the federal prison in Tucson and the UA Emergency Room to hear how mental illness is currently being treated at those facilities. She also recently toured and met with leadership at the Sonora Behavioral Health Center in Tucson. Legislation introduced by Rep. McSally that passed the House today include provisions to: Expand funding for the creation of mental health response and corrections programs; Develop and implement specialized residential substance abuse treatment programs that provide treatment to individuals with co-occurring mental health and substance abuse disorders. Authorize grants to be used for the creation of court-ordered outpatient treatment programs to prevent the escalation of mental health crises; Divert low-level offenders from incarceration to treatment programs; And allow funds to be used to develop and operate school-based mental health crisis intervention teams that include coordination with law enforcement agencies and specialized training for school officials. For a full list of Rep. McSally’s mental health provisions to pass the House today, click HERE (the provisions begin on page 29, Title XIV, Sec. 140001-14029).
11.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of the Iran Sanctions Extension Act, legislation to extend sanctions on Iran for 10 years. Originally enacted in 1996, the provisions put in place by the Iran Sanctions Act are set to expire by the end of the year. Today’s bill extends sanctions on Iran’s illicit weapons programs and ballistic missile development that were not suspended as part of the nuclear deal and provides legal statutory authority to re-impose or “snap-back” many of the most powerful sanctions on Iran’s energy industry. “Instead of reigning in Iran’s destructive actions, the Administration’s nuclear deal has emboldened Iranian leadership as they continue to march toward a nuclear capability,” said Rep. McSally. “Iran, infused with billions in fresh cash from the nuclear deal, continues to fund terrorism throughout the Middle East. They continue to test and develop intercontinental ballistic missiles in violation of international agreements. And they continue to declare their ambitions to see the destruction of Israel.” “Today’s legislation extends the tools at our disposal to prevent Iran’s acquisition of weapons and ballistic missiles and sends a strong message that the House is serious about holding Iran to its international obligations.” Rep. McSally has continually opposed the Iran nuclear deal, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and its dangerous provisions. In an August 2015 op-ed in the Arizona Daily Star, she wrote: “Under the deal, Iran gets $100 billion in immediate sanctions relief with hundreds of billions more over the next decade to funnel to their terrorist proxies. Sanctions are lifted on Soleimani and other dangerous officials just when they are starting to have effect. All while Iranians continue to chant “Death to America” and declare Israel should be wiped off the map.” On September 14, 2015, Rep. McSally voted in opposition to H.R. 3461, a bill to approve the Iran agreement. The deal failed to pass the House 162-269, with 25 Democrats opposing it. Also on that day, Rep. McSally supported H.R. 3460, a bill to suspend the President’s authority to lift sanctions on Iran pursuant to the agreement. That bill passed the House 247-186. Speaking on the House floor before the September 14th vote, Rep. McSally said: “I rise today on behalf of those who do not have a voice in this debate, and that’s the over 500 service men and women who died in Iraq because of the export of vehicle-borne IED technology by Iran and the brutal terrorist leader, Qassem Soleimani…This is a slap in the face to those who paid that sacrifice.” The Iran Sanctions Extension Act passed the House 419-1 and now goes to the Senate.
11.14.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to a VA Office of Inspector General (VA OIG) report on allegations of inaccurate wait-time reporting at the Southern Arizona Veterans Affairs Health Care System (SAVAHCS) facility. “Accurate record keeping and transparency are absolutely crucial to improving care for our veterans. While I’m glad that the issues related to misreporting of doctor wait times highlighted in today’s report have been corrected, it’s important the VA investigate how these improper scheduling practices became part of the accepted and taught protocols in the first place. Ahead of Veterans Day we are reminded of our duty to provide the absolute best care possible for our nation’s heroes. I will continue to work hard to ensure veterans in Southern Arizona and across the country are receiving the timely, quality medical care they deserve.” Read the full VA OIG report HERE.
11.06.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the death of Staff Sgt. Kevin J. McEnroe, who was killed on November 4th in a shooting outside a military base in Jordan. Staff Sgt. McEnroe, a Green Beret from the 5th Special Forces Group and Tucson native, was deployed overseas in support of Operation Inherent Resolve. “My heart goes out to the family and loved ones of Staff Sgt. Kevin McEnroe. Staff Sgt. McEnroe had completed more than 8 years of service and was on his third overseas deployment. He put his life on the line for a higher purpose and sacrificed so that others would be kept safe. Such a tragic loss is felt by our entire community, and he will be remembered and honored for his brave and selfless service.” Staff Sgt. Kevin J. McEnroe’s awards include the Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal, Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, NCO Professional Development Ribbon (numeral 2), and Army Service Ribbon.
10.27.2016	Local Leaders Stress Importance of Cherrybell TUCSON – At the invitation of U.S. Representative Martha McSally, U.S. Representative Mark Meadows (NC-11), who is the Chairman of the House subcommittee overseeing the U.S. Postal Service (USPS), today joined local elected officials and community leaders for a tour of the Cherrybell Postal Processing Center and roundtable discussion. Local leaders who spoke about Cherrybell’s impact included U.S. Representative Raul Grijalva, Mayor Jonathan Rothschild, Tucson Council Member Richard Fimbres, and Pima County Recorder F. Ann Rodriguez. “Today was about coming together to show our united support for keeping Cherrybell open,” said Congresswoman Martha McSally. “A lot of good insights were gained from our tour and discussion about how we can continue to work together to make the case for this facility in the long-term, which really impacts everyone in Southern Arizona. I thank Chairman Meadows for taking the time to come across the country to see Cherrybell and hear from local leaders in person about why this issue is so critical.” "I'm glad to be here in Southern Arizona at the invitation of Congresswoman McSally, who has been a persistent advocate for the Cherrybell Postal Facility and keeping it open," said Congressman Mark Meadows, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Government Operations. "It was very helpful today to tour the facility and hear first-hand from members of the community about how important this facility is to Southern Arizona and the people who rely on it for timely mail service." "I was glad to join Congresswoman McSally and Chairman Meadows in a bipartisan display to keep Cherrybell postal center open," said Congressman Raul Grijalva. "We look forward to our joint continued efforts." “Keeping Cherrybell open is not just important for the people who work there, but the 26,000 small businesses, the two tribes, and the countless seniors and veterans that rely on it,” said Tucson Council Member Richard Fimbres, whose Ward 5 District includes the Cherrybell facility. “I’m really thankful that Congresswoman McSally brought the Chairman here so he could see first-hand how this issue impacts the way of life for so many people in Southern Arizona.” “All ballots have to come through Phoenix, whether you live in Cochise County down to Santa Cruz,” said Pima County Recorder F. Ann Rodriguez. “That’s why this is important to the whole Southern Arizona community to keep Cherrybell open. It’s non-partisan, as you could see at the table today, and we really appreciated Chairman Meadows coming in for this discussion.” “McSally did a spectacular job bringing the Chairman here to be part of this discussion,” said George Kalil, President of Kalil Bottling Co. in Tucson. “This fight is important because the loss of some services at Cherrybell have already hurt businesses. It has hurt residential and labor. But as far as I’m concerned, with the leadership and support we have here, we’re going to win.” Pima County Recorder F. Ann Rodriguez, Council Member Richard Fimbres, U.S. Representative Martha McSally, and U.S. Representative Mark Meadows tour the Cherrybell Postal Processing Center (From left) Director of Governor Ducey’s Southern Arizona Office Juan Ciscomani, U.S. Representative Raul Grijalva, Council Member Richard Fimbres, Pima County Recorder F. Ann Rodriguez, and U.S. Representative Mark Meadows following a tour of the Cherrybell facility Local leaders discuss the importance of the Cherrybell Postal Processing Facility at a roundtable discussion held at Council Member Richard Fimbres Ward Five Office Since taking office, Rep. McSally has worked closely with Council Member Richard Fimbres to coordinate local and federal efforts in support of the Cherrybell Postal Processing Facility. In March, Rep. McSally led a bipartisan group of over 30 lawmakers to call on Postmaster General Megan Brennan to update studies used to justify the consolidation of postal facilities around the country. In a response later that month, Deputy Postmaster General Ronald Stroman confirmed that the current studies will be updated and reviewed before any future decisions are made. The USPS response also confirmed that previous plans to close down facilities, including Cherrybell, continue to be deferred.
10.26.2016	TUCSON - U.S. Representative Martha McSally today issued the following statement about the Department of Defense’s decision to suspend the collection of bonuses awarded to veterans: “The men and women who served our country honorably, many in harm’s way, should not be punished years after the fact for an error they did not commit. I’m glad to see Secretary Carter do the right thing by suspending the recollection of these payments. The Pentagon also needs to provide a fair solution for those who have already paid for these errors. In addition, Congress must act. The House has already passed legislation to fix this problem going forward and make sure it doesn’t happen again, and I’ll continue to work to see that it gets signed into law.” In addition to voting for the legislation mentioned above, Rep. McSally today joined over 100 of her colleagues to call on Defense Secretary Carter to waive the bonus recoupment for appropriate cases under authorities already enacted and to provide more information about the scope of the issue, including whether other states have been affected.
10.20.2016	McSally Highlights Importance of Fort Huachuca, DM During Tours and Discussions with Community Leaders TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally this week hosted House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) in Southern Arizona, where he toured Fort Huachuca and Davis-Monthan Air Force Base and spoke with community leaders. The visit provided Chairman Thornberry a first-hand look at Southern Arizona’s unique military installations as well as the opportunity to hear about their impact on the community. “I appreciate Martha’s invitation to come and see first-hand the military capability in Southern Arizona,” said Chairman Thornberry. “She has been a leader in Congress highlighting the importance of assets like the A-10 and the EC-130H as well as the many unique, critical missions housed at Fort Huachuca. I was very impressed with the great work being done by the military men and women stationed here and with the local communities that come together to support these bases.” “I can talk about how important our defense assets are, but until you come out here and see the capabilities at Fort Huachuca, tour the Raytheon facilities, climb into a cockpit at DM, and talk with the men and women carrying out these missions, you don’t get the full effect,” said Rep. McSally. “That’s why this visit is so important. I extend my sincere thanks to Chairman Thornberry for taking the time to visit Southern Arizona and see first-hand the military treasures we have here.” On Tuesday, Chairman Thornberry and Rep. McSally met with members of the Huachuca 50 and toured Fort Huachuca, where they received briefings about unmanned and manned ISR training, the testing capabilities and Electronic Proving Ground, Signal Command, as well as the unique geography and importance of Libby Army Airfield. They also toured Raytheon Missile Systems in Tucson and spoke with members of the DM 50. On Wednesday, the two held a roundtable breakfast with local technology leaders to discuss issues such as defense acquisition reform and toured Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, where they were briefed about the 612th Air Operations Center, the 214th Reconnaissance Group, and the Aerospace Ground Equipment Maintenance Facility. They also spoke with Airmen flying the A-10, EC-130H, HH-60 and HC-130 to hear about Close Air Support, Electronic Warfare, and Combat Search and Rescue Capabilities. Meeting with members of the Huachuca 50 in Sierra Vista Touring Fort Huachuca Discussing Fort Huachuca’s unique, strategic geography atop Starr Hill At a discussion with members of DM50 Following a roundtable discussion with local technology leaders In front of an A-10 Warthog along with a pilot from the 355th Fighter Wing Hearing about Combat Search and Rescue capabilities from Airmen from the 48th Rescue Squadron In March, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter visited Fort Huachuca at the invitation of Rep. McSally. During the visit, Secretary Carter noted the “bright futures” of both Davis-Monthan Air Force Base and Fort Huachuca.
10.14.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today chaired a hearing in Tucson on examining the barriers women face in the workforce. The hearing is the second of the Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce, which Rep. McSally launched in July. “Today’s hearing is part of a long-term effort to take a serious look at the issues holding women back and find solutions,” said Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Working Group. “Being able to contribute to their communities, meeting the needs of their families, having the opportunity to pursue their dreams – these are issues that actually matter to women, and I’m going to continue to work to help empower women and girls to achieve their full potential.” Local witnesses testified today about the specific challenges women face including access to childcare, housing needs, lack of flexibility, engrained gender perceptions, and gender discrimination. Congresswoman Mimi Walters (CA-45), another member of the working group, also took part in the hearing. Witnesses from left: Dr. Joseph Broschak, Tanya Gustavsson, Rep. Mimi Walter, Rep. Martha McSally, Ashley B. Carter, T. VanHook “Women occupy and will continue to occupy half of the formal workforce and take on at least half, if not more, of the unpaid work in the home,” testified T. VanHook, CEO of Habitat for Humanity Tucson. “They are contributing to the national economy while serving as the primary caregivers of their families, in many cases sandwiched between generations, running between jobs, juggling responsibilities, and balancing family budgets on a shoestring.” “As a business school professor these past 17 years I have had opportunities to teach in my classes about gender equality and the dangers of sexist behaviors and to both men and women students and to work with and mentor a number of my female students on their careers,” said Dr. Joseph Broschak, Executive Director for the McGuire Center for Entrepreneurship, Associate Professor of Management and Organizations and a McClelland Fellow at the University of Arizona. “I’ve found there is a thirst for mentorship given there are often relatively few women faculty to whom women students can turn and relatively few men who are willing to be mentors.” “I was told when I joined the military-I wanted to be an MP (military police)-that women weren’t allowed to be MPs,” said Tanya Gustavsson, Administrative Assistant at Diamond Ventures and a former correctional officer for the Department of Justice. “At that time you were told what to do. You did not speak as a woman. And unfortunately that is still going on today.” “On many measures, American women’s progress in recent decades has been remarkable: Women are increasingly assuming positions of power in business, government, academia, and the non-profit sector. Yet talk with any group of American women and you will hear a more complicated picture,” said Ashley B. Carter, Grassroots Director of the Independent Women’s Forum. “Statistics show that millions of women cannot find jobs or are working part-time when they would prefer full-time. Others are working full-time, but wish they could afford to stay home with their young children, scale back, or at least have more flexibility than their current job provides.”
09.29.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced her office has recovered over $1 million for local constituents through casework efforts. To date, Rep. McSally’s office has helped nearly 3,000 individuals resolve issues with the federal government, recovering $1,002,221. “I’m proud to announce that our dedicated team of caseworkers has been able to recover over $1 million for Southern Arizonans,” said Rep. McSally. “This part of my job really represents the core of what it means to represent our district, and, from day one, we set out with the goal to provide the best constituent services possible. I encourage anyone having a problem with the federal government, whether it’s related to veterans’ benefits, Medicare, Social Security, or anything else, to not hesitate to call my Tucson or Sierra Vista offices to see how we can help.” Since January 2015, Rep. McSally’s office has closed 2,968 cases for residents of Arizona’s second district. Individual amounts recovered for constituents range from $230 to $82,000. Constituents experiencing issues with the federal government can call the Tucson District Office at (520) 881-3588 or the Sierra Vista District Office at (520) 459-3115. Constituents can also find information about receiving casework assistance, including accessing Rep. McSally’s Veterans Resource Guide, at mcsally.house.gov.
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the passing of former Israeli Prime Minister and President Shimon Peres: “I join many around the world today in morning Shimon Peres, who served Israel from its earliest days to his last breath. Peres championed Israel’s security and prosperity, and was a key figure who made possible the 1993 Oslo Accords. But he will not just be remembered for his decades of service to his beloved country, but for his optimism and unfailing advocacy for peace. Peres was a visionary who spent his life working toward a better world, someone who reflected the best of all humanity, and his impact will be felt long into the future.”
09.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to designate Chiricahua National Monument as a national park. The re-designation is supported by local jurisdictions across Southern Arizona and New Mexico. “Having had the opportunity to hike Chiricahua and even fly over it in an A-10 many times during training, I know first-hand what a national treasure it is,” said Rep. McSally. “Re-designating this area as a national park would boost tourism, grow our economy, and add more jobs in Southern Arizona. This was a true grassroots effort that began from the ground-up, and I’m grateful to the many local officials who helped build support for it, in particular Bob Gent at the Sierra Vista Tourism Commission for his vision and dedicated advocacy. During the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service, I can think of no better way to recognize Chiricahua’s unique, historic landscapes, and I’ll continue to work to pass this legislation into law.” “The City Council feels so strongly about this effort, we passed a resolution unanimously in support, which doesn’t happen very often,” said Sierra Vista Mayor Rick Mueller. "The Sierra Vista Chamber is grateful for Congresswoman Marth McSally’s leadership in introducing legislation that will designate Chiricahua Monument as a National Park,” said Mary Tieman, Executive Director of the Sierra Vista Chamber of Commerce. “Southeastern Arizona businesses welcome this significant opportunity to strengthen the local economy through increased tourism in Cochise County.” To view a PDF of the bill text, click HERE. Jurisdictions that have officially endorsed Chiricahua’s re-designation as a national park include: The City of Sierra Vista; The City of Tucson; The Cochise County Council of Tourism ; The City of Benson; And the City of Deming, New Mexico.
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a hearing as the Chairwoman of the Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce about addressing the barriers women face in the workforce. The hearing featured testimony from experts and women business and non-profit leaders including T. VanHook, CEO of Habitat for Humanity Tucson. “Women have made great strides and have achieved so much in this country, but the fact remains that so many women and girls still face barriers to achieving their full potential,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “Many women today are struggling to balance the competing demands from their workplace, and their families. They are expected to do it all, and they are exhausted.” “As the husband of a working professional and father of two young girls, I am concerned about the challenges women face in the workforce,” said Congressman Luke Messer, Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee. “But more regulation and one-size-fits-all government programs are not the answer. Our goal is to listen to working women about their needs, learn from experts and innovators, and then champion policy ideas that empower women not restrict their options.” “Women occupy and will continue to occupy half of the formal workforce… They are contributing to the national economy while serving as the primary caregivers of their families, in many cases sandwiched between generations, running between jobs, juggling responsibilities, and balancing family budgets on a shoestring,” T. VanHook, CEO of Habitat for Humanity Tucson, said in her testimony. T. VanhHook, CEO of Habitat Humanity Tucson, testifies at hearing led by Rep. McSally in Washington, D.C. about empowering women in the workforce The Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce plans to hold a series of similar hearings in the coming months. These hearings will provide a forum to discuss key pillars related to women in the workforce including expanding opportunity, increasing flexibility, removing barriers, and empowering the next generation. For more information about the working group, visit https://mcsally.house.gov/WomensWorkingGroup. Today’s full hearing can be watched HERE.
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson requesting the release of a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) report detailing new measures of Border Patrol effectiveness. The letter follows media reports last week that DHS is suppressing the information. “I am writing to express my concern over recent press reports suggesting that the Administration has suppressed an important tax-payer funded border security report that details the probability of an individual successfully crossing the border illegally, including estimates of those who are not detected by the U.S. Border Patrol,” Rep. McSally wrote in the letter. “In order to rebuild trust in our system, we need transparency with the American people and full and accurate measurements of our effectiveness along the border.” In March, a hearing held by Rep. McSally revealed that Border Patrol only has roughly 56% situational awareness of the southern border, calling into question their claim of 80% effectiveness. Independent studies suggest the actual effectiveness rate is closer to 50%. In the letter, Rep. McSally requests that DHS submit the final report to Congress no later than September 30, 2016. To view a PDF of the letter, click HERE. The full letter text follows. September 21, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: I am writing to express my concern over recent press reports[1] suggesting that the Administration has suppressed an important tax-payer funded border security report that details the probability of an individual successfully crossing the border illegally, including estimates of those who are not detected by the U.S. Border Patrol. Using “known-flow” data, the U.S. Border Patrol calculates its Interdiction Effectiveness Rate (IER) across the entire southwest border at 80%. Unfortunately, this data is, at best, an incomplete picture of the situation along the border because it is based on what is detected by cameras, sensors and agents on the ground. The IER fails to take into account the illicit flow that goes undetected, which we know is substantial. At a hearing I held on March 1, 2016, U.S. Border Patrol Acting Chief Ronald Vitiello stated that only, “about 56% of the border is deployed in a way that agents and/or technology can see activity in real time.” Moreover, the IER includes individuals not seeking to evade apprehension. This means that an individual who turns themselves in to a law enforcement agent shortly after crossing the border – such as an unaccompanied child or asylum seeker – is counted the same as a drug trafficker who avoids detection and arrest. Such reporting only further inflates the reported effectiveness percentage. Today, independent studies using Mexican survey data suggest that Border Patrol effectiveness is actually closer to 50%.[2] – a far cry from the 80% publicly reported. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and DHS Chief Financial Officer contracted with the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA) to produce several estimates of illicit flow into the country. It is my understanding that the final report was released to DHS Leadership in May of this year. In order to rebuild trust in our system, we need transparency with the American people and full and accurate measurements of our effectiveness along the border. Thank you for your attention to this very important border security matter. Pursuant to House Rule XI, clause 2(m) I request that you submit the final IDA report to the Committee not later than September 30, 2016. Should you have any questions about this letter, please contact Paul Anstine at 202-226-8417. Sincerely, MARTHA MCSALLY Chairman Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After bombings around New York City and a terrorist attack at a Minnesota mall this weekend, Rep. McSally today questioned top law enforcement from around the country at a Homeland Security Committee hearing about emerging terror threats. Rep. McSally’s questioning focused on the rising occurrence of female jihadi fighters and the need for continued information sharing among law enforcement. “I held a roundtable with my colleague Kathleen Rice on this phenomena months ago because there’s a very specific dynamic here that we haven’t seen before, where we have girls and women not just being victimized and recruited, but also being hardened jihadists themselves, and actually leading some of those efforts,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “For the 250 Americans who have attempted to go to Syria, 1 in 6 are women…Do your outreach efforts have anything focusing specifically on women and girls that are becoming radicalized or are they just part of your general efforts for outreach?” Watch video of Rep. McSally’s questioning below In March, Rep. McSally led a roundtable discussion about the rising occurrence of women, many from western countries, traveling to combat zones to join with extremist groups. Today, Rep. McSally also discussed her efforts to improve information sharing between state, local, and federal law enforcement and as well as improve access to needed security information. “I actually have a bill, H.R. 3503, to address improving our fusion centers and giving higher access to security clearances to you all and your teammates so that you have better information out on the front lines,” she continued. “It was passed unanimously in the House, (but is) being held up in the Senate right now.”
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to implement a fully digitized system of fingerprint identification records. The bill follows an investigation from the DHS Inspector General that found more than 800 people using fraudulent identification information were mistakenly granted citizenship because paper-based fingerprint records were missing from government databases. “What these reports show is an agency woefully ill-equipped to run basic security screenings of its applicants,” said Rep. McSally. “In this environment, with terrorists actively seeking ways to enter our country, these types of blunders are inexcusable. DHS needs to be one-step ahead, not decades behind. My bill will require that within 90 days, DHS has fully digitized its fingerprint records to ensure these failures do not happen again.” According to the Inspector General’s report, at least 858 individuals from “countries of national concern or high risk of immigration fraud” were incorrectly granted citizenship. Fingerprint records were missing from as many as 315,000 cases. The report also uncovered that at least three cases resulted in mistaken access to secure areas in airports or maritime facilities. The full bill text can be found HERE.
09.15.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the passing of Governor Rose Mofford, Arizona’s first female governor. “I’m saddened to hear of the loss of Governor Mofford, a tremendous public servant and trailblazer who was loved by many. Rose began her career at a time when woman filled very few public offices. She faced, and overcame, overt sexism to rise to the highest elected office in Arizona, and she did it with grace, character, and good humor. Her dedication to excellence and civility left its mark not just on the state, but on the institution of governor, and her impact will be felt long after this day. I join others around our state in mourning the loss of such a giving and selfless servant of Arizona.”
09.14.2016	Second Annual Award Aims to Recognize Outstanding S. AZ. Veterans CLICK HERE TO PRINT A NOMINATION FORM TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that her office is accepting nominations for the second annual Congressional Veterans of Distinction Award. The award recognizes veterans in the Second District who continue to go above and beyond to serve their communities. “Though they no longer wear the uniform, many Southern Arizona veterans continue to exemplify the values of duty, service, and selflessness at the heart of our military,�? said Congresswoman McSally, a 26-year veteran of the United States Air Force. “It was my honor to recognize many exceptional individuals for this award last year, and we look forward to repeating that success this year.�? The Veterans of Distinction Award is open to any resident of Arizona’s 2nd Congressional District who has served in the armed forces. In 2015, first place went to Daniel Standage, a 10-year veteran of the United States Marine Corps who helped establish the University of Arizona’s Veterans Education and Transition Services (VETS) Center, a facility that helps veterans transition from military life into higher education. This year, Mr. Standage will serve on the panel of veterans and other community members who will review nominations and choose the 2016 winners. Rep. McSally with the 2015 Veterans of Distinction Award nominees and winners More photos from the 2015 award ceremony can be found here: https://mcsally.house.gov/sites/mcsally.house.gov/files/Veteran%20of%20Distinction%20Award%20Application.doc Individuals looking to nominate veterans in the 2nd District should fill out a nomination form, which can be found HERE or at mcsally.house.gov. Nomination forms can be dropped off to the Tucson or Sierra Vista offices, submitted via fax at (520) 322-9490, or emailed to Lindsay Dearing at lindsay.dearing@mail.house.gov. The deadline for nominations is Friday, October 14, 2016.
09.14.2016	Legislation from Green Valley Constituent is 9th McSally Bill to Pass House WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed with bipartisan support U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s bill to stop a tax hike on seniors and roll it back on middle class Americans. The bill, which is Rep. McSally’s 9th to pass the House, originated from the work of Green Valley constituent, Loren Thorson, who first brought the little-known tax hike to Rep. McSally’s attention. “Many Arizona seniors have saved their entire lives in the hopes of a secure retirement. It would be completely unfair now to hand them the bill for the runaway spending of the past few years,” said Congresswoman McSally. “Our bill stops this looming tax hike before it hits seniors and rolls it back on middle class families already being squeezed by it. I thank Congresswoman Sinema and all the supporters of this bill for their efforts to get it to this point. While I wish Loren could have been here to see his idea get a vote on the House floor, we will continue to work to carry on his efforts and stop this tax hike in its tracks.” "Arizonans continue to struggle with increasing health care costs," said Congresswoman Sinema. "This commonsense legislation allows Arizona seniors and families to deduct more of their out-of-pocket health care expenses, a relief sorely needed during tough economic times." “Many Arizona seniors already face high out of pocket medical costs. Increasing this tax deduction threshold on them will only cost them more,” said Dana M. Kennedy, AARP Arizona State Director. “AARP is proud of the bipartisan work of Representative McSally and Representative Sinema to preserve this important medical deduction and help ensure seniors in Arizona with high health care costs do not also get hit with tax hikes." Currently, the IRS allows Americans with high health care costs to deduct certain out-of-pocket expenses from their taxes. Before the Affordable Care Act, seniors could deduct out-of-pocket medical costs that exceeded 7.5 percent of their Adjusted Gross Income (AGI). Starting in 2017, however, the law increases this threshold to 10% of a person’s AGI – effectively lowering how much can be deducted at the end of the year and increasing how much seniors will pay in taxes. The law took effect on Americans under 65 starting in 2013. The Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act reverses this increase on both seniors and Americans under 65. The bill has the wide support of seniors and taxpayer advocate groups, including AARP, Americans for Prosperity, 60 Plus, Americans for Tax Reform, the Association of Mature American Citizens, and the National Taxpayers Union. Rep. McSally presents to Green Valley constituent Loren Thorson Congressional Record comments recognizing his efforts to protect seniors. Thorson passed away on March 8, 2016. For a PDF of the bill text, click HERE.
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today questioned Border Patrol Chief Mark Morgan on his agency’s strategy to secure the border at a hearing that featured testimony from Southern Arizona residents. Witnesses testified on the consequences of the Border Patrol’s “defense-in-depth” strategy that creates a public safety threat for Southern Arizonans. “In Tucson, 48% of the total number of apprehensions took place more than 5 miles from the physical border. Compare that with Yuma or Rio Grande Valley in Texas where more than 84% of illicit crossings are apprehended in the first 5 miles,” said Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “Defense-in-Depth and the layered approach to border security sounds good in theory, but there are real world negative impacts for the American citizens who live at and near the border.” Watch Rep. McSally’s opening statement below Southern Arizona witnesses testifying at the hearing included rancher Peggy Davis, border resident Gary Brasher, and Executive Director for the National Center for Border Security and Immigration at the University of Arizona Dr. Elyse Golob. Dr. Golob spoke about recommendations her office produced to improve the effectiveness of border checkpoints. “It’s ultimately to Border Patrol’s and the nation’s benefit for an objective assessment of their performance effectiveness,” Dr. Golob said. “We as the citizens need to know how well checkpoints are doing before we can decide what to do about them.” In his testimony, Border Patrol Chief Morgan stated he would look into whether action had been taken on the specific recommendations. Southern Arizona resident Gary Brasher testifying today before the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security More photos from today’s hearing can be found HERE.
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor in recognition of tonight’s scheduled launch of the OSIRIS-REx spacecraft from Cape Canaveral, Florida. The University of Arizona-led mission will send a spacecraft on a seven-year journey to the asteroid Bennu, where it will collect samples before returning to earth. Click below to watch Rep. McSally’s speech Transcript It’s launch day! I rise today to recognize the dedicated men and women at the University of Arizona’s Lunar and Planetary Lab who are leading NASA’s historic OSIRIS-REx space mission. Launching from Cape Canaveral, Florida tonight, the OSIRIS-REx spacecraft will embark on a seven-year journey to the Bennu asteroid, where it will collect samples before returning to earth. If successful, the mission will mark the first time a spacecraft has gathered samples from a moving asteroid. The University of Arizona’s leadership of the OSIRIS-Rex mission adds to its already impressive reputation in planetary sciences. I would like to extend my best wishes to all the scientists at UA and elsewhere working on this project for a successful launch and mission.
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the Air Force announced Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM) as a final possible location to house expanded remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) operations. The Air Force announced in December 2015 that DM was a potential location for a new MQ-9 Mission Control Element, allowing RPA pilots to globally operate RPAs from DM. “Today, DM made the cut from 19 bases to the final 5 because our robust command and control and communications infrastructure and overall high quality of life for Airmen and their families,” said Rep. McSally. “The RPA missions will be vital to the future of the force with the potential to continue growing, which makes this a great opportunity for Tucson and DM.” The Air Force’s announcement can be viewed HERE.
08.24.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report highlighting the serious flaws and capability gaps that would occur under the Air Force’s current proposals to prematurely retire the A-10 Warthog. “Today’s report confirms what I’ve argued continuously – the Air Force’s flawed and shifting plan to prematurely retire the A-10 is dangerous and would put lives in danger,” said Rep. McSally. “According to GAO, the Air Force has no replacement to perform Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) or Forward Air Control (Airborne) missions. There’s no replacement for the A-10’s unique ability to carry out Close Air Support, including situations that require an ability to loiter, fly under weather, and visually identify friendly and enemy forces. GAO also confirmed the gaps that would occur under the Air Force’s inconsistent replacement timeline, which would retire A-10 squadrons faster than they are replaced by other aircraft. For these reasons and more, I’ve fought for and won full funding for our entire A-10 fleet and to make the retirement of any A-10 condition-based, not-time based. I’ll continue to work to make sure our provisions, including a mandated A-10/F-35 fly-off, get signed into law.” In January, Rep. McSally sent a letter to President Obama and Defense Secretary Ash Carter outlining the capabilities that would be lost under the Air Force’s plan. This year, she has authored provisions in the House-passed NDAA to mandate an A-10/F-35 fly-off and prevent the retirement of any A-10 until this test occurs. She also has secured full funding for the A-10 and successfully offered an amendment to appropriations legislation providing $100 million for new A-10 wing upgrades. The full GAO report can be found HERE. Some of the capability losses and plan deficiencies identified in the report include: Close Air Support “Loss of the A-10 airframe will also cause a decrease in Air Force CAS capability. Senior DOD leaders have stated that the A-10 is the Air Force’s best CAS aircraft. The CAS experts convened by the Air Force in 2015 concluded that A-10 divestiture creates a gap because the Air Force is losing a high-capacity and cost-efficient ability to kill armor, moving, and close proximity targets in low weather conditions.” (GAO, pg. 49-50) Combat Search and Rescue “According to Air Force and combatant command officials, there is an enduring requirement for CSAR, including CSAR-Sandy… The A-10 is currently the only DOD platform assigned this mission and every combat-coded A-10 squadron has CSAR-Sandy qualified pilots.” (GAO, pg. 54-55) Forward Air Control (Airborne) “FAC(A)s are invaluable during contested CAS operations because they perform reconnaissance and develop battlefield awareness under conditions where intelligence and communications will be much more limited, according to Air Force officials…A-10 FAC(A)s are required to attain mission proficiency while F-16 FAC(A)s and future F-35 FAC(A)s are only required to have familiarity with the mission.25 Further, the A-10 community spends significantly more effort developing and retaining FAC(A) expertise. For example, A-10 FAC(A)s are required to conduct four times the yearly training sorties of F-16 FAC(A)s and almost triple those of future F-35 FAC(A)s.” (GAO, pg. 16-17) Joint Terminal Attack Controller training “The Air Force has not comprehensively assessed potential mission capability gaps caused by A-10 divestment or the effects of divestment on its ability to support Joint Terminal Attack Controller training.” (GAO, pg. 14) Inconsistent and inadequate DOD timeline “According to a DOD summary of its fiscal year 2017 budget proposal, the Air Force plans to replace A-10 squadrons one-for-one with F-35 squadrons in order to mitigate the drop in fighter capacity projected under the original A-10 divestment proposal. However, Air Force documentation reveals that the loss of A-10 squadrons will outpace the F-35 squadron gain, with eight A-10 squadrons divested by the end of the 5-year budget plan but only six F-35 squadrons stood up… However, all three A-10 divestment proposals would contribute to a decline in Air Force fighter capacity, when compared to the Air Force’s fiscal year 2014 budget plans, which called for the Air Force to maintain its A-10s through 2035.” (GAO, pg. 13)
08.15.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the passing of Marian Lupu: “Marian Lupu was an incredible example of how one person can make a dramatic difference in the lives of countless others. Her work over many decades, first as the founder and then director of the Pima Council on Aging, has improved the lives of Southern Arizona’s aging population in immeasurable ways. Thousands of seniors today have access to meals, transportation, and other assistance thanks to her tireless efforts. No doubt our community will miss the passion and energy she brought to serving those in need, but the positive impact she had will live on long into the future.”
08.11.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to the Air Force’s announcement that up to 48 F-16 fighter aircraft could be moved to Tucson. The Air Force today released a list of 34 bases around the country that could be assigned F-16 training units relocated from Luke Air Force Base in Arizona and Hill Air Force Base in Utah in order to make room for the installment of new F-35 fighter aircraft and address pilot shortages. Both Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM) and the 162nd Wing of the Arizona National Guard housed at Tucson International Airport were among the list of potential new sites. “This announcement recognizes Southern Arizona’s unparalleled assets for training air-to-ground aircraft, which I’ve worked relentlessly in Congress to highlight,” said Rep. McSally. “With thousands of square miles of high and low altitude military airspace, over 300 days of sunshine a year, and close access to the Barry M. Goldwater training ranges, there’s no better place in the country to train pilots for these missions. During my multiple assignments at DM to fly and later lead a squadron of A-10s, I experienced the value of our military treasures first-hand, and I’ll continue to fight for them as the Air Force considers this decision.” The Air Force today released bases considered as long-term and near-term replacements for F-16s. The list of long-term replacements included 34 total sites, including DM and the 162nd Fighter Wing housed at the Tucson Airport. For potential near-term replacements, the Air Force released a list of four potential bases that currently house F-16s, including the 162nd Fighter Wing. Both decisions are expected to be made by spring of 2017. Today’s announcement follows recent news of possible additional missions coming to Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. In April, the Air Force named DM a finalist along with four other bases to permanently house F-35 Lighting II fighter aircraft. In December 2015, the Air Force also announced DM as a potential site for expanded remotely piloted aircraft missions.
08.08.2016	TUCSON – Ahead of tonight’s opening ceremonies for the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, U.S. Representative Martha McSally congratulated the 9 members of Team USA from Arizona: “Over the next two weeks, athletes from around the globe will compete for the title of best in the world. Among them are nine men and women from Arizona. Together, they’ve put in countless hours of training, endless amounts of energy, and extreme determination and discipline to reach the heights of their sports. To these athletes, I say congratulations on your already extraordinary achievements. The support and encouragement of Arizonans everywhere are with you as you represent our nation in Rio and go for the gold!” Arizona’s nine members on Team USA, including two from Southern Arizona, are listed below: Tucson Benard Lagat, Track and Field Corben Sharrah, Cycling Phoenix Will Claye, Track and Field Bethanie Mattek-Sands, Tennis Jay Shi, Shooting Tempe Sam Dorman, Diving Globe Brady Ellison, Archery Mesa Julie Johnston, Soccer Gilbert Alex Naddour, Gymnastics
07.21.2016	SIERRA VISTA – U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday visited 100-year old Sierra Vista resident Pearl O’Neil to present her with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition for her many years of service to the community. “What an honor it was to meet Pearl, someone who’s given so much of her time and talents to serve our community,” said Rep. McSally. “At 100 years old, she’s incredibly active and still giving back, sewing her “magic frogs” to provide comfort to kids in often traumatic or scary experiences. She really is a model of selfless service, and it was inspiring simply to meet and spend time with her.” Pearl O’Neil spent 17 years volunteering at Huachuca City schools and was one of three founding members of the Sierra Vista Area Gardeners’ Club. An avid gardener and seamstress, she knits stuffed frogs and donates them to the Fry Fire Department to be given to kids who have been in an accident or have to ride in an ambulance. The firemen have started calling them, “Pearl’s Magic Frogs.” Rep. McSally being shown some of “Pearl’s Magic Frogs,” which will be given to children by the Fry Fire Department Rep. McSally presented a Congressional Certificate of Recognition to Pearl with her family present Pearl shows Rep. McSally photos taken along with Fry firefighters, who recently attended Pearl’s 100th birthday celebration
07.14.2016	Rep. McSally to Chair Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today launched a Congressional working group to expand opportunity for women. Labeled the Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce, the group of Republican lawmakers will take an in-depth look at the root causes for the challenges women face and identify solutions to address them. “I grew up being told you could be whatever you want to be, but the reality is, today, women still face barriers to achieving their full potential simply because of their gender,” said Congresswoman Martha McSally, who is Chairwoman of the group. “Every woman and girl out there deserves the full opportunity to achieve her dreams. That’s why this working group will listen to women, thought leaders, and experts to examine the root causes holding women back and identify solutions that can actually make a difference. I thank Chairman Messer for partnering on this effort and for his leadership on the Policy Committee to take on this issue. I look forward to working with him and all the members of the working group to help empower women with the opportunity they deserve.” “Martha is a proven fighter for hardworking people, and I’m glad to see her spearheading this effort to expand opportunity for women,” said Speaker Paul Ryan. "There is no one better than Martha McSally to take on this task," said Congressman Luke Messer, Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee. "Throughout her entire career she has fought to break down barriers and combat discrimination. I believe I speak for everyone in the working group when I say, we, as Republicans, want to open up opportunities for all women, and Martha is an outstanding leader for that effort." In a post on BlogHer, Rep. McSally today discussed her motivation for starting the working group and the group’s goals and purpose. The full op-ed is below. For more information about the working group and to follow its actions, visit mcsally.house.gov/WomensWorkingGroup Leaning in to empower women BlogHer U.S. Representative Martha McSally July 14, 2016https://www.blogher.com/country-we-need-empower-women Our country is based on the ideal of equality for all its citizens. Yet, ask any woman today what obstacles she’s faced in her career or education simply because she’s a woman, and you’d hear a very different story. It’s been illegal for employers to discriminate based on sex since the enactment of the Equal Pay Act of 1963. Despite that, women continue to earn less than men. A comparison of median salaries between men and women, and an often cited statistic, shows women earn 21% less than men. There are many factors responsible for this earnings gap. Among them are choosing lower paying career fields, leaving the workforce to care for children or parents, challenges with childcare, and, let’s face it, blatant discrimination. This earnings gap doesn’t harm just women, but their families, communities, and our economy. Four out of ten American families look to women as the sole breadwinners. That means when women earn less, families have less to spend on things like clothes, school supplies, groceries, and health care for children and dependent parents. Multiplied over a full career, a woman earns approximately $430,000 less than a man throughout her lifetime. This affects how much she is able to save or pay into Social Security, making women much more likely to live in poverty as they get older. The National Institute on Retirement Security reports that women are 80% more likely than men to be impoverished at age 65 and older, a figure that increases with age. With these facts, there’s no doubting women still face substantial barriers to getting ahead. That’s why we’re taking action. Today, I am starting a working group along with my Republican colleagues that will take an in-depth look at the root causes for the challenges women face in the workforce. Labeled, the Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce, the group will engage in a series of listening sessions around the country, meet with relevant organizations, think tanks, and scholars, and hold hearings and roundtables. The goal of the group is simple: to identify solutions for expanding opportunity and improving outcomes for women. Too often, this issue is leaned upon simply to cultivate partisan talking points and political ads or simply ignored all together. For the new mother trying to balance work and a home life; the daughter wondering how she’s going to care for an ailing parent; the recent college graduate seeking to get her foot in the door; and the countless women and girls who have big dreams and high goals, this issue is so much more – and it deserves real solutions. Our working group will focus on four key pillars related to women in the workforce: expanding opportunity; increasing flexibility; removing barriers; and empowering the next generation. Congresswoman Katharine St. George, a Republican from New York and one of the first proponents of the Equal Rights Act who coined the phrase “equal pay for equal work,” famously said of her work: “I think women are quite capable of holding their own if they're given the opportunity. What I wanted them to have was the opportunity.” Today, over fifty years later, we still have work to do. After all, this is America, where we pick the best man for the job, even if she’s a woman. It’s time we fulfilled that promise. U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R) represents Arizona’s Second District in Congress. Before that, she served 26 years in the U.S Air Force and was the first woman to fly in combat and command a fighter squadron in combat. She is passionate about fighting for equal opportunity for women.
07.11.2016	Legislation is Rep. McSally’s 8th Bill to Pass House WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to require a stress test of U.S. government protection and prevention programs against terrorist travel. The bill, H.R. 4404, the Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act, is the result of the Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, on which Rep. McSally served as a member. The Task Force investigated U.S. security vulnerabilities and the threat posed by ISIS for six months and released a report containing 32 key findings and over 50 recommendations to make Americans safe. “In our findings, the Task Force found that the growing complexity and changing nature of the foreign fighter phenomenon may be creating unseen gaps in our defenses, yet it has been years since any large-scale stress test has been conducted,” said Rep. McSally today on the House floor. “Carrying out such a test would be beneficial in understanding how partners at all levels of government, and abroad, are currently responding to these scenarios.” The last major government exercise on terrorist travel was conducted by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in 2009 and focused primarily on terrorists attempting to infiltrate the United States. Rep. McSally and the Task Force found that officials today should be just as concerned about Americans leaving the country to train overseas with terrorist groups as foreign fighters. H.R. 4404 will require the Obama Administration to conduct an exercise to evaluate the nation’s preparedness against all phases of foreign fighter planning and travel. “I am pleased that over the last several months, the House has passed numerous pieces of legislation that were products of the Task Force’s work, including some recommendations that are now law. Today’s passage of the Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act represents continued action by this body to fight against ISIS and ensure we keep Americans safe.” Today’s bill is Rep. McSally’s 8th bill to pass the House. She’s had two bills signed into law – the Border Jobs for Veterans Act and the Women Air Force Service Pilots Arlington Inurnment Restoration Act (WASP AIR) Act.
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the House voted to approve the Conference Report to accompany S.524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016, legislation to combat the nation’s growing opioid epidemic. The bill passed the House 407-5. “Opioid abuse is tearing our communities apart and nobody, no family is immune from its devastating consequences,” said Rep. McSally. “In the face of this epidemic, Congress worked together in a bipartisan, bicameral fashion to put forward commonsense solutions. Today’s bill is a result of that work and will enhance treatment and prevention tools for local communities and expand resources for victims.” On May 12, Rep. McSally spoke on the House floor about the House’s legislation to combat opioid abuse. She also penned an op-ed in the Arizona Daily Star about the legislation’s impacts on Southern Arizona.
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced bipartisan legislation, The Temporary Judgeship Conversion Act, to strengthen the federal judicial system by permanently authorizing Arizona’s temporary District Court judgeship. The United States District Court for the District of Arizona currently includes twelve permanently authorized judgeships and one temporary judgeship created in 2002 to reduce per-judge caseload levels. The temporary judgeship has been reauthorized by Congress on an annual basis since then, demonstrating the need for the additional judge. However, if the temporary judge were to retire, the judgeship would cease to exist, exacerbating current backlogs. “Failing to permanently authorize this judgeship can have serious repercussions for the people of Arizona and our economy,” said Rep. McSally. “Arizona’s already mounting backlog in criminal, immigration, civil, and other cases leads to a caseload bottleneck, creates a drag on our economy, and can keep suspected criminals on the streets, sometimes for years at a time, while cases are delayed. This backlog is only one retirement away from becoming significantly worse, which is why I’m introducing today’s bill to permanently authorize our temporary judge and strengthen our judicial system.” The Temporary Judgeship Conversion Act would permanently authorize judgeships in nine district courts across the country, including in Arizona, without adding or altering funding or removing judges from other districts. It is supported by the Arizona State Bar Association, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the Federal Bar Association, and the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. To read the full bill text, click HERE.
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, legislation she cosponsored that overhauls the mental health care system. The legislation, which passed the House 422 to 2, represents the first major reform to America’s mental health system in over 50 years. “For Southern Arizona families coping with mental illness, today’s bill represents hope for a better future,” said Rep. McSally. “I’ve spoken at length with mental health leaders from our community, including holding a roundtable and participating in ride-alongs. Many of the challenges and issues I saw and heard about are addressed in this legislation, including provisions to help rural and underserved populations, increase focus on early intervention and prevention, and provide community-based alternatives to institutionalization. For too long, our broken system has left families struggling with mental illness with nowhere to turn. I was proud to cosponsor and vote in support of today’s landmark legislation, and will continue to make addressing mental health a top priority of mine.” The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act represents a multi-year, bipartisan effort to overhaul federal mental health programs. The bill’s actions include: Fixing the shortage of inpatient beds; Enabling access to care before a mental health crisis occurs; Helping reach underserved and rural populations; Expanding the mental health workforce; Driving evidence-based care; Investing in research on self-directed violence and suicide; Increasing program coordination across the federal government; And providing needed alternatives to institutionalization. Earlier this year, Rep. McSally held a roundtable with over 30 representatives from Southern Arizona non-profits, hospitals, mental health and veterans organizations, and law enforcement to discuss addressing mental health. She has introduced bipartisan legislation to expand funding for the identification and treatment of mental illness and participated in a ride-along with a Pima County Sheriff’s deputy to view the department’s mental health programs first-hand. She’s also visited the Arizona Superior Court Mental Health Court to meet with Judge Danelle Liwski and toured the federal prison in Tucson and the UA Emergency Room to hear how mental illness is currently being treated at those facilities.
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after President Obama announced he would reduce the number of American troops in Afghanistan from 9,800 to 8,400 by the end of the year, a departure from the Administration’s original plan to reduce troops to 5,500 by 2017. “I’m glad the President won’t be reducing our troops in Afghanistan to 5,500 next year, something that would have devastated our ability to train, advise, and assist the Afghan security forces. But make no mistake, this drawdown is still dangerous. I led a delegation trip to Afghanistan in May and heard from commanders on the ground there. The Administration’s haphazard approach in Afghanistan is tying our hands and restricting our commanders’ abilities to complete their mission, and this drawdown will make it worse. We need a strategy based on objectives, not numbers. I’ll continue to call for the President to develop a strategy that first protects the American people, then assesses what level of capabilities and troops are needed. Our premature exit in Iraq led to the rise of ISIS – we cannot afford to make the same mistakes in Afghanistan.”
07.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Senior $afe Act, legislation U.S. Representative Martha McSally cosponsored, to encourage the reporting of fraudulent financial activity against seniors. The vote follows Rep. McSally’ s recent Senior Scam Forum in Green Valley, in which over 100 residents attended to hear about defending against scams. “Scammers can be relentless in their efforts to defraud senior citizens, including many in Southern Arizona,” said Rep. McSally. “American seniors lose nearly $3 billion a year to financial fraud. The way we combat this is by raising awareness and enhancing tools to stop fraud before it happens. That’s why I was proud to host a forum for Southern Arizona seniors highlighting steps they can take to defend against scams and vote in support of legislation to remove barriers for reporting suspicious financial activity.” Today’s legislation, which passed the House unanimously, encourages financial institutions to report suspected financial exploitation of seniors to federal agencies. Rep. McSally’s Senior Scam Forum, held Friday, featured representatives from the “Scam Squad” of the Pima County Sheriff’s Auxiliary Volunteers, AARP, the Pima Council on Aging, the Better Business Bureau, and the Arizona Attorney General’s Office to raise awareness of scams targeting seniors and promote ways residents can defend themselves. Read more about the forum via the Sahuarita Sun HERE.
06.27.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that the North American Development Bank (NADB) signed a $4.61 million grant agreement with the City of Willcox, Arizona for upgrades to the wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) to improve the quality of treated water discharged to Cochise Lake. “For Willcox and the surrounding community, this grant agreement means better environmental and health results for decades to come,” said Rep. McSally. “Today’s announcement is the fruition of a multi-year long effort to upgrade and modernize the treatment plant, and I commend the City of Willcox and everyone who has tirelessly worked to make this grant possible.” “With this financial assistance, the City of Willcox will be able to meet current wastewater treatment standards,” said Willcox City Manager Ted Soltis. “This will have a significant positive impact on the future of the City.” The project consists of rehabilitating and upgrading the WWTP by changing the current lagoon system to an oxidation ditch process, which will improve wastewater treatment service for 100% of the system’s 1,032 existing residential connections. “This grant will provide the funds necessary to proceed with the upgrades to improve the performance of the plant,” stated NADB Managing Director Gerónimo Gutiérrez. “Reducing health risks associated with environmental deterioration and ground and surface water contamination is a priority for Willcox and the State of Arizona, and we are pleased NADB is contributing to this project.” The grant funds are being provided by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) through the Border Environment Infrastructure Fund (BEIF), which is administered by NADB. The City of Willcox is also receiving loan and grant funds from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development to cover the rest of the project costs, estimated at $11.3 million. Additionally, the City will be able to continue reusing the treated wastewater at the golf course, rather than potable water resources for that purpose.
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally testified today before a Congressional subcommittee about her bill, the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Act, legislation to help improve public lands. The hearing held by the House Natural Resources Committee is a positive step toward advancing the bill in Congress. Under an executive order, federal agencies like the National Park Service are encouraged to partner with national service corps organizations to fill available positions on national service restoration projects. The 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Act of 2016, which Rep. McSally introduced along with Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), codifies this program under law and expands it to allow additional federal agencies to use corps volunteers to complete projects. Additionally, the bill streamlines the process in which private donations can be used for park reconstruction activities. “Currently, the National Park Service has an $11.9 billion backlog of deferred maintenance projects,” Rep. McSally testified during the hearing. “This backlog across our nation limits Americans’ access to their national parks, and we must do a better job leveraging existing resources to address this issue.” Watch Rep. McSally’s testimony below Restoration projects on public lands around the country are significantly backlogged, including $41.5 million in delayed or deferred projects in Arizona. Deferred or delayed maintenance projects at Saguaro National Park amounts to approximately $12.9 million, while Chiricahua National Monument in Cochise County faces roughly $10.3 million in needed restoration projects. “With an increasing backlog of deferred maintenance, now is the perfect time to think creatively and pragmatically to find solutions to this problem,” Rep. McSally continued. “This would be a win for veterans, youth, local communities, and our national parks.” Enlisting corps to do priority work often has proved to be more cost-effective for federal agencies. A recent report showed that public-private partnerships saved the National Park Service more than $50,000 per project on average, with one project achieving savings of over $220,000.
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of legislation to simplify and standardize overtime pay procedures for members of Customs and Border Protection’s (CBP) Air and Marine Operations. The reforms, which are supported by the National Law Enforcement Association, would provide stable compensation rates for CBP’s law enforcement agents. “Every day, our men and women of Customs and Border Protection put their lives on the line for our safety. Whether that involves long or irregular hours, our agents perform their duties bravely until the job is done, and they deserve predictable pay for their service,” said Rep. McSally, who is an original cosponsor of the legislation. “I was proud to cosponsor and support today’s legislation and will continue to work for those who keep our communities safe.” Currently, law enforcement officers in CBP’s Air and Marine Operations division are compensated for their overtime under a complicated array of federal regulations and laws. H.R. 4902 would harmonize premium pay across the organization by making all Air and Marine Operation law enforcement agents eligible for Law Enforcement Availability Pay, a standard system for compensating overtime pay. The transition would save taxpayers $1.6 million in the first year alone while providing a single, uniform system of overtime compensation for roughly 1/5 of Arizona’s Air and Marine Operations agents.
06.16.2016	Legislation Resolves Long-standing Land Conflict Between Tucson, Federal Government WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced bipartisan legislation, The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act, to help expand and improve Tucson’s Udall Park. The bill resolves a long-standing land disagreement between the City of Tucson and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) that has impeded Tucson’s plans to improve and expand the park. “Resolving this land conflict is an important local priority,” said Rep. McSally. “This legislation is a commonsense solution that can help Tucson expand Udall Park and improve its facilities going forward. I’ll continue to work with city leaders and my colleagues in the House and Senate to move this bill forward and bring closure to this long-standing issue.” “Udall Park is enjoyed by families and individuals year-round,” said Tucson Mayor Jonathan Rothschild. “Named after our beloved Congressman, Mo Udall, Udall Park is an important recreational resource for the Tucson community. Completing this land transfer from the federal government allows us to better plan for expansion and amenities at the park. I want to thank the Arizona Congressional delegation for their bi-partisan leadership of the effort, and particularly the authors of the bill, Representative McSally, Senators Flake and McCain." “Udall Park is a wonderful resource for our community and is heavily used by young and old alike,” said Tucson City Council Member Paul Cunningham. “We want to continue to add improvements and need the clarification this bill provides to move ahead. I am dedicated to making that happen.” Arizona delegation members cosponsoring the bill include Representatives Ann Kirkpatrick, Ruben Gallego, Kyrsten Sinema, Matt Salmon, Trent Franks, Paul Gosar, and David Schweikert. Senators Jeff Flake and John McCain have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Background On May 16, 1980, the City of Tucson leased over 172 acres from BLM for the creation of what would become Udall Park. On June 26, 1989, the City of Tucson entered into negations to transfer 297 acres of rural land recently purchased for $4 million to BLM for the title of the land currently used for Udall Park. Those negotiations were finalized later that year on October 4, 1989. The Udall Park Land Exchange Completion Act removes a reversion clause contained in the 1989 agreement, providing full autonomy and ownership for Udall Park to the City of Tucson. Read the full bill text HERE.
06.16.2016	House Passes Defense Bill with Full Funding for A-10, EC-130H, Ft. Huachuca Missions WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed defense funding legislation that included an amendment sponsored by U.S. Representative Martha McSally to provide $100 million for new A-10 wing upgrades. Over 100 A-10 aircraft in inventory lack needed retrofitted wings, putting them at risk of premature retirement starting in Fiscal Year (FY) 2018, according to Air Force estimates. The legislation also included full funding for the A-10 and EC-130H, aircraft stationed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in Tucson, as well as for the missions housed at Fort Huachuca. “This bill not only fully funds Southern Arizona’s critical defense missions–like the A-10, EC-130H, and those housed at Fort Huachuca–it includes my amendment to fund A-10 wing upgrades and keep the Warthog flying,” said Rep. McSally. “Without these retrofitted wings, the Air Force estimates needing to mothball 13 A-10s by FY2018, 28 by FY2019, and nearly 50 by FY2021– something we cannot afford. Along with a recent provision I advocated for mandating an A-10, F-35 fly-off and prohibiting the retirement of anymore A-10s until this occurs, this new funding sends a clear signal that Congress strongly backs our entire A-10 fleet.” Since coming to Congress, Rep. McSally has successfully offered numerous amendments and legislative provisions to defense legislation to protect Southern Arizona’s national security assets, and fought back efforts to harm them. Last year, her amendments to prohibit the retirement of any A-10 or EC-130H aircraft were signed into law. She also helped defeat an amendment to mothball over 164 A-10 aircraft, crippling our remaining fleet. Last month, she led opposition of an amendment that would harm Tucson-based Raytheon Missile System’s capability to manufacture AMRAAM missiles. Her advocacy led to the amendment’s defeat on the House floor. In addition, in defense authorizing legislation last month, Rep. McSally successfully advocated for inclusion of a provision mandating an A-10, F-35 fly-off before anymore A-10s can be retired. The provision outlines what capabilities must be tested in a fly-off. More about that provision can be read in Rep. McSally’s op-ed in the Air Force Times HERE. A-10 wing upgrades by the numbers: 283 – Number of A-10s in the fleet 173 – Number of planes for which new wings have been purchased already (roughly 120 A-10s have been re-fitted or are being re-fitted) 110 – Number of planes that still need wing upgrades $100M – Amount funded for wing upgrades through Rep. McSally’s amendment
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Ways and Means Committee today favorably approved U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation, the Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act, clearing a major hurdle for the bill in Congress. The legislation reverses a tax hike contained in the President’s health care law on middle class families and stops it from taking effect on seniors. “For the past year, we’ve worked hard to build the support needed to move this bill ahead in Congress,” said Rep. McSally. “We’ve gathered support from members of both parties and advocacy groups, made the case to the relevant committee, and continued to raise awareness of this looming tax hike on seniors. Our seniors worked hard their entire lives for a secure retirement. They should not be on the hook now for the massive new spending authorized under the health care act, and I will continue to fight to stop this tax hike on them and roll it back on middle class families.” On September 22, Rep. McSally introduced the Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act with bipartisan support. Last month, she spoke before the Ways and Means Committee, the committee of jurisdiction, to urge members to take action on the bill. The little known tax hike contained in the Affordable Care Act was brought to Rep. McSally’s attention by a local Green Valley constituent, Loren Thorson. Rep. McSally spoke in honor of Thorson and his dedicated efforts to raise awareness of this issue last year on the House floor. Rep. McSally presents to Green Valley constituent Loren Thorson Congressional Record comments recognizing his efforts to protect seniors. Thorson passed away on March 8, 2016. Background Currently, the IRS allows Americans with high health care costs to deduct certain out-of-pocket expenses from their taxes. Before 2013, individuals could deduct out-of-pocket medical costs that exceeded 7.5 percent of one’s Adjusted Gross Income. The Affordable Care Act changed this for Americans under the age of 65 by increasing the threshold to 10% of a person’s AGI – effectively raising taxes on middle class Americans. The increase is scheduled to go into effect on seniors 65 and over starting on January 1, 2017. The Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act reverses this increase on both seniors and Americans under 65.
06.15.2016	McSally Amendment Adding $100 Million for A-10 Wing Upgrades Added to Defense Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today successfully added an amendment to defense funding legislation providing $100 million for new A-10 wing upgrades. Currently, over 100 A-10 aircraft are in need of re-fitted wings to extend their service lives past 2028. “This amendment sends another strong signal that Congress backs the A-10 and supports keeping them flying,” said Rep. McSally. “Currently, 110 of the 283 remaining A-10s in our inventory have not received funding for needed wing upgrades to extend their service lives. Without these upgrades, 13 A-10s would begin to be grounded in FY2018, 28 by FY2019, and nearly 50 by FY2021. We’ve mothballed the equivalent of four A-10 squadrons over recent years, leaving us with barely enough aircraft to meet current threats. With A-10s deployed to four theaters around the world, we not only need to prevent the premature retiring of anymore A-10s, but we need to ensure the aircraft we have are able to continue flying until a tested, proven replacement is developed – and that’s what this amendment does.” Today’s amendment builds on Rep. McSally’s robust efforts to keep the A-10 Warthog flying. Last year, she successfully fought for full funding of our entire A-10 fleet. This year, her advocacy has led to full funding for the A-10 in defense authorization and appropriation legislation. In addition, in defense authorizing legislation last month, Rep. McSally successfully advocated for inclusion of a provision mandating an A-10, F-35 fly-off before anymore A-10s can be retired. The provision outlines what capabilities must be tested in a fly-off. More about that provision can be read in Rep. McSally’s op-ed in the Air Force Times HERE.
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today chaired a hearing on the threat of visa overstays, which a new report shows represents 2/3 of those in the country illegally last year. During the hearing, Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, questioned Administration officials on the failure to implement a Congressionally-mandated biometric exit system at our nation’s ports to better track those who overstay their visas. “Time and time again, terrorists have exploited the visa system by legally entering America. The 9/11 Commission put it this way: “For terrorists, travel documents are as important as weapons,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “I am concerned that there are unidentified national security and public safety risks in a population that large, which has historically been the primary means for terrorist entry into the United States.” In January, the Department of Homeland Security released a report showing the share of those in the country illegally who have overstayed a visa has increased dramatically. “Earlier this year, the Department of Homeland Security released a visa overstay report demonstrating the visa overstay problem may be much worse than previously thought,” Rep. McSally continued. “In fiscal year 2015, fewer people were apprehended by the US Border Patrol, than overstayed their visas and are suspected of still being in the country, making the estimate closer to 68% of those illegally in the United States. In 2004, Congress passed and President George W. Bush signed into law legislation mandating the establishment of a biometrically-based entry-exit system, however, the Department of Homeland Security has yet to implement a full biometric exit capability. “Adding a reliable exit system will be an immediate force multiplier that allows national security professionals to focus their efforts on preventing terrorist attacks,” Rep. McSally said. “Doing so mitigates the chance that visitors can stay in the country beyond their period of admission – and reduces the terrorist threat in the process.” To watch the full hearing, click HERE.
06.10.2016	Sidles Appointed to Oversee Colorado National Park​ WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor to congratulate Saguaro National Park Superintendent Darla Sidles, whose appointment to oversee the Rocky Mountain National Park in Colorado was announced earlier this week. Last year, Rep. McSally hiked Saguaro National Park with Superintendent Sidles to receive a briefing on the park and discuss its impact on the community. Watch Rep. McSally’s remarks below Rep. McSally and Superintendent Sidles discuss Saguaro National Park’s local impact on a hike Transcript Madam Speaker, I rise to congratulate Darla Sidles, Superintendent of Saguaro National Park, on her recent appointment to oversee the Rocky Mountain National Park in Colorado, and thank her for her 7 years of service to the people of Southern Arizona. Under Darla’s leadership, Saguaro National Park has set record highs for attendance, attracting over 750,000 people last year. Her tenure saw the complete refurbishment of the Rincon Mountain Visitor Center and successful application of key Resilient Landscapes grants. She also spearheaded efforts to connect the park with local young and urban populations, helping expose them to the many treasures the park offers. In addition to her role as director of one of Southern Arizona’s largest parks, she is a valued leader in our community who has served four years on the January 8 Memorial Foundation board. I had the privilege to hike Saguaro Park with Darla, pictured here, to talk about its value and we’ve continued to work together on efforts to protect and improve this Tucson gem. We will be sad to lose her in August, and no doubt, Darla’s standout leadership of our park contributed to her appointment to oversee the third-most visited national park in the country. I thank her for her service, and I wish her well in Colorado. With that, Madam Speaker, I yield back.
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today sent a letter to Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey requesting information about reported surveillance flights over Southern Arizona. The letter follows a recent report describing the repeat occurrences of low-level planes conducting aerial surveillance around Tucson. “The FBI is tasked with protecting the American people,” Rep. McSally writes in the letter. “As someone who served 26 years in the U.S. Air Force, including overseeing counterterrorism missions, and who currently serves on the Committees on Homeland Security and Armed Services, I understand the weight of that important mission. However, carrying out this mission must not come at the expense of Americans’ privacy rights. The reported frequency and nature of the recent flights around Tucson raise significant concerns about the preservation of my constituents’ Fourth Amendment rights.” As noted on June 5th in the Arizona Daily Star, a local resident reported observing low-level flights as many as 80 times a day over his property. According to the report, the aircraft used for the surveillance flights is registered under a name associated with fictitious companies uncovered in a 2015 AP media investigation. “I request a description with as much detail as possible of the scope and purpose of the FBI’s operations, either current or from the last year, in and around Tucson involving these surveillance flights,” Rep. McSally continues. A PDF of the letter can be found HERE. The full letter text follows. The Honorable James B. Comey, Jr. Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20535 Dear Director Comey, Last year, a journalistic investigation completed by the Associated Press found that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) had been conducting operations flying surveillance planes over 30 cities in 11 states across the country. More recent reports indicated that similar operations have been carried out in Tucson, Arizona over the past several months. According to FBI spokeswoman Lindsay Ram, these “aviation assets” may be intended to support “investigations targeting specific individuals and, when requested, in support of state and local law enforcement.” In addition, these reports describe the FBI flights that have garnered the attention of my constituents as being registered to a company called “NBY Productions,” prompting further confusion about the nature and purpose of these flights. The FBI is tasked with protecting the American people. As someone who served 26 years in the U.S. Air Force, including overseeing counterterrorism missions, and who currently serves on the Committees on Homeland Security and Armed Services, I understand the weight of that important mission. However, carrying out this mission must not come at the expense of Americans’ privacy rights. The reported frequency and nature of the recent flights around Tucson raise significant concerns about the preservation of my constituents’ Fourth Amendment rights. I request a description with as much detail as possible of the scope and purpose of the FBI’s operations, either current or from the last year, in and around Tucson involving these surveillance flights. I understand aspects of this information may be sensitive for public release and therefore am willing to discuss any responses in a classified setting as needed. However, please address as many of these questions in a manner appropriate for public disclosure as possible. I would like to thank you for your attention to this matter and your timely response. Sincerely,
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously passed legislation, the Checkpoint Optimization and Efficiency Act, to address airport wait times and Transportation and Security Administration (TSA) staffing issues around the country. The legislation is a result of numerous roundtable discussions and hearings involving U.S. Representative Martha McSally and Tucson Airport Authority (TAA) President and CEO, Bonnie Allin. “Too often lately, Arizona passengers have been met with unacceptable delays – and the TSA needs to do a better job,” said Rep. McSally. “Today’s bill is a product of discussions and hearings we’ve held in recent weeks. It includes input and solutions from local stakeholders, like TAA’s Bonnie Allin, and takes important, sensible steps like increasing TSA transparency and empowering local officials to make better staffing decisions. I’ll continue to work to advance these ideas and make sure the voices of our residents are heard.” “I’m pleased to see our efforts to develop solutions to TSA’s staffing issues already result in action,” said Bonnie Allin, President and CEO of the Tucson Airport Authority. “This bill takes important steps that were a result of our recent discussions and testimony, such as providing greater flexibility for smaller airports to meet staffing needs and speed up passenger processing efforts. The success of the Tucson International Airport depends on safe, efficient, and convenient processing of travelers, and we all appreciate Congresswoman McSally’s continued leadership on this issue.” As wait times have grown in Tucson and across the country, Rep. McSally has continually worked to address TSA staffing issues. On April 12, she sent a letter to TSA Administrator Peter Neffenger requesting answers on TSA’s plans to reduce local wait times. Last month, she took part in a roundtable with members of the Homeland Security Committee and the heads of airport authorities from around the country, including Bonnie Allin, who took part at the request of Rep. McSally. In addition, at a May 25 hearing, Rep. McSally questioned Administrator Neffenger about pulling screening agents to work presidential campaign rallies, concerts, and sporting events. The following day, she took part in hearing that highlighted testimony from Bonnie Allin and other travel and airport officials from around the country.
06.03.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally earlier this week hosted her office’s first ever Congressional First Responder of Distinction Award Ceremony. The award recognizes firefighters, EMTs and law enforcement officers from the Second District who go above and beyond to serve Southern Arizona. “First Responders of southern Arizona serve our community with extraordinary commitment and integrity. To recognize the endless sacrifices made by our First Responders, I created an award to honor police, EMS, sheriff, and fire department members who exemplify values such as duty, service, and an abiding commitment to a cause greater than any one individual,” said Rep. McSally. “Each and every First Responder has my respect for risking their lives in the line of duty and distinguishing themselves by their willingness to unselfishly serve our community. I congratulate all winners and nominees and thank our judges for helping making this award possible.” Photo of Rep. McSally and First Responder Award recipients Nominees for the award represented Sierra Vista and Tucson Police Departments, Pima and Cochise County Sheriff’s Departments, Sierra Vista and Douglas Fire Departments, and the Willcox Police Department. Award winners were chosen by a panel of judges that consisted of First Responders and members of the community who reviewed each nomination. The list of recognized First Responders follows: Plaque Winners – 3 Individuals and 1 Group Award Branden K. Eaton, Officer with the Sierra Vista Police Department Josefina S. Sabori, Detective with the Pima County Sheriff’s Department James D. Wakefield, Sergeant with the Tucson Police Department Pima County Sheriff’s Department Search and Rescue Certificate Winners – 4 Individuals and 1 group Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition Michael Derfus, Firefighter Engineer/Paramedic with the Sierra Vista Fire Department Mario Novoa, Douglas Fire Department Chief Charles Foley, Tucson Police Department Patrol Officer Brian Delfs, Avra Valley Fire Department Fire Chief Cochise County Sheriff’s Office
06.01.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally will host a jobs fair this Saturday from 10:00AM to 2:00PM at Rincon High School in Tucson. The jobs fair, which is open to the public, will include representatives from 50 Southern Arizona employers. “I’m committed to creating an environment that leads to more jobs and opportunity for Southern Arizonans,” said Rep. McSally. “This jobs fair is meant to connect local employers with individuals looking for a job or new career. I thank the 50 employers participating and look forward to a great event this Saturday.” Employers participating in this Saturday’s jobs fair include Northrop Grumman, CAID Industries, Raytheon Missile Systems, GEICO, Jim Click Automotive, The University of Arizona, Comcast, Ventana Medical Systems, Customs and Border Protection, the Southern Arizona VA Health Care System, CODAC, Southwest Gas, and more. No prior registration is need for job-seekers. The event also will feature local food trucks outside the high school. Individuals with questions should call the Tucson district office at 520-881-3588.
05.31.2016	Historic Visit Follows Rep. McSally Invite SIERRA VISTA – Secretary of Defense Ash Carter today visited Fort Huachuca where he met with troops and leadership at the base and spoke one-on-one with U.S. Representative Martha McSally about the base’s unique assets. Rep. McSally sent a letter to Secretary Carter in March requesting he visit the base in person. “I’m glad that Secretary Carter took us up on our invitation to see what a national security treasure we have in Fort Huachuca,” said Rep. McSally. “Our meeting provided the chance to discuss the potential for increased missions and partnering with agencies like CBP as well as cooperating with neighboring units at DM and elsewhere and enhanced manned-unmanned training. In addition, I was able to highlight the Fort’s leadership in water conservation and critical missions like the Electronic Proving Ground, intelligence, cyber, unmanned aircraft, signal, NETCOM, and joint and interagency operations. This historic visit will go a long way toward preserving and expanding our base’s missions and ensuring its future.” During the visit, Secretary Carter noted the “bright futures” of both Davis-Monthan Air Force Base and Fort Huachuca. Photo credit: U.S. Army Fort Huachuca
05.25.2016	Rep. McSally: “Under what authority is TSA screening Americans on their way into a sporting, or concert, or presidential campaign rally?” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today at a Committee on Homeland Security hearing questioned Transportation and Security Administrator Peter Neffenger about pulling screening agents to work presidential campaign rallies, concerts, and sporting events. The reporting about removing agents from screening travelers comes as passengers around the country have experienced growing lines at airports as peak travel season approaches. “I’ve seen reports that your agents are being pulled to support things like presidential campaign events, concerts, sporting events, and other things. I don’t see that anywhere within your core mission and your core responsibilities. So my first question is, under what authority is TSA screening Americans on their way into a sporting, or concert, or presidential campaign rally?” Rep. McSally asked during the hearing. “If everything we’ve heard today about the importance of keeping our transportation safe and making sure that people can get there in a timely manner in this manning crisis, where is the priority of supporting these events that have nothing to do with your core mission?” Rep. McSally also questioned Administrator Neffenger about failures to keep open pre-check lanes and empowering local TSA Federal Security Directors to make decisions that work best for local airports.
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today chaired a Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee hearing about improving the procurement process for new border technology programs and getting needed intelligence to agents on the ground. The hearing featured testimony from top Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Government Accountability Office (GAO) officials about delays and cost-overruns in border technology acquisition programs. “CBP’s border technology procurement office, to put it mildly, has a checkered past that includes more failures than successes, including the Secure Border Initiative, Coastal Interceptor Vessel, Ultralight Aircraft Detection, and the Mobile Surveillance Capability, which have all become synonymous with a deeply troubled acquisition process,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “These procurements have run over budget, behind schedule, been subject to litigation, and wasted a good deal of taxpayer dollars to boot. In this time of limited budgets, we cannot afford to waste a billion dollars on a failed system to learn what not to do.” In response to continued DHS procurement issues, Rep. McSally introduced the Border Security Technology Accountability Act, legislation to improve the management and accountability of new border technology projects. The legislation passed the House unanimously on July 27, 2015 and was lauded during today’s hearing. “The bill calls for making sure that technologies have acquisition program baselines in place, that the programs are monitored according to cost schedule and performance and those address a number of the key findings we’ve had related to CBP’s technology programs. And I might also add that it’s reflective of leading practices and best practices for acquisition management,” said GAO Homeland Security and Justice Director Rebecca Gambler. Rep. McSally also questioned top DHS officials about their plan to achieve full situational awareness along the Arizona border. A previous hearing chaired by Rep. McSally revealed DHS currently has only roughly 50% awareness of activity along the southern border. “The long and short of it is we believe Arizona will be done by FY19,” said U.S. Border Protection Assistant Commissioner and Chief Acquisition Executive, Office of Technology Innovation and Acquisition, Mark Borkowski. Watch the full hearing HERE.
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement applauding the addition of a daily, non-stop American Airlines flight between Tucson International Airport and New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport. The first flight between the two cities will take off in early October 2016. “This new flight is another great sign of Tucson’s growing attractiveness,” said Rep. McSally. “Over 200 passengers fly between New York and Tucson a day, making us the largest market currently without a direct flight. The addition of this non-stop option will establish a direct link between our community and the East Coast, opening the door for vast new opportunities in business and tourism. I congratulate everyone in our community who worked to make this happen.” Last week, Rep. McSally sent a letter to the Administration in support of grant funding for the flight, which was awarded to help meet the minimum revenue guarantee needed.
05.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today put out the following statement after Administration reports announced the death of Taliban Leader Mullah Mansoor. “I commend the military men and women involved in this successful operation. Mansoor was responsible for thousands of Afghan National Security Forces and civilian deaths last year alone. His death provides an opening in which to take advantage of the Taliban’s splintering to further pursue peace and stability.” “Afghanistan’s security is at a pivotal point, as I saw recently during a trip I led to meet with officials and commanders in the theater. Afghans are tired of four decades of war. We should not be further withdrawing our forces, which puts our gains over the last decade at risk. Instead, we need a strategy from the President that protects Americans and ensures our military has what they need to get the job done.” Earlier this month, Rep. McSally returned from leading a group of women Members of Congress to Afghanistan to meet with Afghan leaders and security commanders including General John Nicholson, the Commanding General for the U.S. and NATO for Operation Resolute Support, Her Excellency Rula Ghani, wife of President Ashraf Ghani, and Afghan Minister of Defense Mohammed Masoom Stanekzai.
05.20.2016	WASP Legislation Becomes Rep. McSally’s Second Bill to Be Signed into Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation, the Women Airforce Service Pilots Arlington Inurnment Restoration (WASP AIR) Act, today was signed into law by President Obama. The bill signing caps off a 20-week fight led by Rep. McSally to restore the eligibility of women World War II pilots at Arlington National Cemetery. “Today, honor has been restored to some of our country’s greatest heroes,” said Rep. McSally. “With this signing, generations of Americans will be able to come to Arlington and see how the WASPs served during a time of great need and, in doing so, paved the way for all women to serve in the military. I thank the thousands of Americans who gave their support to this fight and especially recognize the family of WASP Elaine Harmon, whose relentless efforts have won justice for their grandmother and all the WASPs. I look forward to the day when we can be there at Arlington to welcome these pioneers home.” “Today is a victorious occasion for a revolutionary group of women who deserve to be celebrated and remembered by all,” said Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), who co-sponsored the bill in the Senate. “The Woman Airforce Service Pilots were early pioneers in military aviation. They willingly put their lives on the line in service to our great country, and made tremendous sacrifices to join a ground-breaking flight program to free up their male counterparts for combat duty, during World War II. Restoring what was once the right of the WASP to have their ashes placed at Arlington National Cemetery is undoubtedly the right thing to do in honoring these extraordinary women for their remarkable military service. The WASP stand in history as role models for women in the military, proving their strength and fortitude in the missions they carried out. I'm thrilled to have had the opportunity to work with Senator Mikulski and Congresswomen McSally and Davis to honor the legacy of these truly remarkable female trailblazers within our military.” "This bill has always been more than just access to Arlington; it’s been about the respect and recognition for the role these amazing women played in winning World War II,” said Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee and co-sponsor of the House bill. “Arlington has always been considered a special place of honor. If you are laid to rest in Arlington, it is known that you sacrificed to protect and preserve our democracy.” "I cannot thank Representative McSally and her staff enough for all the work they put in to ensure success,” said Erin Miller, granddaughter of WASP Elaine Harmon. "Overturning the decision of the Army seemed like an insurmountable obstacle just six months ago but now my grandmother will be laid to rest at Arlington National Cemetery. Representative McSally tackled this problem head-on with as much dedication as she would have for her own grandmother and for this my family and the women of the WASP will be forever grateful." The WASP Air Act, H.R. 4336, is Rep. McSally’s second bill to be signed into law. On October 19, 2016, the President signed into law her bill, the Border Jobs for Veterans Act, legislation to fast track veterans for jobs at border ports of entry.
05.19.2016	House-approved NDAA Funds Critical S. AZ. Defense Priorities WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the House’s passage of the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The legislation contains full funding for the A-10 and EC-130H Compass Call, two aircraft stationed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, as well as provisions to retain and help expand missions at Fort Huachuca. “We are facing a readiness crisis,” said Rep. McSally. “We’re short more than 600 fighter pilots and getting worse. Airmen are flying fewer hours and receiving less training. Fewer than half of the Air Force’s combat-coded squadrons are fully prepared for combat. We cannot keep this up and expect to continue ensuring the safety of Americans and our troops. Today’s legislation takes important steps to begin reversing the atrophying of our military. It is my hope we can work quickly with the Senate to pass a final bill that ensures our troops are given the tools they need to get the job done.” Rep. McSally also joined members of House Leadership and veteran lawmakers today to discuss how the House NDAA addresses significant readiness issues. Watch Rep. McSally’s comments below. Today’s bill also included a provision advocated for by Rep. McSally to mandate an A-10, F-35 fly-off before any A-10 can be retired. The legislation details what capabilities a fly-off must test, including Close Air Support and Combat Search and Rescue, two missions currently performed by the A-10. In addition, the legislation contained an amendment authored by Rep. McSally to nullify a ruling from a military commission preventing a servicemember from carrying out his or her duties simply because of gender. In December, Rep. McSally led a letter signed by over 40 lawmakers to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter outlining concerns that female guards could be prohibited from transporting detainees at Guantanamo Bay. The full text of that amendment can be found HERE. A list of Southern Arizona priorities contained in the NDAA can be found HERE.
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke before the House Ways and Means Committee to advocate for her bipartisan legislation, the Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act. Rep. McSally’s legislation would repeal a little-known tax increase in the Affordable Care Act and make it easier for families battling high health care costs to deduct those expenses from their taxes. “Healthcare costs are already high and since 2005 have risen faster than inflation every year except 2008,” Rep. McSally said at a Congressional hearing today. “Additionally, the trend toward rising health insurance deductibles is leaving people exposed to increasing out-of-pocket costs. We should be working to reduce this burden, not making it worse, but that’s not what a hidden tax hike in the Affordable Care Act would do.” Currently, seniors can deduct out of pocket medical expenses that exceed 7.5 percent of their adjusted growth income (AGI) on their taxes. A provision contained in the Affordable Care Act would increase this threshold to 10% on January 1, 2017 for Americans over the age of 65, amounting to a tax increase on seniors. The provision has been in effect on Americans under the age of 65 since 2013. Rep. McSally introduced her bipartisan bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act’s provision on September 22, 2015. Taxpayer and seniors advocacy groups supporting the bill include AARP, Americans for Prosperity, 60 Plus, Americans for Tax Reform, the Association of Mature American Citizens, and the National Taxpayers Union. On October 1, Rep. McSally recognized Loren Thorson, a constituent from Green Valley who originally brought the tax hike to her attention. “The impetus for this legislation came from one of my constituents from Green Valley, Arizona, Loren Thorson,” Rep. McSally said today. “Tragically, Loren passed away earlier this year, but he knew the importance of raising awareness of this tax hike and was committed to doing what he could to stop it.”
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor about actions the House is taking to combat the rising rate of opioid abuse in Southern Arizona and around the country. This week, the House passed 18 bills related to combating opioid abuse and enhancing treatment and prevention tools for local communities. The bills will be packaged into a comprehensive bill on Friday and the House will vote to form a conference committee with the Senate to work out differences between the two chambers’ legislation. Transcript Mr. Speaker, opioid addiction is an epidemic that’s tearing our communities apart. This devastation is acutely felt by families in Southern Arizona, many of whom who know all too well the pain of losing a loved one to an overdose. Nobody, no family is immune. A recent analysis showed that Pima County, which I represent, had an overdose rate almost twice as high as any other county in Arizona, which had the 10th highest rate in the country. Southern Arizona’s close proximity to the border exacerbates this problem as more and more opioids come flowing into our communities. Reports show that between 2010 and 2015, heroin seizures spiked by more than 300%. Too many lives have been ruined by the tragic consequences of opioid abuse, which is why we must act. This week, the House is voting on 18 bills that take steps such as launching medication and treatment intervention programs, expanding resources to evidence-based incarceration alternatives, and increasing the availability of life-saving overdose reversal drugs. These are many important first steps to stopping the rise of opioid addiction, and I pledge to continue working to address this very grave and urgent issue. With that, I yield back.
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation, the Women Airforce Service Pilot Arlington Inurnment Restoration (WASP AIR) Act today was sent to the president’s desk after the House unanimously approved the final version of the bill, which passed the Senate yesterday. The bill, H.R. 4336, is Rep. McSally’s second to be sent to the president. “It’s been just 19 weeks since the Army’s decision to kick out our pioneering female World War II pilots was brought to light, and we’ve been fighting ever since," said Rep. McSally. "We worked hard to build support in both chambers of Congress and make sure this bill would continue moving forward. I’m proud to see it now clear Congress and encourage President Obama to sign it immediately.” The Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) served in World War II ferrying airplanes, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets. Thirty-eight WASPs died during their service. In 2002, WASPs and other active duty designees were made eligible for military honors and inurnments at Arlington National Cemetary, however, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision. Rep. McSally has led the fight in Congress to restore the WASPs at Arlington. Her efforts to fight for the WASP in Congress include leading a letter cosigned by over 50 bipartisan House members to the Acting Army Secretary, holding a Special Order discussion on the House floor, hosted a press conference with House and Senate lawmakers, and publishing numerous op-eds.
05.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the passage of her bill, the Women Air Force Service Pilot Arlington Inurnment Restoration (WASP AIR) Act, in the Senate. “The WASPs were pioneering heroes and, today, we are one step closer to honoring them as they deserve,” said Rep. McSally. “I applaud Senator Ernst for her persistent leadership to get this bill passed in the Senate with minor, technical edits. Because of these changes, I will continue to work expediently to get the final version of this bill passed in the House, where it has seen unanimous support, and send it to the President’s desk.” On March 22, the House unanimously approved Rep. McSally’s bill 385-0. The Senate made technical changes to the legislation that did not alter its intent, requiring House passage again before the bill can be sent to the President. At the time of passage, Rep. McSally’s bill had nearly 200 bipartisan House cosponsors. Her efforts to fight for the WASP in Congress include leading a letter cosigned by over 50 bipartisan House members to the Acting Army Secretary, holding a Special Order discussion on the House floor, hosted a press conference with House and Senate lawmakers, and publishing numerous op-eds. Background In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status. 1,102 female pilots signed up for the WASP program, which ran from 1942 to 1944. Their missions included ferrying airplanes, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets, and 38 WASPs died during their service. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASPs for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA, and in 2009, Congress awarded the WASPs the Congressional Gold Medal. Arlington National Cemetery approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASPs, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision.
05.09.2016	SAHUARITA – U.S. Representative Martha McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, today chaired a field hearing in Sahuarita, Arizona highlighting the experiences of local residents and their perspectives living along the border. The hearing featured two panels of witnesses representing a wide spectrum of views, including local law enforcement, Border Patrol, local government, business owners, non-profits, ranchers, and border residents. “The experiences shared today paint a very different picture than what we hear in Washington, D.C,” said Rep. McSally. “Contrary to what we’ve been told, the border is not secure, and the consequences of this failure are felt by our residents every day. That’s why Southern Arizonans’ perspectives are so important and must be part of the discussion to improve our border strategy. I’ve worked hard to move us to a fact-based discussion about securing the border and help rebuild faith in our system. I was proud to see the House unanimously pass my bill recently to conduct a full threat assessment of our southwest border and will continue to fight to advance commonsense solutions that make our communities safer and make sure Southern Arizona voices are heard.” Today’s hearing touched on a wide range of topics and their impacts on local residents, such as Border Patrol’s “defense in depth” strategy, local highway checkpoints, and the need to upgrade border infrastructure. The hearing is the third held by Rep. McSally since being appointed the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. Her first hearing focused on Border Patrol’s inconsistent metrics and data-gathering, while her second hearing highlighted manning and infrastructure improvements needed at border ports of entry to facilitate the flow of commerce and enhance security. Today’s full hearing can be seen HERE. To view or download witness’ written testimonies, click HERE. The full list of today’s witnesses follows. PANEL I The Honorable Mark Dannels Sheriff Cochise County, Arizona The Honorable Danny Ortega Mayor Douglas, Arizona Mr. Art Del Cueto President, Local 2544 National Border Patrol Council PANEL II Mr. Dan Bell President ZZ Cattle Corporation Mr. Mark S. Adams Coordinator Frontera De Cristo Mr. Jamie S. Chamberlain President J-C Distributing Inc. Ms. Nan Stockholm-Walden Vice President and Legal Counsel Farmers Investment Co. (FICO) Mr. Frank Krentz Rancher
05.06.2016	Lawmakers Meet with Deployed AZ Servicemembers, Receive Security Updates from U.S. Commanders TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally this week returned from leading a group of women Members of Congress to Afghanistan, where the lawmakers met with troops and Afghan leaders and received updates about the security situation in the region. Ahead of Mother’s Day, Rep. McSally also delivered cards written by Tucson school kids to deployed servicewomen thanking them for their sacrifices and service. “We’ve invested a lot of blood and treasure into Afghanistan. It’s a country that has immense importance to our national security due to the presence of now close to a dozen terrorist organizations, many of which are a threat to our security and homeland. It was crucial to hear from commanders in theater about the risks of this Administration's direction to draw down from 9800 to 5500 troops in the next six months" said Rep. McSally. "I returned with added resolve that we need to learn lessons from walking away in Iraq, which created the vacuum now filled by ISIS. The President must have a strategy that starts with an objective to protect Americans, followed by an assessment of what capabilities and number of troops and civilians that's required instead of an arbitrary cap that results in lots of creative counting and increased risk. I also know first-hand the sacrifices our deployed servicemembers make, so it was an honor to thank in-person the men and women, including many from Arizona, serving there to keep our country safe.”‎ Rep. McSally meets and has lunch with servicemembers from Arizona deployed in Support of Operation Resolute Support During the trip, the Congressional delegation led by Rep. McSally received security briefs from top commanders and Afghan officials including General John Nicholson, the Commanding General for the U.S. and NATO for Operation Resolute Support, and Afghan Minister of Defense Mohammed Masoom Stanekzai. In addition, the lawmakers met with Her Excellency Rula Ghani, the wife of Prime Minister Ashraf Ghani and a co-chair of the Women in Security Advisory Committee, to discuss the security in Afghanistan and the role of women in the Afghan security forces. The delegation meets with U.S. General John Nicholson and Her Excellency Rula Ghani to discuss security in Afghanistan Lawmakers meet with female officers and policewomen about challenges as women in the Afghan security forces The all-female delegation visit is the second trip led by Rep. McSally to Afghanistan to meet with deployed servicemembers. This year’s trip included a lunch and meeting with deployed servicewomen, where Rep. McSally handed out cards made by Tucson schools kids. Meeting with and handing out cards to deployed servicewomen at Bagram Airfield, Afghanistan. Sharing lunch with deployed servicewomen ahead of Mother’s Day To view more photos from the trip, click HERE.
05.04.2016	SAHUARITA – U.S. Representative Martha McSally will hold a Congressional field hearing in Sahuarita on Monday, May 9 about the challenges and threats Southern Arizonans face living near the U.S.-Mexico border. The hearing will highlight testimony from local witnesses representing a wide spectrum of perspectives including law enforcement, Border Patrol Agents, ranchers and border residents, local government, and humanitarian organizations. “I’m dedicated to making sure the voices of Southern Arizonans are heard,” said Rep. McSally. “That’s why I’m holding this hearing. Our residents live with the consequences of our unsecure border every day and their perspectives are invaluable to improving our border strategy and making our communities safer.” “I want to thank Congresswoman McSally for inviting me to participate in this hearing. It shows a good partnership between her and our Cochise County law enforcement,” said Cochise County Sheriff Mark Dannels, who will testify at the hearing. “This is a great opportunity for us to take our message, both as sheriff and law enforcement and to include the citizens I hear from on a daily basis, to Congressional leaders with the hopes of developing solutions to this problem.” "For us living along the border, this is a big safety issue,” said Dan Bell, whose family owns a ranch near Nogales and also is testifying on Monday. “We are put in positions where we are encountering cartel activity on our lands with the nearest help often miles away. I know this is the case across Southern Arizona, which is why I thank Congresswoman McSally for leading to improve the security situation along the border and for giving us a chance to make our voices heard.” Since being appointed Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee in February, Rep. McSally has led multiple hearings highlighting the needs of Southern Arizona residents, including a hearing on modernizing outdated border infrastructure and addressing staffing shortages at ports of entry and a hearing on improving border security metrics. Last month, the House unanimously approved Rep. McSally’s bill requiring the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a full assessment of threats coming across the southern border. Media are encouraged to attend and the hearing is open to the public, space permitting. Please RSVP to Patrick Ptak at 202-603-3100 or patrick.ptak@mail.house.gov. Monday, May 9, 2016 10:00AM Council Chambers at the Sahuarita Town Hall Building 375 W. Sahuarita Center Way, Sahuarita, AZ 85629 Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security Field Hearing “Life on the Border: Examining Border Security through the Eyes of Local Residents and Law Enforcement” PANEL I The Honorable Mark Dannels Sheriff Cochise County, Arizona The Honorable Danny Ortega Mayor Douglas, Arizona Mr. Art Del Cueto President National Border Patrol Local 2544 PANEL II Mr. Mark S. Adams Coordinator Frontera De Cristo Mr. Dan Bell President ZZ Cattle Corporation Ms. Judy Keeler Animas/Hachita New Mexico Rancher
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced bipartisan legislation to help facilitate restoration projects on public lands, such as Saguaro National Park. The 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Act of 2016 enables federal agencies, like the National Park Service (NPS), to enter into partnerships with national service corps organizations to complete projects faster and at no additional cost to taxpayers. “In Arizona, natural beauty is all around us,” said Congresswoman McSally (R-AZ). “The problem is that a backlog of needed restoration projects on our public lands is restricting access for Arizonans and tourists at our parks and public areas. Additional resources provided to reduce this backlog have failed to make a dent in it, which is why we need better solutions. My bill leverages existing resources in a smarter way to get these projects moving and ensure the public can once again fully enjoy our national parks. I thank Congressman Moulton for working with me on this legislation and look forward to working together to move it forward.” “Enjoying the outdoors and our great national parks is a quintessentially American experience, but it’s one that more and more Americans are losing out on because of the mounting backlog of National Parks Service projects,” said Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA), a co-lead of the legislation. “We need innovative solutions and the 21CSC is just that -- it codifies public-private partnerships between conservation groups and our park services, while affording young people and veterans meaningful work experience. This bipartisan bill effectively joins service with stewardship, and in doing so, it will make our country a better place. I was proud to work with Congresswoman McSally on this effort to protect 21CSC and promote conservation and national service opportunities at the same time.” Today, restoration projects on public lands around the country are significantly backlogged, including $41.5 million in delayed or deferred projects in Arizona. Deferred or delayed maintenance projects at Saguaro National Park amounts to approximately $12.9 million, while Chiricahua National Monument in Cochise County faces roughly $10.3 million in need restoration projects. Under an executive order, federal agencies like the National Park Service are encouraged to partner with national service corps organizations to fill available positions on national service restoration projects. The 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Act of 2016 codifies this program under law and expands it to allow additional federal agencies to use corps volunteers to complete projects. Additionally, the bill streamlines the process in which private donations can be used for park reconstruction activities. Enlisting corps to do priority work often has proved to be more cost-effective for federal agencies. A recent report showed that public-private partnerships saved the National Park Service more than $50,000 per project on average, with one project achieving savings of over $220,000.
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following a marathon markup session, the House Armed Services Committee early Thursday passed comprehensive defense legislation containing multiple Southern Arizona defense priorities that were a result of U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s persistent advocacy efforts. The Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) contained full funding for the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call, two aircraft stationed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, as well as provisions to retain and help expand missions at Fort Huachuca. “For over a year in Congress, I’ve fought for our defense assets, like Davis-Monthan and Fort Huachuca – and this bill ensures they are protected next year,” said Rep. McSally. “The legislation fully funds A-10s and EC-130s. It contains amendments and provisions I led on to help expand missions at Fort Huachuca. And it mandates a fly-off between the A-10 and F-35, a crucial test that’s needed to ensure we are preserving capabilities to provide Close Air Support and Combat Search and Rescue. This bill represents a significant victory for Southern Arizona families and our troops, and I will continue to fight to get these provisions signed into law.” Earlier this year, Administration officials announced they would delay their efforts to retire the A-10 prematurely, a departure from the Administration’s policy of the last two years. In addition, unlike last year’s defense markup that saw attempts to mothball dozens of A-10 Warthogs-attempts Rep. McSally successfully fought to prevent-no amendments or provisions were offered to strip A-10 funding during this year’s markup. Additional Southern Arizona priorities contained in the legislation include: $218 million in funding for A-10 upgrades; Provisions to retain and help expand missions at Fort Huachuca, including the laboratory and testing evaluation center, Electronic Proving Grounds, and Remotely Piloted Aircraft; Language to address pharmacy wait times at military medical treatment facilities; Language to facilitate growth capabilities within the electromagnetic spectrum, a key Fort Huachuca priority; Funding for 196 Tomahawk missiles to be produced by Raytheon Missile Systems; Provisions supporting Raytheon’s Joint Air to Ground missiles; And an amendment to streamline the hiring of veterans as Customs and Border Protection Officers and Agents along the border; And, a provision restoring inurnment rights for the Women Air Force Service Pilots (WASP) in Arlington National Cemetery.
04.26.2016	Bill Would Improve National Emergency Preparedness Programs WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today unanimously passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s bipartisan legislation, the Promoting Resilience and Efficiency in Preparing for Attacks and Responding to Emergencies (PREPARE) Act. The legislation, which would improve the efficiency and coordination of disaster preparedness programs, is Rep. McSally’s seventh bill to pass the House. “This bipartisan bill will make our country safer,” said Rep. McSally. “It enhances tools for first responders, improves efficiency at FEMA, helps address threats posed by chemical and biological attacks, and ensures our nation’s homeland security agents can communicate effectively. I came to Congress to advance commonsense solutions like this one, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to get it signed into law.” Provisions in the PREPARE Act to improve disaster preparedness, which were informed by hearings, briefings, and meetings with stakeholders, include: Authorizing Operation Stonegarden, a program that provides grants to law enforcement agencies along the border to enhance border security; Improving accountability and effectiveness of Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grants; Enhancing efficiency at FEMA by requiring designated staff to implement Government Accountability Office recommendations; Addressing interoperability gaps affecting Department of Homeland Security agents; And, establishing a pilot program to provide anthrax vaccines to first responders on a voluntary basis to address chemical and biological threats. For the full bill text, click HERE.
04.26.2016	Full A-10 Funding, Fly-off Included in NDAA Mark WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the inclusion of critical Southern Arizona priorities, including full funding for the A-10 Warthog, EC-130H Compass Call, and missions at Fort Huachuca, in the recently released Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The legislation will be marked up tomorrow by the Committee on Armed Services, on which Rep. McSally serves. “The inclusion of these provisions is a big victory for Southern Arizonans and our national defense,” said Rep. McSally. “I’m glad to see our efforts lead to not just full funding of the A-10 and a retention of missions at Fort Huachuca, but also inclusion of a mandated fly-off between the A-10 and F-35‎. I've long advocated that this needs to happen and that we need a tested, proven replacement to be operational before any A-10s can be retired. I’ll continue to fight to ensure these provisions are protected in the final bill.” During last year’s mark up, Rep. McSally successfully offered amendments protecting the A-10 and EC-130H, two aircraft housed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM), from retirement. Provisions funding and prohibiting the retirement of either aircraft are included in this year’s legislation. In addition, Rep. McSally has continually worked to secure a fly-off between the F-35 and A-10 to preserve current Close Air Support and Combat Search and Rescue capabilities. A provision mandating that test is included in this legislation. Other Southern Arizona priorities in the NDAA include provisions to help expand missions at Fort Huachuca such as Remotely Piloted Aircrafts, the Electronic Proving Grounds, and the testing and evaluation center. The bill also included language to upgrade the EC-130H to extend its service life and allow it to continue meeting the threats posed by our adversaries. In February 2015, the Administration released its budget seeking to retire our entire A-10 fleet as well as half of the EC-130H aircraft stationed at DM. After over a year of efforts by Rep. McSally to expose the flaws in the Administration’s reasoning and protect these aircraft, in February, Administration officials announced they would delay their proposed premature retirement of the A-10.
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor and in local media to remind Southern Arizona high school girls to complete their applications for the Young Women Leadership Program before the May 9 deadline. The unique, one-day event provides local students the opportunity to meet and interact with successful Southern Arizona women who hold leadership roles in a variety of fields. Rep. McSally, who was the first woman to a fly fighter aircraft and command a fighter squadron in combat in U.S. history, also penned an op-ed today in The Explorer about the program and the importance of ensuring young women have the opportunity to achieve their fullest potential. Her full op-ed follows below. Rep. McSally, who was the first woman to a fly fighter aircraft and command a fighter squadron in combat in U.S. history, also penned an op-ed today in The Explorer about the program and the importance of ensuring young women have the opportunity to achieve their fullest potential. Her full op-ed follows below. Empowering Tomorrow’s Women Leaders Tucson Local Media April 20, 2016 U.S. Representative Martha McSallyhttps://www.tucsonlocalmedia.com/northwest_chatter/article_56d7525a-0664-11e6-b2e2-838c766c4d95.html Women and girls are one of our country’s greatest untapped resources. We make up half of the population, yet, for decades, our society has not lived up to its responsibility of showing girls they can be whatever they want to be and providing them with the opportunity to achieve their fullest potential. Despite recent advances, data shows women are still significantly underrepresented in major fields: Women make up only 14% of senior executives in S&P 500 companies; Women hold only 17% of board seats in fortune 500 companies; Women make up only 7% of top ranks in the military; Women make up only 25% of computer and mathematical scientists and only 13% of engineers, despite comprising nearly half of the workforce; And, in Congress, women make up less than 20% of lawmakers. If we want to unleash every woman’s full potential, we need to empower them to succeed. We need to identify opportunities for women to open more small businesses, hold more board positions, sit at the table as one of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and much more. In addition, we need to continue encouraging young women and girls to set their goals high and let nothing stand in their way. Who better to inspire success and ambitions than successful women leaders from our own community? On June 11, my office will host Southern Arizona’s first-ever Congressional Young Women’s Leadership Program, a one-day event designed to help build leadership skills and inspire young women to achieve more in their careers and education. The program provides young women currently enrolled in high school with the opportunity to meet and interact with women from Southern Arizona who hold leadership roles and have built successful careers in government, business, medicine, media relations, and other professions. To read the full op-ed, click HERE.
04.19.2016	CBP: “We Recognize (Douglas) as One of the Top Infrastructure Needs We Have” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a hearing as the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee on inadequate staffing levels and outdated infrastructure at our border ports of entry. During the hearing, in response to questioning from Rep. McSally, a top Customs and Border Protection (CBP) official confirmed the Douglas Port of Entry is a top infrastructure priority for the Administration and that it would be included in CBP’s five-year infrastructure plan. “As you know, the Douglas Port of Entry has needed modernization for many years,” Rep. McSally said. “From our perspective it has tremendous shortfalls and limitations to it. We have struggled to find the financing. Where is the Douglas Port of Entry on the prioritization list?” “So Douglas will be in the upcoming (five year) plan. We recognize it as one of the top infrastructure needs we have,” said Eugene Schied, Acting Executive Assistant Commissioner for CBP’s Office of Enterprise Services. “As you have mentioned, the facility is very inadequate. It’s old. It fails on multiple accounts to be the kind of facility we want to provide. And in the upcoming five year plan, I expect Douglas will be a part of, one of the projects that we seek funding for. It’s one of our higher priorities.” The questioning follows Rep. McSally’s continued efforts to upgrade and modernize the Douglas Port of Entry. Last June, Rep. McSally called upon CBP Commissioner Gil Kerlikowske to explain the next steps needed to advance a proposed expansion of the Douglas Port of Entry. She also engaged top Administration officials last November on the urgent need for a new port of entry in Douglas. Rep. McSally also questioned witnesses today on barriers to hiring that has produced dire staffing shortages at border ports of entry. “At the current hiring rate, it takes almost 100-150 applicants to go through the process just to hire one agent or officer. This means CBP needs to have hundreds of thousands of people apply just to meet our current needs,” Rep. McSally said in her opening statement. In October 2015, President Barack Obama signed into law Rep. McSally’s bill, the Border Jobs for Veterans Act, legislation to fast-track veterans for jobs along the border. The law has been welcomed by Administration officials as an important provision to help meet staffing needs. “Through the Border Jobs for Veterans Act, we are partnering with the Department of Defense to expedite the onboarding of veterans and separating service members into frontline positions,” said Linda Jacksta, CBP’s Assistant Commissioner for the Office of Human Resources Management. “This is groundbreaking work that has the potential to be a game changer for CBP.” To watch the full hearing, click HERE.
04.18.2016	TUCSON – At an award reception Saturday for students competing in the Congressional Art Competition, U.S. Representative Martha McSally announced that Erika Marquez, a sophomore at Salpointe Catholic High School, won first place for her painting, “San Xavier Mission.” Erika’s painting will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol along with the winning pieces from other districts and she will be invited to attend a reception in Washington, D.C. Tatyana Padró-Miguel, a junior at Buena High School, won first runner-up for her submission, “Freedom,” and Paulina Barrera, a junior at Flowing Wells High School, won second runner-up for her drawing, “American Dream.” Both pieces will be displayed in the Tucson or Sierra Vista district offices along with other honorable mention winners. “Erika’s detailed painting of San Xavier Mission beautifully captures our rich history and culture and will represent Southern Arizona well in the Capitol,” said Rep. McSally. “This annual event is so worthwhile because it showcases the incredible talent of our community’s young artists and gives them the opportunity to achieve something they’ll never forget. I once again commend all the students who participated for their hard work and talent.” U.S. Rep. McSally poses with first place winner, Erika Marquez To view more photos from Saturday’s reception, click HERE. A total of 90 pieces were submitted for this year’s competition by students from across Southern Arizona. Constituents were able to vote for their favorite pieces on Rep. McSally’s Facebook page, and the top ten works of art with the most engagement were presented to a local panel of judges, who chose the winners.
04.15.2016	Reception to Be Held Saturday at UA Tech Park TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally will announce the winners of the Congressional Art Competition at a reception on Saturday, April 16 at the UA Tech Park. Rep. McSally will announce the overall winner, who will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol, as well as two runner-ups, whose artwork will be displayed in the Tucson and Sierra Vista district offices. “This year’s competition was unique because Southern Arizonans were able to weigh in on what pieces they thought best represent our district,” said Rep. McSally. “We received a great response from the community as well as many truly remarkable pieces of art submitted, showing what talented and promising young artists we have. I look forward to honoring the winners on Saturday as well as all the artists who participated for their hard work.” A total of 90 pieces were submitted for this year’s competition by students from across Southern Arizona. Constituents were able to vote for their favorite pieces on Rep. McSally’s Facebook page, and the top ten works of art with the most engagement were presented to a local panel of judges, who chose the winners. Media is encouraged to attend the reception. Please RSVP to Patrick Ptak at patrick.ptak@mail.house.gov or at 202-603-3100. What: Congressional Art Competition Reception Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally Where: UA Tech Park 9070 S. Rita Road Tucson (please see attached map for further details) When: Saturday, April 16 1:45PM
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today testified before the Committee on Veterans Affairs about her legislation, the Veterans’ Entry to Apprenticeship Act, a bill to expand skills training programs to veterans. Her testimony before the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity highlighted the challenges veterans face transitioning to civilian life as well as the importance of expanding veterans’ access to pre-apprenticeship programs. “As a veteran, I know personally that when someone raises their right hand and volunteers to defend our nation, we commit to doing all we can to assist them when they return. Part of that promise means helping our veterans transition to civilian life after their service,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “This (bill) would be a win not just for veterans, but for local employers as well.” Rep. McSally introduced the Veterans Entry to Apprenticeship Act, on March 12, 2015. The bill would provide veterans the ability to use their educational benefits under the GI Bill to enroll in Department of Labor approved pre-apprenticeship programs, courses that prepare individuals to enter more advanced level apprenticeship training. The bipartisan bill now has 34 cosponsors and awaits action by the Committee on Veterans Affairs, where it has been referred.
04.13.2016	Legislation is Sixth McSally Bill to Pass House WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today unanimously passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation, the Southern Arizona Border Threat Assessment Act. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a full assessment of the threats coming across the southern Border. “This legislation is long overdue and badly needed,” said Rep. McSally. “The last time DHS analyzed the threats coming across our border was over 20 years ago – a lot has changed since then. By requiring DHS to conduct a new border threat analysis and update their strategic plan based on new findings, this bill builds new trust in our system and our ability to accurately measure illicit activity along the border and respond to it. I’ll continue working with my Senate colleagues to get this important legislation passed in the Senate and sent to the President’s desk.” The Southern Arizona Border Threat Assessment Act is the sixth bill sponsored by Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, to pass the House. Her additional efforts to advocate for a better border strategy include getting legislation passed the House to improve accountability of border projects, bringing over 20 members of Congress to see the Arizona border first-hand, and shepherding a bill into law to fast-track veterans for jobs at the border. To read the full bill text, click HERE.
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Representative Martha McSally today wrote to the Administrator of the Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) with concerns about long passenger wait times at the Tucson International Airport. In the letter, Rep. McSally raises concerns about how the implementation of new screening processes combined with staffing shortages are leading to delays for passengers at security checkpoints. “As you may know, in recent months, airport security checkpoints nationwide have encountered exceedingly long lines and extensive wait times for passengers,” Rep. McSally writes in the letter. “With heavy travel season quickly approaching, I write to express my concerns about how this could affect the free flow of travel and understand how the Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) intends to mitigate the problem.” “As a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, U.S. Representative Martha McSally is highly attuned to issues with TSA, and the Tucson Airport Authority is extremely appreciative that she is taking up the problem of the long lines at airport security checkpoints,” said Bonnie Allin, President and CEO of the TAA. “Our passenger numbers are growing at Tucson International Airport yet the local airport TSA has not been given the necessary resources to process passengers in a timely manner during peak periods. Washington has cut their staffing and reduced overtime. We hope that with Representative McSally’s help we can all work toward a solution to provide the safest and most efficient screening process for our traveling public.” Rep. McSally’s letter contained a list of questions for TSA Administrator Peter Neffenger about how the agency plans to address challenges leading to delays. To view a PDF of the full letter text, click HERE. The full letter text follows. Honorable Peter Neffenger Administrator Transportation Security Administration 601 South 12th Street Arlington, VA 20598 Dear Administrator Neffenger, As you may know, in recent months, airport security checkpoints nationwide have encountered exceedingly long lines and extensive wait times for passengers. With heavy travel season quickly approaching, I write to express my concerns about how this could affect the free flow of travel and understand how the Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) intends to mitigate the problem. In 2015, a Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General report revealed that an internal, undercover investigation conducted by Red Teams – undercover inspectors tasked with identifying weaknesses in the screening process – found that airport screening checkpoints across the nation failed in 67 out of 70, or 95%, of tests to detect threat items. These reports were extremely troubling and unacceptable and demonstrated that the safety of our nation’s travelers was clearly at risk. At a time when transportation hubs remain targets for terrorist organizations, I applaud efforts to address these shortfalls, through massive re-training efforts and security protocol revisions. However, it has now become clear that those efforts are also causing immense obstacles in ensuring efficient travel at a time when airports are experiencing record passenger volume. Additionally, it appears that your agency’s frontline workforce may be buckling under the pressure of operating under these circumstances while you attempt to hire more agents. I am concerned that TSA’s existing hiring practices are cumbersome and unable to meet the pressing mission needs of the agency. Part of the security line issue also pertains to the TSA PreCheck program that launched in 2012. Customers at our nation’s airports are spending their hard earned money to capitalize on a program that promised to ensure them expedited screening at security checkpoints only to find rampant lane closures of PreCheck lanes. In order to better understand how TSA plans to address the issues going forward, please provide answers to the following questions no later than April 26, 2016: 1. How will TSA work to mitigate staffing shortages at Tucson International Airport and other airports during periods of high passenger volume? 2. How does TSA expect passengers to enroll in the PreCheck program when PreCheck lanes are often closed at times when travelers need to utilize them, and how is TSA expanding and marketing the PreCheck program? 3. What are TSA's methods for responding to and adjudicating checkpoint complaints at airports? 4. What is the current size of TSA's National Deployment Force, and how are they being utilized to handle higher passenger volumes? 5. Will TSA be employing increased use of overtime hours in order to bolster staffing at airport security checkpoints during periods of high passenger volume? 6. What are TSA’s strategies for implementing efficiencies at the checkpoint while continuing to build a culture of security awareness and stringent adherence to protocol? 7. How is TSA streamlining and enhancing its hiring practices in order to retain a screening workforce of the highest caliber? Thank you for your attention to this matter and your timely response.
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor in recognition of Equal Pay Day. Transcript Mr. Speaker, in 1963, the Equal Pay Act was signed into law making it illegal for an employer to pay a woman less than a man for the same work. Yet, the reality is that today, over 50 years later, women are still making less than men. This is unacceptable and something which we all have a stake in fixing. Here in the House, we are working on putting forward ideas and solutions to empower women to fight for equal pay. We also must continue to encourage young girls to enter STEM and other higher paying fields and to make sure they know they can be whatever they want to be. Lastly, we must do a better job recognizing that caring for aging parents or children is a responsibility for women and men in our society. Mr. Speaker, I’ve been fighting my whole life for women’s rights and equality. I know we still have work to do and am committed to making equal opportunity for women a reality. After all, this is America, where we pick the best man for the job, even if it’s a woman – and that means making sure she’s getting paid what she deserves. With that, I yield back.
04.08.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led an effort by the full Arizona House delegation in support of federal funding for the improvement of State Route 189 (SR-189), a key trade route connecting the Mariposa Port of Entry to Interstate-19. Today’s letter follows Rep. McSally’s efforts last year to successfully advocate for inclusion of the SR-189 project, as well as three other key Southern Arizona projects, in long-term federal transportation legislation. “Arizona’s most active commercial border crossing, the Mariposa Port of Entry in Nogales, processes thousands of commercial vehicles a day bound for locations throughout the country,” the lawmakers said in the letter. “However, the Port’s connection to Interstate 19, the first link of the congressionally designated CANAMEX trade corridor, is tenuous and congested - particularly at peak produce season. This connection, SR 189 at I-19, has emerged as a “weak link” in the nation’s trade system and is in urgent need of improvement.” U.S. Rep. McSally has made enhancing Southern Arizona infrastructure a top priority. In addition, to SR-189, she led advocacy for federal funding on three other Arizona projects, including the Sonoran Corridor, a project predicted to support 189,000 jobs and $32.2 billion in economic impact. “Millions of American jobs are created or sustained by the efficient flow of goods through our international ports of entry, including those located in Arizona,” the lawmakers continued. “Impediments to that efficient flow, such as exist today in Nogales, can often be addressed through carefully selected improvements that target key links in the transportation system. If successful, the TIGER 8 grant application submitted by ADOT would do just that.” To view a PDF of the letter, click HERE. The full letter text follows. The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to you today in support of the TIGER 8 grant application submitted by the Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT) for improvement to State Route 189 in the border community of Nogales, Arizona. International trade is a key component of Arizona’s economy, and to the economies of all communities and states that link to our Ports of Entry through the Interstate System. Arizona’s most active commercial border crossing, the Mariposa Port of Entry in Nogales, processes thousands of commercial vehicles a day bound for locations throughout the country. Approximately 60% of the nation’s winter produce comes through this port. Significant Federal and local investment has been made to upgrade the efficiency and capacity of the Mariposa Port. However, the Port’s connection to Interstate 19, the first link of the congressionally designated CANAMEX trade corridor, is tenuous and congested - particularly at peak produce season. This connection, SR 189 at I-19, has emerged as a “weak link” in the nation’s trade system and is in urgent need of improvement. Millions of American jobs are created or sustained by the efficient flow of goods through our international ports of entry, including those located in Arizona. Impediments to that efficient flow, such as exist today in Nogales, can often be addressed through carefully selected improvements that target key links in the transportation system. If successful, the TIGER 8 grant application submitted by ADOT would do just that. We support the Arizona Department of Transportation’s efforts to receive the TIGER 8 grant and encourage you to strongly consider this grant application. Sincerely,
03.31.2016	CLICK HERE TO DOWLOAD AN APPLICATION FORM. TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced her office is accepting applications for the Congressional Young Women Leadership Program, a one-day event designed to help build leadership skills and inspire young women to achieve more in their careers and education. The program provides young women currently enrolled in high school with the opportunity to meet and interact with women from Southern Arizona who hold leadership roles and have built successful careers in government, business, medicine, media relations, and other professions. “This program is about encouraging young women to be fearless, dream big, and let nothing stand in their way of achieving their fullest potential,” said Rep. McSally. “We’ve put together an inspiring group of accomplished, driven leaders from our community who’ll be able to share their advice and experience with Southern Arizona students. These interactions are so important to showing young women they can be whatever they want to be, and I’m really looking forward to hosting this event.” “Representative McSally continually leads the way as a role model for young women and girls,” said Mountain Vista Fire Chief Cheryl Horvath. “I am excited to join in this effort to mentor young women and help create the next generation of women leaders.” “Once you help someone realize that they should not allow anything or anyone to stand in the way of going after their dreams (including themselves), her opportunities become limitless,” said Sharon O’Neal, an engineering director at Raytheon Missile Systems. “I think this will be a fantastic program to help inspire and encourage young women in Southern Arizona to achieve more, and I commend Rep. McSally for her effort to put it together.” “I’ve seen in my profession how important it is to reach out to young women and encourage them to pursue their dreams and be all they can be, regardless of the barriers,” said Dr. Andrea Overman, principal of Douglas High School. “I thank Congresswoman McSally for hosting this worthwhile event and look forward to participating.” Program participants will have the opportunity to engage with their peers and guests in candid discussions while sharing insights, advice, and stories. Participants also will learn about career opportunities in various fields and the legislative process while developing leadership skills and practicing effective communication with others. Applications for the program, which will be held in June, can be found HERE. A panel of women leaders from the Second District will review the applications and select participants for the program. Applications can be turned in via fax at (520) 322-9490, emailed to Nancy Heiser at Nancy.Heiser@mail.house.gov, or delivered to the Tucson or Sierra Vista district offices. The deadline for applications is May 9, 2016.
03.24.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that Southern Arizonans can now weigh in on Facebook to help pick this year’s Congressional Art Competition winner. Ninety pieces of artwork were submitted for this year’s competition by students from across Southern Arizona. A photo of each submission has been uploaded to Rep. McSally’s Facebook page, where Southern Arizonans can “like” their favorite artwork. “The winning artwork will represent our district for the next year in Washington. What better way to select a piece that truly reflects Southern Arizona than to enable Southern Arizonans to help pick the winner?” said Rep. McSally. “Over the next two weeks, constituents can go to my Facebook page to like, share, and discuss what artwork they’d like to see in Washington or one of my district offices. The pieces with the most likes, comments, and shares will be given to a local panel of judges, who will determine the winners.” Southern Arizonans have until Thursday, April 7 to vote for their favorite artwork on Facebook. The top ten pieces of art with the most engagement, which includes likes, comments, and shares, will be presented to a local panel of judges, who will choose one overall and two runner-up winners. The overall winner will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol along with the winning pieces from other districts. The runner-up artwork will be displayed in Rep. McSally’s district offices. A reception to announce the winners will be held on Saturday, April 16 at the UA Tech Park. The link to access this year’s submissions can be found HERE: https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.1765168790369362.1073741830.1605647229654853&type=3
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to require a full analysis of the current and potential threats along our nation’s southern border today passed the Committee on Homeland Security. The legislation is Rep. McSally’s sixth bill related to national or border security to be favorably reported from the committee. “I hear from my constituents repeatedly about the changing nature of threats along our border,” Rep. McSally said. “Cartels and other transnational criminal organizations adapt and alter their strategies. We need to be able to adapt as well, and that requires knowing what our border threats are. I’m glad to see my bill move out of committee and I’ll continue working to bring it up for a vote by the full House.” The Southern Arizona Border Threat Assessment Act would require the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a new Southwest Border Threat Analysis within 180 days of the bill being signed into law, mandating that accurate assessments be made of the current and potential threats, as well as the measures that need to be taken to counter them. The bill also requires the U.S. Border Patrol to design a new strategic plan based on DHS’s threat analysis. Rep. McSally, who is the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, has made establishing a better, more effective border strategy a top priority. Some of her efforts include having legislation pass the House to improve accountability of border projects and leading over 20 members of Congress on a tour of the Southern Arizona border. Read the full bill text HERE.
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to reinstate the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) in Arlington National Cemetery. The bill, the WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (WASP AIR) Act, passed with unanimous support less than eleven weeks after its introduction on January 6. “We found out about this issue in early January and sprang into action,” said Rep. McSally. “We introduced legislation, built support to nearly 200 bipartisan cosponsors, and worked to get companion legislation introduced in the Senate. Less than eleven weeks later, we got a unanimous vote on the House floor to right this injustice. This issue represents what I came to Congress to do: fix problems. I look forward to continue working with our Senate colleagues to get this bill passed in the Senate and send it to the President’s desk.” “The Women Airforce Service Pilots of World War II were trailblazers and forged the way for women serving in today’s military forces. These women served our nation with great honor – and put their lives on the line. If the Pentagon won’t act to restore the WASP’s right to have their ashes placed at Arlington National Cemetery with military honors, we will. I’m thrilled that the House passed this legislation, and moved us one step closer toward achieving that goal. It is my hope that the Senate will act quickly, followed by the president, so we can restore this right,” said Senator Joni Ernst, who has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. "On behalf of my grandmother, my entire family, and all the women of the WASP, I would like to thank Representative McSally for her dedication to this issue,” said Erin Miller, granddaughter of former WASP Elaine Harmon. “Having visited around 150 offices on the Hill, I'm aware we have a lot of support. However, adding the personal connection Representative McSally has to the WASP and her own military past as a female trailblazer in her own right, to her already outstanding advocacy skills, was a perfect combination of factors needed to achieve success. I refused to let Arlington tell my family no and she carried this same attitude to fruition throughout her legislative efforts. She is an inspirational addition to the House of Representatives." Rep. McSally has led a persistent effort to restore the WASPs in Arlington National Cemetery. Since introducing legislation, she has led a letter cosigned by over 50 bipartisan House members to the Acting Army Secretary, held a Special Order discussion on the House floor, hosted a press conference with House and Senate lawmakers, and has written numerous op-eds. Her legislation, which passed the House today 385 to 0, garnered over 190 bipartisan cosponsors and is her fifth bill to pass the House of Representatives. Background In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status. 1,102 female pilots signed up for the WASP program, which ran from 1942 to 1944. Their missions included ferrying airplanes, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets, and 38 WASPs died during their service. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASPs for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA, and in 2009, Congress awarded the WASPs the Congressional Gold Medal. Arlington National Cemetery approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASPs, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision.
03.21.2016	Plans to Consolidate Postal Facilities Remain in “Deferred Status” WASHINGTON, D.C. – The United States Postal Service (USPS) on Friday responded to U.S. Rep. McSally’s calls to update studies used to propose the consolidation of postal facilities around the country, including the Cherrybell Postal Processing facility in Tucson. In the response, Deputy Postmaster General Ronald Stroman confirmed that the current studies will be updated and reviewed before any future decisions are made, something Rep. McSally called for in a letter earlier this month. The USPS response also confirmed that previous plans to close down facilities continue to be deferred. “I’m pleased to see the Postal Service commit to take a fresh look at the situation around the country before making any new decisions related to Cherrybell,” said Rep. McSally. “This commitment is what we fought for last year in appropriations legislation and earlier this month, and is an important victory for Southern Arizona. I’ve worked to highlight in Congress and locally the devastating impact closing Cherrybell would have. As the Postal Service moves forward to revisit its information, I’ll continue to advocate for our community’s needs.” Earlier this month, Rep. McSally was joined by 33 lawmakers in a letter to Postmaster General Megan Brennan calling for a new look at plans related to the consolidation of postal facilities around the country. The letter followed Rep. McSally’s successful efforts to include in appropriations legislation that was signed into law language encouraging the Postal Service to update past studies used in its decision-making. Last year, Rep. McSally participated in a roundtable with Councilmember Richard Fimbres and local leaders to coordinate local and federal efforts in support of the Cherrybell Facility’s continued operation. Rep. McSally also toured the Cherrybell Processing Center and led a bipartisan effort by members of the Arizona delegation to call on Postmaster General Brennan to see the facility’s impacts first-hand. A PDF of the Postal Service’s response can be found HERE.
03.17.2016	Bipartisan Lawmakers, WASP Family Members Call for Reinstatement of Female WWII Pilots in Arlington WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today was joined by lawmakers from both sides of the aisle at a press conference to call for the immediate reinstatement of the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) in Arlington National Cemetery. The WASPs were the first women to fly planes in the military and flew stateside missions during World War II. Rep. McSally has led the fight in Congress to restore the WASP in Arlington, which is run by the Army. Her legislation to overturn the Army’s decision has garnered 181 cosponsors in the House. “The only reason that these women were not active duty at the time was because of sexism and gender hang-ups of the role of women in the military seventy years ago,” Rep. McSally said during the press conference. “It’s ironic as well, that under current rules, if their husband was buried in Arlington, they could be buried there, but on their own right, they’re still not let in…This is ridiculous and needs to be fixed.” Earlier in the day, Rep. McSally questioned Acting Secretary of the Army Patrick Murphy about reinstating the WASPs in Arlington. During that discussion, Secretary Murphy expressed support for Rep. McSally’s legislation and admitting WASPs to Arlington on an individual basis, but refrained from supporting an Administration change of policy for the entire group. “Do you believe you have the authority to let the (WASP) into Arlington quickly?” Rep. McSally asked. “Yes, due to an individual exception to policy.” “How about as a group, the WASPs, we want to let the WASPs into Arlington because of the amazing service that they did,” she continued. “No ma’am, and that’s why I support your legislation…” To watch the full exchange, click here. A total of 1,074 women served in the WASP. In addition to Senators and Congressmen from both parties, Rep. McSally was joined today by Terri Harmon and Erin Miller, family members of former WASP Elaine Harmon, whose wish to be inurned at Arlington was denied. “We are going to continue to fight and push this legislation to make them do the right thing,” Rep. McSally said.
03.14.2016	Lawmakers Will Be Joined by WASP Family Members to Call for Reinstatement of WWII Female Pilots at Arlington National Cemetery WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) and Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) will hold a press conference on March 16 at 1:30 PM ET at the U.S. Capitol to call on the Army to reinstate the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) at Arlington National Cemetery. The lawmakers have led the fight in Congress to restore the rights of WASPs, who were pioneering female World War II pilots, to have their ashes laid to rest at Arlington, a right that was revoked by the Army last year. Both lawmakers have introduced companion legislation with strong bipartisan support. They will be joined at the press conference by lawmakers from both parties, WASP family members, and a representative from Change.org. What: WASP Press Conference Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) U.S. Representative Susan Davis (D-CA) Family members of Elaine Harmon, former WASP Representative from Change.org Where: U.S. Capitol House triangle location (outside on southeast side of Capitol) When: Wednesday, March 16 1:30 PM ET *The press conference also will be live-streamed Background In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status. Nearly 1,100 signed up for the WASP program, which ran from 1942 to 1944. Their missions included ferrying airplanes, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets, and 38 WASPs died during their service. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASP pilots for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA, and in 2009, Congress awarded the WASPs the Congressional Gold Medal. Arlington National Cemetery approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASP pilots, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision. ###
03.07.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Nancy Reagan. “Nancy Reagan was a transformative First Lady who changed the country through her advocacy and example. She led efforts to combat drug abuse and was a faithful wingwoman to President Reagan and vital to all he accomplished as president. She served as a model of love and devotion to us all as she supported him through his battle with Alzheimer's and became a voice for families throughout the country coping with this disease. Her death marks the end of an historic era for our country. My prayers go out to her family and all who mourn her passing.”
03.04.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a bipartisan group of 33 lawmakers to inquire about the United States Postal Service’s progress on revisiting plans to potentially consolidate mail processing centers around the country, including the Cherrybell Postal Processing Center in Tucson. Rep. McSally has led ongoing advocacy efforts for the continued operation of Cherrybell. “Our constituents, many of whom are seniors, veterans, active voters and small business owners, depend upon reliable, timely service, whether it be traditional mail services or package delivery,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter to Postmaster General Megan Brennan. “As such, we find these closures and consolidations and the slowed mail delivery times that accompany them to be of great concern.” In the letter, the lawmakers highlight language contained in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 that encourages the Postal Service to update the feasibility studies used to propose consolidating processing centers around the country. The legislation containing that language was signed into law on December 18, 2015. “More concerning is the fact that the Postal Service did not fully engage communities about the impacts of these changes and the USPS Office of Inspector General found that portions of the Area Mail Processing (AMP) feasibility studies were incomplete for Phase 2 of NRI,” the lawmakers continued. “We were extremely pleased to see the inclusion of this report language and request an update on what steps USPS has taken to carry out the Congressional direction included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016.” Last year, Rep. McSally participated in a roundtable with Councilmember Richard Fimbres and local leaders to coordinate local and federal efforts in support of the Cherrybell Facility’s continued operation. Rep. McSally also toured the Cherrybell Processing Facility and led a bipartisan effort by members of the Arizona delegation to call on Postmaster General Megan Brennan to revisit decisions that would consolidate operations at the Cherrybell Facility and see the facility’s impacts first-hand. A key concern is the impact the shuttering of Cherrybell could have on local elections, as an increasing number of voters are making use of mail-in ballots. In a Dec. 9 letter to Rep. McSally, Pima County’s Recorder expressed concern that the possible closure of Cherrybell could potentially disenfranchise voters because of the delay in processing ballots. “My office alone will be mailing more than 1 million ballots in 2016 and we can expect several hundred thousand of those ballots to be voted and returned by mail,” wrote F. Ann Rodriguez. “The speed at which the postal service processes the ballots is often critical in giving the voters the opportunity to participate in elections.” In Washington, D.C., Rep. McSally has met with the Deputy Postmaster General Ronald Stroman and the Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, which handles postal issues in the House, to stress the importance of the Cherrybell facility to Southern Arizonans. A PDF of the letter can be found HERE. The full letter text follows. Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260 Dear Postmaster General Brennan: The United States Postal Service (USPS) currently faces a grim long-term financial outlook. In November 2015, the Postal Service reported a net loss of $5.1 billion for Fiscal Year 2015, marking the ninth year in a row that USPS ended its fiscal year in the red. These losses are driven by the long-term pension and healthcare liabilities. On the other side of the coin, USPS has posted operating profits over the past two years, $1.4 billion in Fiscal Year 2014 and $1.2 billion in Fiscal Year 2015. This shows that under the right circumstances, stable fiscal footing can be returned to the Postal Service without taking on new areas of business that diverge from the agency's core mission. In order to address many of the problems USPS currently faces, enactment of legislation by Congress is required. While several reform proposals have been introduced by members of both the House and Senate in this Congress and in the past, until this point, those efforts have stalled. In the absence of Congressional action on difficult issues, such as making the retiree health benefit system more affordable, USPS has taken it upon itself to find solutions to these annual operating deficits. However, in doing so, the Postal Services Network Rationalization Initiatives (NRI) have initiated sweeping changes to its operations, particularly plant closings and consolidations that have already occurred at 141 mail-processing centers across the United States and will affect dozens more. While First-Class and Standard Mail has steadily declined over the past decade, eCommerce has fostered package delivery growth for USPS. The expansive delivery network the Postal Service possesses provides it an advantage and unique capability of delivering millions of packages the “last mile.” Our constituents, many of whom are seniors, veterans, active voters and small business owners, depend upon reliable, timely service, whether it be traditional mail services or package delivery. As such, we find these closures and consolidations and the slowed mail delivery times that accompany them to be of great concern. More concerning is the fact that the Postal Service did not fully engage communities about the impacts of these changes and the USPS Office of Inspector General found that portions of the Area Mail Processing (AMP) feasibility studies were incomplete for Phase 2 of NRI. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 included the following language: On May 27, 2015, the Postal Service announced its decision to defer most of the mail processing plant consolidations scheduled to take place in summer 2015 as the final stage of its Network Rationalization Initiative. The Postal Service is encouraged to update the Area Mail Processing feasibility studies for these plants using the most recent available data in advance of implementing the proposed consolidations. We were extremely pleased to see the inclusion of this report language and request an update on what steps USPS has taken to carry out the Congressional direction included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016. In addition, please include an update of actions USPS intends to take this year regarding possible future consolidations or closures of the mail processing infrastructure. Please provide a response by March 17, 2016. Sincerely,
03.01.2016	Border Chief Confirms Having Situational Awareness of Only 56% of Border WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led her first hearing as Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. The hearing analyzed measurements used to determine Border Patrol effectiveness and highlighted significant gaps in situational awareness along the border. “Customs and Border Protection reported that it was 81% effective on the southwest border last year.” Rep. McSally said in her opening statement. “These new effectiveness numbers are hard to believe, and I believe are inaccurate measures of the state of security on the border. The new interdiction effectiveness rate includes unaccompanied children and families from countries other than Mexico, who turn themselves in, inflating the number. It also fails to take into account the number the Border Patrol never sees, or the denominator, which also inflates the effectiveness.” To watch Rep. McSally’s opening statement, click HERE. During the hearing, Rep. McSally questioned U.S. Border Patrol Acting Chief Ronald Vitiello about over how much of the border his agency has “situational awareness.” “…about 56% of the border is deployed in a way that agents and/or technology can see activity in real time,” Chief Vitiello responded, highlighting a serious shortfall in Border Patrol’s ability to accurately detect, measure, and intercept activity along the border. To watch that exchange, click HERE. Rep. McSally also questioned witnesses about how near the border activity is detected or intercepted, referencing a Southern Arizona rancher as an example. “Intercepting drugs and cartels on the south side of John Ladd’s ranch in Arizona for me is far more effective and to my constituents than on the north side of his ranch. A mile is like an eternity if you’re living right on the border...” To watch the full hearing, click HERE.
02.29.2016	Award Recognizes AZ-02 Firefighters, EMTs, and Law Enforcement TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that her office is accepting nominations for the newly established Southern Arizona Congressional First Responder of Distinction Award. The award recognizes firefighters, EMTs, and law enforcement from the Second District who go above and beyond to serve Southern Arizona. “Our first responders contribute to our communities in so many ways,” said Rep. McSally. “They keep our streets safe, put their lives on the line during emergencies, provide assistance whenever needed, and save lives. This award is meant to honor them for all they do and recognize the men and women who go the extra mile to make a difference.” After all nominations have been received, a panel of first responders and community members will review them to determine award winners. All winners and nominees will be recognized at a ceremony on June 1, 2016 at the Public Safety and Emergency Services Institute (4355 East Calle Aurora, Tucson). Nominations can be dropped off to the Tucson or Sierra Vista office or submitted by email to Nancy.Heiser@mail.house.gov or fax at (520) 322-9490. The deadline for nominations is Sunday, May 1, 2016. Nomination forms can be found HERE.
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to the President’s refusal to implement provisions signed into law meant to combat harmful boycotts of Israel. Earlier this week, the President signed into law H.R. 644, the "Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act,” legislation to update the nation’s customs laws, but acknowledged he would not abide by provisions designed to prevent the discrimination of Israeli-produced goods. “The President’s stance on this issue is atrocious. He is not above the law nor does he get to decide what parts of the law he’s going to enforce,” said Rep. McSally. “By refusing to implement these provisions, he’s not just furthering a politically-motivated boycott, but turning his back on our close ally Israel. Members from both parties have come together to pass legislation meant to support Israel in the face of harmful and malicious boycotts. I will continue to work to provide the oversight needed to make sure the Administration is adhering to the law and will continue to stand with our ally Israel.” Rep. McSally has led efforts in Congress to support Israel and protect against political boycotts of Israelis. Earlier this month, she introduced legislation to prevent the discrimination goods produced in the West Bank or Gaza. Top Democrats in Congress also recently called on the President to enforce provisions he signed into law meant to protect against boycotts of Israel.
02.25.2016	Passage Represents Major Step Forward in Moving Legislation Through Congress and Into Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the House Veterans Affairs Committee favorably passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation, the Women Airforce Service Pilots Arlington Inurnment (WASP AIR) Act. The bill restores the rights of the WASPs, who were pioneering female World War II pilots, to have their ashes inurned at Arlington National Cemetery, which is run by the U.S. Army. “To be clear, this decision does not require legislation. The Army can restore the WASPs’ eligibility in Arlington right now. But they have refused, and in their shameful inaction, we are pressing forward,” said Rep. McSally. “There are only roughly 110 WASPs remaining alive. It is unconscionable that after decades of fighting for the recognition they earned, it is being stripped away from them in their final years. I will not stand for it. Restoring the WASPs’ rightful place in Arlington is something we owe to these pioneering women and future generations of Americans so they can see and know what the WASP did. I will continue to fight every day until this decision is reversed.” Rep. McSally has led the fight in Congress to restore the WASPs’ eligibility in Arlington National Cemetery. Her legislation, H.R. 4336, has garnered 141 bipartisan cosponsors in the House and the endorsement of half a dozen veterans, military, and women’s advocacy groups. In addition to her bill, Rep. McSally has led a letter signed by over 50 bipartisan Members of Congress calling on the Acting Secretary of the Army to immediately reverse the Army’s decision. She also led a Special Order discussion last month on the House floor in support of the WASPs. Background In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status, though Congress never approved the plan. The program ran from 1942 to 1944. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASP pilots for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA. In 2009, Congress awarded the WASPs the Congressional Gold Medal. Arlington National Cemetery approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASP pilots, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision. Watch Tucson News Now’s recent coverage of this story HERE.
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today called on Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson to utilize technologies like those developed at the University of Arizona (UA) to enhance screening of visa applicants. In a letter, Rep. McSally highlighted UA’s Neuro-Screen technology, which has the potential to help agents detect deception at U.S. ports of entry or visa processing centers. “Deception can be difficult to detect when you’re interviewing an individual face to face,” Rep. McSally wrote in the letter. “It is even more difficult to detect that deception in online forms. The technology developed at the University of Arizona, Neuro-Screen, identifies typing, scrolling, and other computer use patterns to capture motor nervous system signals associated with deceptive or suspicious behavior.” Recently, Rep. McSally successfully advocated for inclusion of a provision that requires the Department of Homeland Security to incorporate technology that detects fraud and deception. That provision was added to the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, which passed the House on December 8, 2015 and was later signed into law. Rep. McSally has continually highlighted the importance of UA’s deception detection technologies. In June, she brought up the technologies at a Homeland Security Committee hearing on international border security programs. The following month, she held a demonstration in Washington to showcase the technology’s uses. “As you are aware, the recent terrorist attacks in Paris, France and the rise of ISIS’ intent to launch attacks in western countries have exposed vulnerabilities in the Visa Waiver Program...,” Rep. McSally wrote. “We must leverage technology, such as Neuro-Screen, to enhance screening programs like the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA).” “I look forward to continuing to work with you to disrupt terror travel and enhance our vetting systems.” To view a PDF of the letter, click HERE. The full letter text follows. February 24, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20518 Dear Secretary Johnson: As you are aware, the recent terrorist attacks in Paris, France and the rise of ISIS’ intent to launch attacks in western countries have exposed vulnerabilities in the Visa Waiver Program, a finding highlighted by the Committee on Homeland Security’s Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, of which I was a member. I am pleased that Congress passed, and the President signed, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act (Public Law 114-113), which seeks to close loopholes identified by the Task Force, including enhancements to the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA). Section 207(a)(2)(D) of the legislation requires you to research opportunities to incorporate technology that detects fraud and deception into ESTA. I write to inquire about your implementation of this requirement. I am aware of a number of technologies that could be leveraged to enhance ESTA, including technology developed at the University of Arizona’s National Center for Border Security and Immigration, which is in my district. Deception can be difficult to detect when you’re interviewing an individual face to face. It is even more difficult to detect that deception in online forms. The technology developed at the University of Arizona, Neuro-Screen, identifies typing, scrolling, and other computer use patterns to capture motor nervous system signals associated with deceptive or suspicious behavior. We must leverage technology, such as Neuro-Screen, to enhance screening programs like ESTA. Thank you for your attention to this inquiry. I look forward to continuing to work with you to disrupt terror travel and enhance our vetting systems. Sincerely,
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to the President’s announced plan to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility. “Let’s face it: This decision is about fulfilling a campaign promise, not strengthening our national security,” said Rep. McSally. “When I deployed with my squadron to Afghanistan and during my time overseeing counterterrorism operations in Africa, we often saw fighters who had been released and returned to the battlefield. This continues today, fueling the propaganda and recruitment of dangerous terrorist elements. We are in a generational fight with Islamic extremism, with over 30,000 foreign fighters who have flowed to the Middle East to receive training and join the ISIS fight. Instead of releasing enemy combatants to the battlefield, the Administration needs to develop a comprehensive plan to defeat the many emerging threats we face. I’ll continue to fight against this misguided plan and to do what’s best for the security of our troops deployed abroad and our citizens at home.”
02.16.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today was appointed the Chairwoman of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security. The influential assignment gives Rep. McSally the lead role on the subcommittee with primary jurisdiction over border security. “I am pleased to announce Martha as the new Border and Maritime Subcommittee Chairman,” said House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul. “She will receive the position from Rep. Candice Miler who has served as the Subcommittee Chairman since 2010 and is retiring at the end of this Congress. Martha’s leadership as the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee Chairman, her experience on the Border and Maritime Subcommittee, and her firsthand experience on the border make her a natural fit to succeed in this vital role. I have full confidence in Martha’s leadership abilities and I look forward to working closely with her as she inherits the gavel to this important subcommittee.” “We have a fundamental responsibility to ensure the safety and security of our communities and residents. Yet, every day, our flawed border strategy is putting our citizens at risk,” said Rep. McSally. “I’ve spent countless hours meeting with border residents and agents along the border to hear their perspectives. I’ve witnessed and experienced the dangerous consequences of our unsecure border first-hand. With those insights, I’ve worked hard to develop a smarter border strategy that uses intelligence-driven operations and all assets in a nimble way to intercept and stop transnational criminal organizations. I’m honored to be appointed to lead this subcommittee, which is so important to Southern Arizona, and will continue to work to highlight the threats our residents face and establish a better border strategy.” “Thanks to Congresswoman McSally, the situation along the border here is as good as it's been in 25 years,” said Southern Arizona rancher John Ladd. “Since taking office and before, she's made this a prime issue and put in more time with border residents and agents than elected officials before her. She understands the significance of a secure border to Southern Arizona, and I look forward to her continued leadership on this issue in her new role.” Rep. McSally, who is the first representative from Southern Arizona and first freshman to chair the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, has made border security a top focus since she took office. Her actions on border security so far include: Getting a bill signed into law to fast-track veterans for jobs at the border; Including legislation that passed the House to improve the accountability of border technology projects; Bringing over 20 Members of Congress to Southern Arizona to see the border first-hand and hear from local residents; Introducing legislation to increase penalties on cartel spotters; Introducing a bill requiring a mile-by-mile threat assessment of the southern border; Introducing legislation to save resources and Border Patrol man hours; And leading a bipartisan effort to call for legislation to secure the border to be brought for a vote in the House.
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation, The Fair Treatment of Israel in Product Labeling Act, to prevent the discrimination of Israeli-produced goods. Recently, the Obama Administration issued a memorandum stating it is “not acceptable” to label goods coming from Israeli companies in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as having been produced in “Israel.” Instead, the issuance required those products contain the labeling, “West Bank” or “Gaza strip,” facilitating the boycotting of Israeli goods produced there. “With their guidance, the Administration is making it easier for companies and people to execute a politically motivated and harmful boycott of Israel,” said Rep. McSally. “The Administration’s actions will hurt Israelis, Palestinians, and relations between our two countries. Israel is one of our strongest allies and the only real democracy in the Middle East. Instead of undermining Israel, we need to show we stand with them. I thank Congressman Lamborn for his efforts and all the cosponsors of this bill for their support.” “I am pleased to stand with Israel today by introducing the Non-Discrimination of Israel in Labeling Act,” said Congressman Doug Lamborn, one of the bill’s co-leads. “This bill secures Israel’s right to label its products, including in the settlements, which protects both Palestinian and Israeli interests and jobs. I am glad to be working with Congresswoman McSally on this important legislation.” Today’s legislation adds to Rep. McSally’s continued efforts to support Israel and protect against political boycotts of Israel. She cosponsored the United States-Israel Trade and Commercial Enhancement Act, legislation that firmly establishes U.S. policy as opposed to boycotts of Israel while requiring additional reporting from the Administration about companies that participate in such boycotts. The bill also provides important legal protections for American companies operating in Israel. In August, Rep. McSally traveled to Israel to meet with top Israeli and Palestinian officials and hear first-hand about the region’s most pressing national security issues. In October, she introduced a resolution expressing solidarity with the Israeli people and condemning the Palestinian Authority for inciting an atmosphere of violence. Read the full bill text HERE.
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that her office is accepting submissions from local students for the 2016 Art Competition. One winner from the Second District will be selected to have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol along with the winning pieces from other districts and will be invited to attend a reception in Washington, D.C. “Last year’s competition showed we have some truly talented young artists in our district,” said Rep. McSally. “This contest is a unique opportunity for one student to have his or her artwork displayed where it will be viewed by thousands of people in our nation’s capital. I know from working with our young people that their creativity and drive are limitless, and I’m looking forward to seeing this year’s submissions.” The Art Competition is open to high school students living in or attending high school in the Second District. After all submissions are collected, a local panel of judges will choose one overall and two runner-up winners and announce them at a reception held at the UA Tech Park. The two runner-up winners will have their art displayed in Congresswoman McSally’s Tucson and Sierra Vista district offices. Southern Arizonans will have a chance to weigh in by voting for their favorite submissions on Rep. McSally’s Facebook page. The deadline for submission is Tuesday, March 22 at 5:00 p.m. Students can deliver submissions to the Tucson district office at 4400 East Broadway Blvd., Suite 510 or the Sierra Vista district office at 77 Calle Portal, Suite B-160. Guidelines for submission as well as a student release form to be included with submission can be found HERE. Individuals with questions about turning in entries or the guidelines can call the Tucson district office at (520) 881-3588.
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the house floor in remembrance of Sierra Vista resident Sergeant First Class Sidney D. Cochran, who passed away recently, and to recognize the many people who attended his service. When it was learned that Sergeant Cochran did not have any family to mourn him, a call went out on social media to encourage attendance at his service. Over 300 people answered that call. Read more about yesterday’s memorial service from the Sierra Vista Herald HERE. View more photos of the service HERE. Transcript Mr. Speaker, it’s been said that no veteran dies alone. Yesterday, Southern Arizonans proved that true in an amazing way. Recently, Sierra Vista resident Sergeant First Class Sidney D. Cochran passed away at the age of 93. He served 20 years in the U.S. Army, serving in both World War II and Korea, but died without any family to attend his funeral. So a call went out at the end of last week on social media to encourage anyone to attend his service. Over 300 people came out to show their respects. The Sierra Vista Herald reported that American Legion Riders escorted Sergeant Cochran to the cemetery, where members of the Tucson-based Patriot Guard Riders were waiting to greet him. Fort Huachuca’s Honor Guard carried him to his final resting place and an Arizona National Guard helicopter conducted a flyover. The manager for the cemetery remarked that she’d never seen a service like that before. Mr. Speaker, I applaud everyone in my district who took the time to give Sergeant Cochran this honor. Southern Arizona is unique for so many reasons, and not least of all is the amazing way our community shows appreciation for our veterans and their service. And with that, I yield back.
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after President Obama released his Fiscal Year 2017 Budget request. The request maintains funding for all EC-130H Compass Call aircraft housed at Davis-Monthan (DM) Air Force Base. The Administration had previously sought to cut in half the number of EC-130H at DM. “I’m proud to see our hard-fought efforts result in the EC-130H continuing to fly for the foreseeable future,�? said Rep. McSally. “My amendment that was signed into law last year fully protected the EC-130H, showing Congress’ support for this aircraft, and I’m glad to see the Administration get the message. This is an important victory, not just for Southern Arizona, but in our continued fight against ISIS, where the EC-130H has made invaluable contributions. Until we can replace these aircrafts’ unique capabilities, I’ll continue to fight to retain them.�? In February 2015, the President requested in his budget to begin retirement of our entire A-10 fleet and half of our EC-130H Compass Call aircraft in inventory. Rep. McSally led the fight in the House to fully protect both aircraft, exposing resulting gaps in our capabilities during hearings and successfully getting amendments signed into law preventing the retirement of either aircraft. Yesterday, she was joined by Southern Arizona officials and community leaders at a press conference in Tucson to discuss the Administration’s delay of the A-10 retirement and Davis-Monthan’s future. Today’s budget request also delays the previous retirement plan for the A-10 Thunderbolt II, keeping them in inventory until 2022.
02.04.2016	Over 50 House Members Co-sign Rep. McSally Letter to Acting Army Secretary WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led over 50 House members to call on Acting Secretary of the Army Patrick Murphy to reinstate inurnment rights of the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) at Arlington National Cemetery. In a letter, the lawmakers write that the decision to rescind WASP inurnment eligibility at Arlington in March 2015 “perpetuates and validates” past gender discrimination in the military. “As you are aware, the WASP stepped up to serve during a time of great need during World War II,” the lawmakers write. “It is clear the main reason the WASP were not commissioned at the time was cultural hang-ups on the role of women in the military.” “The men who flew the same missions as the WASP before, alongside, and after these women would have been able to earn eligibility for Arlington National Cemetery.” On January 6, Rep. McSally introduced legislation to restore the eligibility of WASPs to have their ashes inurned at Arlington National Cemetery. That legislation has garnered 118 House cosponsors and the endorsements of organizations such as the Military Officers Association of America, the Air Force Association, the Distinguished Flying Cross Society, and the Service Women's Action Network. Senators Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Joni Ernst (R-IA) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Today, there are only roughly 110 WASPs remaining, and space constraints do not justify denying these women their honors,” the lawmakers continued. “We believe you have every authority you need to resume allowing WASPs to be inurned in Arlington National Cemetery without delay.” “We ask you to use your authority to allow the WASPs inurnment immediately.” Today’s letter was co-signed by 55 House members. The full letter text follows. View a PDF of the letter HERE. February 3, 2016 The Honorable Patrick Murphy Acting Secretary of the Army 101 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-0101 Dear Mr. Secretary: We write urging you to immediately reinstate inurnment and full military honors eligibility for the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) at Arlington National Cemetery (ANC). These women pioneered the way for all women to serve in uniform and deserve the honors they earned. As you are aware, the WASP stepped up to serve during a time of great need during World War II, flying missions such as ferrying airplanes, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets. The WASP trained in the military style: marching, living in barracks, participating in infantry drills, and taking oaths of allegiance. 38 of these volunteer pilots died serving their country. The WASP flew 60 million miles of operation flights in 78 different types of aircraft. They were effectively performing military duties, flying warplanes, and some gave the ultimate sacrifice while serving. General Henry “Hap” Arnold, in establishing the WASP unit, made clear his intentions that they would become full military units. As they entered training in 1943, General Arnold warned them “it is probable WASPs will be militarized” and ordered, “if you are not prepared to follow through in this event, do not report at Sweetwater….” Indeed, while our culture at the time failed to fully value women equally, had this been the modern era, WASPs would have simply been military pilots. Had they been male pilots during World War II, they could have accepted active duty commissioning after their 90-day training period. It is clear the main reason the WASP were not commissioned at the time was cultural hang-ups on the role of women in the military. When we needed everyone in the country to contribute to World War II, these women answered the call. The men who flew the same missions as the WASP before, alongside, and after these women would have been able to earn eligibility for Arlington National Cemetery. In 1977, the WASP were finally given veterans status, after the fact. The Air Force then issued them Honorable Discharge papers, along with medals they would have earned if they were active duty during World War II. We understand that space in the Columbarium at ANC is limited, however, of the approximately 1000 WASPs who have already passed away, only a handful have decided to have their ashes inurned at Arlington National Cemetery. Today, there are only roughly 110 WASPs remaining, and space constraints do not justify denying these women their honors. Additionally, it is critical that the legacy of the WASP is memorialized at Arlington for future generations. They were truly pioneers and a critical part of our military history for the millions of visitors who come to Arlington each year. Elaine Harmon served as a WASP and made it clear in writing to her family that she desired to be laid to rest in the Columbarium at Arlington. She made her final flight on April 21, 2015. Her ashes are now sitting on a shelf in her granddaughter’s closet due to the Army’s rejection of the request to land at Arlington. That is no way to treat a hero. We are also aware that another WASP named Ruth Wright Guhse was rejected for entry in 2015. We believe you have every authority you need to resume allowing WASPs to be inurned in Arlington National Cemetery without delay. Although Public Law 95-202 only applies to benefits administered by the VA and ANC is operated by the Army, the federal regulations in CFR 553.15a make it clear that any former member of the Armed Forces who served on active duty (other than for training) and whose last service terminated honorably is eligible for inurnment at ANC. The only reason the WASP were not active duty at the time is because of the sexist limitations of our past, which we have now rejected. The Army’s opening up of Arlington to WASPs in 2002, followed by rescinding eligibility in March 2015, only perpetuates and validates that gender discrimination. We ask you to use your authority to allow the WASPs inurnment immediately. Arlington National Cemetery is where valor proudly sleeps. WASPs were an integral part of our victory in WWII and inspired generations of young women to become military pilots. It is unconscionable that at the same time the military is opening every position to women, the Army is closing Arlington National Cemetery to these trailblazers. Please respond to us within 72 hours with your plan to reinstate inurnment and full military honors for the Women Airforce Service Pilots. Sincerely,
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a full analysis of the current and potential threats along our nation’s southern border. The last complete mile-by-mile assessment conducted by DHS was in 1993, over two decades ago. “The threats along our border have shifted significantly in the last few years, let alone over the last two decades,” said Rep. McSally. “Our Border Patrol can’t do their job if they’re operating off of outdated information. This isn’t just bad strategy, it’s a situation that puts Southern Arizonans at risk, and I’ll continue to work to improve our border strategy.” “A periodic threat assessment of the Southern Border is definitely in order given the dynamic and changing nature of border criminal activity,” said Southern Arizona Rancher Ted Noon. The Southern Arizona Border Threat Assessment Act would require the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a new Southwest Border Threat Analysis within 180 days of the bill being signed into law, mandating that accurate assessments be made of the current and potential threats, as well as the measures that need to be taken to counter them. The bill also requires the U.S. Border Patrol to design a new strategic plan based on DHS’s threat analysis. Rep. McSally has made establishing a better, more effective border strategy a top priority. Some of her efforts include having legislation pass the House to improve accountability of border projects and leading over 20 members of Congress on a tour of the Southern Arizona border. Read the full bill text HERE.
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to keep more Border Patrol Agents along the border while more efficiently getting medical treatment to people interdicted by agents. Under current policy, individuals apprehended by Border Patrol who require medical care must be transported to local medical treatment facilities by two Border Patrol Agents, taking these agents away from their duties along the border. The Border Security Health Initiative Act expands a program with proven success to place qualified medical teams at Border Patrol Stations where they can provide immediate care to apprehended individuals, saving Border Patrol man hours and money. “Inefficient and wasteful policies are hurting our ability to secure the border, and Southern Arizonans must deal with the harmful consequences every day,” said Rep. McSally. “My legislation takes an evidence-based approach to more efficiently get care to those apprehended by Border Patrol. The bill will reduce the cost of providing that care and free up agents to focus on what they’re supposed to be focused on – protecting our communities.” To improve and streamline medical screening of individuals interdicted by Border Patrol, the Department of Homeland Security in 2014 established a program to provide limited treatment on site at Border Patrol facilities in the Rio Grande Valley Sector. In Fiscal Year 2015, the initiative saved $5 million in emergency room visits and reprioritized nearly 100,000 Border Patrol Agent hours for border security operations, the equivalent of 34 agents back on the border each day. To date, the program has seen an 84% reduction in medical treatment facility visits. Rep. McSally’s legislation would expand this program to all sectors along the Southern Border. It follows legislation she had signed into law increasing staffing at ports of entry and a bill that passed the House to improve the management and accountability of new border technology projects. You can read the full bill text HERE.
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Martha McSally, the “Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act,” today passed the Homeland Security Committee. The legislation requires the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a “stress-test” of security gaps in America’s defenses in the wake of evolving threats from ISIS and foreign fighters. “The last time the federal government actually tested our defenses against the threat of terrorists entering our country was seven years ago. Since then, the threat environment has changed dramatically,” said Rep. McSally. “Nearly 30,000 people from over 100 countries have travelled to conflict zones in Syria and Iraq since 2011, including over 4,500 Westerners and 250 Americans. There are ISIS-related investigations happening in all 50 states. We need to know our systems in place can keep Americans safe, and where there are vulnerabilities, we need to fix them immediately.” Today’s legislation puts into action a recommendation made by Rep. McSally and her colleagues on the Foreign Fighter Task Force. The Task Force investigated the threat of ISIS for six months and released 32 key findings and over 50 recommendations in September. Since then, six Task Force recommendations have been signed into law and two more have passed the House and are awaiting Senate action. Rep. McSally has had five bills related to national security pass the Homeland Security Committee and three pass the House. Read the full bill text HERE.
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after Secretary of Defense Ash Carter announced that the Administration will not seek to retire the A-10 in their upcoming budget request, a departure from the Administration’s policy of the last two years. “Today’s announcement confirms why we fought so hard and continue to fight to keep this plane flying. The A-10 is critical to our national security. It continues to demonstrate its value on the battlefield against ISIS, in Europe to deter Russian aggression, and on the border with North Korea. But make no mistake: this is still an early retirement. We’ve recently invested $1 billion into our A-10 fleet to keep it flying until at least 2028. No other plane can perform the tasks for which the A-10 is uniquely suited and no other weapon system we have has the same ability to protect troops’ lives on the ground. I’ll continue to lead the fight to ensure we keep the A-10 until a suitable alternative yet to be identified is developed, tested, and proven to do the mission.” During a speech previewing the Department of Defense budget for Fiscal Year 2017 today, Defense Secretary Carter announced: “We’re also investing to maintain more of our 4th-generation fighter and attack jets than we previously planned – including the A-10, which has been devastating ISIL from the air. The budget defers the A-10’s final retirement until 2022, replacing it with F-35s on a squadron-by squadron basis so we’ll always have enough aircraft for today’s conflicts.” Rep. McSally has led the fight in the House against the Administration’s plans to retire the A-10 ahead of schedule. She successfully offered amendments to defense authorizing and appropriation legislation last year fully protecting the A-10. Both her amendments were signed into law. Last Thursday, she called on President Obama and Secretary Carter to fully fund the A-10 in their upcoming budget, which is expected to be released on February 9th.
01.29.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter’s decision to expand the parental leave of servicemen and women and enhance other family benefits. “Our force isn’t just made up of servicemen and women. It’s made up of fathers and mothers who have commitments to their country as well as their families. In our changing workforce, we need policies that allow both parents to serve their country and be with their families when they need to be. A mother or father shouldn’t have to choose between the two. I applaud this decision as a necessary step to make our military more accommodating to parents.” Steps being taken by the Department of Defense to expand family benefits include: Increasing paid maternity leave for all branches to 12 weeks and expanding paternity leave to 14 noncontinuous days; Increasing child care access to 14 hours of the day across the force; Requiring that a mothers’ room be made available in every DoD facility with more than 50 women, which can be used for breastfeeding or pumping purposes. And expanding greater family planning services.
01.28.2016	TUCSON – In a letter to President Barack Obama and Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, U.S. Representative Martha McSally today called for full funding for the A-10 Warthog in the President’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 budget. Rep. McSally successfully led the fight in the House last year to acquire full funding for our entire A-10 fleet and protect against additional backdoor means of retirement. “As you finalize the Department of Defense’s (DOD) budget request for fiscal year 2017, I ask that you fully fund the A-10 “Warthog” in a manner consistent with Congressional intent,” Rep. McSally said in the letter. “The Warthog has been instrumental against ISIS, recently as part of Operation Tidal Wave II which destroyed 116 ISIS fuel trucks. They are also deployed to Europe to reassure and train our allies in CAS amid increased Russian aggression. They are permanently stationed in South Korea for deterrence and anti-armor capability against North Korean belligerence.” In 2015, Rep. McSally consistently questioned the Administration about its flawed strategy to retire the A-10 prematurely. During hearings, top Administration officials revealed to her that retiring the A-10 would result in capability gaps and that the F-35 would not be as survivable as the A-10 in certain scenarios and likely “standoff” during more Close Air Support missions. “As a former A-10 pilot and squadron commander, I consider it reckless to retire the A-10 ahead of schedule, without a next-generation A-10. There is no aircraft, either in the fleet or in development, that can replace the Warthog’s unique capabilities.” During debate for the National Defense Authorization Act of 2015, Rep. McSally’s efforts led to full funding for our entire A-10 fleet. She also successfully offered amendments to that legislation and the Defense Appropriations Act of 2015 prohibiting any future A-10 moves to back-up status. Both her amendments were signed into law. “I look forward to working together to support the Air Force in maintaining the A-10 and beginning the process of developing a next-generation A-10 to support our national security and bring our brave troops home alive.” A PDF of the letter can be found HERE. The full letter text follows. January 28, 2016 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 The Honorable Ash Carter Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Mr. President and Mr. Secretary, As you finalize the Department of Defense’s (DOD) budget request for fiscal year 2017, I ask that you fully fund the A-10 “Warthog” in a manner consistent with Congressional intent. It is imperative to maintain the current level of nine operational squadrons after mothballing the equivalent of four squadrons since 2012. The A-10 has unique capabilities for Close Air Support (CAS), Forward Air Control-Airborne (FAC-A) and Combat Search-And-Rescue (CSAR), and we need a legitimate next-generation weapon system designed for CAS, FAC-A and CSAR missions before retiring any further A-10s. Because there is no replacement for these unique and crucial capabilities, either currently available or in development, we must maintain and improve the A-10 fleet until a real A-10 replacement exists. The A-10 was specifically designed to support ground forces, delivering unmatched CAS and FAC-A capability to save American lives when they are in danger close to enemy forces or civilians in complex circumstances. The redundant systems and titanium around the cockpit make the A-10 survivable from small arms fire and MANPADS direct hits, allowing the pilot to fly close enough to visually detect targets and friendlies if required. The A-10’s efficient twin engines and fuel capacity provide the loiter time necessary to stay on station to deliver continuous support. The Warthog is equipped with the powerful 30 mm cannon gun which fires armor-piercing depleted uranium or high-explosive incendiary bullets. It can also carry a variety of other GPS and laser-guided or gravity bombs, missiles, and rockets. Additionally, the maneuverability of the A-10 has shown to be critical in CAS missions with terrain and/or poor weather. These capabilities allow the A-10 to provide true CAS, even while flying in bad weather and taking fire. These are unique and critical attributes that no other airplane in our inventory possesses to keep our troops alive when it matters most. In addition to CAS and FAC-A missions, the A-10 is the U.S. military’s best CSAR aircraft. The A-10’s avionics and exceptional communications upgrades such as the LARS radio, helmet-mounted cuing, along with the lethality, loiter time, and maneuverability highlighted above, make it critical to the CSAR mission. Without the ability to quickly locate, communicate with, protect, and rescue a downed pilot, we risk an American airman meeting the same fate as the captured Jordanian pilot in 2015. As a result of these distinctive capabilities and the airplane’s proven success in combat, commanders continue to request and use the A-10 in the fight against ISIS, in Europe, and in South Korea. A-10s are currently deployed to the Middle East for CSAR and offensive operations against ISIS, a threat which did not exist when the Administration first decided to try to retire the A-10. The Warthog has been instrumental against ISIS, recently as part of Operation Tidal Wave II which destroyed 116 ISIS fuel trucks. They are also deployed to Europe to reassure and train our allies in CAS amid increased Russian aggression. They are permanently stationed in South Korea for deterrence and anti-armor capability against North Korean belligerence. In a HASC hearing in April 2015, the commander for U.S. Forces Korea admitted that the loss of the A-10s in Korea would result in a gap in anti-armor capabilities. In addition to being the most capable weapon system in the Air Force for CAS, the A-10 is also the cheapest to fly. The A-10 costs $11,500 per flight hour, much cheaper than the V-22 ($70,000), the F-16 ($22,500), the F-35 ($32,000), the F-22 ($44,000), and the B-2 ($135,000). Under the current budgetary constraints faced by our nation, the A-10’s cost effectiveness must also be taken into consideration. As a former A-10 pilot and squadron commander, I consider it reckless to retire the A-10 ahead of schedule, without a next-generation A-10. There is no aircraft, either in the fleet or in development, that can replace the Warthog’s unique capabilities. The Air Force has proposed that other aircraft, such as the F-35, could perform the CAS mission. However, in testimony last year, the DOD’s Director of Operational Test and Evaluation Dr. Michael Gilmore admitted that the F-35 is less survivable from a direct hit and would perform ‘standoff CAS.’ There are times, and there will be future times, where you must provide very close air support to the troops on the ground who are often on the run or unable to provide coordinates. I have flown CAS missions in these conditions where the pilot must visually identify friendly forces and enemy combatants to hit the target and avoid fratricide. You cannot stand off in all CAS scenarios, even in the future. A report from the Government Accountability Office published on June 25, 2015 confirms the capability gaps that would be created by retiring the A-10. The U.S. Air Force needs a next-generation A-10 before attempting to mothball any further A-10s. The specific mission set for CAS/FAC-A/CSAR requires a specific aircraft, not one that is a jack-of-all-trades but a master of none. In a March 17, 2015 HASC hearing, both the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force confirmed that mothballing the A-10 was driven only by budget constraints and not by strategy. Secretary Carter reiterated that position in a HASC hearing the next day. Due to budget-driven efforts to divest the A-10 since 2012, the equivalent of four squadrons has closed. We currently have nine operational squadrons left, many with less aircraft in them than before, and we cannot afford to go any lower in the current security environment. To meet our needs, this year’s budget must ensure sufficient airframes, depot support, and experienced maintainers. The budget and long-term planning must also include proactive steps to extend the life cycle of the A-10, such as finishing the wing replacement. In addition, training must be available for the Joint Terminal Attack Controllers who direct the action of CAS aircraft. I hope that the restrictive language in last year’s National Defense Authorization Act and Omnibus Appropriations serves as an indication of Congress’s support for the A-10. My amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which passed committee and both chambers with large bipartisan support, clearly outlines Congress’s intent to preserve the current A-10 fleet. The Air Force cannot continue its duty to national defense without a dedicated CAS/FAC-A/CSAR weapon system. I look forward to working together to support the Air Force in maintaining the A-10 and beginning the process of developing a next-generation A-10 to support our national security and bring our brave troops home alive. Sincerely, Martha McSally Member of Congress
01.21.2016	Over 30 Local Stakeholders Come Together to Find Solutions TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today held a roundtable discussion with local stakeholders to discuss the most pressing mental health issues facing Southern Arizona and the nation. Over 30 representatives from area non-profits, hospitals, mental health and veterans organizations, and law enforcement participated. “Hearing from those in our community with the knowledge, experience, and local insights was immensely helpful,” said Rep. McSally. “Some of the issues brought up included reducing the stigma associated with mental illness, placing a greater attention on early intervention and prevention, and increasing treatment access in rural areas. A lot of good ideas and action items came out of the discussion, I look forward to continue working with today’s participants to ultimately improve how our community treats and responds to mental illness.” Watch KGUN's coverage of the roundtable below. “I want to sincerely thank Congresswoman McSally for taking the time to meet with us today. Her dedication and commitment to the issues of mental illness and substance abuse, issues which are affecting so many Americans, should be recognized and commended,” said Neal Cash, President and Chief Executive Officer, Community Partners, Inc. “Today, was a tremendous opportunity to gather a cross-section of leaders in behavioral health, law-enforcement, corrections, Veterans services, and peer and family services from Tucson and Southern Arizona to share thoughts and ideas. And, together, we proposed solutions. The model that the Congresswoman brought to the table is something we can build upon, fostering collaboration and continued community problem-solving.” “The roundtable had everyone represented from treatment providers to law enforcement, concerned family and family of people suffering with mental illness. So it was very helpful that all stakeholders were involved,” said Tucson Police Department Central Investigations Division Captain Paul Sayre. “Particularly for law enforcement, we are constantly seeking treatment alternatives over incarceration, so roundtables like today’s help us explore more options that are available for mental illness and keeping communities safe.” “It was helpful for Rep. McSally to host this roundtable to hear some of our challenges in the arena of mental health,” said Susie Huhn, CEO of Casa de los Niño’s. “One thing we especially advocate for is a more collaborative system approach to serving children that includes education, child welfare, behavioral health, juvenal justice, and other elements. Walking out the door, we had solutions that she could take back with her to Washington, and I’m hopeful we can build upon those going forward.” “The mental health round table was a wonderful opportunity to partner with other community providers and services to explore opportunities to enhance mental health care for Veterans in southern Arizona,” said Dr. Timothy Mueller, Chief of Mental Health Service, at the Southern Arizona VA Health Care System. More photos can be viewed HERE. Today’s roundtable builds upon Rep. McSally’s efforts to address mental illness. In 2015, she introduced bipartisan legislation to further prevent those with mental illness from obtaining firearms and help communities better identify and treat mental illness. Read more about that bill and KGUN’s coverage of the roundtable HERE.
01.20.2016	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after President Obama vetoed a resolution disapproving of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule. The resolution previously passed both chambers of Congress with bipartisan support. “Since the EPA first announced this harmful, one-size-fits all rule, members from both parties have opposed it. The courts have placed a hold on it. Yet the President is ignoring these voices and the needs of Southern Arizonans and continues to move ahead unilaterally,” said Rep. McSally. “Southern Arizona is one of many places around the country with a very unique landscape. I’m very concerned that this rule’s blanket provisions fail to account for the washes and tributaries that crisscross our community and will end up hurting businesses, ranchers, and everyday families. I’ll continue to work to stand up for their needs and make sure their voices are heard.” On August 27, 2015 a U.S. District Judge in North Dakota issued a temporary injunction for the EPA’s WOTUS rule effective in 13 states, including Arizona. On October 9, 2015 the United States Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit issued a nationwide preliminary injunction for the rule. On May 12, 2015, Rep. McSally voted in favor of H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, legislation to require EPA withdraw their rule expanding the definition of “waters of the United States” and develop a new proposal that takes into consideration the over one million public comments on the rule, economic analysis of the rule, and discussions with state and local governments. That bill passed the House 261-155 with 24 Democrats voting in favor of the legislation. She also is a cosponsor of a house companion resolution to the bill vetoed by the President.
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Martha McSally (R-AZ) and Loretta Sanchez (D-CA) today introduced bipartisan legislation to enhance trafficking prevention efforts at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The DHS Human Trafficking Prevention Act takes action to address serious gaps in information gathering and sharing processes at DHS, highlighted in a recent Office of Inspector General (OIG) Report. The report found that known traffickers have used American visa programs to bring victims into the U.S. “Reports that criminals are taking advantage of our own programs to traffic and exploit their victims are sickening,” said Rep. McSally. “These are not simply oversights. These are failures of the highest degree that resulted in innocent people being forced into sexual and other forms of slavery. Our agencies have to do better to close these gaps, and this bill will require DHS step up its game and improve the way it acquires and shares information to stop traffickers looking to exploit our systems.” “Human trafficking is a pervasive human rights crisis and atrocious crime that is often committed right under our noses. Up to 17,500 people are trafficked into the U.S. each year,” said Rep. Sanchez, a member of the Congressional Caucus on Human Trafficking. “Far too many victims are slipping through the cracks and this bill will renew our commitment to combat human trafficking. It is our responsibility as members of Congress to do whatever it takes to stop the illegal and immoral smuggling of innocent people and children, into the U.S. We must take the necessary steps to end this scourge of modern day slavery.” Among the findings contained in the OIG’s report, which was released on January 11, 2016, were: Information systems and processes used by both ICE and USCIS to collect data on human traffickers were unreliable and incomplete; ICE’s information collection system provided widely varying and incomplete data to investigators; And USCIS did not always collect the names and other identifying information about human traffickers provided in their victims’ visa applications. Because of these gaps, auditors determined: Between 2005 and 2014, 17 of 32 known traffickers used visa programs to bring in victims who were exploited for either forced labor or prostitution; And 274 suspected traffickers successfully petitioned Federal officials to bring 425 family members or fiancés into the United States. The DHS Human Trafficking Prevention Acts seeks to close these gaps by requiring DHS to issue Department-wide guidance for identifying and recording the names and other information of known or convicted traffickers as well as practices for enhanced collaboration and sharing of this information. The bill also requires that information technology systems used to record and track information on traffickers are integrated. Lastly, the bill directs the Inspector General to review changes in DHS’s processes within 18 months of enactment. Rep. McSally has placed a strong focus on efforts to combat trafficking. During her first month in office, she held a roundtable with local elected officials, members of law enforcement, and non-profit leaders on ways the community can work together to stop trafficking in Southern Arizona. Last February, she joined Pima County Supervisor Ally Miller to declare Pima County a “Zero Tolerance Human Trafficking Zone.” She also has spoken on the House floor in support of legislation signed into law to punish offenders who facilitate trafficking of victims online.
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to news reports that the U.S. Air Force is shelving immediate plans to retire the A-10 Warthog. The reports indicate a change of policy from the Administration’s last two budget requests, which called for retiring our entire A-10 fleet. “It appears the Administration is finally coming to its senses and recognizing the importance of A-10s to our troops’ lives and national security. Since before I took office and after, I’ve consistently highlighted the A-10’s irreplaceable capabilities and worked to expose the Administration’s flawed argument for wanting to retire it prematurely. With A-10s deployed in the Middle East to fight ISIS, in Europe to deter Russian aggression, and along the Korean Peninsula, Administration officials can no longer deny how invaluable these planes are to our arsenal and military capabilities. But our fight does not end here. The Administration has been persistent in its efforts to send our best close air support asset to the boneyard without a replacement. That’s unacceptable, and I’ll continue to lead the fight to ensure we keep these planes flying until we know without a doubt we can replace their capabilities.” As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. McSally has worked consistently to expose the capabilities gap that would occur if the A-10 were retired prematurely. In an April hearing, Department of Defense officials conceded to her that the F-35 would not be as survivable as the A-10 in certain Close Air Support scenarios. The following day, the commander of U.S. Forces in Korea stated to Rep. McSally that retiring the plan would leave a gap in the military’s ability to take out enemy tanks from the air. In June, the Government Accountability Office released a report citing critical flaws in the Administration’s justification for retiring the A-10 Warthog and highlighted the capabilities gaps that would occur.
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday led members from both parties in a Special Order discussion on the House floor, calling on Army leaders and the Administration to immediately restore the Women Airforce Service Pilots’ (WASPs) inurnment eligibility at Arlington National Cemetery. Rep. McSally’s bill introduced less than a week ago has garnered nearly 90 bipartisan cosponsors in the House, and a companion bill was introduced yesterday in the Senate by Senators Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Joni Ernst (R-IA). Watch the full discussion HERE or a clip below. “We should not be lingering another day. But as we continue to call on the Administration to do the right thing, we’re not going to sit by idly. We’ve got our legislation introduced. We’ve got over 80 cosponsors in the House. We’ve got a Senate version of the bill that was introduced today led by Senator Mikulski and Senator Ernst, also a bipartisan bill. And we are going to continue to push this forward to make this right for our heroes.” “It has been a long haul to get over our biases as a country about what we think women as a whole group could or should do in service to our military. Gradually, positions have been open. Gradually women have continued to show that when called they will serve valiantly and with honor. They will fight. They will die, if needed, for our freedoms and our liberty.” “And at the time that the Pentagon is opening up all positions to women in the military that they’re qualified for, they’re closing the door to Arlington for the pioneers who made that happen. That is a cruel hypocrisy and contradiction, and it needs to be made right tonight. So again, I call on the Secretary of the Army, Secretary of Defense, and the President-perhaps he could announce it in his speech tomorrow night-that one of the legacy things we are going to do for our heroes, for our pioneers, for these amazing women, is to allow them to be laid to rest in Arlington National Cemetery. We owe it to them.” More background on this issue from the AP can be read HERE.
01.11.2016	Guadalupe Romero is a senior at Rincon High School and a member of the Holmes Tuttle Clubhouse WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that her guest at the State of the Union will be Tucson high school senior Guadalupe “Lupita” Romero. Lupita has been an active member of the Holmes Tuttle Clubhouse for seven years. On Tuesday night, she will join Rep. McSally as well as other Members of Congress, cabinet officials, Supreme Court Justices, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the audience for President Obama’s last State of the Union address. “I’m very excited to have Lupita, someone who’s a tremendous role model and leader, as my guest on Tuesday night,” said Rep. McSally. “Lupita’s active in her club and community, leading outreach efforts, after school programs, and service projects. She’s shown a passion for making a difference in the lives of her friends and family and the people in her community. No doubt, she has a very bright future ahead of her, and I look forward to sharing this historic experience with her.” “I’d like to thank Congresswoman McSally for the opportunity of a lifetime,” said Lupita Romero. “This trip is especially exciting for me because I aspire to one day become a lawyer and eventually hold a position as a Supreme Court Justice. I’m very grateful to be chosen to represent the Boys and Girls Club of Tucson, my club, my community and Hispanic women that aspire to be successful.” Last year, Rep. McSally invited local student, Gilbert Valenzuela, a senior at Alta Vista High School and member of the Roy Drachman Clubhouse, to the State of the Union speech. Lupita is 17-years old and a senior at Rincon High School. She has been a member of the Holmes Tuttle Clubhouse for seven years. She is currently the Keystone Secretary and successfully completed the Help A Kid Program, providing her leadership and real-world work experience. She also enjoys participating in other Boys & Girls Club programs and giving back to her community. These programs include: Money Matters, Career Launch, Smart Girls, Youth of the Year, and community service projects. Education is a priority to Lupita. After graduation, she hopes to attend college and one day become a lawyer.
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led the House of Representatives in a moment of silence in recognition of the fifth anniversary of the shooting that took place on January 8, 2011 in Tucson, Arizona. She was joined by the entire Arizona House delegation. Transcript Mr. Speaker, I rise today with my colleagues from Arizona and across the country to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the shooting that took place on January 8, 2011 in Tucson, Arizona. On that sunny, chilly Saturday morning, 6 people were killed and 13 wounded at a Congress on your Corner event hosted by Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords. The congresswoman was among the injured, along with the member of her staff who would succeed her, Congressman Ron Barber. For many, the pain of that day will always be with us. But Tucson has not languished in grief. As we remember the victims, we also remember how our community rose up with courage and unity to support those grieving and honor their loved ones. Signs of that courage are all around us. The January 8th Memorial Foundation is working to build a permanent tribute to the victims as well as our community’s response. Just feet below us in this building is the “Gabe Zimmerman Meeting Room,” a lasting tribute to the congressional staffer who died while serving the men and women of Southern Arizona. Today and this weekend, people around Southern Arizona are coming together to celebrate the lives of our friends and loved ones taken too soon, and the difference they made and continue to make. There are hikes, bike rides, runs, storytelling, discussions, gatherings and much more. While we know some wounds may never fully heal, by carrying on the legacy of those who died, we ensure their memories are never forgotten. Christina Taylor Green Dorothy Morris Judge John Roll Phyllis Schneck Dorwan Stoddard Gabriel "Gabe" Zimmerman Mr. Speaker, I would now ask that the House observe a moment of silence in remembrance of those we lost.
01.06.2016	UPDATE (March 10, 2016): 163 House members have cosponsored the WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (WASP AIR) Act. The bill also has the endorsement of the Military Officers Association of America, the Air Force Association, the Distinguished Flying Cross Society, the Service Women's Action Network, the Women in International Service (WIIS), and the National Women’s Law Center. ... WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced bipartisan legislation to restore the inurnment rights for Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) at Arlington National Cemetery. The legislation, the WASP Arlington Inurnment Restoration (AIR) Act, would overturn a recent decision by the Secretary of the Army rescinding inurnment eligibility for WASP pilots, which they have had since 2002. The WASPs were a group of less than 1,100 women who flew non-combat missions during World War II. Their missions included ferrying aircraft across the country, training combat pilots, and towing airborne targets for other aircraft. Thirty-eight WASP women died during their service. “This decision is simply appalling. At a time when we are opening all positions to women, the Army is closing Arlington to the pioneers who paved the way for pilots like me and all women to serve in uniform. It doesn’t make sense.” said Rep. McSally. “These women fought, and died, in service to their country. They trained in the military style: sleeping on metal cots, marching, and living under military discipline. They deserve the full honors we give our war heroes, and I’ll continue to fight until they get them.” Watch Rep. McSally lead a Special Order discussion in support of the WASPs on the House floor below. "When the call came to serve in World War II, the WASP answered that call like millions of other Americans,” said Congresswoman Susan Davis, Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, who is co-leading the bill. “They have inurnment rights in other national cemeteries throughout the country. That right should include Arlington National Cemetery, which has always been considered a special place of honor." The issue of the WASP’s rejection from Arlington National Cemetery was brought to light by the family of Elaine Harmon, a former WASP, who passed away in April 2015. When the family sought military honors for Elaine at Arlington, they were denied by the Army. “We appreciate Rep. McSally taking the lead on this issue to right this injustice for military trailblazers who were ahead of their time,” said Whitney Miller, granddaughter of Elaine Harmon. “This was our grandmother’s last wish and we want to see this through. Not only was she a national hero, she was our family’s hero.” In 1942, General Henry “Hap” Arnold created the WASP unit with the intention of granting them full military status, though Congress never approved the plan. The program ran from 1942 to 1944. In 1977, Congress passed legislation retroactively granting active duty status to WASP pilots for the purposes of all laws administered by the VA. In 2009, Congress awarded the WASPs the Congressional Gold Medal. Arlington National Cemetery, which is run by the Army, approved in 2002 active duty designees, including WASP pilots, for military honors and inurnments. However, in March 2015, then-Secretary of the Army John McHugh reversed this decision. Last year, Rep. McSally spoke on the House floor in honor of Ruth Helm, a former WASP from Tucson, who passed away in March 2015. To read the full bill text, click HERE.
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of the Omnibus Appropriations Act for FY2016, legislation to fund the government through the end of fiscal year 2016. The bill passed the House today with wide bipartisan support 316 to 113. “While far from perfect, today’s bipartisan legislation benefits Southern Arizona in many ways. I’ve been a leading voice to stop the dangerous cuts to our depleted military. This agreement does just that. After I fought hard to protect the A-10 and EC-130H, this bill provides full funding for both aircraft as well as my amendment to prevent the retirement of any EC-130H next year. It includes an additional $241 million for three critical missiles produced at Raytheon in Tucson, keeping their lines running and protecting good-paying Southern Arizona jobs. The bill also contains funding for construction at DM and Fort Huachuca, including $18.2 million for personnel recovery training missions conducted in Southern Arizona and $3.9 million to renovate the Joint Interoperability Test Command buildings.” “In addition, today’s legislation prioritizes protecting our homeland. The bill contains provisions to strengthen the Visa Waiver Program, a recommendation made by my colleagues and me on the bipartisan foreign fighter task force. It increases funding for Customs and Border Protection operations and focuses funds for the FBI to conduct counterterrorism and counterintelligence activities. While these are important steps, we still have work to do to address all our security vulnerabilities, and I’ll continue to work to pass more solutions to make Americans safer.”
12.16.2015	Efforts on Task Force Result in Multiple House-Passed Bills WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of legislation to track the flow of foreign fighters to terrorist sanctuaries. The bill is the direct result of a recommendation made by Rep. McSally and her colleagues on the Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Task Force, who released a report in September containing 32 key findings and 50 recommendations. Those findings have already led to multiple house-passed bills to address security vulnerabilities. “We know that 30,000 people from 100 different countries have traveled to Iraq and Syria to join Islamist extremist efforts, including 250 Americans. But ISIS’s reach extends far beyond just these borders,” said Rep. McSally. “ISIS now has a direct presence, affiliates, or groups pledging support in at least 19 countries. We must regularly track the flow of these fighters to all terrorist sanctuaries as part of our intelligence gathering efforts.” Countries with a reported ISIS presence now include Afghanistan, Pakistan, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Turkey, and the Philippines. In addition, militia leaders and Western officials estimate that ISIS has as many as 2,000 fighters in Libya. The Tracking Foreign Fighters in Terrorist Safe Havens Act follows legislation passed last week, which also was the result of recommendations made by Rep. McSally’s task force, to address vulnerabilities in the Visa Waiver Program. Rep. McSally also voted today to pass the Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media Act, which requires the Administration to develop a strategy to combat ISIS on social media. She spoke about that bill earlier this week on Fox News’ “On the Record.”
12.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a bipartisan group of 43 lawmakers on a letter to Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter outlining concerns that female guards could be prohibited from transporting detainees at Guantanamo Bay. The letter, which was also co-authored by U.S. Representatives Bill Shuster (R-PA), Susan Davis (D-CA), and Rick Larsen (D-WA), follows a petition by five detainees, including 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who have said contact with female guards violates their religious beliefs. “It has come to our attention that five “high value” detainees at Guantanamo Bay have petitioned to permanently restrict female service members from assignments related to their detention,” the lawmakers said in the letter. “We believe these positions should remain open to women, regardless of the religious beliefs of the detainees. Prohibiting women from these assignments discriminates against our troops and allows the enemies of the United States to dictate the terms on which American citizens serve their country…While the United States should make certain allowances with respect to human rights, we must not compromise our basic principles at the behest of the very individuals who seek to destroy them.” In January, a military judge ordered a temporary “no touch” policy for female guards at Guantanamo Bay following detainee complaints. In the letter sent today, the lawmakers seek clarification on the current policy and any changes that have been made since September 11, 2011. “In your response, outline any changes that have been made to this policy since September 11, 2001. If any policy changes were to accommodate religious or cultural interests, please provide a detailed explanation of the rationale behind those changes. Finally, we impel you to ensure that female service members are not barred from continuing to serve in any capacity due to the requests of those detained for participating in terrorist attacks against the United States.” The letter is endorsed by Women In International Security and the Service Women’s Action Network. A PDF of the letter can be viewed HERE. The full letter text follows. December 14, 2015 The Honorable Ashton Carter Secretary of Defense U.S. Department of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301 Dear Mr. Secretary, It has come to our attention that five “high value” detainees at Guantanamo Bay have petitioned to permanently restrict female service members from assignments related to their detention. We believe these positions should remain open to women, regardless of the religious beliefs of the detainees. Prohibiting women from these assignments discriminates against our troops and allows the enemies of the United States to dictate the terms on which American citizens serve their country. Women in uniform should not have to endure prejudice based on the convictions of enemy combatants, and male soldiers should not be forced to fill these deployments at a higher rate than necessary as a result. Women have served at Guantanamo Bay since the arrival of the first detainees from Afghanistan in 2002. They have demonstrated the same commitment to their duties as their male counterparts, and numerous other changes have already been made to accommodate the religious beliefs of those currently held at Guantanamo. While the United States should make certain allowances with respect to human rights, we must not compromise our basic principles at the behest of the very individuals who seek to destroy them. This case exemplifies the continued manipulation of our system to benefit terrorists directly responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent Americans. One of the five detainees, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, is the infamous mastermind of the 9/11 attacks. He was Al Qaeda’s chief propagandist, and continues to support that role through his legal actions at Guantanamo. Attempts to impose Mr. Mohammed’s interpretation of religious law on America’s men and women in uniform must be unequivocally denied. We ask that you provide Congress with the current policy regarding assignments surrounding detainees at Guantanamo Bay. In your response, outline any changes that have been made to this policy since September 11, 2001. If any policy changes were to accommodate religious or cultural interests, please provide a detailed explanation of the rationale behind those changes. Finally, we impel you to ensure that female service members are not barred from continuing to serve in any capacity due to the requests of those detained for participating in terrorist attacks against the United States. Our policies reflect our values. We cannot allow our values to be compromised by prohibiting female soldiers, sailors, Marines, and airmen from certain assignments due to the objections of our enemies. We value all that our women in uniform do and have done to keep our nation safe, and must stand by our principles in this war of ideas.
12.14.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the President’s address on ISIS at the Pentagon. “People I speak with in Southern Arizona are rightfully concerned with the Administration’s slow and reluctant approach to ISIS. We have been missing leadership with resolve, and still lack a bold, aggressive strategy to take out ISIS’s critical capabilities, put them on their heels, and keep Americans safe.” “ISIS declared a Caliphate 18 months ago, and last week before the House Armed Services Committee, the Secretary of Defense admitted that meetings with the State Department and Pentagon to coordinate efforts began only months ago. ISIS has been bringing in at least $1 million a day from black market oil sales to fund their global terrorist operations, yet we have just now started hitting their oil trucks a few weeks ago. Last week, I participated in a two hour classified discussion with Pentagon officials about the Command and Control and Rules of Engagement. Their responses only validated my concerns of a weak and ineffective military approach.” “I have been calling on the Administration to completely revamp its military strategy and hoped President Obama's visit to the Pentagon today was the start of something new. Unfortunately, we heard about the same failed tactics, just used more frequently, with the same detached tone from the president.” “I’ll continue to work in Congress to call for a stronger approach and put forward solutions that will address our security vulnerabilities, but Congress cannot do it alone. We need presidential leadership, and we’re just not seeing it.”
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the Air Force announced it was considering Davis-Monthan Air Force Base as a location to house expanded remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) operations. “Remotely piloted aircraft have drastically changed the way we fight, and there’s no better base to conduct the Air Force’s future RPA missions than Davis-Monthan,” said Rep. McSally. “DM features a robust command and control and communications infrastructure, was just named Installation of the Year for Air Combat Command, and is based in a community that supports a high quality of life for Airmen and their families. In fact, this mission already occurs here as part of the Air National Guard’s 214th Reconnaissance Group’s RPA operations.” “In addition, should launch and recovery elements be a part of these new units, Southern Arizona’s 300 days a year of sunshine, abundant air space, and proximity to Fort Huachuca and the Barry F. Goldwater range, along with the ability to train with other assets like A-10s and F-16s, make DM ideal for these missions. These new units could be a major boost for Southern Arizona, and we need to quickly unite as a community to show strong support to bring them here.” The Air Force announced today it is developing plans to double the number of RPA flying squadrons and increase RPA manning and associated resources by 2,500-3,000 Airmen. The announcement can be read HERE.
12.10.2015	Efforts Help Promote UA Developed Technology WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally this week voted to enhance protections for the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). The Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, which addresses numerous vulnerabilities identified by Rep. McSally and her colleagues on the bipartisan Foreign Fighter Task Force, passed by bipartisan vote 407-19. “The bipartisan task force I served on found many troubling findings related to gaps in the Visa Waiver Program that pose serious threats to our country,” said Rep. McSally. “This bill takes important steps to address these vulnerabilities including increasing checks on individuals who’ve recently traveled to Iraq and Syria, requiring the use of more secure e-passports, and holding countries accountable for failing to screen against terrorism databases.” Today’s bill also includes a provision promoting the use of technologies like those developed at the University of Arizona (UA) to aid officials in detecting deceptive behaviors of applicants. Rep. McSally has highlighted the importance of UA’s deception detection technologies, AVATAR and Neuro-ScreenTM, at a Homeland Security Committee hearing and more recently by hosting a demonstration. “Deception can be difficult to detect when you’re interviewing an individual face to face. It is even more difficult to detect that deception in online forms,” Rep. McSally said on the House floor. “We must leverage technology, such as Neuro-Screen, to enhance screening programs.” To watch Rep. McSally speaking on the House floor, click HERE. “I appreciate Congresswoman McSally’s leadership on the House Homeland Security Committee and the provision in the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, which directs the Department of Homeland Security to study opportunities for incorporating fraud detection technology in the screening process for travel authorization,” said University of Arizona President Ann Weaver Hart. “The UA also appreciates her leadership in hosting a demonstration by a UA affiliated Arizona company whose technology directly supports the goals of the provision.” The Visa Waiver Program allows citizens from participating countries to travel to America for 90 days after filling out an online questionnaire, instead of having to go to a U.S. consulate to obtain a visa. Currently 38 countries participate in the Visa Waiver Program. Around 5,000 Europeans are estimated to have traveled to Syria and Iraq to fight with terrorist groups like ISIS—and many are from VWP countries.
12.06.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the President’s speech about combating ISIS: “What we saw tonight was a wasted opportunity to show real leadership on this issue and present a stronger strategy to defeat ISIS. We have not contained ISIS. They’ve grown and metastasized, fueled by our weak efforts to destroy them. Instead of more of the same, as the President called for tonight, we need a new, comprehensive strategy to destroy ISIS and keep Americans safe.” “The first thing we need to do is implement the recommendations put out by my colleagues and I on the Foreign Fighter Task Force to increase protections against the threat of foreign fighter travel and combat homegrown extremism. I will be working with my colleagues in the coming weeks to do just that. Second, we need to abandon our current half-hearted and failed military approach and start unleashing our full air power to destroy ISIS’ command and control, means of finance, and critical capabilities.” “Radical Islamic terrorism is a real and dangerous threat to Americans and our way of life –and it’s time our Administration started acting like it. Instead of more of the status quo, we need a comprehensive strategy to actually defeat ISIS and the evil they represent. I’ll continue to work to see that happen.”
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the House passed the conference report for H.R. 22, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, a long-term reauthorization of surface transportation infrastructure projects. Rep. McSally led advocacy on four Southern Arizona priorities, including the Sonoran Corridor, that were included in the bill. “After months of persistent efforts to advocate for our priorities, we have secured major victories for Southern Arizona families in this bill,” said Rep. McSally. “The legislation advances projects such as the widening of SR-189 near Nogales and the construction of the Sonoran Corridor, a project that could bring about billions of dollars in economic growth and hundreds of thousands of new jobs here. It also enables federal funding for important trade routes like the I-19 network and I-11 system. This is what getting things done looks like, and I’m proud of the bipartisan work in the House and Senate to move this bill forward.” “I am so thankful for Sen. McCain's and Rep. McSally’s leadership in getting this designation added to the Transportation bill and through the Congress," said Sharon Bronson, chair of the Pima County Board of Supervisors. "Their leadership, combined with the strong bi-partisan support this project received from the entire Arizona Congressional delegation, resulted in a major victory for the people of southern Arizona and the entire state. The Sonoran Corridor has the potential to be the most significant economic development effort in the county’s history. The very foundation, the very backbone of the entire effort is the auxiliary highway connecting the two interstates. This designation is the first, vital step on the long road we still have to travel for funding and construction. The future prosperity of our region just got a little brighter today.” “Southern Arizona’s business leaders applaud the passage of this bill as a vital step to enhance our nation’s critical transportation infrastructure,” said Ronald Shoopman, President and CEO of the Southern Arizona Leadership Council. “Today’s passage is very positive news for our region, and we commend Rep. McSally’s leadership and persistent advocacy efforts for all of Southern Arizona’s priorities included in this legislation.” The Conference Report to H.R. 22 passed the House today in a strongly bipartisan vote 369-65. The Senate is expected to vote on the legislation this week. In June, Rep. McSally introduced bipartisan legislation, the Sonoran Corridor Interstate Development Act, to designate the Sonoran Corridor a “High Priority Corridor on the National Highway System.” On August 18, she led a letter signed by the full Arizona delegation to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation calling for the inclusion of the designation in long-term transportation reauthorization legislation. A recently released report estimates the corridor project would eventually create a $32.2 billion annual impact to the regional economy and would directly and indirectly support as many 189,000 jobs.
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter announced the military would open all positions to women. A retired Air Force Colonel who served 26 years in the military, Rep. McSally was the first woman to fly in combat and first woman to command a fighter squadron in U.S. history. “Today’s historic announcement finally recognizes that our military is strongest when it prioritizes merit and capability, not gender – and it’s about damn time,” said Rep. McSally. “Women have been fighting and dying for our country since its earliest wars. They have shown they can compete with the best of the best, and succeed. We are a country that looks at people as individuals, not groups. We select the best man for the job, even if it’s a woman. I couldn’t be prouder today of all the women warriors out there who have shown they have what it takes to be the best and serve with the best. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues to oversee the integration process and ensure our force’s readiness with our most capable men and women.”
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the House passed the Every Student Succeeds Act, a bipartisan bill to reauthorize and reform the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. The bill provides school districts with increased flexibility and authority in determining education decisions while empowering parents, teachers, and local administrators. “Every student deserves the chance of a high-quality education. Unfortunately, our current system is failing to provide that. As the child of a public school educator, I’ve witnessed how our current top-down approach ties the hands of our teachers and heard about from local administrators how it hamstrings our schools,” said Rep. McSally. “Today’s bipartisan, bicameral bill restores control to those who understand best what our students need. It prioritizes evidenced-based outcomes, not testing, and provides states and school districts with the tools they need to succeed.” “I’m very glad to see this bill move us away from our current one-size-fits-all approach and restore education decision-making to those who know our school best,” said Dr. H. T. Sanchez, Superintendent of the Tucson Unified School District. “By giving states and local districts more flexibility, this bill allows us to better meet the unique needs of each and every student we serve.” “It is our belief that accountability and decision-making authority is best in the hands of state and local authorities, not the federal government, and this bill is a positive step toward that direction,” said Calvin Baker, Superintendent of the Vail Unified School District. “In particular, we appreciate the provisions in this bill to eliminate the burdensome Highly Qualified Teacher requirement and return authority to states for determining the best methods of evaluating teacher performance.”
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor in remembrance of Howard Henderson, the former owner of KDAP-FM and KAPR-AM radio stations in Douglas who passed away last month. Transcript Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise to pay tribute to the life of Howard Henderson, a man who was cherished by many throughout Southern Arizona. Howard moved to Douglas, Arizona in 1984 when he became the owner and president of KDAP-FM and KAPR-AM radio stations. He wasted no time making his mark, both on air and in the community. Howard hosted the Trading Post morning show, one of the most popular and listened-to shows in the area. He broadcast over one thousand high school games and supported community events, including serving on the local fair board. His on-air personality and active presence in Douglas earned him the nickname, “Mr. Wonderful." I got to know Howard over recent years. Like many, I was touched by his professionalism, grace, and dedication to the community. On November 20th, Howard passed away after battling cancer at the age of 65. We will miss hearing his voice on the airwaves and seeing his smiling face around Douglas, but we will never forget his impact on Southern Arizona.‎ With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
12.01.2015	Resolutions Overturning EPA Carbon Rules Pass House WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted to stand up for rural Arizona residents and overturn the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) harmful carbon rules on new and existing power plants. The EPA’s rules, which were modified in August after Rep. McSally’s extensive advocacy efforts, continue to threaten operations at the Apache Generating Station near Willcox and put rural consumers at risk. “The EPA’s rigid overreach has the potential to greatly harm families throughout Cochise County-especially those who can least afford it-through blackouts, higher rates, and the loss of good-paying jobs,” said Rep. McSally. “Today’s votes rightfully check that overreach. When you live in remote and often hard to reach areas, like many Southern Arizonans do, access to affordable and reliable energy is a necessity. I will continue to fight for the priorities of our rural residents and to give our energy producers the flexibility they need.” “We want to thank Congresswoman McSally for co-sponsoring H.J. Res. 71 and H.J. Res. 72, two resolutions of disapproval related to the EPA's rules on existing and new power plants. Congresswoman McSally has taken a lead role in working to protect Arizona’s rural electric cooperatives and the Apache Generating Station from overreaching regulations that threaten the livelihood and wellbeing of rural people,” said Patrick Ledger, CEO of Arizona’s G&T Cooperatives. “In many of the areas we serve, more than a third of those who will be impacted by this rule live at or below the federal poverty level, and simply can’t afford the price tag attached to this rule. We need fair and sensible regulation that provides a reasonable transition to new energy sources and does not undermine our ability to provide safe, reliable and affordable electric power for more than 400,000 rural people who rely on us,” Ledger said. “Arizona’s rural communities are made up of residents, small businesses, industry, agriculture, hospitals, schools and many other entities, all of which are still struggling to recover from the recession. They have invested hundreds of millions of their hard earned dollars in facilities that may have to be retired and replaced unnecessarily because of this rule. The cruel irony is that some of the hardest-hit economies in the nation could be paying some of the highest electric rates because of this ill-conceived rule,” Ledger said. The House today passed two resolutions previously passed in the Senate to overturn the EPA’s carbon rules on existing and new power plants. Rep. McSally is a cosponsor of both House companion resolutions. The resolutions passed today now go to the President’s desk. In May, Rep. McSally called on the EPA to modify its proposed rule to give Arizona needed flexibility in meeting the new mandates. In June, she voted in support of House passed legislation that she also cosponsored to protect Arizona residents from electricity shortages and rate spikes as a result of the new mandates. She also toured and met with officials at the Apache Generating Station near Willcox during her first months in office. The EPA originally sought to mandate on Arizona a 52% reduction in emissions by 2030, which was the second most stringent requirement for any state in the county. In August, that goal was reduced to 34% in the final rule. The EPA also extended its interim compliance goal by two years.
12.01.2015	U.S. Rep. McSally Questions Top U.S. Security Officials on ISIS Strategy WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today questioned Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Joseph F. Dunford on our ISIS strategy in Iraq and Syria at a House Armed Services Committee hearing. Rep. McSally urged the unleashing of America air power against ISIS and confirmed the critical importance of the A-10 Warthog from the highest ranking military officer in the Armed Forces. Rep. McSally questioned the Administration's delay in assessing how to stop the flow of black market oil, which is estimated to finance ISIS’ terror with millions of dollars a month. She also hammered officials on their decision not to attack fuel trucks until just recently, 17 months after ISIS declared a caliphate and 15 months after the start of air operations. “I just want to be clear. I’ve been involved in the targeting process at all levels, if you’re driving a truck for a terrorist organization that’s fueling them, you’re a combatant.” Toward the end of her time, Rep. McSally asked General Dunford about the importance of the A-10 in taking out ISIS targets and performing Combat Search and Rescue roles. That exchange is below. Rep. McSally: Is it your assessment they’re critical to this fight? Gen. Dunford: The A-10 has been a valuable platform. Rep. McSally: And do you consider this fight is going to go on for a while? Gen. Dunford: I do. Other quotes “I’m deeply concerned about the lack of using American air power for all it brings to the fight.” “It looks like (ISIS) is taking on American air power and winning. And that has added to their propaganda, it’s added to their metastasizing, it’s added to the sort of romantic approach to recruiting people to join the fight.” “It sounds like you’re saying things have changed, but in addition to the changes you mentioned, are we changing the cumbersome approval process, can we feel the confidence that we’re going to unleash and unshackle American air power, and not just be in this limited, impotent mindset?”
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) and Senator John McCain (R-AZ) today released the following statement after reports that A-10 Thunderbolt II’s were used to destroy over 100 oil-tanker trucks in Syria as part of stepped-up strikes on ISIS targets. “A-10s are again demonstrating their lethality and irreplaceable role in our military when our country needs it most. If the Administration had its way, we wouldn’t have these one-of-a-kind attack jets available to strike at ISIS targets and carry out the vital missions for which they are uniquely suited. Time and time again recently, we’ve seen the A-10’s number called up to protect us; whether it’s in Europe to deter Russian aggression, along the border with North Korea, or in the fight against ISIS. It just shows again, that when the world turns to us to defend against the dangerous and growing threats we face, we turn to the A-10. We’re proud that the National Defense Authorization Act once again keeps the A-10 flying for the next fiscal year, and we will continue to do everything we can to prevent the Air Force from prematurely retiring this vital aircraft.” Rep. McSally spoke on the House floor yesterday about the A-10 strikes in Syria.
11.10.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today responded to Air Force General Herbert Carlisle’s reported statements about a delay in the Administration’s plans to retire our full A-10 fleet ahead of schedule. “This is the Administration’s same ploy only in a different disguise to whittle away at a critical capability. Over the last 3 years, the Administration has already mothballed the equivalent of 4 A-10 squadrons, leaving us with only 9 to carry out the critical missions for which the A-10 is best suited.” “As it has always been, the plan to retire the A-10 ahead of schedule is irresponsible and reckless. No plane in our inventory or under development can match the A-10’s unique capabilities to provide Close Air Support – capabilities that are in increasing demand. A-10s are now deployed in the fight against ISIS, in Europe to deter Russian aggression, and along the border with North Korea. We just invested over $1 billion to keep this asset flying until 2028. Until there’s a suitable replacement, we absolutely need to keep this life-saving capability in the air.” As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. McSally has worked since taking office to expose the capabilities gap that would occur if the A-10 were retired without a replacement. In an April hearing, Department of Defense officials conceded to her that the F-35 would not be as survivable as the A-10 in certain Close Air Support scenarios. The following day, the commander of U.S. Forces in Korea stated to Rep. McSally that retiring the plan would leave a gap in the military’s ability to take out enemy tanks from the air. In June, the Government Accountability Office released a report citing critical flaws in the Administration’s justification for retiring the A-10 Warthog and highlighted the capabilities gaps that would occur.
11.06.2015	TUCSON — U.S. Representative Martha McSally today issued the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline: “It’s disappointing, but not surprising, to see the President reject what would be a plus for American workers and our economy. The President’s own State Department reported the Keystone Pipeline would add over 40,000 jobs and $3.4 billion to our economy, while having no significant climate effect. The President is not just turning down a good jobs project; he’s again throwing his political agenda ahead of doing what’s best for our country-as he did recently with our national defense authorization bill-and it’s everyday Americans who continue to suffer.”
11.05.2015	House Passes Long-term Transportation Bill with S. AZ Priorities WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed a long-term transportation reauthorization bill that included numerous priorities for Southern Arizona championed by Rep. McSally. Among them, the bill designated a proposed interstate connecting Interstate-19 and Interstate-10 south of the Tucson International Airport, known as the Sonoran Corridor, a “High Priority Corridor.” The project is estimated to have a $32.2 billion annual impact on the regional economy and support as many as 189,000 jobs. “We’ve been making the case for months about the importance of the Sonoran Corridor to Arizona and our nation’s trade routes. With House passage of the designation today, we are one giant step closer to seeing this idea come to fruition,” said Rep. McSally. “The Corridor will significantly build upon our trade infrastructure, reducing freight commute times and helping to expand our technology, defense, and aerospace industries. Today’s bill also included many other priorities for Southern Arizona, such as provisions to advance the expansion of SR-189, and I’m pleased to see the strong bipartisan support for it.” The Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act reauthorizes federal surface transportation programs through Fiscal Year 2021. Southern Arizona priorities contained in the bill include: Designating the Sonoran Corridor a High Priority Corridor, enabling it for federal funding; Allowing states to add critical roadways to the National Highway Freight Network for the movement of freight, enabling SR-189 for federal funding; Adding I-19 to the 41,000 miles of the new National Highway Freight Network; And extending the High Priority Designation of I-11. In June, Rep. McSally introduced bipartisan legislation, the Sonoran Corridor Interstate Development Act, to designate the Sonoran Corridor a “High Priority Corridor on the National Highway System.” On August 18, she led a letter signed by the full Arizona delegation to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure calling for the inclusion of the designation in long-term transportation reauthorization legislation. A recently released report estimates the corridor project would eventually create a $32.2 billion annual impact to the regional economy and would directly and indirectly support as many 189,000 jobs.
11.05.2015	House Passes NDAA with McSally Provisions to Protect A-10, EC-130H Next Year WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today voted to pass the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) with provisions authored by U.S. Representative Martha McSally to fully protect the A-10 and EC-130H aircraft, two aircraft stationed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. “Our national security is not a game. Failing to get our troops the resources they need puts their lives in danger and weakens our national defenses. I will not stand for that.” said Rep. McSally. “This bill gets our troops the weapons, pay, and certainty they need to complete their missions and includes provisions to extend benefits to service members and help combat sexual assault in the military. It’s shameful that the President chose to play politics with our men and women in harm’s way, but Congress has made clear today – We have their backs and will continue to stand up for their needs.” During debate on passage of the bill, Rep. McSally took to the House floor to urge support of the bipartisan legislation and highlight Southern Arizona’s men and women in uniform who rely on it. Passage of today’s bill follows Rep. McSally’s month’s long efforts to protect the A-10 and EC-130H aircraft, two weapons systems the Administration sought to retire earlier this year. Today’s bill included provisions authored by Rep. McSally to prevent the retirement or placement into backup status of any A-10 or EC-130H aircraft. Earlier this year, Rep. McSally led bipartisan efforts to request authorization and funding for both aircraft and penned an op-ed in the New York Times making the case that retiring the A-10 without a replacement would put American lives at risk. During committee markup for the authorization bill, she successfully offered amendments to fully protect the A-10 and EC-103H and staunchly fought back efforts to retire 164 A-10’s next year. Part of that debate can be seen HERE. The bill now goes to the Senate for a vote.
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today engaged administration officials at a Homeland Security Committee hearing on the need for a new port of entry in Douglas, Arizona. The Douglas Port accounts for nearly $4 billion in trade through two-way truck traffic, which has grown by 5% a year since 2010. A 2007 report, however, determined the port’s current infrastructure would not allow it to meet its mission over the next five years. “We can’t wait any longer. Douglas is dependent on the two-way traffic and trade with Mexico, but lacks the infrastructure needed to meet current or future demand at its port,” said Rep. McSally. “I’ve met with city and port officials on numerous occasions and seen first-hand the need for expanding this infrastructure. I’m encouraged by the responses we received today and commitment from the Administration to work with us on our options.” Rep. McSally consistently has pressed the Administration to prioritize the Douglas Port of Entry project. On June 30, she sent a letter to Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Gil Kerlikowske calling on him to explain the next steps needed to advance a proposed port expansion. Rep. McSally also has pushed for increased manning at local land ports, and recently succeeded in advancing her bill, the Border Jobs for Veterans Act, into law. During the hearing, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Deputy Assistant Commissioner for Field Operations John Wagner expressed his support for the new law in helping his department meet manning shortages. “I’ll be meeting with senior DoD officials tomorrow to start to work on that,” said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Wagner. “We’re highly supportive of that and I’m very confident we can find 800 veterans that can fit our requirement so we can get them into these positions. So thank you for supporting that and really pushing us and DoD to come to the table and work that out.”
11.02.2015	Legislation is Rep. McSally’s Fourth Bill to Pass the House WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today voted to pass U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Support to Fusion Centers Act. The bill, which aims to enhance information sharing of possible terrorist threats, is Rep. McSally’s fourth bill to pass the House this year. “We are seeing a dramatic and unprecedented rise in terror-related activity here at home. There have been more U.S.-based jihadist terror cases this year than in any full year since 9/11. We have to make sure that authorities at the local level have the information and resources they need to prepare for and defend against these attacks,” said Rep. McSally. “First responders are one of our first lines of defense against potential terror threats. My bill ensures that the Department of Homeland Security is providing the resources needed to protect our nation from attacks carried out by individuals either directed or inspired by radical violent extremism and other emergencies.” According to the Committee on Homeland Security, authorities have arrested or charged at least 55 individuals in the United States this year on terrorist-related activity. The cases involve individuals plotting attacks, attempting to travel to join ISIS overseas, sending money, equipment and weapons to terrorists, and falsifying statements to federal authorities. It’s estimated that approximately 40 foreign fighters from Iraq and Syria have returned to the United States as of this year. After the attacks of September 11, 2001, threat analysis and information sharing centers, known as fusion centers, were established around the country. These fusion centers are manned with local and federal law enforcement and intelligence personnel and help disseminate information about threats between local, state, and federal authorities. The Department of Homeland Security Support to Fusion Centers Act requires the Department of Homeland Security to assess if additional DHS employees assigned to fusion centers would improve information sharing. In addition, the bill establishes a program to provide higher security clearances to local intelligence analysts to improve threat awareness. Rep. McSally’s previous bills to pass the House this year include: the CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing Act, the Border Security Technology Accountability Act, and the Border Jobs for Veterans Act.
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after voting in support of the Bipartisan Budget Agreement: “Today’s vote is about providing certainty to Southern Arizona families, businesses, and seniors and strengthening our national defense. The Bipartisan Budget Agreement takes us away from the harmful partisan brinkmanship and salami slice-style budgeting that has weakened our military and hurt our readiness. It provides stability to our brave men and women serving in harm’s way, whom the President has shamefully been using as a political bargaining chip over the last month. This deal puts an end to his grandstanding by setting a minimum defense budget for the next two years.” “The agreement also takes many positive actions like preventing a Medicare premium spike on millions of seniors, avoiding a catastrophic default on our debt, and restoring Congress’ ability to make appropriations that reflect our country’s priorities.” “However, today’s deal does not replace the need for a defense authorization bill, which the President vetoed last week. We still have work to do to ensure the provisions I fought for protecting the A-10 and EC-130H next year are signed into law, and I’ll continue to work to make that happen.”
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after President Obama vetoed the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), the first veto of a defense authorization bill over a broad political agenda in the bill’s 53-year history. “After fighting so hard to make sure Iran’s terrorist militia would be well-armed and funded, President Obama is now turning his back on our own American men and women in uniform. As someone who commanded troops in combat, I know first-hand the importance of getting our service members the resources they need to complete the mission. This bill gives them what they need: equipment, weapons, pay, and important reforms to combat military sexual assault and expand military benefits. The President is vetoing these provisions, not over substance, but as an act of stubborn political grandstanding. What’s worse, by going out of his way to publicize his disgraceful actions with a photo-op at the White House, the President is adding insult to injury for every person who’s currently risking their lives to keep our country safe.” A national defense authorization bill has passed Congress and been signed into law for 53 consecutive years. It has been vetoed only four times over specific policy provisions in the bill. These provisions were resolved and the legislation was later signed by the President, making this the first time a president has vetoed the NDAA over a broader political agenda. The FY2016 NDAA passed the House and Senate earlier this month with strong bipartisan majorities. It includes full funding for the missions at Fort Huachuca and the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call aircraft as well as amendments Rep. McSally authored to prohibit retirement or transfers to backup status of either aircraft next year.
10.21.2015	Resolution Urges Funding Freeze Until Palestinian Leaders Take Steps to End Violence WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced a resolution expressing solidarity with the Israeli people and condemning the Palestinian Authority for inciting an atmosphere of violence. The resolution, which was cosigned by over 40 lawmakers in the House, calls on President Obama to freeze all U.S. funding to the Palestinian Authority until their leaders openly increase efforts to end their incitement of violence and stop the attacks. Since September 13, nine people have been killed and dozens more wounded in at least 46 separate terrorist attacks against Israelis. The attacks have been carried out with knives, guns, and cars. Earlier this month, two Israeli parents were murdered in cold blood in front of their four young children. “More horrific attacks against Israelis are carried out every day and the number of victims continues to grow,” said Rep. McSally. “Palestinian leaders have incited this violence, and the President needs to unequivocally condemn their actions and demand they step up efforts to thwart these attacks, something he’s failed to do. That’s why I’m leading my colleagues to call on President Obama to freeze all funding to the Palestinian Authority until their leaders take action to put an end to this bloodshed. Americans should not be sending their tax dollars to a regime that is inciting violence, does not support peace with their neighbors, and is working against U.S. interests in the region.” Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Ed Royce, who is holding a hearing tomorrow on the violence in Israel, said the following about Rep. McSally’s efforts on the issue: “Congresswoman McSally has been a leader on this critical issue, authoring this important incitement resolution. The Palestinian Authority’s consistent, inflammatory incitement is deadly and must stop. I look forward to continue working with Congresswoman McSally as we help defend our ally Israel.” Since the mid-1990s, the United States has donated over $5 billion in bilateral aid to the Palestinians, which is conditional on the pursuit of the peace process by Palestinians. To read the full text of Rep. McSally’s resolution, click HERE.
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) and Senator John McCain (R-AZ) released the following statement on the announcement that 12 A-10s have deployed to Turkey to aid in the fight against ISIS: “The deployment of 12 A-10s to Turkey to aid combat missions in the fight against ISIS underscores the vital role that these aircraft play in conflicts around the world. As the best close-air support weapon in our arsenal, the A-10 is actively engaged in the campaign against ISIS in Iraq and Syria and in NATO’s effort to deter Russian aggression in Eastern Europe. Despite this and the express position of the congressional defense committees, the Obama Administration continues to attempt to prematurely divest the Air Force of this aircraft – a move that the U.S. Government Accountability Office recently confirmed would not only fail to achieve cost savings, but also leave us with a serious capability gap that could put the lives of American soldiers in danger. We’re proud that this year’s National Defense Authorization Act keeps the A-10 flying for the next fiscal year, and we sincerely hope that the President signs this bill so that our men and women in harm’s way can continue to have access to the most effective close-air support weapon at our disposal.”
10.19.2015	Bill Signing Represents Rare Accomplishment in 114th Congress TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation, the Border Jobs for Veterans Act, was signed by President Obama late Friday, making it Rep. McSally’s first legislation to become public law. The legislation requires cooperation between the Departments of Defense (DOD) and Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure separating service members are aware of hiring opportunities for Customs and Border Protection positions. The law represents a significant accomplishment, especially for a freshman lawmaker, as just the 68th piece of legislation to pass both chambers of Congress and become law this year. “This is how Washington is supposed to work,” said Rep. McSally. “We identified a problem, put together a bipartisan solution, and worked together to get it across the finish line and signed into law. This new policy will help fill the vacancies at our ports of entry with qualified, trained service members, helping them transition to civilian life while addressing the staffing shortages at our ports. I’m proud to be part of this bipartisan effort to get results on a local problem, and will continue to work to advance commonsense, achievable solutions on the issues important to Southern Arizonans.” Senators Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), John McCain (R-AZ), and Ron Johnson (R-WI) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “The Border Jobs for Veterans Act exemplifies the good that can be accomplished when Congress works in a bipartisan fashion to solve a problem,” said Senator Flake. “When so many commonsense solutions are lost to partisan gridlock, I’m proud to have signed into law a bill that will help to put veterans to work, improve national security, increase cross-border trade and grow Arizona’s economy – all at no additional cost to the taxpayer.” “I’m pleased to see this bill be signed into law so that we can begin to help veterans find much-needed jobs, meet urgent staffing needs at U.S. ports of entry, and improve the security of our border communities,” said Senator McCain. “I commend Senator Flake and Congresswoman McSally for their leadership, and thank Senators Johnson and Schumer for their support of this important effort, which will create new opportunities for our veterans to continue serving and protecting the nation.” The signing into law of Rep. McSally’s bill represents a rare accomplishment this Congress, especially for a freshman lawmaker. Since the start of the 114th Congress, only 68 bills, including Rep. McSally’s, have passed both chambers of Congress and were signed into law. Only 53 of those bills took actions other than renaming a landmark or federal building. Other than a bill passed to rename the Douglas Port of Entry, Rep. McSally’s bill is the first introduced by an Arizona House member this year to be signed into law. Rep. McSally is one of four freshman lawmakers currently to advance legislation through both chambers of Congress and into law. She spoke in support of the bill on the House floor on Septemeber 28, 2015 when it pased the House.
10.16.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s persistent efforts to advance the designation of a Sonoran Corridor in Tucson have resulted in the designation’s inclusion in long-term highway funding reauthorization legislation released today. The project, which would designate a highway connecting Interstate-19 to Interstate-10 south of the Tucson International Airport as a “Highway Priority Corridor,” is estimated to have a $32.2 billion annual impact on the regional economy and support as many as 189,000 jobs. “This project will be a difference maker for countless families in Southern Arizona, and today’s announcement means we’re one big step closer to making it happen,” said Rep. McSally. “Once complete, the Sonoran Corridor is expected to add over $30 billion to our local economy and support nearly 200,000 jobs. It’s also key to advancing Southern Arizona as a leading trade and transportation hub. Since coming to Congress, I’ve focused on areas where we can move the ball forward and actually get things done. That’s what this designation is about, and I’ll continue to work to move it forward.” “This project represents thousands of jobs for our community and has the long-term potential to serve as a gateway to more aerospace, defense, and high-tech companies relocating to Tucson. With the continued support of our local, state, federal and business community partners, we are well-positioned to capitalize on this great opportunity and make it a reality,” said Sharon Bronson, Pima County Board of Supervisors Chair. “I’m glad to see the Sonoran Corridor designation included in the House’s long-term legislation, and commend Rep. McSally for her persistent advocacy,” said Pima County Administrator Chuck Huckelberry. In June, Rep. McSally introduced bipartisan legislation, the Sonoran Corridor Interstate Development Act, to designate the Sonoran Corridor a “High Priority Corridor on the National Highway System.” On August 18, she led a letter signed by the full Arizona delegation to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation calling for the inclusion of the designation in long-term transportation reauthorization legislation. A recently released report estimates the corridor project would eventually create a $32.2 billion annual impact to the regional economy and would directly and indirectly support as many 189,000 jobs. A markup on the House’s long-term transportation bill is scheduled for Thursday, October 22.
10.15.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announced plan to keep 5,500 U.S. troops in Afghanistan into 2017, a reversal from his position to remove all U.S. troops by 2017. “I’m glad to see the President reverse his previous position, which was aimed at meeting a campaign promise, but I have serious concerns that 5,500 troops is dangerously inadequate. Given the turmoil in the country, too small a force will put our troops’ lives and the mission at risk. This decision should not be based on a number or a date but on meeting an objective. We’ve spent a lot of blood and treasure in Afghanistan. Our force level should be determined by what’s required to keep our troops safe and see the mission through.” “Today’s announcement comes at a time of growing instability in the region. The Taliban recently captured their first provincial capital in Afghanistan since they were ousted in 2001. The premature removal of troops from Iraq has led to the growth of ISIS, and the Administration’s lack of a strategy around the Middle East has empowered rogue actors like Iran, Putin, and Assad.” “At this critical time, the President needs to prioritize our national security. He needs to ensure our forces can meet their objective and remove his reckless veto threat of our national defense funding legislation, which passed Congress with strong bipartisan support. Our defense is too important to use for political games, and the President needs to show that now.”
10.14.2015	Tucson Resident Daniel Standage Announced Overall Winner for Work at UA VETS Center TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday recognized Southern Arizona veterans at an award ceremony and announced that Tucson resident Daniel Standage was the winner of the 2015 Congressional Veterans of Distinction Award. Standage was recognized for his efforts to establish the University of Arizona Veterans Education and Transition Services (VETS) Center, an innovative program that provides information and services for student veterans and veterans looking to enter the university. The program has received national recognition. “Daniel’s work at the U of A VETS Center has been a lifeline for many veterans looking to go back to school and advance their education after their service,” said Rep. McSally. “He and all the nominees of this award have shown an extraordinary commitment to service and the principles that make our country great, and it was my honor to recognize them. They embody what it means to give back and put what’s best for the country and others ahead of themselves – traits from which Washington could learn a lot.” Rep. McSally with the 2015 Veterans of Distinction Award nominees Rep. McSally with the 2015 Veterans of Distinction Award Winner Daniel Standage Daniel Standage is a 10-year veteran of the United States Marine Corps and originally from Mesa, Arizona. After achieving the rank of Sergeant and experiencing a tragic accident, Standage was medically discharged due to blindness. Upon completing the Blind Rehab program with the Southern Arizona VA Health Care System, Standage enrolled at the University of Arizona as an undergraduate student, where he saw the need for an environment where veteran students could have a common space to transition from military life into higher education. Because of Standage’s efforts, the Veterans Education and Transition Services (VETS) office was born at the University of Arizona, which is now the national model for Student Veterans of America. Second place went to Frederick Thomson from Sierra Vista, Arizona. Thomson served the community as an arbitrator/mediator for the Cochise Superior Court alternative dispute resolution program while volunteering to provide free legal advice to seniors at the Senior Center for seven years. Thomson served in the United States Army during World War II, Korea, and Vietnam. Third place was awarded to Harry Bowen from Sierra Vista who was in the United States Army during Vietnam and retired as a Chief Warrant Officer 3. He served in the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) in many capacities and served in the Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) Outreach coordinator, who works to educate companies on the benefits of hiring veterans as employees. Bowen served in the Kiwanis club in numerous capacities since 1993 and led the American Cancer Society Relay for Life event in Sierra Vista for nine years. Recently, Bowen joined as a founding member the Cochise Serving Veterans Committee to aid in helping homeless and at-risk veterans in Cochise County. More photos from the event can be viewed HERE.
10.14.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement expressing solidarity with the people of Israel in the wake of recent violent attacks and called on President Obama to condemn the violence and incitement by Palestinian leaders. “I condemn the horrific attacks carried out against Israelis and stand in solidarity with the Israeli people. There have been nine attacks against Israelis since Sunday, including just yesterday multiple stabbings, a shooting, and the ramming of a bus stop that killed three people and left dozens wounded. Earlier this month, two parents were murdered in cold blood in front of their four young children. The President and his Administration need to do more to emphatically condemn the attacks carried out against innocent Israelis and specifically call on Palestinian leaders to end their incitement of violence. To urge a stronger response from our Administration, I’m currently drafting a resolution calling on them to freeze all U.S. funding to the Palestinian Authority until their leaders step up efforts to thwart these attacks and vocally condemn them, and will begin circulating it to my colleagues.” Since September 13, 2015 there have been 29 attacks carried out against Israelis that have killed seven people and wounded dozens more.
10.08.2015	Rep. McSally: “This bill has bipartisan support and puts forward solutions that can actually make a difference.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation that would help prevent mentally ill individuals from obtaining firearms, while expanding funding for the identification and treatment of mental illness. The bipartisan bill is endorsed by a wide range of groups including the National Rifle Association, the National Alliance on Mental Illness, and the National Association of Police Organizations. “Preventing gun violence in our communities is something we all want, but too often, Democrats and Republicans end up just talking past each other. This bill has bipartisan support and puts forward solutions that can actually make a difference,” said Congresswoman McSally. “It helps prevent mentally ill individuals from obtaining firearms by providing incentives to strengthen our background check system while empowering communities to better treat and identify mental illness. If we want results, we’ll have to work together on areas of common ground, and this bill is a great example of that.” “I commend Martha for her efforts to help prevent instances of gun violence,” said Sallie Badger, wife of the late Bill Badger, who helped stop the January 8th shooter in Tucson. “Bill was about bringing both sides together and showing that this is an issue we can be united on, and I’m glad to see Martha carrying on his work in that spirit.” “This Congress owes the American people a solution to gun violence. The Mental Health and Safe Communities Act is a bipartisan, no nonsense approach to fix previous failures in our system,” said Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE), who co-introduced the bill. “With this bill, we will empower our mental health care professionals with tools to better identify and respond to mental health crises to prevent violence and improve the collaboration with all levels of law enforcement. I applaud Congresswoman McSally for her leadership and I call upon my colleagues to support this common sense approach. The stakes are too high to retreat to partisan positions and talking points. We must work together to prevent gun violence.” “We must ensure families, communities, and law enforcement across the country have the resources and training necessary to help mentally-ill individuals get the care they need so that they do not become a danger to themselves or others,” said Senator John Cornyn, who introduced a companion bill in the Senate. “I look forward to working with Rep. McSally to make a real difference in the lives of millions of Americans who are affected by mental illness.” “Community Partners Inc. supports provisions of this bill that expand access to specialized mental health treatment,” said Edward Gentile, Chief Medical Officer at Community Partners, Inc. “The evidence-based strategies in this bill, such as Assertive Community Treatment and Crisis Intervention Teams, along with prevention and early intervention, are important steps in assisting individuals who most need treatment and in strengthening the entire community.” “I applaud any efforts that will both improve public safety and promote rapid and effective intervention to those who need and can benefit from help,” said Dan Ranier, President & CEO at La Frontera, Inc. “I also support anything that can provide those in the helping professions and law enforcement greater clarity and direction in these efforts.” The Mental Health and Safe Communities Act strengthens federal programs related to mental health in the criminal justice system by: improving the background check system; enhancing the ability of families and communities to identify mental illness; improving treatment for mental illness; and strengthening responses to mental health crises. The bill has bipartisan support in the House and has been endorsed by mental health, law enforcement, and Second Amendment advocates, including the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), Treatment Advocacy Center, National Rifle Association, National Association of Police Organizations, American Jail Association, American Correctional Association, and Council of State Governments Justice Center, and the National Shooting Sports Foundation, National Association of Social Workers, National Sheriffs’ Association. Original cosponsors Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE) Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX) Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX ) Rep. Mimi Walters (R-CA) Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN) For a one-pager on the bill, click HERE. For a PDF of the bill text, click HERE.
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the Senate’s passage of the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report. “I applaud our senators for prioritizing our national security and their strong bipartisan support for passing this bill,” said Rep. McSally. “The President needs to give up his political grandstanding and sign it immediately. His unprecedented veto threat over political differences, not substance, is disgraceful and would put our military readiness and the security of Americans at risk. With the growing threats we face around the world, we need to show unity behind our military, not play political games with national security.” The Senate today passed the NDAA conference report 70 to 27, which also passed the House last week 270 to 156. The legislation includes full funding for the missions housed at Fort Huachuca and the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call aircraft as well as amendments Rep. McSally authored to prohibit retirement or transfers to backup status of either aircraft next year.
10.05.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after a C-130J crashed shortly after takeoff from Jalalabad Airfield, Afghanistan, killing six Airmen and five civilian passengers including Tombstone native Carlos Carrasco. “My heartfelt condolences go out to the family and loved ones of Carlos Carrasco,” said Rep. McSally. “I was able to visit our troops at Jalalabad Airfield in May and witnessed first-hand the critical work they were doing for our national security. Carlos died while serving alongside his peers to make all of us here at home safer, and our country and community are grateful for his brave service as we mourn his tragic loss.” Carlos Carrasco was raised in Tombstone, Arizona and graduated from Tombstone High School in 2006. He worked as a contractor for Northrop Grumman in Sierra Vista and was serving in Afghanistan as an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) mechanic and technician. He previously earned degrees in Avionics & UAV Technology from Cochise College.
10.01.2015	House Votes to Approve National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report Containing Full Funding for A-10, EC-130H, and Fort Huachuca WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today joined her House colleagues to pass the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report, which contained full funding for the missions at Fort Huachuca and the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call aircraft as well as amendments Rep. McSally authored to prohibit retirement or transfers to backup status of either aircraft next year. The legislation is the result of months of work by Rep. McSally to protect the aircraft stationed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base after the Administration announced its decision to prematurely retire our entire A-10 fleet and half of our EC-130H fleet earlier this year. “Today’s bill represents a major victory on all fronts for Southern Arizona’s irreplaceable defense assets,” said Rep. McSally. “The legislation includes full funding for the missions housed at Fort Huachuca and amendments I offered to fully protect the A-10 and EC-130H aircraft stationed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. These aircraft are critical to our local economy as well as our current military efforts in the Middle East and Eastern Europe, where A-10s are deployed to train with our NATO allies and deter Russian aggression. We absolutely cannot afford to see these capabilities sidelined prematurely, and I will continue to work tirelessly to prevent that.” The passage of today’s conference report follows months of efforts by Rep. McSally to support funding for the A-10 and EC-130H and prevent their early retirement. Earlier this year, she led bipartisan efforts to request authorization and funding for both aircraft and penned an op-ed in the New York Times making the case that retiring the A-10 without a replacement would put American lives at risk. During committee markup for the authorization bill, she successfully offered amendments to fully protect the A-10 and EC-103H and staunchly fought back efforts to retire 164 A-10’s next year. Part of that debate can be seen HERE. Additional provisions specific to Southern Arizona in the NDAA conference report include: An increase to the military’s budget to purchase 49 additional Tomahawk missiles to be manufactured at Raytheon in Tucson; A $140 million increase to purchase additional anti-tank missiles to be manufactured at Raytheon in Tucson; $16.9 million authorized for C-130 storage and cleaning facilities at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in Tucson; $3.8 million authorized for communications facility renovations at Fort Huachuca; A provision to enable the Secretary of Defense to transfer excess defense equipment to the Department of Homeland Security for border security activities; $45 million for Operation Phalanx, which would increase border security operations by the National Guard along the southern border; And up to $75 million in additional assistance to Customs and Border Protection operations to secure the southern border, which may include the deployment of personnel, surveillance assets, and intelligence support.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today joined her colleagues on the bipartisan Foreign Fighter Task Force to release their final report on combating foreign fighter travel. The task force, which Rep. McSally was assigned to in February, was established to conduct a six-month review of the threat posed by individuals who leave home to join jihadist groups overseas and identify potential security gaps. “The terrorists are acting at the speed of broadband while we’re acting at the speed of bureaucracy,” said Rep. McSally. “The threat from foreign fighters is a very serious, sophisticated one, and we’ve got to be much more nimble and responsive to counter it. The work of this task force is exactly what I came here to do and that’s propose constructive, serious solutions to our country’s problems. I look forward to continuing to work with my bipartisan colleagues to move these recommendations forward and keep Americans safe.” “I commend Congresswoman McSally for her work on this serious homeland security issue, a grave and growing threat from foreign fighters,” said Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee Michael McCaul (R-TX). “Sadly, global efforts have failed to stop the flow of these aspiring jihadists into Syria, and we have already seen ‘returnees’ from the conflict zone come home to America and Europe and plot acts of terror. Even more, those still on the battlefield are radicalizing their peers online and inciting them to launch homegrown attacks. In light of the Task Force’s findings, I urge American leaders to develop a strategy to combat terrorist and foreign fighter travel and eliminate the ISIS threat." Nearly 30,000 people from over 100 countries have travelled to the conflict zone in Syria and Iraq since 2011, including over 4,500 Westerners and over 250 Americans who have joined or attempted to join jihadist groups. During the six month review, Rep. McSally and other task force members met with current and former federal officials within the national security community; held briefings, meetings, and domestic and foreign site visits; and consulted with state and local law enforcement, outside experts, and foreign officials from around the world. Based on its review, the Task Force presented 32 key findings and recommendations today in the final report. Key findings included: The U.S. government is failing to stop Americans from traveling overseas to join jihadists, despite concerted efforts to stem the flow; The U.S. government lacks a national strategy for combating terrorist travel and has not produced one in nearly a decade; There is no comprehensive global database of foreign fighters and U.S. federal authorities can do more to make sure state and local law enforcement have the information they need. To view the full report, click HERE. To view a summary of the report, click HERE.
09.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to help promote vacant border jobs to separating U.S. service members. The bill, the Border Jobs for Veterans Act of 2015, requires cooperation between the Departments of Defense (DOD) and Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure separating service members are aware of hiring opportunities for Customs and Border Protection positions and is Rep. McSally’s third bill to pass the House. “I came to Washington to get things done and advance solutions that will make a difference for the people of Southern Arizona. Today’s bill does just that,” said Rep. McSally. “It’s a win-win for our district. It boosts staffing at our ports of entry and helps returning service members find jobs, and is the result of numerous conversations I’ve had with CBP officers working along our border. The failure to fully staff our ports slows trade coming across the border, hurting not just local communities, but our entire region’s reputation as a leading trade hub. My bill helps to solve this problem by ensuring the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security are working together to fill these positions with already trained and qualified veterans.” Senators Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), John McCain (R-AZ), and Ron Johnson (R-WI) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Solutions don’t get simpler than the Border Jobs for Veterans Act,” said Senator Flake. “I am pleased that my colleagues in the House passed this legislation that will put veterans to work, improve national security, increase trade, and grow the economy—all at no additional cost to the taxpayer.” Over $41.6 billion worth of trade annually flows through Arizona’s Ports of Entry, according to the Arizona-Mexico Commission, of which $16 billion is attributed to bilateral trade with Mexico. An estimated 250,000 to 300,000 service members separate from military service every year. The Border Jobs for Veterans Act, H.R. 2835, is Rep. McSally’s third bill to pass the House. In June, the House passed her bill to improve intelligence sharing of the threats posed by terrorist attacks and in July, the House passed her bill to improve the management and accountability of new border technology projects. The House also has passed her amendments to protect the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call in the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act and Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Appropriations Act. A PDF of the bill text can be viewed HERE.
09.25.2015	TUCSON - U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after Speaker Boehner announced his retirement coming at the end of October. “I want to thank Speaker Boehner and his family for his selfless service to our country and the House of Representatives for over two decades as a Congressman and Speaker. I am also grateful for his support to me and my fellow pragmatic freshmen as we wouldn't be serving in Congress without it. He proved today again that he is a patriot, statesman, and leader.” “Going forward, I will be advocating for our team to take Pope Francis' message to heart and come together with unity and a focus on what is best for the country and our communities instead of distracting division and posturing. I will continue to focus on being a voice for southern Arizona at this critical time.”
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally released the following statement after Pope Francis’ joint address to the U.S. Congress. "I was honored to be present for this historic speech, the first from a Pope to a joint session of Congress, and to welcome families from Southern Arizona who came to Washington for it,” said Rep. McSally. “The warm and affectionate welcome the Pope has received by thousands here is a testament to his strong and personal connection to people of all faiths. His example of humility, compassion, and love has touched millions and there's no doubt he will continue to be a source of inspiration and guidance for countless people in Southern Arizona and around the world.” Rep. McSally’s office was allocated 50 tickets on the West Lawn to provide to constituents, which the office distributed through a lottery after receiving more than double the amount of requests as there were tickets available. An open house in Rep. McSally’s Washington, D.C. office was held after the speech for any families who made the trip from Southern Arizona. Photos from that open house are below.
09.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to reverse a tax hike contained in the President’s health care law on middle class families and stop it from taking effect on seniors. The Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act has bipartisan support and would make it easier for families battling high health care costs to deduct those expenses. “Contained in the Administration’s health care law is a little known tax hike that hits millions of middle class families and seniors struggling with sickness or high medical costs – at a time when they are at their most vulnerable,” said Rep. McSally. “My bill repeals this debilitating tax hike on families and stops it from hitting seniors. This provision was brought to my attention by a constituent from Green Valley who has serious concerns about the tax hike’s effect on him and his neighbors, and I share those concerns. America’s seniors and those struggling to get ahead should not be on the hook to fund the government’s massive new health care spending. I’m proud to introduce this commonsense legislation with my Arizona colleague Congresswoman Sinema and will continue to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate to get it passed.” “Arizonans continue to struggle with increasing health care costs,” said Congresswoman Sinema. “This commonsense legislation allows Arizona seniors and families to deduct more of their out-of-pocket health care expenses, a relief sorely needed during tough economic times. I look forward to working with Congresswoman McSally and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help lower health care costs for Arizonans.” Currently, seniors can deduct out of pocket medical expenses that exceed 7.5 percent of their adjusted growth income (AGI) on their taxes. A provision contained in the Affordable Care Act would increase this threshold to 10% on January 1, 2017 for Americans over the age of 65, amounting to a tax increase on seniors. Under the health care law, this tax hike has already gone into effect on Americans younger than 65, and low to middle-income families have been hit the hardest. In 2012, 87% of households that claimed this deduction earned less than $100,000 (IRS Statistics of Income, table 2.1). Repealing the provision would help the 10 million people who claim this deduction. The bill has the wide support of seniors and taxpayer advocate groups, including AARP, Americans for Prosperity, 60 Plus, Americans for Tax Reform, the Association of Mature American Citizens, and the National Taxpayers Union. For a PDF of the bill text, click HERE.
09.17.2015	Resolution Introduced With Support of Every Female House Armed Services Member WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Martha McSally (R-AZ) and Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) today led a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in introducing a resolution congratulating the first women graduates of U.S. Army Ranger School. Captain Kristen Griest and First Lieutenant Shaye Haver made history on August 21, 2015 when they became the first female graduates of the grueling Army Ranger training regimen. “Ultimately, Ranger School is a leadership course, and that has nothing to do with gender,” said Rep. McSally, a retired Air Force Colonel and the first woman to fly in combat and command a combat squadron. “By taking on and completing this incredibly grueling and demanding course, Captain Griest and First Lieutenant Haver showed they are the best of the best, with the mental and physical strength needed to be Army combat leaders. I couldn’t be prouder of their tremendous accomplishments. They earned the right to wear the Ranger tab; now they deserve the right to serve alongside their peers.” “CPT Kristen Griest and 1LT Shaye Haver have made history, blazing a trail and showing what's possible for their fellow service men and women,” said Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, a twice-deployed combat veteran and captain in the Hawaiʻi Army National Guard. “We congratulate and commemorate their accomplishments and recognize the strength, determination, and perseverance that was required to earn the honor of being a Ranger in the U.S. Army.” The House resolution introduced today is cosponsored by every female Member of the House Armed Services Committee and follows the announcement of a similar resolution in the U.S. Senate led by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Barbara Milkulski (D-MD), and supported by every female Senator. Roughly 400 students, including 19 women, sought to complete the latest Army Ranger School. Of that, only 93 earned the Ranger tab. A third woman is completing the third and final phase of the course. The full resolution text can be viewed HERE.
09.17.2015	***MEDIA ADVISORY*** Press Conference To Be Held Thursday at 1:00PM at the House Radio & TV Gallery Studio B WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Martha McSally (R-AZ) and Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) tomorrow will lead a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in introducing a resolution congratulating the first women graduates of U.S. Army Ranger School. Captain Kristen Griest and First Lieutenant Shaye Haver made history on August 21, 2015 when they became the first female graduates of the grueling Army Ranger training regimen. A press conference about the resolution will be held on Thursday, September 17 at 1:00PM at the House Radio and TV Gallery Studio B. Please RSVP to Patrick Ptak (Rep. McSally) at 202-603-3100 or Emily Latimer (Rep. Gabbard) at 202-604-2330. What: Press Conference on resolution congratulating the first U.S. Army Ranger women graduates Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) U.S. Representative Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) When: Thursday, September 17 1:00 PM Where: House Radio & TV Gallery Studio B
09.14.2015	Rep. McSally: “This is not about a choice between this deal or war” WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted against approval of the President’s Iran nuclear deal and to prevent the President from lifting sanctions on Iran pursuant to the agreement. Just before the vote, Rep. McSally spoke out on the House floor to urge her colleagues to consider the American military men and women killed by Iranian-funded terrorism and to oppose lifting sanctions that will lead to more deaths. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of those who do not have a voice in this debate, and that’s the over 500 service men and women who died in Iraq because of the export of vehicle-borne IED technology by Iran and the brutal terrorist leader, Qassem Soleimani,” Rep. McSally said on the House floor. “This is a slap in the face to those who paid that sacrifice.” The House voted on two bills today related to the Iran deal: H.R. 3461, a bill to approve the Iran agreement, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and H.R. 3460, a bill to suspend the President’s authority to lift sanctions on Iran pursuant to the agreement. H.R. 3461 failed to pass the House 162-269, with 25 Democrats opposing the President’s deal, and H.R. 3460 passed the House 247-186. Yesterday, the House passed a resolution finding that the President failed his obligations under the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act to provide all documents related to the agreement to Congress. “This is not about a choice between this deal or war. Those of us who served in the military, we want war less than anybody else. We know the price. We want diplomacy, and those sanctions were working,” Rep. McSally continued. “We had them exactly where we wanted then we gave up.” Last month, Rep. McSally wrote in the Arizona Daily Star about the dangers the Iran deal poses for Americans and our allies. She also spoke yesterday on C-SPAN’s Washington Journal about the need to direct the Administration back to the negotiating table.
09.14.2015	New Bill Enhances Threat Information Sharing, Better Equips Local Law Enforcement with Critical Information WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to improve local and federal national security preparedness by enhancing information sharing of possible terrorist threats. The bill, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Support to Fusion Centers Act, follows numerous discussions Rep. McSally has had with security officials in Arizona and Washington, D.C. and implements recommendations to enhance intelligence collaboration and threat awareness. “Today, fourteen years after Islamist extremists carried out the most devastating terrorist attack in our nation’s history, we are reminded of the need for constant information gathering and sharing about the security threats we face,” said Rep. McSally. “This bill is the result of numerous meetings I’ve had with intelligence and law enforcement officials in Arizona and at the Department of Homeland Security. It ensures intelligence centers across the country are adequately manned while providing local law enforcement members with the access they need to critical threat information. Better information sharing is key to protecting our communities, and I’m proud to introduce this important legislation.” After the attacks of September 11, 2001, threat analysis and information sharing centers, known as fusion centers, were established around the country. These fusion centers are manned with local and federal law enforcement and intelligence personnel and help disseminate information about threats between local, state, and federal authorities. In June, Rep. McSally met with officials at and toured the fusion center in Phoenix, known as the Arizona Counter Terrorism Information Center, to hear about their needs and operations first-hand. The Department of Homeland Security Support to Fusion Centers Act requires the Department of Homeland Security to assess if additional DHS employees assigned to fusion centers would improve information sharing. In addition, the bill establishes a program to provide higher security clearances to local intelligence analysts to improve threat awareness. The bill is cosponsored by Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence Chairman Peter King (R-NY). As chair of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee, Rep. McSally has led a consistent effort to improve threat information sharing and better protect local communities. In June, the House passed Rep. McSally’s bill to enhance sharing of threats related to chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear attacks. She also has held hearings on the threat of chemical and biological attacks on our homeland, which included testimony from University of Arizona College of Medicine Interim Dean Dr. Charles Cairns, as well as a hearing about the military’s role assisting civil authorities and responding to disasters with the head of the Arizona National Guard. To view a PDF of the bill text, click HERE.
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor to commemorate the fourteenth anniversary tomorrow of the September 11th, 2001 attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people and remember those who died. Transcript Mr. Speaker, tomorrow is the anniversary of September 11, 2001, when Islamist terrorists attacked our country, killing nearly 3,000 innocent people. While that day brought terrible destruction, it also sparked a renewed sense of determination and unity that should not be forgotten. Today, we must recognize that the threat from Islamist extremism is as great as ever. We are in a generational fight against terrorists like ISIS who seek our complete destruction and that of our allies and our way of life. We must remain vigilant and have the courage and will to stand against this evil to protect Americans and ensure our enemies never have a chance to attack us again. This week, we remember the Americans who lost their lives fourteen years ago – Americans like Aaron Jeremy Jacobs and Karol Ann Keasler, both born in Tucson, Arizona and killed in New York City – and we remember the bravery and selfless acts of the first responders and ordinary citizens who put themselves in danger so that others might live. Our thoughts and prayers continue to be with the family and friends of those who died. With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
09.01.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in recognition of September as National Preparedness Month, a 30-day initiative focused on raising awareness about the importance of preparing for emergencies and disasters. Rep. McSally serves as the chair of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security. “When disasters strike, the very first responders are everyday people responsible for making decisions to keep them and their families safe,” said Rep. McSally, who is a National Preparedness Month co-chair. “That’s why this month, we’re encouraging individuals to take steps to prepare themselves and their families for emergencies. There are simple things every household can do, such as learning more about local hazards, making a preparedness kit, and developing a disaster plan for loved ones and pets. In disaster situations, being prepared can saves lives, which is why we’ll be working all this month to get this important message out.” “We can never know for sure when a terrorist attack or natural disaster will occur, but we all have the responsibility to be prepared,” said chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, Michael McCaul, who is also serving as co-chair of National Preparedness Month. “In the 14 years since the September 11th terrorist attacks and the 10 years since Hurricane Katrina, the nation has made significant progress in our preparedness and response efforts. Take time this month to become aware of the threats and hazards facing your community and make a plan and know what to do during an emergency.” An initiative of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), National Preparedness Month focuses on common hazards such as floods and wildfires and how families can be prepared for them. This year’s theme, “Don’t Wait, Communicate,” highlights the importance of families creating and discussing preparedness plans for how to stay safe in an emergency. The initiative culminates with National PreparAthon Day on September 30th. More information about National Preparedness Month and National PreparAthon Day can be found at FEMA’s website HERE.
08.28.2015	TUCSON - Evelyn Tuthill is two and a half years old and lives in Tucson. She has a four year-old sister, Adeline, and a four month-old brother, Wesley. Her dad is a major in the Air Force at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base and serves as a navigator aboard HC-130s. At three and a half months-old, Evelyn was diagnosed with a rare gene mutation that causes seizures and her brain to atrophy. According to her mother, Haley, because there is no international registry for the condition, Evelyn is the only known person in the world with this mutation. The condition causes Evelyn over 100 seizures a day. When Evelyn was diagnosed, her parents created a bucket list of things for her to do and see. One of those items was to visit Washington, D.C., but as Evelyn’s severe condition worsened, the trip became impossible. So Evelyn’s family hoped to bring a piece of D.C. to her in the form of a American flag flown over the U.S. Capitol. When Rep. McSally’s office received the flag request from the family, the office acted quickly to get the flag to Tucson, and, today, Rep. McSally was able to present the flag to Evelyn and her family in person. “I was honored to help bring a little bit of Washington, D.C. back to Tucson for this courageous and amazing little girl,” said Rep. McSally. “Being able to fulfill this request and witness the strength and love shown by Evelyn and her family are something I will never forget. I will continue to keep them in my thoughts and prayers.” (From left) Maria Kondonijakos (Easter Seals Blake Foundation Service Coordinator and Developmental Specialist), Rep. McSally, Evelyn, Haley Tuthill (mother), Wesley (brother), Jim Tuthill (father), Adeline (sister) For more photos, click HERE.
08.28.2015	TUCSON – A U.S. District Court judge in North Dakota late yesterday issued a temporary injunction against the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers’ Waters of the U.S rule, calling it “exceptionally expansive.” The ruling blocks implementation of the rule in 13 states that requested the injunction, including Arizona, a day before it was set to take effect. “I’m glad to see the courts recognize the EPA’s gross overreach and act to halt a mandate that will harm ranchers, business owners, and families in Southern Arizona,” said Rep. McSally. “We all want to ensure protection of our waterways and natural resources, but this one-size-fits-all requirement from Washington that doesn’t take into account Arizona’s unique landscapes is the wrong answer. Southern Arizonans are looking for solutions that will provide more economic opportunity for them, not more red tape, and I’ll continue standing up for their priorities in Congress.” On May 28, Rep. McSally joined Southern Arizona community and business leaders to express concern that the final EPA water rule would harm local economic growth without protecting Arizona waterways. Earlier that month, Rep. McSally voted in favor of H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, legislation to require EPA withdraw their rule expanding the definition of “waters of the United States” and develop a new proposal that takes into consideration the over one million public comments on the rule, economic analysis of the rule, and discussions with state and local governments. That bill passed the House 261-155 with 24 Democrats voting in favor of the legislation. States that requested and are receiving the injunction include: North Dakota, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Idaho, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, Nevada, South Dakota and Wyoming.
08.28.2015	
08.19.2015	All Nine AZ House Members Sign Letter Calling for Inclusion of Designation in Long-term Reauthorization Legislation TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led the full Arizona House delegation to call for the inclusion of provisions designating the Sonoran Corridor, an interstate connecting Interstate-19 and Interstate-10 south of the Tucson International Airport, in long-term transportation reauthorization legislation. In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation, the lawmakers urged the interstate designation as a way to ease congestion in Tucson, reduce travel time and costs, and expand trade connectivity between Southern Arizona and major transportation routes throughout the United States. “The Sonoran Corridor would provide essential supplementary infrastructure to keep pace with a region poised for tremendous economic growth,” the lawmakers said in the letter. “It is perfectly aligned with and strongly supportive of established national transportation policy goals, including congestion reduction, freight movement and economic vitality.” On June 23, Rep. McSally introduced H.R. 2859, the Sonoran Corridor Interstate Development Act of 2015, to designate the Sonoran Corridor a “High Priority Corridor on the National Highway System.” The bill has the support of the full Arizona House delegation and a companion bill was introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senators McCain and Flake. Similar legislative language also was included in long-term transportation reauthorization legislation in the Senate, which passed on July 30, 2015. A PDF of the letter can be viewed HERE. The full letter text follows. The Honorable Bill Shuster Chairman House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Peter DeFazio Ranking Member House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio: As the Members of Congress representing Arizona, we are writing to urge your support for language designating the Sonoran Corridor in Pima County, Arizona, as a High Priority Corridor and future Interstate, as contained in H.R. 2859, the Sonoran Corridor Interstate Development Act of 2015, in any long-term transportation reauthorization bill. The Sonoran Corridor would substantially improve a critical regional, state and national corridor, and enhance the future Interstate 11 and other High Priority trade corridors. This language was included in the Developing a Reliable and Innovative Vision for the Economy Act, which passed in the Senate on July 30, 2015. The Mariposa Port of Entry in Nogales, Arizona, is one of the busiest in the country with nearly three million northbound vehicles processed each year and an estimated 763,000 truck crossings annually (FY2013). This single crossing handles 80% of all Arizona trade with Mexico and billions of dollars in U.S. trade, including nearly 50% of all winter produce consumed in the U.S. The vast majority of that freight traffic travels from the border north on Interstate 19 past Tucson International Airport to intersect with Interstate 10 in the middle of the heavily congested City of Tucson. The 16-mile Sonoran Corridor would enable east bound truck traffic to bypass this route, reducing travel distance by 12 miles and average time by 20 minutes per truck, with an estimated total truck cost savings of $30,000 per day. The Sonoran Corridor would serve as the most direct linkage between trading routes connecting the ports, agricultural region and manufacturing centers of northwest Mexico to federal High Priority Corridors, including the Camino Real Corridor serving New Mexico, Colorado and points north to Canada and the SPIRIT Corridor running from El Paso through New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, and Kansas, connecting to the East-West Transamerica Corridor running from Kansas to the east coast. The Sonoran Corridor would provide essential supplementary infrastructure to keep pace with a region poised for tremendous economic growth. Work continues on the $600 million Port of Guaymas expansion project on Mexico’s west coast, which will triple capacity over five years and become a major North American port facility serving the burgeoning markets in Asia and South America. Mexico has committed $1 Billion for Highway 15 between Sinaloa and Nogales. On the U.S. side, the recently completed $244 million expansion of the Mariposa Port of Entry now provides capacity to process more than 4,000 trucks per day. The Sonoran Corridor would also significantly enhance connectivity on the Intermountain West Corridor and future Interstate 11, creating complete commerce connectivity between the United States, Mexico and Canada, enabling expanded trade relations between Latin America and Southwestern United States. Despite heavy traffic volumes and substantial current and projected growth in the region, the Tucson metropolitan area has fewer high speed, limited access roadway facilities than nearly all other similarly sized communities in the U.S. According to the Texas Transportation Institute’s 2012 Urban Mobility Report, the region was ranked as the sixth highest out of 33 similar sized metro areas for total vehicle miles, but was ranked near the bottom at 30th for the number of freeway lane miles per capita. In summary, the Sonoran Corridor will provide critical transportation connectivity for the region and country, enhancing trade, commerce, and freight efficiency in a growing region with limited transportation infrastructure. It is perfectly aligned with and strongly supportive of established national transportation policy goals, including congestion reduction, freight movement and economic vitality. We applaud your hard work and continued efforts to produce a long-term, sustainable solution to fund maintenance to and upgrades of our nation’s transportation system and respectfully urge your support to include H.R. 2859, the Sonoran Corridor Interstate Development Act of 2015 in the final product. Thank you in advance for your consideration. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely,
08.17.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released a blog post describing her recent trip to Israel, where she met with top Israeli and Palestinian officials and heard first-hand about the region’s most pressing national security issues. The trip comes before an anticipated vote in Congress next month on a proposed nuclear deal with Iran. “Surrounded by constant dangers, over 5 million Israelis live under the threat of rocket attacks,” Rep. McSally writes in the blog. “This is daily life for Israelis, where thousands of civilians have less than 15 seconds to get to a bomb shelter after the sirens go off and schools and other major urban centers are often prime terrorist targets.” Read about Rep. McSally’s experiences HERE. During the trip, Rep. McSally also met with top Israeli rocket scientists who briefed the delegation on defense systems in place, like the Iron Dome, to protect civilians from rocket attacks and the role of Tucson employees in supporting those systems. Read more HERE.
08.17.2015	Candidates and Award Winners To Be Recognized at Reception in October TUCSON – The Office of U.S. Representative Martha McSally is seeking nominations for Southern Arizona’s first Congressional Veterans of Distinction Award. The award recognizes veterans in the Second District who continue to exemplify the principles at the core of our military: duty, service and a commitment to a cause greater than any one individual. “Our veterans answered a call to serve our nation in its time of need, and for many, that calling didn’t come with an end date,” said Rep. McSally. “Countless veterans throughout Southern Arizona continue to serve their neighbors and communities long after they have put away the uniform. They deserve our continued thanks and recognition.” The Veterans of Distinction Award is open to any resident of Arizona’s 2nd Congressional District who has served in our armed forces. Individuals looking to nominate veterans in the 2nd District should print and fill out a nomination form, which can be found at mcsally.house.gov. A local panel of veterans and other community members will review the nominations. Candidates and award winners will be announced at a reception to be held on Tuesday, October 13, 2015 at 4:30PM at the Lindsey Auditorium at Southern Arizona Veterans Affairs Health Care System. Nominations can be dropped off to the Tucson or Sierra Vista offices, submitted via fax at (520) 322-9490 or emailed to Abel Moreno at abel.moreno@mail.house.gov. The deadline for nominations is Friday, September 18, 2015. NOMINATION FORMS: https://mcsally.house.gov/sites/mcsally.house.gov/files/Veteran%20of%20Distinction%20Award%20Application.pdf
08.14.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a bipartisan effort to support a humane solution to managing the Salt River Horses that also protects Tonto National Forest resources and visitors. In a letter co-signed by U.S. Representatives Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ) and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, the lawmakers called for a wild horse management approach that avoids selling the horses at public auction. “The Salt River Herd is one of our nation’s most iconic herds; tourists come from across the nation to visit and photograph the Forest with specific hopes to catch a glimpse of one of these beautiful animals,” the lawmakers said in the letter. “While we understand the preservation of the habitat and the safety of the public is paramount, we urge that you take strides in this endeavor to ensure that any proposed plan not result in the sale of these horses at a livestock auction, which could potentially allow for their purchase by slaughter facilitators.” Last week, Rep. McSally applauded the Forest Service’s decision to delay the removal of the horses from the Tonto National Forest. A PDF of the letter can be viewed HERE. The full letter text follows. The Honorable Tom Vilsack, Secretary United States Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave., SW Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack, We write today in regards to the United States Forest Service’s decision, announced on August 6, 2015, to reexamine the proposed plan to remove the Salt River horses from Tonto National Forest in Arizona. While we greatly appreciate the agency’s decision to do so and its commitment to engaging with the local community as well as state and other federal agencies, we remain concerned with the plight of the Salt River Herd. The Salt River Herd is one of our nation’s most iconic herds; tourists come from across the nation to visit and photograph the Forest with specific hopes to catch a glimpse of one of these beautiful animals. While we understand the preservation of the habitat and the safety of the public is paramount, we urge that you take strides in this endeavor to ensure that any proposed plan not result in the sale of these horses at a livestock auction, which could potentially allow for their purchase by slaughter facilitators. As we understand, the Service will continue seeking opportunities and solutions in order to ensure public safety of the National Forest, while safely managing the Salt River Herd population. As the agency remains in communication with numerous advocate groups, we offer our strong support for the implementation of a comprehensive and humane wild horse management approach, while also protecting Forest resources and visitors. Again, we thank you for your prompt attention to this important issue. Sincerely,
08.10.2015	TUCSON – The Office of U.S. Representative Martha McSally is accepting applications for fall interns. Interns can serve on a part-time or full-time basis and serve in the Washington, D.C., Tucson, or Sierra Vista offices. “Our internship program represents a fantastic opportunity for students at the University of Arizona, Pima Community College, Cochise College, or other institutions looking to gain first-hand experience in a Congressional office,” said Rep. McSally. “Interns are given the chance to help with casework, events, media, or legislative efforts, as well as interacting with constituents. They are an invaluable part of our team and our work serving the people of Southern Arizona in Congress.” Interns working in the Washington, D.C. office will assist staff with tasks including processing mail and letters, leading tours of the U.S. Capitol, attending committee hearings, and helping with legislative and media efforts. Interns working in the Tucson or Sierra Vista offices will have the opportunity to help with constituent casework, events planning and set-up, outreach, and other duties. Interested candidates should submit resumes and cover letters and fill out the online form here: https://mcsally.house.gov/services/internships. Those with questions about applying should call the Tucson district office at (520) 881-3588 or Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-2542.
08.06.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a bipartisan group of lawmakers to call on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to clarify regulations hurting local medical innovation efforts. Earlier this year, Rep. McSally met with representatives from HTG Molecular Diagnostics, a Tucson-based company that offers advanced molecular testing solutions for diagnosing and treating cancers. They described a regulatory obstacle currently in place that is stymying medical innovation around the country and impacting the quality of care for patients suffering with cancer. “This is an issue where, even though the regulatory provisions are relatively small and narrowly-focused, they are having serious negative impacts on patients and doctors throughout the country,” said Rep. McSally. “Advances in technology have enabled doctors to better diagnosis cancer and develop personalized treatments that can help save lives – and seniors deserve access to these technologies. I’m glad to see the bipartisan support for making these fixes and look forward to hearing back from CMS Administrator Slavitt about them.” Current processes for determining a tumor’s unique biology falls into two analysis categories: DNA or RNA. Both analyses are used to help guide personalized treatment options for patients and can help save lives through more efficient, effective treatments. The problem is that reimbursement coding from CMS for performing these analyses has not kept up with advances in technology, restricting in some cases what analysis doctors use. In a bipartisan letter, Rep. McSally and 11 other lawmakers call for action to, “harmonize the interpretation of the codes and enable the best technology (either DNA or RNA) to be used in the diagnostic test.” "The language used in the reimbursement coding for molecular pathology testing is sometimes unclear and acts as a barrier to medical innovation,” said TJ Johnson, CEO of HTG Molecular Diagnostics. “By addressing this CMS will better enable laboratories to provide physicians the best test method while reducing cost. We believe it will have a big impact on our operations in Southern Arizona, and we’re grateful for Rep. McSally’s leadership in advancing this issue in Congress.” A PDF of the letter can be viewed HERE. The full letter text follows. Andy Slavitt Acting Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Administrator Slavitt, We write to express our concern with ambiguity in the description of molecular pathology testing technologies in the Medicare Part B program. We have heard concerns about lack of clarity as to the inclusion of both RNA and DNA nucleic acid analysis in the Molecular Pathology section of the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) Level I / Current Procedural Terminology (CPT). As currently written, users of the HCPCS/CPT may be confused and conclude that RNA testing procedures are excluded except where specifically addressed. When new and innovative technologies come to the market, we want to ensure that CMS is not acting as an obstacle by failing to make these updates. We ask that CMS update the HCPCS/CPT to clarify that nucleic acid testing includes both RNA and DNA. This action will harmonize the interpretation of the codes and enable the best technology (either DNA or RNA) to be used in the diagnostic test. If this is not an action that your agency can take, please entail in your replying correspondence reasoning behind your decision. Please provide a response to this inquiry and information on the status of this request by August 28, 2015. We thank you for taking this request into consideration and look forward to working with you on this important matter. Sincerely,
08.06.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to the U.S. Forest Service’s decision to delay removal of the Salt River horses living in the Tonto National Forest. “I am very glad to learn the U.S. Forest Service has decided to delay its announced plans to remove the horses along the Salt River, which could result in their possible butchering. Wild horses have been a part of Arizona’s history for hundreds of years. The immense public outcry against this move merits a full dialogue about what the best actions are to ensure the humane treatment of the horses, the preservation of the habitat, and the safety of the public. I’m hopeful that the Forest Service will conclude that removal of the horses to be slaughtered does not fulfill any of these interests and I will continue to engage with them on this matter.”
08.06.2015	1,700 Submissions Show Widespread Negative Impacts of Facility Consolidation TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today joined members of the Arizona Congressional delegation to deliver the results a recent survey detailing the impacts of the proposed Cherrybell Post Office and Processing Center consolidation. The results showed an overwhelming majority of respondents experienced noticeable delays in mail delivery, including delays in receipts of veterans benefits, medications, and payments for regular business transactions. “As members of the Arizona delegation we are writing to inform you of the results of an extensive community survey regarding the impacts of the consolidation of the Tucson Postal Processing and Distribution Center (P&DC)/Cherrybell,” the Arizona Congressmen said in the letter. “We appreciate the U.S. Postal Service’s announcement to delay phase II consolidation at Cherrybell into 2016; however there remains great uncertainty regarding how the negative consequences of the consolidation will be addressed moving forward.” In April, Rep. McSally attended a roundtable with Vice Mayor Fimbres and local leaders, which led to plans to conduct a local survey, about coordinating local and federal efforts in support of the Cherrybell Facility’s continued operation. She also has toured the Cherrybell Facility and, in March, led a bipartisan effort by members of the Arizona delegation to call on Postmaster General Megan Brennan to revisit decisions that would consolidate operations at the Cherrybell Facility and see the facility’s impacts first-hand. In Washington, D.C., Rep. McSally has met with the Deputy Postmaster General Ronald Stroman and the Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Government Operations, which handles postal issues in the House, to stress the importance of the Cherrybell facility to Southern Arizonans and advocate for its continued operation. “We appreciate your efforts to protect Tucson and surrounding communities from the negative impacts of consolidation, but do not believe there is a feasible path forward to address the concerns of the community if the facility is closed. We ask that you review the attached survey summary and provide us with information on how the numerous concerns will be addressed.” A PDF of the letter can be found HERE. The survey summary can be found HERE. The full letter text follows. Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260 Dear Postmaster General Brennan: As members of the Arizona delegation we are writing to inform you of the results of an extensive community survey regarding the impacts of the consolidation of the Tucson Postal Processing and Distribution Center (P&DC)/Cherrybell. We appreciate the U.S. Postal Service’s announcement to delay phase II consolidation at Cherrybell into 2016; however there remains great uncertainty regarding how the negative consequences of the consolidation will be addressed moving forward. The survey, conducted by Tucson Mayor Jonathan Rothschild, Vice Mayor Richard Fimbres, the Tucson City Council and various local business and community organizations, collected more than 1,700 submissions expressing concern. The vast majority of respondents, 84.0 percent of individuals and 86.0 percent of businesses, reported a noticeable delay in their mail delivery services since the first phase of consolidation stopped the processing of some outbound mail. Overall, respondents widely reported waiting additional days for medicines, delays in Veterans benefits and medications and delays in receipts and payments for regular business transactions. These delays are not merely a nuisance, but can be costly in terms of health impacts and businesses’ most fundamental operations, such as meeting their payroll. Numerous concerns have been raised regarding a major barrier for non-profit organizations to reach members and potential funders through direct mail. Additionally, there are serious concerns regarding the Phoenix postal center’s ability to takeover timely processing of personal items such as tax payments, bills, school transcripts and personal holiday cards. We appreciate your efforts to protect Tucson and surrounding communities from the negative impacts of consolidation, but do not believe there is a feasible path forward to address the concerns of the community if the facility is closed. We ask that you review the attached survey summary and provide us with information on how the numerous concerns will be addressed. Sincerely,
08.05.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally will travel to Israel on Saturday, August 8 to meet with Israeli and Palestinian officials and hear first-hand about the region’s most pressing national security issues during a critical time in the Middle East. The bipartisan trip will include updates on Israel’s security situation, the peace process, the Iran nuclear deal, and important political and economic trends in the region. In addition, Rep. McSally will meet to discuss opportunities for bilateral economic and technological cooperation with the Israeli business community. “With growing instability in the Middle East, persistent threats to Israel’s security, and a deal proposed that could pave the way for a nuclear Iran, there is no more important time for these meetings,” said Rep. McSally. “Israel is the only real democracy and our strongest ally in the region. Our partnership is critical not only for the security of Israel and our allies, but also to safeguard American interests at home and abroad.” While Rep. McSally has visited Israel previously, this is her first trip as a Member of Congress. She serves on the Committees on Armed Services and Homeland Security and is the chair of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee. Last month, she commented on the proposed Iran deal, saying she has “serious concerns” that provisions to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon were not met.” She also attended Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu’s speech to Congress in March.
08.04.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today commented on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) scaled-back emissions reduction goal and compliance timeline for the state of Arizona in its new energy rules. The EPA originally sought to mandate a 52% reduction in emissions by 2030, which was the second most stringent requirement for any state in the county. That goal was reduced to 34% in the final rule. In addition, after Rep. McSally consistently advocated for increased flexibility to meet these mandates, the EPA also announced it was extending its interim compliance goal by two years. “EPA’s proposed mandate on Arizona, which was the second most extreme in the country, would have devastated our rural communities and many low-income families who can least afford it,” said Rep. McSally. “Since that proposal was made, I’ve met with our local energy providers, community stakeholders, and rural families to get their input and have persistently advocated for a better solution from the EPA. I’m glad to see that they have listened and taken into account our requests in the final rule, but we still have work to do. As this rule is implemented, we need to make sure that the needs of rural Arizonans are met, and I will continue to work to make sure that they have access to the affordable, reliable energy they need.” In May, Rep. McSally called on the EPA to modify its proposed rule to give Arizona needed flexibility in meeting the new mandates. In June, she voted in support of House passed legislation that she also cosponsored to protect Arizona residents from electricity shortages and rate spikes as a result of the new mandates. She also toured and met with officials at the Apache Generating Station near Willcox during her first months in office. “Congresswoman McSally has been advocating for rural electric cooperative members since the day she took office,” said Patrick Ledger, CEO of Arizona Electric Power Cooperatives. “She has made it a priority to understand how important Apache Generating Station is to electric cooperatives in her district and across Arizona, and how devastating the EPA’s proposed Clean Power Plan would have been to rural communities. She was out front in helping to draw the attention of the EPA and the Administration to these very serious impacts, and we are encouraged that the EPA’s final version of the plan does appear to provide a more reasonable path forward. Electric cooperative members are still at risk of rate increase and decreased reliability as we develop the best, least cost, plan to comply with this sweeping regulation. But Arizona Electric Power Cooperative is better positioned than we were, and thanks in part to Congresswoman McSally’s advocacy, we will continue to provide our rural cooperatives with affordable and reliable electricity into the future.” “Our members thank Congresswoman McSally for her efforts to advocate consistently for the needs of rural Arizonans and help bring about increased flexibility and more realistic goals in the EPA’s final rule,” said Jack Blair, Chief Member Services Officer for the Sulphur Springs Valley Electric Cooperative. “We look forward to continue working with her office as the rule is implemented to ensure we can continue to meet the energy needs of Southern Arizonans.”
08.03.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today presented a Purple Heart medal to 100 year-old World War II veteran Roy Beebe after his previous medal had been stolen. Rep. McSally first heard about Mr. Beebe’s lost medal after being contacted by KGUN and upon attending the veteran’s 100th birthday party in June. After that event, caseworkers in Rep. McSally’s office immediately set about locating Mr. Beebe’s service records and procuring a new medal. Despite setbacks, caseworkers persisted in locating Mr. Beebe’s records. Officials from the National Personnel Records Center – National Archives (NPRC), which houses past military records, reported that Mr. Beebe’s service records likely were destroyed in a 1973 fire that destroyed approximately 16-18 million Official Military Personnel Files. Rep. McSally’s staff continued to work with NPRC representatives, the Army, and Mr. Beebe’s family to locate additional service records, and, recently, successfully located the needed documents to procure a new medal. Roy Beebe’s service Roy Beebe served in the Army from November 17, 1942 to April 2, 1944 during World War II in the 361st Infantry Regiment. His service took him to the North Apennines, Po Valley, Rome, and Arno. Mr. Beebe was wounded in Italy in 1944 while under a mortar attack.
08.03.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) announced Clean Power Rule, new rules that would establish sweeping energy mandates on states and could jeopardize energy access for hundreds of thousands of Southern Arizonans. “At a time when many families throughout Arizona continue to struggle, we should be working on expanding economic opportunity, and that’s what my focus has been. Yet the Administration has continued down a path of increased costs and hardships handed down from Washington,” said Rep. McSally. “The EPA’s proposed energy rule would have eliminated hundreds of high-wage jobs in Southern Arizona, driven up energy rates, and resulted in dangerous energy reliability issues, hitting rural and poorest residents the hardest. Since that proposal, I’ve worked with Southern Arizona’s rural energy and community stakeholders to persistently advocate for flexibility in meeting these rules and for changes that will avoid these devastating impacts. As we analyze the effects of today’s final rule, I’ll continue to stand up for rural Arizonans and work to ensure they have access to the affordable, reliable energy they need.” “40,000 rural Arizona co-op members submitted comments demanding changes to EPA’s carbon rule, our leaders have had numerous meetings with top EPA and OMB officials. Representative McSally, along with Arizona elected officials from both sides of the aisle, has stepped up to fight for rural Arizona residents. The message has been simple: EPA’s proposed carbon rule would cripple rural Arizona with a direct blow to the affordability and reliability of electricity,” said Patrick Ledger, CEO of Arizona Electric Power Cooperatives. “It is our hope that EPA and OMB have reexamined flawed assumptions and taken heed of their own regulatory guidelines and sense of equity by producing a final rule that doesn’t threaten the livelihood and wellbeing of an entire population of people. In many of the areas we serve, more than a third of those rural people who will be impacted by this rule live at or below the federal poverty level, and simply can’t afford the price tag attached to this rule. The co-op community will be focused on carefully examining impacts and assessing what steps will best serve rural Arizona moving forward." In May, Rep. McSally called on the EPA to modify its proposed rule to give Arizona needed flexibility in meeting the new mandates. In June, she voted in support of House passed legislation that she also cosponsored to protect Arizona residents from electricity shortages and rate spikes as a result of the new mandates. She also toured and met with officials at the Apache Generating Station near Willcox during her first months in office.
07.30.2015	TUCSON – The Office of U.S. Representative Martha McSally will hold traveling office hours throughout the Second District in August and September. Staff will be available to assist constituents on issues ranging from veterans and immigration to Social Security and Medicare. Constituents can come in to share their concerns or opinions or request help with a federal agency. No appointments are necessary. Below is the full list of times, dates, and locations. Individuals with questions are encouraged to call the Tucson district office at (520) 881-3588 or the Sierra Vista district office (520) 459-3115. Bisbee Thursday, August 6 10:00AM – 1:00PM Copper Queen Library 6 Main Street 2nd Floor Meeting Room Bisbee, AZ 85603 Sahuarita Tuesday, August 11 10:30AM – 12:00PM Sahuarita Town Hall Sierrita Meeting Room 375 W. Sahuarita Center Way Sahuarita, AZ 85629 Douglas Tuesday, August 11 10:00AM – 1:00PM City Council Chamber 425 E. 10th St. Douglas, AZ 85607 Tombstone Wednesday, August 19 10:00AM – 2:00PM Schieffelin Hall 402 East Fremont Street (N 4th St.) Tombstone, AZ 85638 Benson Monday, August 24 11:00AM – 2:00PM City Council Chambers 120 W. 6th Street Benson, AZ 85602 Green Valley Thursday, September 17 11:00AM – 12:00PM Green Valley Council 555 N. La Canada Drive Ste. 117 Green Valley, AZ 85614
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act, legislation to improve accountability of Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employees found guilty of mismanagement or poor conduct. “Over a year ago, it was revealed that thousands of American veterans suffered, and many died, because VA employees hid wait lists, neglected appointments, and failed in their most basic responsibilities. Since then, many of those responsible still have not been held accountable. This is inexcusable,” said Rep. McSally. “Over 84,000 veterans live in Southern Arizona, and they and veterans around the country demand accountability. Today’s bill provides that by fixing the never-ending removal process and giving the VA Secretary flexibility to remove employees found not to be doing their jobs.” Yesterday, Rep. McSally spoke at the Republican Conference Press Briefing about the need to improve VA Accountability and ensure veterans who experienced Military Sexual Trauma have access to the care they need. On Sunday, she published an op-ed in the Sierra Vista Herald about her efforts to ensure Southern Arizona veterans have access to the care, benefits, and opportunity they earned. In 2014, reports revealed that as many as 40 patients at the Phoenix VA Health Care System may have died while awaiting medical care. Subsequent investigations of VA facilities around the country revealed systematic abuses, including long wait lists and gross employee misconduct. The VA Accountability Act passed the House today 256-170 and awaits a vote by the Senate.
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced that the Tucson Fire Department will receive $8,582,760 through the Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program, which assists departments in maintaining “front-line” firefighters. The funding will be used to hire 41 firefighters lost through attrition and 13 new firefighters, for a total of 54 new positions. “This is tremendous news for Tucson,” said Rep. McSally. “Our firefighters are often the first emergency responders on a scene and their ability to respond quickly to an incident can make all the difference. This grant will help make sure they’re able to meet the staffing demands of serving our community. I congratulate them on its award and thank them for their continued service.” Rep. McSally serves on the Committees on Armed Services and Homeland Security, where she is the chair of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee.
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today unanimously passed U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s legislation to improve the management and accountability of new border technology projects. The Border Security Technology Accountability Act, H.R. 1634, follows numerous reports showing Department of Homeland Security acquisition programs are a “high-risk” for waste, fraud, and abuse and is Rep. McSally’s second bill to pass the House. “Southern Arizonans are demanding better border security, and they expect us to do it in the most cost-effective and efficient way possible,” said Rep. McSally. “My bill requires cost control mechanisms for new border technology projects, safeguarding taxpayer dollars and improving the oversight of major DHS acquisition programs. I’m glad to see the House act in bipartisan support of my bill, and look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to send this commonsense legislation to the President’s desk.” “I applaud Representative McSally for her leadership in addressing border security and for passing her second homeland security bill through the House within her first session of Congress,” said chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, Michael McCaul. “This critical legislation increases DHS’s accountability regarding border security technology and ensures the Department is meeting cost, schedule, and performance standards. Today, the House took a significant step in the Congressional oversight of DHS and I encourage our counterparts in the Senate to pass this important legislation.” Watch Rep. McSally's comments on the House floor below The Border Security Technology Accountability Act is Rep. McSally’s second bill to pass the House of Representatives. Last month, the House passed H.R. 2200, legislation Rep. McSally introduced to improve intelligence and information sharing on the threat posed by terrorist attacks. The House also has passed her amendments to protect the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call in the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act and Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Appropriations Act. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) will introduce this week companion legislation in the Senate to H.R. 1634. Specifically, the Border Security Technology Accountability Act would improve accountability by requiring DHS border technology programs: Implement Acquisition Program Baselines before moving to the next phase of the acquisition cycle; Adhere to internal controls identified by the Comptroller General of the United States, and; Have a plan for testing and evaluation as well as use independent verification and evaluation resources. For the full bill text, click HERE.
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today hosted a Congressional demonstration on deception detection technologies developed at the University of Arizona (UA). The technology identifies typing, scrolling, and other computer use patterns to capture signals associated with deceptive or suspicious behavior. “The possible applications for this technology are limitless,” said Rep. McSally. “Any process that uses an electronic form, whether it’s for background checks or visa applications, carries the potential for deception, and this technology would help our government personnel better detect that deception and make smarter decisions. I’m proud to be able to showcase this technology, its potential uses within our government, and the great innovation happening at the University of Arizona.” “The government runs on information and has a form for everything,” said University of Arizona Professor Dr. Joe Valacich. “The problem becomes organizing and optimizing the use of that data. Our technology solves that problem so the government can be faster, more accurate, and more efficient.” In June, Rep. McSally questioned witnesses during a Committee on Homeland Security hearing about the potential uses of this technology to improve border security. Her questioning can be viewed HERE.
07.17.2015	Urges House Leadership to Take Immediate Steps to Secure the Southern Border WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a bipartisan group of lawmakers to call on House leadership to bring to the floor legislation to enhance our nation’s border security. In a letter to Speaker Boehner, the lawmakers describe the security threats presented by our unsecure border as well as the need to support Border Patrol agents with the necessary resources and direction. “One of our primary responsibilities as Members of Congress is ensuring that our country is protected,” the lawmakers said in the letter. “We believe Americans deserve to hear a full and vigorous debate on how best to achieve border security and ultimately to see Congress act on the issue to demonstrate our commitment to the CBP officers and agents working to secure our border every day.” Rep. McSally, whose district includes over 80 miles of the southern border and who serves on the Committee on Homeland Security, has been a consistent leader in the House on efforts to improve our border security. In January, she hosted over 20 Members of Congress at the Southern Arizona border to see its impacts first-hand. She also has successfully offered an amendment to the Secure Our Borders First Act that directs Border Patrol resources actually at the border and requires additional manning and deployment of air assets in rural areas. In addition, Rep. McSally introduced bipartisan legislation with her first bill to increase penalties for drug spotters operating along our border. “We applaud Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers and agents for taking on the often dangerous work of defending our nation’s border. But we must continue to support their efforts by ensuring that CBP has access to the resources, infrastructure and technology agents and officers need as well as clear, constitutionally sound policies to follow while performing their jobs.” Today’s bipartisan letter had the support of two committee chairmen in the House, signaling the strong support for the advancement of border security legislation. “Our national security and public safety is at stake, and we cannot afford to continue ignoring these issues. We urge you to work with the committees of relevant jurisdiction to allow the House of Representatives to vote on a bill that will take immediate steps toward achieving operational security of our southern border.” To view a PDF of the letter, click HERE. The full letter text follows. The Honorable John Boehner Speaker of the House U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: We write to request that you bring legislation to the House floor to enhance our nation’s border security. One of our primary responsibilities as Members of Congress is ensuring that our country is protected. Alarmingly, our southern border continues to be exploited for myriad illegal activities. The southern border continues to be used by transnational criminal organizations to smuggle drugs, money, and weapons into our country increasing violence on both sides of the border. Additionally, we are concerned that without proper security, human trafficking along the border and the victimization of vulnerable individuals will continue unabated. We applaud Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers and agents for taking on the often dangerous work of defending our nation’s border. But we must continue to support their efforts by ensuring that CBP has access to the resources, infrastructure and technology agents and officers need as well as clear, constitutionally sound policies to follow while performing their jobs. We believe Americans deserve to hear a full and vigorous debate on how best to achieve border security and ultimately to see Congress act on the issue to demonstrate our commitment to the CBP officers and agents working to secure our border every day. Our national security and public safety is at stake, and we cannot afford to continue ignoring these issues. We urge you to work with the committees of relevant jurisdiction to allow the House of Representatives to vote on a bill that will take immediate steps toward achieving operational security of our southern border. Sincerely,
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the House Committee on Appropriations voted to increase funding for the deployment of Integrated Fixed Towers along the border by $38 million in its fiscal year 2016 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill. Rep. McSally has repeatedly called for the increased use of border technology assets like Integrated Fixed Towers to improve our border strategy. “I’m glad to see appropriators recognize the need for more border technology assets along our border,” said Rep. McSally. “Every day, transnational criminal organizations are seeking new ways to traffic drugs, money, and weapons across our border and into our communities. This technology, combined with the dedicated efforts of our Border Patrol, will help agents detect and intercept border incursions as they happen. I’ll continue to work for the increased use and deployment of these critical technologies in Southern Arizona to improve security for our residents.” In March, Rep. McSally joined Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security Michael McCaul and Border and Maritime Subcommittee Chairman Candice Miller to call on House appropriators to support funding for proven border security technologies, including Integrated Fixed Towers. She has actively worked to establish a better border strategy, including successfully offering an amendment to the Secure Our Borders First Act that directs Border Patrol resources to be placed at the border, requires more manpower at forward operating bases, and requires additional manning and deployment of air assets to rapidly respond to incursions in remote areas. Rep. McSally also has introduced legislation, the Border Security Technology Accountability Act, to improve the management and accountability of new border technology projects, saving taxpayer dollars. That bill was favorably reported from the Committee on Homeland Security on June 25, 2015 and awaits a vote by the full House.
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a joint subcommittee hearing on how the Department of Homeland Security is meeting the chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive (CBRNE) threats facing our nation. As Chairman of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. McSally has led numerous hearings and legislative efforts to look into the level of preparedness at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and in local communities against these threats. “DHS must play a leading role in defending our homeland from CBRNE threats,” Rep. McSally said in her opening statement. “These are serious threats and I look forward to hearing from our DHS witnesses on how the Department is addressing them. I am also interested to hear from both panels how the proposed reorganization will elevate the CBRNE mission and provide strong leadership to ensure the Department is able to meet these threats.” Last month, the House of Representatives passed Rep. McSally’s legislation, The CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing Act 420-2. The bill improves intelligence and information sharing on the threat posed by terrorist attacks using CBRN materials.
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after negotiators announced a final deal had been reached on Iran’s nuclear programs. “Iran is the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism. They have the blood of Americans and our allies on their hands and show no signs of stopping their destabilizing actions in the region. During these negotiations, I joined my Arizona colleagues to outline specific requirements that needed to be included in any deal, such as “anytime, anywhere” inspections and the dismantling of infrastructure needed to cut off Iran’s pathway to a nuclear weapon. I have serious concerns those requirements were not met.” “Instead of dismantling Iran’s nuclear program, as was the Administration’s stated goal, this deal seems to keep it intact. It naively assumes Iran simply will stop supporting terrorism across the Middle East and threatening our close ally Israel, things it has done for decades. By removing sanctions, it eliminates all pressure for Iran to curb its destructive actions, while hastening their acquisition of ballistic missiles and other weapons.” “The dangers of a bad deal cannot be overstated. A nuclear capable Iran will bolster their influence, further decay regional stability, and present a greater and more destructive threat to our security and that of our allies than ever before. Over the next 60 days, I will review this agreement and take action along with my colleagues as needed to protect Americans from a dangerous deal.” On June 10, Rep. McSally joined with a bipartisan group of Arizona Members of Congress to outline specific requirements needed for a final deal to keep Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. That letter can be read HERE.
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the resignation of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Director Katherine Archuleta after two different cybersecurity breaches led to the theft of personal information of more than 22 million people. “Director Archuleta’s resignation was necessary and justified given the scope and seriousness of her agency’s failure to protect millions of Americans’ personal information, including residents in the Second District,” said Rep. McSally. “This breach, which represents the most serious cybersecurity crisis in our nation’s history, was not the result of failed technology, but of a failure in leadership. OPM’s refusal to heed previous warnings to their systems’ vulnerabilities and learn from past breaches is inexcusable. The agency needs to act quickly to secure its data, and each agency head needs to reassess immediately the level of their cybersecurity protections to prevent further breaches.”
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, legislation to reform our medical regulatory approval process and help advance the development of new cures. Rep. McSally has been active in meeting with constituents affected by incurable diseases to hear their experiences, and highlighted many of those stories in a blog HERE. “Almost all of us know the pain of losing a friend or loved one to sickness or know someone suffering from an incurable disease,” said Rep. McSally. “Today the House acted to help give hope to millions who know this pain by making it easier for new cures to be developed and reach the patients who need them. The 21st Century Cures Act reforms our medical innovation infrastructure by streamlining the clinical trials process, encouraging collaboration and innovation, and investing in new research. I’m glad to see the House act in strong bipartisan fashion today and encourage my colleagues in the Senate to take up this critical legislation. Click HERE to read stories of Southern Arizonans who would be helped by the 21st Century Cures Act. “The 21st Century Cures Act is especially important for Komen Southern Arizona and our assistance to local metastatic breast cancer patients because it provides them with new hope for a cure for breast cancer,” said Abby Lohr, Affiliate Grants & Operations Manager. “In addition, Komen funded University of Arizona researchers benefit from a streamlined process of discovery, development, and delivery by providing them access to the resources to find new treatments.” “The Alzheimer’s Association applauds Rep. McSally and members of Congress for supporting the 21s Century Cures Act,” said Kelly Raach, Southern Arizona Regional Director. “Alzheimer’s disease affects thousands in Congressional District 2 and the number will continue to grow at a staggering rate if no effective treatment or cure is found. This act helps us to strategically address this threat so we can get one step closer to ending this disease.” “We strongly support the 21st Century Cures Act as it helps anyone who has epilepsy or other seizure disorders,” said Suzanne D. Matsumori, Executive Director of the Epilepsy Foundation of Arizona. “Many of our patients know the challenges of waiting for potentially life-changing drugs to reach the marketplace to assist with their seizures and lessen or eliminate the side effects.” The 21st Century Cures Act passed the House 344-77 and now awaits action in the Senate.
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the U.S. Army announced force reduction plans that would reduce the Regular Army from 490,000 to 450,000 soldiers. In its announcement, the Army noted the reductions are driven by fiscal constraints as well as defense strategic and budgetary guidance. The plan includes an active duty personnel reduction of 114 at Fort Huachuca. “Fort Huachuca is a national security treasure that is home to some of our military’s most important missions, and with the growing threats we face around the world, these personnel reductions are short-sighted and dangerous to national defense,” said Rep. McSally. “Our military budget decisions need to be driven by strategy and the best way to defend American lives and our interests, not a meat-cleaver approach to budgeting. I’ve repeatedly called for a reversal of the across-the-board cuts established in 2011 and will continue to work with my colleagues on solutions that ensure our national defense and the safety and security of our troops overseas.” Today’s announced force reductions will affect nearly every Army installation at home and overseas. Fort Huachuca’s reduction amounts to 5% of its total active duty personnel, while reductions at other Army bases include Fort Hood (9%), Fort Benning (29%) and Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (59%). Since 2012, the Army has cut forces by 120,000 soldiers, or 21%. In its announcement, the Army noted this latest reductions will take place over the next 3 years and warned that if the automatic spending cuts put in place by the Budget Control Act of 2011 are not reversed, an additional 30,000 troops will be reduced by 2019.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of legislation that passed the House to reform our flawed K-12 education system. H.R. 5, the Student Success Act, replaces provisions under No Child Left Behind (NCLB) and the Administration’s convoluted waiver process, known as Race to the Top, with reforms that restore education decisions to states and local school districts and empowers parents and education leaders to ensure accountability. “Every Southern Arizona student, regardless of a family’s background, income, or zip code, deserves the promise of a high-quality education. This is a fundamental principle of our country, yet, right now, we are failing to make good on that promise,” said Rep. McSally. “As a child of a public school educator, I’ve seen first-hand the challenges our teachers encounter in a system that prioritizes testing over students. Today’s legislation would reform our current broken system by reducing the federal government’s footprint and restoring local control for determining education and performance standards and the best ways to meet students’ needs.” Upon passage, local education leaders from two Southern Arizona school districts had this to say: “We are strongly in favor of accountability in our school system. We strive to hold our students and ourselves as educators and administrators accountable,” said Calvin Baker, Superintendent of the Vail Unified School District. “It’s our belief that that accountability is better off in the hands of states and local districts than the federal government.” “What we’ve seen with our current system through NCLB and Race to the Top is a shift of decision-making authority to the federal government,” said Dr. H. T. Sanchez, Superintendent of the Tucson Unified School District. “I strongly support providing greater flexibility and oversight authority to local districts as outlined in this bill to meet local priorities and needs.” Currently, just 38 percent of high school seniors read at grade level, and only 26 percent are proficient in math. Out of 34 countries that participate in the Programme for International Student Assessment, the United States ranks 20th and 27th in science and math, respectively.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor in honor of Dr. Raphael “Rafe” Sagarin, a world-renowned scientist and University of Arizona professor who died tragically a few weeks ago. Dr. Sagarin earned international recognition for his work studying adaptability in nature and applying those lessons to modern challenges. At the time of his death, he was leading a UA project called Biosphere 2 that involved creating a functional model of the Gulf of California in the Sonoran Desert. Transcript of remarks Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Raphael “Rafe” Sagarin, a world-renowned scientist and University of Arizona professor who died tragically a few weeks ago. Rafe was passionate about the world’s oceans and applying the lessons of our natural world to solving modern challenges. He earned widespread recognition for theorizing that governments could learn national defense techniques by studying how animals adapt to threats that they face in the wild. During his lifetime, Rafe authored three books and nearly four dozen scholarly articles and book chapters. At the time of his death, he was leading a U of A project called Biosphere 2 that involved creating a functional model of the Gulf of California in the Sonoran Desert. I was fortunate enough to meet Rafe earlier this year and hear him describe with trademark enthusiasm his work studying adaptable security systems in Southern Arizona. I’m also currently reading his insightful book on the subject. Rafe will be missed by so many around the world, but his contagious spirit and groundbreaking contributions over many years will have lasting impacts. Rest in peace, Rafe.
06.30.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today in a letter called on U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Commissioner Gil Kerlikowske to explain the next steps needed to advance a proposed expansion of the Douglas Port of Entry. The Port accounts for nearly $4 billion in trade through two-way truck traffic, which has grown by 5% a year since 2010. Rep. McSally has consistently met with city and local leaders and Port officials about the need to expand the Port, allowing for increased trade and economic activity in Douglas. “The City of Douglas, Arizona, in my district, has been attempting to secure the approval of a new Commercial Port of Entry with your Department since 2012,” said Rep. McSally in the letter. “In coordination with the Municipality of Agua Prieta, Sonora, Mexico, the City of Douglas requires an expansion of their commercial port as a way of harnessing economic opportunities, bolstering trade, and furthering Customs and Border Protections’ mission and ability to provide security… I write today to ask that you inform me and representatives from the City of Douglas as to how they take the next step in this vital project.” “This expansion will not only benefit Douglas and Cochise County, but our state and the entire nation by helping move goods from Mexico, one of the world’s fastest growing economies,” said Douglas Mayor Danny Ortega. “I thank Congresswoman McSally for her efforts. Since taking office, she’s been our biggest and strongest supporter and has made several visits to the area to see first-hand the need for this port of entry. Without her help, we would not be where we are today, and I feel we are very close to getting this project to fruition.” On December 23, 2014 the City of Douglas submitted a request to CBP to accept partial non-government funding for the project through a Public-Private Partnership. In the letter, Rep. McSally asks for the next steps needed to approve this request as well as the five-year construction plans for CBP and the General Services Administration and what criteria has been used to fund and prioritize similar projects along the U.S. border. Rep. McSally recently touring the Douglas Port of Entry Mayor Danny Ortega and Rep. McSally in Douglas To view a PDF of the letter, click HERE. The full letter text follows. The Honorable R. Gil Kerlikowske Commissioner U.S. Customs and Border Protection 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20229 Dear Commissioner Kerlikowske: The City of Douglas, Arizona, in my district, has been attempting to secure the approval of a new Commercial Port of Entry with your Department since 2012. In coordination with the Municipality of Agua Prieta, Sonora, Mexico, the City of Douglas requires an expansion of their commercial port as a way of harnessing economic opportunities, bolstering trade, and furthering Customs and Border Protections (CBP) mission and ability to provide security. Volume at the port of entry has experienced rapid growth in recent years. In 2014, the Douglas port of entry processed more than 64,000 commercial trucks in two-way traffic. CBP estimates that the flow of trucks represents close to $4 billion worth of trade between the United States and Mexico. Additionally, the port processed 2.9 million cars and 2.3 million pedestrians in 2014, for a combined total of 8.3 million people in two way traffic. Truck traffic has been growing at an annualized rate of more than 5% per year since 2010. The increased activity at the port is anticipated to continue in the next several years. However, in 2007, the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) determined through a feasibility study, that there is needed expansion to the Douglas POE facility. In 2013, Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT) determined that the existing Douglas POE will not allow CBP to adequately meet its mission within the next five years. Expansions at the facility must be made to ensure that commerce will continue in an efficient manner. Diminishing federal budgets has tied the hands of many government agencies including the Federal Buildings Fund that GSA utilizes to construct new facilities. As such, the City of Douglas has identified funding sources in the form of a new Private Public Partnership that entails the investment of $47.0 million required for the development and construction of the project. Since doing so, Douglas has submitted a Section 559 Donation Acceptance Authority proposal that meets all of your requirements and has done its best to answer your questions as quickly and effectively as possible. It is my understanding that the City of Douglas is waiting to receive a formal response from your department as it relates to the Section 559 proposal submitted on December 23, 2014. With this in mind, I am respectfully requesting that you outline for me the next and remaining steps in the Section 559 evaluation process, schedule, rationale and criteria that will be used to evaluate these proposals. However, efforts to further the position and develop this project outside of the Section 559 Donation Acceptance Authority are being complicated by lengthy and bureaucratic procedures coming from your Department. Subsequently, Mexico has begun to place less emphasis on its portion of the project. I write today to ask that you inform me and representatives from the City of Douglas as to how they take the next step in this vital project. The City of Douglas is prepared to undertake any all reasonable financing risks to include the issuance of bonds as clearly this project is the life breath for the Douglas community and the region. Additionally, I would like to obtain a copy of the five year construction in process plan for both CBP and the GSA. It is my understanding that Douglas has not been allocated any funds for the construction of the new POE or improvements to the existing facility since 2007 while several projects in New Mexico and Texas continue to be funded. Please explain how CBP, GSA, and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) analyze criteria used to prioritize these types of projects. If I can be of further assistance I am happy to meet with you to discuss how I can advance this critical matter. I look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Martha McSally Member of Congress
06.29.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court announced its decision in the Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting case: “I respect the Court’s decision today, and look forward to continuing to represent the people of Arizona’s Second District. I was sent to Congress with a job to do, and will continue to work tirelessly with the focus of expanding economic opportunity and improving security for Southern Arizonans.”
06.26.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report citing critical flaws in the Administration’s justification for retiring the A-10 Warthog: "Today’s report confirms what I have worked to highlight over months of hearings: that retiring the A-10 without a replacement would create dangerous capability gaps and put American lives at risk.‎ Not only did GAO find that divesting the A-10 would eliminate our ability to conduct Close Air Support, Combat Search and Rescue, and other critical capabilities, but that the Administration's budget justification for doing so is based on incomplete information. While this report is welcome news, it will not eliminate the threat to the A-10, and I'm going to continue to fight to make sure we keep these vital capabilities." Read the full report here:‎ https://www.gao.gov/assets/680/671006.pdf ‎
06.25.2015	Legislation to Improve Information Sharing Related to Terrorist Threats Passes 420-2 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today voted 420-2 to pass legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Martha McSally to improve intelligence and information sharing on the threat posed by terrorist attacks using chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) materials. The bill, The CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing Act of 2015 (H.R. 2200), is Rep. McSally’s first bill to pass the House of Representatives and follows months of hearings Rep. McSally chaired on the Homeland Security Committee about the preparedness of local communities. “I’m glad to see the House pass my legislation to improve the preparedness and security of our communities,” said Rep. McSally. “Experts have continually testified before our subcommittee about the importance of continuous information-sharing related to chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats. My bill puts those recommendations into action by requiring DHS to gather intelligence on these threats and make sure officials at the state, local, and tribal levels have access to this information.” As chair of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. McSally has held hearings on the threat of chemical and biological attacks on our homeland, which included testimony from University of Arizona College of Medicine Interim Dean Dr. Charles Cairns. She has also held a hearing about the military’s role assisting civil authorities and responding to disasters with the head of the Arizona National Guard. Less than six months into office, Rep. McSally already has had numerous pieces of legislation pass the House of Representatives. In addition to H.R. 2200, Rep. McSally’s amendments to protect the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call aircraft in the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act passed the House on May 15. Her amendment to protect the EC-130H Compass Call in the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations Act passed the House on June 11.
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court voted 6-3 to uphold the federal subsidies contained in the Affordable Care Act: “Families around Arizona continue to struggle under rising health care costs due to the Affordable Care Act. Business owners are being buried under mounds of paperwork and new mandates. Employees have seen their hours and wages cut while still lacking the affordable, quality care they need. While today’s ruling keeps intact subsidies under the law, the fact remains that the Affordable Care Act is fundamentally broken and hurting families across our country.” “We need a better solution that lowers the overall cost of health care and empowers patients and families to choose the plans that are right for them. We need reforms that focus on health outcomes driven by choice, transparency, and flexibility, not the mandates, penalties, and taxes contained in the Affordable Care Act. These patient-centered reforms will actually lower the cost of health care, ensuring it is affordable and available, while making sure those who cannot afford care have the opportunity and resources to get covered.” “Southern Arizonans deserve a better answer to our broken health care system, one that will put them first, and I’ll continue to work with my colleagues to give that to them.”
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after an F-16 from the Air National Guard 162nd Fighter Wing crashed near Douglas, Arizona: “My thoughts and prayers are with the pilot, his family, and all first responders. Instances like this remind us that those who wear the uniform put their lives on the line every day, and deserve our constant gratitude.”
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of legislation to protect Arizona residents from electricity shortages and rate spikes as a result of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) new energy rule. Implementation of the proposed rule would result in the complete shutdown of the Apache Generating Station near Willcox, Arizona, eliminating 245 high-wage jobs in the Second District and exposing 350,000 rural residents to dangerous energy reliability issues. “In addition to eliminating hundreds of jobs in the Second District, the proposed EPA rule would cause serious energy reliability issues for thousands of rural Arizona residents,” said Rep. McSally. “Imposing this one-size-fits-all mandate is a step backward for the families and residents it would hurt. I’ve called on the Administration to work with our state and local officials to produce a better solution for Arizona, and will continue to work toward that goal. In addition, today’s legislation would offer needed flexibility for our state to meet new requirements while protecting ratepayers from devastating job losses and energy interruptions.” “I applaud Congresswoman McSally’s leadership in co-sponsoring the Ratepayer Protection Act,” said Patrick Ledger, CEO of Arizona Electric Power Cooperatives. “Clarifying the EPA’s legal authority before forcing the irrevocable closure of rural Arizona’s main power source is not common sense, nor socially responsible. The EPA’s proposed rule will have a devastating economic impact on hundreds of thousands of rural Arizonans, many of which are below the poverty level and cannot afford dramatically increased electricity rates. This Act will allow Arizona’s Governor to protect our community from those impacts" The Ratepayer Protection Act, H.R. 2042, of which Rep. McSally is a cosponsor, would extend the EPA compliance dates for the new rule, including dates for submission of state plans, to allow for a timely judicial review. H.R. 2042 also protects states from having to implement rules that would have a significant adverse effect on ratepayers or the reliability of a state’s electricity system. The bill passed with bipartisan support 247 to 180. The EPA’s proposed rule, referred to by the agency as the Clean Power Plan, requires Arizona to cut carbon emissions by 52% over the next 15 years, the second most stringent requirement in the country. On May 22, Rep. McSally sent a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy calling for increased flexibility for Arizona officials to meet the mandate’s requirements that would avoid harmful energy interruptions and rate spikes for consumers.
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. ­– Congresswoman Martha McSally (R-AZ) and U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) introduced in the House and Senate, respectively, the Sonoran Corridor Interstate Development Act of 2015, legislation that would designate the Sonoran Corridor Interstate and connect Interstate-19 to Interstate-10 south of the Tucson International Airport. “The number one priority I hear about from Southern Arizonans is creating more economic opportunity for our region, and that’s just what this bill would do,” said Rep. McSally. “Construction of the Sonoran Corridor would help us attract more defense, aerospace, and tech businesses to our region and reduce congestion locally, while expanding trade connectivity for the Southwestern United States and Mexico. This high-priority project is a vital part of Southern Arizona’s future success as a leading international trade and transportation hub, and I will continue working with my colleagues to move this plan forward.” “The Sonoran Corridor project will have a significant impact on state, regional, and national commerce by connecting major trade routes and improving transportation along the CANAMEX Corridor and the future Interstate-11,” said Senator McCain. “It will allow produce, products, and people to move more efficiently, and ensure Arizona remains a key player in the future economic growth of the southwestern United States. This corridor will also serve as home to a burgeoning technology, aerospace, and defense industrial park, which will enable Arizona to continue advancing new innovations and support our state’s economic development well into the future.” "I am pleased to support efforts by Pima County and the state of Arizona to improve trade and commerce with Mexico and the nation,” said Senator Flake. “I hope Congress acts quickly to recognize the corridor's potential." This vital trade corridor will enable the hundreds of thousands of freight vehicles traveling through the Mariposa Port of Entry in Nogales each year to avoid having to pass through the congested city of Tucson to reach major trade routes using I-10. This development is estimated to reduce total travel by 12 miles and 20 minutes per truck, connecting Southern Arizona to agricultural regions, infrastructure and manufacturing centers, and existing high priority corridors of the National Highway System. The Sonoran Corridor will also be home to the new Aerospace Parkway next to Tucson International Airport, which has the potential to be one of the largest manufacturing and logistics hubs in the Southwest. Arizona Governor Doug Ducey, Pima County Board of Supervisors Chair Sharon Bronson, and Tucson Mayor Jonathan Rothschild also praised the legislation: "Congresswoman McSally, Senators McCain and Flake, and the rest of our congressional delegation have my full support in this effort,” Governor Ducey said. “By enhancing high priority trade corridors, including Interstate 11, and significantly reducing travel time and trucking costs, the Sonoran Corridor will create jobs, strengthen Arizona’s global competitiveness and send a strong message that Arizona is open for business.” “This is all about jobs,” said Sharon Bronson, Pima County Board of Supervisors Chair. “Pima County and Tucson are perfectly situated to be the logistics hub of the Southwest. We need all of our local, state, federal and business community partners to all work together to capitalize on this opportunity and make it a reality. Which is why I’m thrilled that our Congressional delegation and Governor Ducey have rallied around the Sonoran Corridor Interstate Development Act and will work together to have the Congress designate the corridor a future part of the interstate highway system.” “The Sonoran Corridor will eliminate a bottleneck on the critical I-19 to I-10 trade route between Arizona and Mexico, improve connectivity between multimodal logistics hubs, and provide much better access to two of Tucson and Southern Arizona's largest employers: Raytheon Missile Systems and the University of Arizona's Science and Technology Park,” said Tucson Mayor Jonathan Rothschild. “Its construction will provide many economic benefits to our state and region, and I appreciate the efforts of Representative McSally, Senators McCain and Flake, and co-sponsoring Representatives Grijalva, Kirkpatrick, Gallego, Sinema, Schweikert and Franks to prioritize this project.” "The Tucson Metro Chamber commends Senator McCain, Senator Flake and Congresswoman McSally for proposing this designation of a vital surface transportation route that is central to the developing transportation and logistics industries in Southern Arizona,” said Michael Varney, President and CEO of the Tucson Metro Chamber of Commerce. “The Interstate route connecting I-19 to I-10 south of Tucson International Airport is a key component in economic development for this region." "The Tucson Hispanic Chamber and our affiliated chambers in Nogales, Douglas and Sierra Vista applaud Congresswoman McSally and Senators McCain and Flake for their leadership with the Sonoran Corridor Interstate Development Act,” said Lea Márquez Peterson, President of the Tucson Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. “The passage of this bill will enhance the importance of a key trading route from Mexico to the United States." To view a PDF of the bill text, click HERE.
06.19.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the Committee on Appropriations voted to restore postal service delivery standards to July 1, 2012, potentially delaying the proposed closure of the Cherrybell Processing & Distribution Center in Tucson. The vote to restore postal service delivery standards to July 2012 is significant as it would require delivery of First class mail within 2-3 days. “We’ve been working tirelessly to highlight in Congress and locally the devastating impact that closing the Cherrybell Facility would have on our community, and passage of this provision is a clear sign those efforts are having an impact,” said Rep. McSally. “We still have much work to do, but this is a positive sign that progress is being made. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues in Congress and locally to advocate for the Cherrybell Facility and make sure that the voices of Southern Arizonans are heard.” Earlier this week, the Committee on Appropriations approved an amendment to its Fiscal Year 2016 Financial Services Bill to restore mail delivery standards to July 1, 2012. That bill passed the committee 30-20 and awaits a full vote by the House. In April, Rep. McSally attended a roundtable with Vice Mayor Fimbres and local leaders about coordinating local and federal efforts in support of the Cherrybell Facility’s continued operation. She also led a bipartisan effort in March by members of the Arizona delegation to call on Postmaster General Megan Brennan to revisit decisions that would consolidate operations at the Cherrybell Facility and see the facility’s impacts first-hand.
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today outlined her efforts to protect Medicare Advantage and provide more opportunity to seniors in Southern Arizona. In a video message, Rep. McSally discussed legislation passed by the House this week to strengthen and increase transparency in the Medicare Advantage program as well as legislation she is working on to stop a tax hike on seniors. This week, the House passed three bills to strengthen Medicare Advantage, which over 350,000 Arizona seniors rely on for their health care. Those bills included: The Medicare Advantage Cost Transparency Act (H.R. 2505), a bill to improve access to enrollment data in Medicare Advantage health plans by implementing an annual reporting requirement; The Seniors’ Health Care Plan Protection Act (H.R. 2582), a bill to prevent the termination of certain Medicare Advantage plans; And the Strengthening Medicare Advantage through Innovation and Transparency for Seniors Act (H.R. 2570), a bill to reduce the copayments or coinsurance for beneficiaries with specific chronic conditions in order to produce better health outcomes. In addition, Rep. McSally is working with members from the House and Senate to introduce legislation that would prevent a tax hike on seniors. Currently, seniors can deduct out of pocket medical expenses that exceed 7.5% of their adjusted growth income on their taxes. The Affordable Care Act increases this threshold to 10% on January 1, 2017 for Americans over the age of 65. Rep. McSally’s legislation to prevent this increase is set to be introduced in the coming weeks. Video transcript Hi – I’m Congresswoman Martha McSally. Arizona’s seniors deserve the opportunity to live out their retirement without worrying about how they will meet basic needs, like paying for food or health care. Nearly 130,000 seniors live in the Second District, and they should never have to make the decision between paying for their medications or their next meal. That’s why this week, the House is acting to strengthen retirement programs and help keep health care affordable and available for thousands of Southern Arizona seniors. For example, today we passed legislation that would strengthen Medicare Advantage by requiring increased transparency and ensuring seniors are able to keep the plans they like. In addition, I’m working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to introduce bipartisan legislation that will stop a tax increase on America’s seniors. Tucked away in the Affordable Care Act is a provision that would raise taxes on seniors to help fund the new law, something they simply cannot afford. Our seniors deserve a secure retirement, and I’m working hard to help make that a reality. Read more about this legislation and my efforts to fight for seniors at mcsally.house.gov. Thank you and have a great day.
06.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally is set to introduce bipartisan legislation to help promote vacant border jobs to separating U.S. service members. The bill, the Border Jobs for Veterans Act of 2015, would require cooperation between the Departments of Defense (DOD) and Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure separating service members are aware of hiring opportunities for Customs and Border Protection positions. Senators Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), John McCain (R-AZ) and Ron Johnson (R-WI) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “The Border Jobs for Veterans Act addresses two critical priorities for Southern Arizona: increasing staffing at our ports of entry and helping separating service members transition to civilian life,” said Rep. McSally. “I’ve met with CBP officers at our ports and have repeatedly heard from them how inadequate staffing levels restrict their ability to do their jobs. Understaffing at our ports slows trade coming across the border and, ultimately, hurts our attractiveness as a transportation and trade hub, something we cannot afford. This bill will help boost staffing along our border while giving our separating service members a leg up as they look to enter the civilian workforce.” Rep. McSally touring the Nogales Port of Entry Over $41.6 billion worth of trade annually flows through Arizona’s Ports of Entry, according to the Arizona-Mexico Commission, of which $16 billion is attributed to bilateral trade with Mexico. An estimated 250,000 to 300,000 service members separate from military service every year. Since taking office, Rep. McSally has met with Customs and Border Protection officials on numerous occasions to tour Southern Arizona ports of entry and hear about their staffing and infrastructure needs. Rep. McSally touring the Douglas Port of Entry
06.17.2015	Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey Testify Before Armed Services Committee WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today questioned Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey at a House Armed Services Committee hearing about U.S. policy in the Middle East. A retired Air Force Colonel, Rep. McSally expressed significant concern about the Administration’s lack of a coherent strategy for the region. “I do have serious concerns about what appears to be incoherence in our regional strategy related to Iran, specifically, where we’re marching toward a nuclear agreement with them yet we’re supporting Saudi Arabia while they’re striking (Iran’s) influence in the Houthis in Yemen,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “Yet, (Iranian Major General) Qasem Soleimani is leading the ground offensive to take back Tikrit while we’re providing the air force. No wonder why our Sunni partners are concerned about the incoherence there.” During the hearing, Rep. McSally asked General Dempsey how self-imposed restrictions on attack authorizations are restricting our military’s ability to complete its mission. She also questioned whether limits on the placement of units in Iraq are slowing response times for potential Combat Search and Rescue missions, placing pilots’ lives at increased risk. After the hearing, Rep. McSally spoke with CNN’s Wolf Blitzer about her reaction to the hearing and what steps our Administration needs to take to defeat ISIS. A former A-10 pilot and squadron commander, Rep. McSally served 26 years in the U.S. Air Force, including six deployments to the Middle East and Afghanistan. She also led planning and oversight of counter-terrorism missions for the continent of Africa.
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today congratulated Tucson Fire Department Captain Diana Benson, one of the first women to serve in the department and its first career female firefighter, for her many years of service upon her upcoming retirement. Captain Benson began her career at the Tucson Fire Department on May 5, 1990 and is set to retire on June 26, 2015 – after 25 years of service. She is the longest-serving woman on the Tucson Fire Department and has held numerous leadership and mentoring positions, including being the first ever woman to be the Lead Training Captain for recruit class 05-1. Transcript Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Tucson Fire Department Captain Diana Benson for her many years of service to the community upon her upcoming retirement. Captain Benson was one of the first women in the Tucson Fire Department, the first career female firefighter, and the first female lead training officer. During her 25 years in the department, she has been a pioneer and role model. Captain Benson served on the Technical Rescue Team, a highly specialized crew responsible for conducting swift water, extrication, and rope rescues. She has been a reliable leader in the department who initiated numerous peer fitness programs and also served as a member of the Tucson Fire Honor Guard. She’s been highly involved in Camp Fury and the Cadet Program, serving as a mentor to Tucson youth and opening doors to non-traditional careers such as firefighting for girls. No doubt, Captain Benson’s positive impact on the department and legacy of excellence lasting over two decades will be lasting. I wish her all the best in her upcoming retirement. And with that, I yield back.
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor in remembrance of Burney Starks, a former Army veteran and Tucson school counselor and drop-out prevention specialist who passed away on May 31, 2015. To watch Rep. McSally’s remarks, click HERE. Rep. McSally with Burney Starks at the Pima Air and Space Museum Memorial Day Ceremony Script Thank you. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to the life of Burney Starks, a man who was beloved by many in Southern Arizona and who recently suddenly passed away. Burney dedicated his life to service as an Army veteran, school counselor and drop-out prevention specialist for the Tucson Unified School District. He played football for the University of Arizona and graduated from U of A with honors. Southern Arizonans will remember his incredible singing voice, love for Motown and karaoke, and active involvement in the community. He was a lead organizer of the Juneteenth festival and was involved in many local organizations including the Tucson Boys Choir, Tucson MLK Celebration Committee, and Warrior Alumni Foundation. He had a passion for helping others succeed and a unique gift for bringing out their best. I had the distinct pleasure of seeing Burney a few weeks ago on Memorial Day before he died. He was as lighthearted and dynamic as ever. His smile and laughter will be missed by many, but no doubt, his spirt will live on through the countless lives he touched during his life.
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement congratulating Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM) and all participating military upon the successful completion of Angel Thunder, personnel recovery exercises that took place in Southern Arizona and were hosted by DM. “I congratulate the men and women serving at DM for successful completion of Angel Thunder, the world’s largest Personnel Recovery exercise,” said Rep. McSally. “Being able to train for Combat Search and Rescue alongside our allies is crucial to ensuring readiness, and Davis-Monthan is uniquely suited for this operation. It’s just one of the many reasons that include our proximity to training ranges and year-round sunshine that make DM an irreplaceable national security asset.” Taking place between May 30th and June 13th, Angel Thunder involved over 3,000 participants from all joint U.S. forces, 11 allied-nations, and 9 interagencies to train in personnel recovery scenarios. Some of the scenarios in this year’s Angel Thunder included: mass casualty, hostage recovery, high angle mountain rescues, contested environment rescues, and swift water rescue. Arizona’s meteor crater served as the final training site for this year’s exercise, where simulated patients were hoisted 570 feet out of the crater and into an Army National Guard UH-60 Helicopter. The crater was formed 50,000 years ago, when a meteorite landed in Winslow and created a crater 570 feet deep and 3,900 feet across. For photos from Angel Thunder, click HERE.
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Defense Appropriations Act along with an amendment she offered to prevent the retirement of any EC-130H next year. The bill included full funding for both the A-10 and EC-130H, two aircraft housed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM) in the Second District, as well as language to prevent the retirement of either aircraft next year. “After months of work, we’ve now secured full funding and authorization in the House for Southern Arizona’s critical Close Air Support and Electronic Warfare defense missions,” said Rep. McSally. “With amendments I offered to both bills, the A-10 and EC-130H are fully protected next year under the House legislation, including from any additional transfers to backup status. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate to move these bills forward and make sure our missions are protected next year.” Just before midnight last night, Rep. McSally successfully offered an amendment to prevent the retirement of any EC-130H next year. The bill, H.R. 2685, which passed the House 278-149, included parallel language to prevent the retirement of any A-10s. Earlier this year, Rep. McSally led bipartisan letters to House appropriators calling on them to include full funding for both platforms next year. Read Rep. McSally’s A-10 and EC-130H letters to House appropriators. Click HERE to watch Rep. McSally defend the EC-130H on the House floor To read Rep. McSally’s amendment text, click HERE. During mark up debate for the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act in April, Rep. McSally successfully offered amendments prohibiting the retirement of any EC-130H or A-10 next year. That bill passed the House 269-151 on May 15, 2015. Rep. McSally also sent letters to the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee requesting full funding authorization for both platforms. Davis-Monthan Air Force Base located in the Second District houses over 80 A-10 Warthogs and 15 EC-130H Compass Call aircraft. The Administration announced earlier this year plans to begin divestment of our entire A-10 fleet and 7 of the 15 EC-130H at DM.
06.11.2015	Adjutant General McGuire Testifies About Emergency Assistance to Local Communities, AZ Border and Narcotics Operations WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday held a hearing about the military’s role assisting civil authorities and responding to disasters. During the hearing, Arizona Adjutant General Maj. Gen. Michael McGuire testified about the Arizona National Guard’s role supporting border and drug interdiction efforts and discussed the challenges assisting local authorities when disasters strike. “Last week marked the start of the 2015 hurricane season and areas out west, including in my home state of Arizona, are gearing up for what is predicted to be an above average wildfire season,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “In such emergencies, defense personnel and assets act as flexible force multipliers to the response.” Click HERE to watch Rep. McSally’s opening statement During his testimony, Maj. Gen. McGuire outlined two important areas where the National Guard assists federal agencies in Arizona: combating drug trafficking and strengthening border security as part of The Joint Counter Narcotics Task Force and The Southwest Border Task Force. Maj. Gen. McGuire also testified about potential opportunities to assist Border Patrol agents with aerial intelligence and surveillance support. Click HERE to listen to a portion of Maj. Gen. McGuire’s testimony To read Cronkite News’ coverage of the hearing, click HERE.
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Speaking on the House floor just before midnight, U.S. Representative Martha McSally tonight successfully offered an amendment to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Defense Appropriations Act to prevent the retirement of any EC-130H Compass Call next year. Fifteen Compass Call aircraft, which conduct electronic warfare, are housed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM) as part of the 55th Electronic Combat Group (ECG). Earlier this year, the Administration sought to retire 7 of the 15 EC-130H housed at DM. “I recently visited our men and women from the 55th ECG as they’re deployed overseas and know first-hand how important their contributions are to our national security,” said Rep. McSally. “The Compass Call is the only Air Force aircraft dedicated to electronic warfare. It’s been heavily relied upon by combatant commanders during recent conflicts, and we cannot afford to retire this critical aircraft without a replacement capability.” Watch Rep. McSally defend the EC-130H on the House floor HERE. During mark up debate for the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act in April, Rep. McSally successfully offered an amendment prohibiting the retirement of any EC-130H next year. That bill passed the House 269-151 on May 15, 2015. Rep. McSally also sent a letter to the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee requesting full funding authorization. The Defense Appropriations Act provides $27.3 million for the EC-130H next year.
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today joined a bipartisan group of Arizona Members of Congress to call on House leaders to prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear state. In a letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Rep. McSally (R-AZ) along with Representatives Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Matt Salmon (R-AZ), David Schweikert (R-AZ), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Trent Franks (R-AZ), and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) expressed concern about a framework agreement already reached and outlined specific requirements for a final deal needed to keep Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. “As the deadline for a nuclear agreement approaches, we urge U.S. negotiators to ensure that any agreement reached will verifiably deny Iran the capability to produce a nuclear weapon,” the lawmakers said in the letter. “Several necessary elements must be included in a final deal in order to truly and permanently cut off Iran’s pathway to a bomb.” Provisions needed to keep Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon outlined by the Arizona lawmakers included: requirement of “anytime, anywhere” inspections; release of Iran’s past nuclear work; a gradual lifting of sanctions on Iran; and the dismantling of sufficient uranium and plutonium-producing infrastructure needed to cut off Iran’s pathway to a nuclear weapon. “Unless these elements are clearly and explicitly part of a final deal, we do not believe the deal will permanently stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear bomb, nor will it be good enough to support. We remain hopeful that a diplomatic solution will be reached, but continue to believe that it must be one that truly prevents Iran from developing a nuclear weapon.” Rep. McSally has been outspoken with her concerns about a framework deal reached between the Administration, Iran, and other negotiating countries. To read a PDF of the letter, click HERE. The full letter text follows. Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi, As the Administration negotiates what we hope will be a meaningful and appropriate nuclear agreement with Iran that strengthens America’s security, we remain very concerned about aspects of the framework agreement, as well as Iranian rhetoric and actions demonstrating Tehran’s bad faith. As the deadline for a nuclear agreement approaches, we urge U.S. negotiators to ensure that any agreement reached will verifiably deny Iran the capability to produce a nuclear weapon. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei – who holds the ultimate authority in Iran to approve any nuclear deal – has ruled out the possibility of the intrusive inspection regime necessary to ensure that Iran is not violating its obligations under the nuclear deal, announcing that, “I will not let foreigners talk to our scientists who brought us this extensive [nuclear] knowledge.” Iran has also consistently refused to allow inspections of its military sites or to address the matter of its missile system capabilities as part of a final nuclear deal. Several necessary elements must be included in a final deal in order to truly and permanently cut off Iran’s pathway to a bomb. Unless these elements are clearly and explicitly part of a final deal, we do not believe the deal will permanently stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear bomb, nor will it be good enough to support. Khamenei’s recent comments notwithstanding, any agreement must provide for “anytime, anywhere” inspections, including of Iran’s military sites, given Iran’s history of deception in negotiations and lying about its nuclear program. Without such inspections, Iran will be too tempted to continue cheating and advancing its program. Iran must also entirely reveal its past nuclear work, per its own commitments, providing Western negotiators and inspectors with a baseline standard against which to measure Iran’s compliance with the agreement. A final agreement must also gradually lift sanctions, proportionate to Iran meeting its obligations under the agreement. Granting Iran a “signing bonus” at the beginning of the agreement is unacceptable. Most importantly, the final agreement must prevent Iran from ever becoming a nuclear state. If the Tehran regime is permitted to continue working on research and development of their nuclear capabilities – like producing advanced centrifuges – for the duration of the agreement, it will likely have break-out capability within days of the nuclear agreement’s expiration. As part of this, Iran must dismantle a sufficient of its uranium and plutonium-producing infrastructure to ensure that all of its pathways to a nuclear weapon are cut off. This should include entirely dismantling – not merely “decoupling” – enough of its centrifuges to a number below that necessary to produce fissile material for a nuclear weapon. If the president reaches an agreement with Iran and submits it to Congress, we will be looking closely to ensure that it meets these minimum requirements. We remain hopeful that a diplomatic solution will be reached, but continue to believe that it must be one that truly prevents Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. Sincerely,
06.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM) announced its economic impact on the surrounding community was $973,972,822 in Fiscal Year (FY) 2014, an increase of over $945,000. “Today’s announcement reaffirms just how critical Davis-Monthan is to our community and Southern Arizona families,” said Rep. McSally. “But it is also an indispensable asset to our national security – which is why I’ve fought hard to protect our base and the missions we have here, such as the A-10 and EC-130H.” Davis-Monthan Air Force Base located in the Second District houses over 80 A-10 Warthogs and 15 EC-130H Compass Call aircraft. The Administration announced earlier this year plans to begin divestment of our entire A-10 fleet and 7 of the 15 EC-130H at DM. Rep. McSally has led bipartisan efforts to protect both these platforms next year. During mark up for the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), she offered amendments to fully protect the A-10 and EC-103H and staunchly fought back efforts to retire 164 A-10s next year. Both her amendments passed the committee and were included in final NDAA legislation that passed the House 269-151 on May 15, 2015. On Sunday, Rep. McSally published an op-ed in the Arizona Daily Star outlining a four-pronged strategy to keep Davis-Monthan viable in the long-term. That op-ed can be seen below. To read the full DM impact statement, click HERE. Four-pronged strategy to keep D-M viable, open Arizona Daily Star U.S. Representative Martha McSally June 7, 2015 https://tucson.com/news/opinion/column/martha-mcsally--pronged-strategy-to-keep-d-m-viable/article_a7001318-60bf-5721-b2cc-aa42d925f8af.html Davis-Monthan Air Force Base is a national security treasure with unique, high-value attributes. It is perfect specifically to train tactical air-to-ground aircraft, which is why over 80 A-10s are stationed there. Thanks to months of tireless work leading the effort to defend this life-saving platform — and an amendment I offered to prohibit putting any more A-10s in the bone yard — the House acted to fully fund, upgrade and protect the A-10 next year. But they will not stay in our inventory forever. Our community must unify to welcome new future platforms at Davis-Monthan — or risk losing the benefits of this base for good. During my 26 years in the Air Force, I was stationed at Davis-Monthan four times, including assignments as an A-10 combat pilot, instructor pilot, and culminating as the 354th Fighter Squadron Commander. We trained in high and low altitude, during day or night, and had to be ready to deploy anywhere in the world on 24 hours’ notice. The conditions we trained in make D-M one of the best bases in the country for tactical air-to-ground strike training. It features: thousands of square miles of high- and low-altitude military airspace; more than 300 days of sunshine a year; and close proximity to the Barry M. Goldwater training ranges, where pilots can drop bombs, missiles and bullets over seven expansive and sophisticated ranges. Any plan for the future of Davis-Monthan must take advantage of these amazing attributes, which are valuable to America’s Air Force. To think D-M can survive long-term without a strike flying mission is fiction. Congress may continue to stave off another round of Base Realignment and Closures (BRAC) in the near-term, but that won’t stop the administration from eliminating many missions around the country. The Department of Defense has stated it has over 25 percent more infrastructure capacity than needed — a clear sign officials are looking to downsize. Right now, the Air Force plans to eventually replace every single manned tactical air-to-ground aircraft — F-16, F-15E, A-10 — as well as the F-15C air-to-air fighter, with the F-35. Even though Davis-Monthan is home to all initial A-10 training, the Air Force already decided Luke Air Force Base, where initial F-16 training occurs, will house all AF F-35 training, using the same weather, airspace and training ranges we utilize. It also plans to house operational F-35s at bases in Utah, Alaska, Vermont and the United Kingdom. The 162nd Fighter Wing at Tucson International Airport was already bypassed as a potential F-35 training location, and the dozens of bases in the country housing F-16s, F-15Es, F-15Cs and A-10s will be fighting for the F-35 to keep their bases open, too. Given the environment of competition and downsizing, if we want to keep Davis-Monthan viable and open in the future, we should have a four-pronged strategy. First, we must continue to protect the A-10 to ensure our troops on the ground have the best close air support (CAS) we can provide until a replacement capability is operational. It can fly currently until 2028 and that can be extended with service-life extension programs if desired. Second, if the Pentagon decides to develop a next generation CAS aircraft to replace the A-10, we must posture ourselves to receive that airplane at D-M. I’ve engaged with Air Force officials about the need for a new attack plane, and D-M would be the obvious choice to house such an aircraft. Third, we simply must unite as a community to advocate for stationing the F-35 at D-M. Groups like the DM50 and Southern Arizona Defense Alliance are already doing a great job bringing together different elements of our community, and should be central leaders to any strategy. Lastly, we must welcome any future flying missions here to include combat search and rescue, electronic jamming and drones to complement the fighter mission and keep the base fully utilized. Davis-Monthan employs 10,000 of our neighbors, including airmen, civilians and contractors, and adds nearly $1.5 billion to our local economy. It is a treasure we cannot afford to lose. Only by coming together and truly speaking with one voice that we will accept any mission with a focus on air-to-ground platforms —including the F-35 — can we ensure its future and that of Southern Arizona.
06.02.2015	Use of Deception Detection Technologies Could Assist Agents, Increase Border Security WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today highlighted two deception detection technologies developed at the University of Arizona during a hearing on international border security programs held by the Committee on Homeland Security. The two programs, AVATAR and Neuro-ScreenTM, could aid agents in detecting suspicious or deceptive behavior at border ports and for visa applications. “I recently received two demonstrations related to deception detection technology developed at the University of Arizona, which is in my district. It looked like very interesting technology that could be used, both of them, differently,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “The professors told me that even our best, most trained interrogators…oftentimes don’t detect deception correctly in about 50% of the cases, just human to human. So the question is, “to what extent is the department using any deception detection technology or investigating the use of technology like this?” To watch a clip from the hearing, click HERE. AVATAR, or the Automated Virtual Agent for Truth Assessments in Real-Time, uses sensors to detect attributes like speech patterns, heart rate, and body movement to seek out behavioral cues of deception. Neuro-ScreenTM identifies typing, scrolling, and other computer use patterns to capture motor nervous system signals associated with deceptive or suspicious behavior. The technology could help border agents detect deception at U.S. ports of entry or visa processing offices. AVATAR was developed at the National Center for Border Security and Immigration at the University of Arizona, the base for the Department of Homeland Security’s Border Center of Excellence.
06.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement congratulating Colonel Ryan Rogers after he took command of the 55th Electronic Combat Group (ECG) at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM). “I congratulate Colonel Rogers on taking command of the 55th ECG, which plays a pivotal role in securing our national defense,” said Rep. McSally. “Members of the 55th ECG carry out crucial electronic attack missions and are highly relied upon by combatant commanders due to the specialized and sophisticated capabilities they perform. Colonel Rogers’ experienced leadership with electronic warfare and from multiple deployments makes him an excellent choice to lead this unit. I also thank Colonel Reynolds for his service and leadership as he commanded the 55th ECG, and wish both commanders all the best in their new assignments.” As commander of the 55th ECG, Colonel Rogers is responsible for organizing, training and equipping five squadrons of over 850 Airmen at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. The group provides combat-ready EC-130H Compass Call aircraft, aircrew, and maintainers for worldwide expeditionary deployment. Colonel Rogers completed Specialized Undergraduate Navigator Training at Randolph AFB, Texas, and Naval Air Station Pensacola, Fla, in September 1995. After follow-on Joint Electronic Warfare training at NTTC Corry Station, Fla, he was assigned to the 343d Reconnaissance Squadron at Offutt AFB, Neb in January 1996. He served as a RC-135 RIVET JOINT Electronic Warfare Officer, Instructor/Evaluator EWO, and Tactical Coordinator. During his tour he deployed in support of Operations DESERT FOX, SOUTHERN WATCH, DECISIVE ENDEAVOUR, and DETERMINED FALCON. Colonel Rogers transitioned back to the RIVET JOINT and Offutt AFB where he served as an Assistant Director of Operations in the 338th Combat Training Squadron and deployed in support of Operations ENDURING/IRAQI FREEDOM. He also served as the 55th Wing Deputy Director of Staff. In 2007 he was assigned to United States Strategic Command as an Information Operations Planner, Joint Functional Component Command (JFCC) Global Strike and Integration J39. Colonel Rogers returned to the 55th Wing in May 2009 as Commander of the 38th Reconnaissance Squadron, leading over 200 aviators in conducting worldwide RC-135 RIVET JOINT tactical and strategic reconnaissance operationsi. Rep. McSally has led a bipartisan effort to protect the EC-130H Compass Call aircraft stationed at DM. She successfully offered an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act prohibiting retirement of any Compass Call next year. She also recently returned from a Congressional delegation to the Middle East and Afghanistan, where she met with members of the 55th ECG deployed overseas. iSource: Davis-Monthan Air Force Base.
05.28.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized sweeping new rules redefining what are considered “waters” of the United States: “Our top focus needs to be on growing our economy and creating more opportunity for Southern Arizonans, and there’s no doubt that a safe, abundant water supply is critical to that. However, I’m concerned that this rule fails to take into account Southern Arizona’s unique environmental features-like the many washes that crisscross our desert landscape-and would hurt growth while doing nothing to protect our water supply,” said Rep. McSally. “The federal government needs to be working with local communities to promote growth and environmental sustainability, not imposing one-size-fits-all mandates from Washington. As the impacts of this rule are analyzed, I’ll continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to encourage collaboration with local stakeholders to ensure we’re protecting our waterways without unnecessarily restricting growth.” “This expanded definition the EPA and Army Corp of Engineers has made will hurt job creation, the economy and Tucson’s families. This is just another example of how the EPA is running afoul of Congress and making laws on its own,” said Michael Varney, President and CEO of the Tucson Metro Chamber. “In an area of the country that sees significant rainfall in shorts periods of time, under this ruling small business may have to apply for permits for the standing water in their parking lots. You can’t say puddles are a tributary to our nation’s waterways." “We are deeply disappointed that the EPA administrator did not follow through on her statement to pull the rule and address the concerns of the ranching and farming community,” said Dan Bell, President of the Arizona Cattle Growers’ Association. “Instead they have issued a rule that appears to have not addressed any of our concerns and threatens our way of life in the southwest.” “We are very disappointed in the final rule and have significant concerns about its adverse impact on land development and the home-building industry,” said David Godlewski, President of the Southern Arizona Home Builders Association. “We urge Congress and the Administration to work together on a better solution that won’t restrict economic development in Southern Arizona.” On May 12, 2015, Rep. McSally voted in favor of H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, legislation to require EPA withdraw their rule expanding the definition of “waters of the United States” and develop a new proposal that takes into consideration the over one million public comments on the rule, economic analysis of the rule, and discussions with state and local governments. That bill passed the House 261-155 with 24 Democrats voting in favor of the legislation.
05.26.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the United States Postal Service (USPS) announced it was altering its plans to shut down the remaining functions carried out at the Cherrybell Processing & Distribution Center in Tucson. The status of the remaining functions, which were previously slated for closure on July 11, 2015, changed to “to be determined.” “This change is welcome news for Southern Arizonans who depend on this facility, but we still have work to do,” said Rep. McSally. “Veterans, seniors, and people across our district rely on Cherrybell for prompt mail delivery and other needs. I’ve been hard at work to coordinate my efforts with local leaders and my Arizona House colleagues to support this facility and the important services it provides and will continue working with them to advocate for its long-term operation.” Tomorrow, Rep. McSally and Tucson Vice Mayor Richard Fimbres will tour the Cherrybell facility to receive an update about its operations. Media availability will occur at 11:00AM outside the facility’s main entrance. In April, Rep. McSally attended a roundtable with Vice Mayor Fimbres and local leaders about coordinating local and federal efforts in support of the Cherrybell Facility’s continued operation. She also led a bipartisan effort in March by members of the Arizona delegation to call on Postmaster General Megan Brennan to revisit decisions that would consolidate operations at the Cherrybell Facility and see the facility’s impacts first-hand. What: Tour of Cherrybell Processing & Distribution Center Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally Vice Mayor Richard Fimbres When: Wednesday, May 27 11:00AM Where: Cherrybell Processing & Distribution Center 1501 S. Cherrybell Stravenue Tucson, AZ *Availability outside Main Entrance
05.22.2015	EPA Rule Would Result in Shutdown of Cochise Generating Station WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday in a letter called on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy to modify a rule that would result in the complete closure of the Apache Generating Station near Willcox, Arizona. Implementation of the proposed rule as it is currently written would eliminate 245 high-wage jobs in the Second District and expose 350,000 rural residents to dangerous energy reliability issues. “The Proposed Rule penalizes Arizona’s leadership in development of carbon-free and low-carbon energy resources and seeks to encumber the state with some of the most stringent carbon dioxide reduction requirements in the country,” Rep. McSally said in the letter. “Implementation of the Proposed Rule will result in increased cost and decreased reliability for hundreds of thousands of Arizona residents.” The EPA’s proposed rule, referred to by the agency as the Clean Power Plan, requires Arizona to cut carbon emissions by 52% over the next 15 years, the second most stringent requirement in the country. State officials have cautioned against “irreparable disruption” to the state’s power grid if the proposed rule moves forward and have called for increased flexibility in meeting Arizona’s requirements. “EPA’s proposed Clean Power Plan completely ignores important technical and economic realities in Arizona, especially in rural Arizona, where some of the state’s poorest residents will be impacted more than almost anywhere else in the country—with power plant closures, hundreds of lost jobs, massive rate increases, defaults on federally guaranteed debt, and serious problems with grid reliability,” said Patrick Ledger, CEO of Arizona Electric Power Cooperatives. “We welcome Congresswoman McSally’s support for the “Arizona Solution,” a more realistic approach supported by all the Arizona Utilities that balances the EPA’s carbon reduction goals with our objective to keep electricity affordable and reliable, and puts Arizona on an even playing field with neighboring Western states.” Rep. McSally has toured the Apache Generating Station near Willcox and worked with station officials to ensure affordable, reliable energy access to rural residents in the Second District. Rep. McSally touring the Apache Generating Station near Willcox “I strongly encourage you to consider the impacts this Proposed Rule would have on Arizona’s rural families and businesses,” Rep. McSally said. A PDF of the letter can be found HERE. The full letter text follows. The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator United States Environmental Protection Agency William Jefferson Clinton Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20460 Attention: Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OAR-2013-0602 Dear Administrator McCarthy, As a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, I write to express to you my strong concerns with the Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) proposed rule under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act that would regulate carbon emissions from existing power plants (“Proposed Rule”). The Proposed Rule penalizes Arizona’s leadership in development of carbon-free and low-carbon energy resources and seeks to encumber the state with some of the most stringent carbon dioxide reduction requirements in the country. Implementation of the Proposed Rule will result in increased cost and decreased reliability for hundreds of thousands of Arizona residents. While I disagree with the EPA’s assertion that it has the authority to promulgate this burdensome regulation and believe your Agency should revisit the Proposed Rule, I will limit these comments to the Proposed Rule’s flawed assumptions and encourage the Agency to revise the Proposed Rule according to the input it receives from our State during the Proposed Rule’s comment period. Arizona’s utilities provide reliable and affordable energy to residents and businesses in Arizona and other states. They accomplish this through comprehensive planning and the deployment of a balanced portfolio of generation resources, including: carbon-free nuclear and hydroelectric generation; reliable, well controlled, low-cost coal generation; natural gas generation; and a diverse mix of renewable resources such as geothermal, wind and solar. Because of these efforts, Arizona has enjoyed economic success and low greenhouse gas emissions. In the Proposed Rule’s baseline year of 2012, 36.3% of Arizona’s electric generation was carbon-free. Unfortunately, the Proposed Rule ignores Arizona’s comprehensive planning and environmental stewardship and would eliminate the balance in our energy resources, and impose greater reductions and higher costs on our residents than those in other states. The EPA wrongly assumes that Arizona’s reliable and affordable coal resources can be easily shuttered and replaced by “excess” natural gas generation capacity. This assumption, which is the foundation of the Proposed Rule’s goals for Arizona, demonstrates the EPA’s misunderstanding of the ownership of these resources, how Arizona uses these resources and our coal resources to meet summer peak load demands, the current limitations of Arizona’s natural gas infrastructure and storage, and the availability of transmission resources. Arizona’s aggressive interim and final goals presume the state has an unfettered ability to perform a complex transition of the state’s energy supply by 2020, including retiring all of the state’s coal-fired generation units and making a significant investment in new infrastructure to replace that generation. EPA’s own modeling shows that this transition cannot happen within the required timeframe, demonstrating that such a transition is not economically viable, nor technically viable. Underscoring this point, the Proposed Plan would lead to the closure of Arizona Electric Power Cooperative, Inc’s (AEPCO) Apache Generating Station in Cochise, Arizona. There currently exists no reliable way to transmit electricity from alternative sources for the areas AEPCO serves, leaving 350,000 rural residents (150,000 meters) exposed to dangerous reliability issues. I encourage you to reconsider this flawed assumption and correct the Proposed Rule to reflect the realities in Arizona. Furthermore, closure of the coal generating facilities in Arizona would devastate the economies of our rural communities, where the plants support high-wage employment and provide a critical tax base for schools and local governments. For example, 245 jobs within my district will be lost if the Proposed Rule is adopted in current form. Moreover, rate increases resulting from the Proposed Rule would disproportionally affect rural consumers and exacerbate the growing problem of poverty in these areas. I strongly encourage you to consider the impacts this Proposed Rule would have on Arizona’s rural families and businesses. The EPA also asserts that the Proposed Rule provides states with abundant flexibility. The unreasonable and flawed goals for Arizona in the Proposed Rule remove any flexibility that might have been intended. For example, EPA’s assumptions for replacement of coal generation with natural gas generation under building block 2 constrain the state’s ability to rely on building block 1 (heat rate efficiency in coal plants) for any movement towards the state’s interim or final goals. Additionally, Arizona’s goals represent an emissions rate for existing natural gas that is much lower than what the Agency says is achievable for brand new natural gas units. Consequently, Arizona is forced to construct new renewable generation sources on unrealistic timelines and accelerate energy efficiency without the time to rationally consider what programs are most cost-effective and achievable within the state. As the EPA considers the comments it receives, I encourage you to consider modifying the Proposed Plan as recommended by the following proposals: The Arizona Utilities Group Plan (December 1, 2014): Accounts for the “remaining useful life” of coal-fired power plants in interim and final goals. Allow for pollution reduction efforts and commitments prior to the final 111(d) to be recognized. Allow states to set interim goals. Apply appropriate natural gas emission rates. Sincerely, Martha McSally Member of Congress
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) today introduced the bipartisan Veterans’ Entry to Apprenticeship Act. The bill would help returning veterans transition to the civilian workforce by allowing them to use their educational benefits for enrollment in pre-apprenticeship programs. “As a veteran, I know the difficulties our returning service members face as they look to transition to civilian life. This bill will make it easier for them to obtain good-paying jobs using the benefits they earned,” said Congresswoman Martha McSally. “Currently, there are trade and manufacturing jobs going unfilled in our community because there aren’t enough people with the skills needed for them. Opening up job training programs to veterans only makes sense and would be a win for local businesses too. Those who volunteered to put their lives on the line deserve all our efforts to help them, and I thank Rep. Gabbard for working with me on this commonsense legislation.” Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), a veteran and fellow member of the Congressional Post-9/11 Veterans Caucus, co-introduced the legislation. “Our servicemembers develop valuable skills and experience while serving our nation, and should be able to access opportunities to further develop their skills to set themselves up for success as they transition into civilian life,” said Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard, Chair of the Congressional post-9/11 Veterans Caucus. “Veterans still face many obstacles as they go through this transition. This bill works to make that transition smoother by enabling our veterans to use their GI Bill benefits for apprenticeship programs in the skilled-trade industry. While there is much to be done, this bill will help reduce the still too high numbers of unemployed veterans, and address the shortage of skilled workers in our country.” Today’s legislation adds to Rep. McSally’s committed efforts to ensure veterans have access to the benefits they earned. On February 23, 2015, she joined 29 Members of Congress to call on the Administration to change the 40-mile eligibility measurement under the Veterans Choice Program from a straight-line measurement to road mileage, something the Administration announced it would do the following month. She also has called on the Administration to answer for its decision to raid funding for the Veterans Choice Program in its Fiscal Year 2016 budget and address how to meet a veteran’s specialty need should the VA clinic within 40 miles not offer it. The Veterans’ Entry to Apprenticeship Act provides veterans the ability to use their educational benefits under the GI Bill to learn critical workplace skills. Currently, GI Bill benefits cannot be used to cover the cost of Department of Labor approved pre-apprenticeship programs. These programs teach the skills and techniques necessary to prepare individuals for apprenticeship training and careers in the skilled-trade industry. The unemployment rate for post-9/11 veterans is nearly 7%, a full point higher than the national average. In certain industries, many veterans face barriers to entry into apprenticeship programs because they lack pre-apprenticeship training. The United States has seen a shortage of skilled workers in recent years. With an increasing number of post-9/11 veterans looking to enter the workforce, and an estimated 573,000 unemployed veterans in 2014, this bill will make it easier for service members to pursue careers in occupations that require an apprenticeship. The bipartisan bill has 30 original cosponsors in the House. Additionally, the bill is supported by the National Guard Association of the United States, the Reserve Officers Association, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, the National Roofing Contractors Association, the National Association of Home Builders, and the Associated General Contractors of America.
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of legislation to help stop human trafficking and support trafficking victims. The legislation, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (S.178), combines provisions from 10 human trafficking bills passed by the House earlier this year, including four bills that Rep. McSally cosponsored. “By working together, we can end human trafficking,” said Rep. McSally. “Today, we’re sending the President a bill that will strengthen tools for law enforcement, provide additional protections and assistance for victims, increase coordination between local, state, and federal resources, and much more. This terrible crime will not be eradicated overnight, but as today’s legislation shows, our efforts to work together can make a difference. I’ll continue working with my colleagues and local leaders to help victims in our community and, ultimately, stop trafficking once and for all.” Since being elected to office, Rep. McSally has placed a strong focus on efforts to combat trafficking. On January 31, she held a roundtable with local elected officials, members of law enforcement, and non-profit leaders on ways the community can work together to stop trafficking in Southern Arizona. On February 17, she joined Pima County Supervisor Ally Miller to declare Pima County a “Zero Tolerance Human Trafficking Zone.” She also has spoken on the House floor in support of legislation to punish offenders who facilitate trafficking of victims online. Rep. McSally hosted a roundtable with local leaders on trafficking solutions Today’s legislation includes provisions from 10 bills the House passed in January to combat trafficking, including four bills Rep. McSally cosponsored. Those bills include: The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (H.R. 181), which reallocates existing grants for human trafficking deterrence and victims’ support; The Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation Act (H.R. 4225), which makes it a federal crime to knowingly advertise for the commercial sex exploitation of minors and trafficking victims; The Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act (H.R. 398), which addresses shortcomings surrounding healthcare professionals ability to identify victims of human trafficking; And The Human Trafficking Detection Act (H.R. 460), which addresses shortcomings surrounding DHS personnel’s ability to identify victims of human trafficking.\ The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act passed the House today 419 to 3 and goes to the President to be signed into law.
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included amendments offered by U.S. Representative Martha McSally to fully protect the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call next year. The amendments prohibit the retirement of any A-10 or EC-130H aircraft and prevent any additional transfers to backup status that were approved by the last Congress. The legislation also includes full funding for the A-10 and EC-130H, two aircraft stationed at Davis-Monthan and currently deployed overseas. “Today’s passage is a significant victory for Southern Arizona and all our service members,” said Rep. McSally. “The A-10 and EC-130H bring irreplaceable capabilities to the battlefield, something Southern Arizonans know well. DM Airmen are currently deployed overseas and defending our national security, and on a trip last week to Afghanistan and the Middle East, I was able to thank them for their continued service in person. Without a doubt, their efforts are saving lives, and we cannot afford to retire these critical capabilities without replacements. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate to make sure these assets are protected and that American lives on the ground have the support they need and deserve.” Since taking office, Rep. McSally tirelessly has advocated to keep the A-10 and EC-130H flying. At hearing after hearing, she exposed the Administration’s flawed reasoning for seeking to retire these aircraft. On April 27, 2015, her efforts led to the inclusion of full funding for both aircraft in the FY2016 NDAA. During markup for the legislation, she offered amendments to fully protect the A-10 and EC-103H next year and staunchly fought back efforts to retire 164 A-10’s next year. Part of that debate can be seen HERE. Both her amendments to prohibit the retirement of either aircraft passed the Armed Services Committee. She has led bipartisan efforts to request authorization and funding for both aircraft and penned an op-ed in the New York Times making the case that retiring the A-10 without a replacement would put American lives at risk. Davis-Monthan Air Force Base located in the Second District houses over 80 A-10 Warthogs and 15 EC-130H Compass Call aircraft. The Administration announced earlier this year plans to begin divestment of our entire A-10 fleet and 7 of the 15 EC-130H at DM. The FY2016 NDAA, which passed the House today 269-151, provides $682.7 million for the A-10 and $48.3 million for the EC-130H, providing full funding for both platforms. Yesterday, the Senate Armed Services Committee passed its version of the FY2016 NDAA, which contains funding for both the A-10 and EC-130H platforms. The Senate is expected to vote on this legislation in the coming weeks.
05.15.2015	New Report Alleges VA Spends $6 Billion Annually in Improper Payments WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after new reports released today state the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) spends $6 billion a year in improper payments, wasting taxpayer dollars and putting veterans’ lives at risk. “Today’s news is yet another tragic disclosure in what’s become all too common for the agency charged with caring for our war heroes,” said Rep. McSally. “Veterans in Southern Arizona and around the country deserve access to prompt, high quality health care without having to drive hours to get it. The waste and abuse reported today represents a serious failure in leadership, but more importantly, a failure of our government to honor its commitment to those who have served and sacrificed for our country. Congress must fully investigate today’s revelations, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to hold the Administration accountable and get our veterans the care they deserve.” Rep. McSally continually has pressed the Administration to improve access to health care for Southern Arizona veterans. On February 23, 2015, she joined 29 Members of Congress to call on the Administration to change the 40-mile eligibility measurement under the Veterans Choice Program from a straight-line measurement to road mileage, something the Administration announced it would do the following month. She also has called on the Administration to answer for its decision to raid funding for the Veterans Choice Program in its Fiscal Year 2016 budget and address how to meet a veteran’s specialty need should the VA clinic within 40 miles not offer it. Today, the Committee on Veterans Affairs’ held a hearing looking into waste, fraud, and abuse in the VA’s procurement policies over at least the last five years. The hearing comes on the same day as reports alleged that “gross mismanagement” and a failure to follow federal contracting rules results in at least $6 billion in improper spending annually.
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted in support of legislation to support members of local and federal law enforcement and their families. The legislation, brought before the House today, aligns with National Police Week, a period designated to honor officers killed in the line of duty. “In Southern Arizona, we have men and women who put their lives on the line every day to keep our communities safe, whether it’s defending our border or patrolling our streets. They deserve all our efforts to support them and their families,” said Rep. McSally. “Today’s legislation increases access to the benefits they have earned, reinforces our commitment to the families of fallen heroes, and improves efforts to keep officers safe in the line of duty.” The House of Representatives today passed four bills to support law enforcement members and their families, which include: The Defending Public Safety Employees Retirement Act, allowing Federal Customs and Border Protection officers and state and local public safety officers to make penalty-free withdrawals from their defined benefit and defined contribution retirement accounts after they reach age 50; The Don’t Tax Our Fallen Public Safety Heroes Act, which would exclude death benefits from being subject to Federal income taxes for surviving dependents of Federal, state, or local public safety officers killed in the line of duty; The Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act, which would establish a communications network to disseminate information among Federal, State and local governments when a law enforcement officer is seriously injured, killed, or goes missing in the line of duty and if an imminent, credible threat of harm or injury against an officer is made; The Fallen Heroes Flag Act, allowing Members of Congress to provide at no cost an American flag flown over the U.S. Capitol to families of fallen law enforcement members.
05.11.2015	TUCSON – Over the weekend, U.S. Representative Martha McSally announced that Michael Fisher, a freshman at City High School in Tucson, took first place in the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. Michael’s charcoal drawing, “Raven,” will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year and he will be invited to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception along with other Congressional district winners. “I congratulate Michael and all the participants of this year’s competition for their hard work and exceptional pieces of art,” said Rep. McSally. “This year’s submissions really reflected Southern Arizona’s vibrant and diverse culture, and the amount of creative pieces of art we saw highlights the immense talent of our young artists. Every student should be proud of his or her work, and I look forward to seeing all the winning pieces displayed where they will be seen by thousands of people from our district and around the country.” Freshman Michael Fisher holds his drawing, “Raven,” next to Rep. McSally and Art Judges Michele Rouch and Michael Ewing This year, 90 students from 12 high schools in the Second District participated in the art competition. Second place went to Susan Ho from Flowing Wells High School in Tucson for her painting, “Tis the Gift to be Free,” and third place went to Jenna Hurst from Canyon del Oro High School in Oro Valley for her painting, “Grandmother.” Their paintings will be displayed in the Tucson and Sierra Vista offices respectively. In addition, 9 other students receiving honorable mentions will have their artwork displayed in the Tucson office lobby. The 12 winners were selected by a panel of local art experts. To view all the submissions, click HERE.
05.08.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday returned from leading a Congressional Delegation trip to the Middle East and Afghanistan, where she and a group of women lawmakers met with U.S. service members and deployed Department of Defense mothers and received mission briefings on our military operations in the region. The group also met with Afghan Women Parliamentarians and Civil Society leaders as well as Mrs. Ghani, wife of Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. “Being over there, we were reminded that every day our deployed service members make sacrifices for our safety and security at home,” said Rep. McSally. “We heard about the serious threats to us and our allies from ISIS terrorists and Taliban insurgents and saw how our forces are assisting in these fights, including an A-10 squadron. It was especially rewarding to meet some of our deployed Airmen from Davis-Monthan and deliver Mother’s Day cards written by local students. When you’re deployed, you often sacrifice holidays and spending time with family to carry out your duty, so this was a nice way to say “thank you” for all that they do.” Meeting 1st Lieutenant Stephanie Edson, who’s deployed from Davis Monthan On the trip, the Congressional Delegation, led by Rep. McSally, traveled to Qatar, Afghanistan, and southwest Asia. In addition to sharing meals with service members and deployed Department of Defense mothers, the Congresswomen heard briefings on the latest in our fight against ISIS (Operation Inherent Resolve) from the Joint Task Force Commander and Air Component Commander. They also received briefings about our ongoing operations in Afghanistan (Operation Resolute Support) from General John Campbell, Commander of U.S. Forces in Afghanistan, and U.S. embassy leadership. Meeting with service women of the 332nd Air Expeditionary Wing and Special Purpose Marine Air Ground Task Force-Central Command With Airmen from the 55th Electronic Combat Group from DM in front an EC-130 Delivering Mother’s Day cards written by Tucson students Rep. McSally also delivered Mother’s Day cards written by students from Ventana Vista Elementary and White Elementary School in Tucson. To view more photos from the trip, click HERE.
05.01.2015	Bill Introduced Today Would Enhance Intelligence and Information Sharing on the Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Terrorism Threat WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced legislation to improve intelligence and information sharing on the threat posed by terrorist attacks using chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear materials. The legislation follows hearings Rep. McSally chaired on the Homeland Security Committee in which experts testified about the preparedness of and threats facing local communities. “As we heard from experts in the hearings I chaired this year, the threat to our nation from terrorists seeking to attack our homeland is very real. Countering this threat and mitigating the risk requires continuous sharing and analysis of intelligence,” Rep. McSally said. “My bill requires DHS to conduct homeland security-focused intelligence analysis and information sharing for chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats, and to provide information to officials at the state, local, and tribal level who can take action to protect our communities.” The CBRN Intelligence and Information Sharing Act of 2015 (H.R. 2200) requires the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Office of Intelligence and Analysis to support homeland security-focused intelligence analysis of chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats, along with analysis of emerging infectious diseases, working in coordination with the Department’s National Biosurveillance Integration Center and the Intelligence Community. In addition, the bill requires the sharing of such information with relevant state, local, tribal, and private entities. Rep. McSally chairs the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security. This year, she has held hearings on the threat of chemical and biological attacks on our homeland, which included testimony from University of Arizona College of Medicine Interim Dean Dr. Charles Cairns. For the full bill text, click HERE.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today successfully offered amendments to the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to protect the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call, two aircraft stationed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM). The amendments were added to legislation to authorize national defense spending that also included full funding for both platforms and passed the Committee early this morning 60-2. “With the passage of this bill, we clear a major hurdle to keeping these planes flying and protecting our troops in combat,” said Rep. McSally. “Not only does the legislation fully fund both platforms, but the amendments I offered will prevent any additional backdoor divestment attempts, such as more transfers to backup status next year. As this bill moves to a vote in the full House, I’ll continue to work with my colleagues to support the capabilities we need and ensure we’re prioritizing the lives of American troops in harm’s way.” The FY2016 NDAA passed today provides $682.7 million for the A-10 and $48.3 million for the EC-130H, providing full funding for both platforms. The legislation also contains provisions offered by Rep. McSally to prohibit the retirement or transfer to backup status of either aircraft. In addition, her amendment directs independent assessments of the capabilities or platforms needed to replace eventually the A-10 and EC-130H. To watch Rep. McSally discussing her A-10 amendment, click HERE. Rep. McSally has led a bipartisan effort to provide full funding for the A-10 Warthog since taking office. On Monday, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee Mac Thornberry said in a statement, “Rep. McSally has been a strong and persuasive advocate for the A-10 and for its unique, critical capabilities on the battlefield. Her relentless efforts helped to highlight the Administration’s flawed reasoning and strongly informed our decision to continue its funding.” Davis-Monthan Air Force Base located in the Second District houses over 80 A-10 Warthogs and 15 EC-130H Compass Call aircraft. The Administration announced earlier this year plans to begin divestment of our entire A-10 fleet and 7 of the 15 EC-130H at DM. Today’s legislation to fund both aircraft is expected to be voted on by the full House in coming weeks. To see additional actions Rep. McSally has taken to protect the A-10, click HERE. To view Rep. McSally’s A-10 amendment text, click HERE.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally released the following statement after successfully offering an amendment to protect the A-10 to the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act. “Southern Arizonans have seen continual threats to the A-10 Warthog, and unlike years past, my amendment will fully protect the Warthog next year. Not only does it prohibit the retirement of any A-10s, it prevents any additional back door attempts at mothballing these aircraft, such as placing them in backup status. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues to make sure our troops on the ground have the support they deserve and that we don’t retire this critical capability without a replacement.”
04.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation to rename the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Port of Entry in Douglas as the, “Raul Hector Castro Port of Entry.” The bill, H.R. 1075, of which Rep. McSally is a cosponsor, passed the House unanimously by voice vote. “Today, the House came together to pay tribute to a tremendous public servant and someone who had an immense impact on the people of Arizona,” said Rep. McSally. “Growing up outside of Douglas, Governor Castro overcame countless obstacles to become an example and role model to a generation of young Latinos looking to enter public office. I can think of no more fitting tribute than to designate the Douglas Port, a vital asset to our community and symbol of our important trade relationship with Mexico, in honor of Governor Castro as a way to remember his lasting impact on our state.” Governor Castro grew up outside Douglas, Arizona, graduated from Douglas High School, and later earned a bachelor’s degree from Northern Arizona University and a law degree from the University of Arizona. He had a long career of public service that included serving as Pima County Attorney, a judge for the Pima County Superior Court, Governor of Arizona, and Ambassador to Bolivia, El Salvador, and Argentina.\ He passed away on April 10, 2015 and is survived by his wife, Pat, and daughters, Mary Pat James and Beth Castro.
04.27.2015	Full Funding for Both Aircraft Included in FY2016 NDAA TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally’s tireless efforts to advocate for the A-10 Warthog and EC-130H Compass Call, two aircraft housed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM) in Tucson, today resulted in a major victory as the House Armed Services Committee Chairman announced full funding for both platforms in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Inclusion of funding for the platforms saves them from having to be added by amendment and greatly increases its chances to pass the Committee and remain in the final bill voted on by the House. “Today’s funding is a big victory for Southern Arizonans and a significant step forward in ensuring that our best Close Air Support and Airborne Electronic Attack assets remain in the air and protecting our troops,” said Rep. McSally. “The Administration’s arguments have simply failed to hold up, and at hearing after hearing, officials have conceded to me that going ahead with the plan to mothball the A-10 and EC-130H without replacements would create dangerous gaps in our capabilities. I’m very glad to see Chairman Thornberry provide full funding for these critical weapon systems and to help ensure we retain these capabilities, I’ll be offering amendments to the bill to prohibit the retirement of any A-10 and EC-130H aircraft next year.” "Rep. McSally has been a strong and persuasive advocate for the A-10 and for its unique, critical capabilities on the battlefield. Her relentless efforts helped to highlight the Administration’s flawed reasoning and strongly informed our decision to continue its funding. Just last week, the Air Force said it’s sending more A-10s to fight ISIL,” said Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee Mac Thornberry. “Time and again in our hearings and out in the field, the message from our personnel is clear: retiring the platform without a replacement would result in real gaps in our capabilities, most important being the ability to protect American ground troops in combat. Ensuring the safety of our troops is a top priority of this Committee, and we look forward to continue working with Rep. McSally with her invaluable experience and perspective to ensure they have the best close air support possible.” Since taking office, Rep. McSally has led a comprehensive and persistent effort to advocate for continued funding of the A-10 and EC-130H. She has led bipartisan letters to the Administration, the chairman and ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, and House appropriators to request continued funding for both platforms. Her advocacy efforts at hearings have resulted in concessions from Administration and military officials that retiring these aircraft would create dangerous gaps in our capabilities. In response to her questioning, military officials conceded that the A-10 is more survivable than the F-35 for certain Close Air Support missions, that mothballing it ahead of schedule would eliminate our ability to take out enemy tanks from the air, and that there are areas in which the EC-130H is best suited. Rep. McSally also got Air Force officials to testify that the decision to retire the A-10 was simply “budget-based,” and that they would keep the A-10 if they had the funds. Rep. McSally also recently published an op-ed in the News York Times making the case that retiring the A-10 without a replacement would put American lives at risk. Davis-Monthan Air Force Base located in the Second District houses over 80 A-10 Warthogs and 15 EC-130H Compass Call aircraft. The Administration announced earlier this year plans to begin divestment of our entire A-10 fleet and 7 of the 15 EC-130H at DM. On Wednesday, lawmakers on the House Armed Services Committee, of which Rep. McSally is a member, will meet to mark up the FY2016 NDAA, which sets spending authorization for all programs under the Department of Defense. A retired Air Force Colonel and A-10 squadron commander, Rep. McSally flew 325 combat hours in the A-10 and commanded the 354th Fighter Squadron based out of Davis-Monthan.
04.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday urged House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry and Ranking Member Adam Smith to support the EC-130H Compass Call fleet in their Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The EC-130H, a plane equipped to jam enemy communications and provide other electronic countermeasures, is operated exclusively at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (DM) as part of the 55th Electronic Combat Group where 15 aircraft are housed. President Obama proposed in his budget to retire 7 of the 15 planes, despite the fact that EC-130H are currently deployed in the Middle East against ISIS. “The FY2016 President’s Budget Request asks to divest 7 of the 15 aircraft in the fleet even though the capabilities are in high demand from combatant commanders and there is no replacement in development,” Rep. McSally said. “The aircraft executes unique missions with its electronic countermeasures systems, specialized jamming equipment, the capability to aerial refuel, and upgraded engines and avionics.” Last month, Rep. McSally questioned Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff Lieutenant General James Holmes at a House Armed Services hearing about the lack of replacement capabilities for the EC-130H. He confirmed, “there are things only the EC-130 does or things the EC-130 does best.” Rep. McSally was joined in her request to sustain the EC-130H by U.S. Representative Elise Stefanik (R-NY). “With no replacement for the unique capabilities, already deployed at a high rate, we believe it is irresponsible to divest the Compass Call at this time.” For a PDF of the letter, click HERE. April 23, 2015 The Honorable Mac Thornberry The Honorable Adam Smith Chairman Ranking Member House Armed Services Committee House Armed Services Committee 2216 Rayburn House Office Building 2216 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Thornberry and Ranking Member Smith, As the committee prepares to mark up the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act, we respectfully ask for your support for the EC-130H Compass Call fleet. The FY16 President’s Budget Request asks to divest 7 of the 15 aircraft in the fleet even though the capabilities are in high demand from combatant commanders and there is no replacement in development. The Compass Call can perform electronic warfare, suppression of enemy air defenses, and offensive counter-information operations. The Compass Call is the only dedicated U.S. Air Force Electronic Warfare aircraft. It entered inventory in the 1980s to jam enemy command and control communications and was successfully employed during Desert Storm, Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom. The Compass Call also provided electronic warfare support in operations in Kosovo, Haiti, Panama, Serbia, and Afghanistan. It was the most heavily tasked special mission C-130 during operations in Afghanistan. The aircraft executes unique missions with its electronic countermeasures systems, specialized jamming equipment, the capability to aerial refuel, and upgraded engines and avionics. The Air Force has not identified follow on capability and no other platform currently performs the mission. In a March 26th subcommittee hearing, Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff Lieutenant General James Holmes confirmed that there are things that only the EC-130H does, and things that the EC-130H does best. The Compass Call is currently deployed both in Afghanistan and in the fight against ISIS. With no replacement for the unique capabilities, already deployed at a high rate, we believe it is irresponsible to divest the Compass Call at this time. We respectfully request that you continue to fund the entire Compass Call fleet until an alternative capability has been identified and a transition plan for the replacement has been approved and funding has been programmed. Sincerely,
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today chaired a hearing on the possibility of a bio attack on our homeland and the networks in place to prepare for and defend against this threat. Testifying at the hearing was University of Arizona College of Medicine Interim Dean Dr. Charles Cairns, who pointed to a current lack of collaboration and coordination across the federal government and with state and local institutions as a challenge to address. “A bio attack could cause illness or death in hundreds of thousands of people, overwhelm our public health capabilities, and have an economic impact of over one trillion dollars per incident,” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. “We must have a robust preparedness and response infrastructure in place. The ability of our health system to respond is of critical importance.” To watch Rep. McSally’s opening statement, click HERE. Dean Cairns served previously as the Principal Investigator of the National Collaborative for Biopreparedness and as the Director of the United States Critical Illness and Injury Trials Group. During the hearing, he testified about the lack of collaboration across the federal government and the level of preparedness for cities like Phoenix or Tucson against a bio attack. “This lack of programmatic unity is most felt at the state and local level, which is the tip of the spear for the nation’s biodefense. It will be the hospital systems and EMS agencies that will first detect abnormalities in illness patterns,” Dr. Cairns testified. “I encourage Congress to ensure that any biodefense program take into account the capabilities and the responsibilities of local and state institutions, which must be weaved into the fabric of national preparedness.” To watch a portion Dr. Cairns’ testimony, click HERE. The Subcommittee also received important insights from the Honorable Jim Talent, former Co-Chair of the WMD Commission, and Ms. Marisa Raphael, Deputy Commissioner of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. Today’s hearing held by the subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications, which Rep. McSally chairs, is the second this year to look into the level of preparedness against attacks on our homeland. Last month, Rep. McSally led a hearing on the threat of chemical attacks and our response networks in place. For more photos from today’s hearing, click HERE.
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today led a group of seven lawmakers on the House Armed Services Committee to urge Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry and Ranking Member Adam Smith to sustain funding authorization for the A-10 Warthog in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The letter comes at a critical time as next Monday, the Chairman is expected to release draft legislation, known as the “chairman’s mark,” to set spending authorization for programs under the Department of Defense, including the A-10. National defense programs not authorized in the chairman’s mark will have to be authorized by the amendment process, which requires siphoning funding from other programs authorized in the mark. “The decision by the Administration to divest the A-10 is, by their own admission, a budget-driven decision that will create a capability gap in the Close Air Support (CAS) and Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) missions,” the lawmakers said in the letter. “The end result of this capability gap is a greater danger to American ground troops because they will not have optimal air support.” Lawmakers on the House Armed Services Committee, of which Rep. McSally is a member, will meet next Wednesday, April 29, to mark up the FY 2016 NDAA. Rep. McSally has been a leading voice urging funding for the A-10, including leading a bipartisan group of House members last month to request appropriators reject the Administration’s plan to begin divestment of our A-10 fleet beginning in FY 2016. Earlier this week, Rep. McSally wrote in the New York Times that “if we retire the A-10 before a replacement is developed, American troops will die.” For a PDF of the letter, click HERE. April 22, 2015 The Honorable Mac Thornberry The Honorable Adam Smith Chairman Ranking Member House Armed Services Committee House Armed Services Committee 2216 Rayburn House Office Building 2216 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Thornberry and Ranking Member Smith, We write to urge you to sustain the A-10 Warthog in the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act. The decision by the Administration to divest the A-10 is, by their own admission, a budget-driven decision that will create a capability gap in the Close Air Support (CAS) and Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) missions. The end result of this capability gap is a greater danger to American ground troops because they will not have optimal air support. The A-10 provides unmatched CAS capability, delivering firepower to save American lives when they are under fire in close proximity to enemy forces. It can operate in rugged environments at all altitudes and under weather ceilings or with low visibility. The A-10 offers a combination of long loiter time, lethality, survivability, and the ability to strike moving targets in a complex visual fight. No other aircraft, existing or in development, matches these capabilities. In an April 14th subcommittee hearing, Director for Operational Test and Evaluation Michael Gilmore confirmed that the A-10, when compared to fighter jets currently in development, has a longer loiter time, is more survivable, and better able to conduct CAS in close proximity while taking small arms fire. The A-10 also uniquely provides critical Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) capabilities, absolutely vital to ensure downed pilots do not meet the same fate as the Jordanian pilot who was captured and lit on fire by ISIS. Cutting back a one-of-a-kind capability with no clear replacement is an example of a budget-based strategy, not the strategy-based budget we need to meet our defense needs. In a March 17th hearing, Secretary of the Air Force Deborah James and Chief of Staff of the Air Force General Mark Welsh both confirmed that mothballing the A-10 was driven by budget constraints only. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter reiterated that the decision was budget-driven in a March 18th hearing, as did Lieutenant General James Holmes, USAF, in a March 26th hearing. A-10s are currently deployed to the Middle East for CSAR and offensive operations in the fight against ISIS. They are also deployed to Europe to reassure and train our allies in CAS in the face of increased Russian aggression. A-10s are also stationed in South Korea as a critical part of our deterrence and anti-armor capability against potential North Korean aggression, due to each aircraft being able to carry 1174 armor-piercing depleted uranium 30mm rounds. In a HASC hearing on April 15th, the commander for U.S. Forces Korea, General Curtis Scaparrotti admitted that the loss of the A-10s in Korea would result in a “gap” in anti-armor capabilities. Over the past several Congresses, the committee has successfully protected the A-10 fleet from complete divestment, but the equivalent of four squadrons have been mothballed since 2012. Over $1 billion has been invested recently in the A-10 to upgrade its avionics and strengthen its wings, extending its lifespan until 2028. However, the President’s Budget Proposal for Fiscal Year 2016 again directs the Air Force to divest the entire A-10 Fleet, starting with 160 aircraft in FY 16. This divestiture, particularly because of a lack of a similarly-capable replacement platform, puts Americans’ lives at risk. We recognize the challenges imposed by sequestration, but we believe that the A-10 Warthog should be sustained until a suitable replacement exists. Sincerely,
04.22.2015	TUCSON - U.S. Representative Martha McSally attended a roundtable with Tucson Vice Mayor Richard Fimbres and local leaders on the Cherrybell Post Office and Processing Center and its future. Rep. McSally previously led a bipartisan effort by members of the Arizona delegation to call on Postmaster General Megan Brennan to revisit decisions that would consolidate operations at the facility, effectively terminating all operations there. Watch KGUN's coverage of the roundtable below.
04.17.2015	Please note that letter referenced in the below AP article can be accessed HERE. AP: McSally questions $730,000 repairs to Nogales fence AP Astrid Galvan April 16, 2015 https://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Congresswoman-questions-730-000-repairs-to-6205052.php The high price tag and slow repairs to a part of the border fence that divides the U.S. and Mexico are of great concern, U.S. Rep. Martha McSally, R-Arizona, said Thursday. McSally wrote a letter to U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Gil Kerlikowske on Thursday after an Associated Press report found the repairs to about 60 feet of fencing cost $730,000. "Given the limited availability of funding and the need for new, more effective technologies along our southern border, I find the cost of the repairs to be of great concern," McSally wrote. Repairs on the 60 feet of rebar-reinforced fencing in Nogales, Arizona, were completed in December, and the federal agency released the cost of the repairs last month after a request by The Associated Press. Agents discovered the downed fence in July after heavy rain in Nogales, Mexico, caused debris to build up against the fence, toppling it. The fence stood between 18 and 26 feet high and extended at least 7 feet underground. It was built in 2011. To read the full article, click HERE.
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following a concession from a top Department of Defense official earlier this week that the F-35 would not be as survivable as the A-10 in certain Close Air Support (CAS) scenarios, U.S. Rep. Martha McSally yesterday at a House Armed Services subcommittee hearing confirmed that retiring the A-10 ahead of schedule would leave a gap in the military’s ability to take out enemy tanks from the air. The statements made by Army General Curtis Scaparrotti in response to questioning from Rep. McSally expose a second critical gap in as many days should the Administration move forward with its flawed plan to retire the A-10 without a replacement. “I think the last thing that we want to be doing is relying on having to have a tank battle in the day and age where we have the capabilities and the plans to take out those capabilities from the air. We certainly wouldn’t want to roll back that capability…” Rep. McSally said during the hearing. In describing how he would replace the ability to attack enemy tanks from the air, General Curtis Scaparrotti, Commander of U.S. Forces in Korea, testified to using ground forces instead. “Frankly I would use air in different ways, the multi-role aircraft, then use the systems that I have on the ground primarily against their armored threat. And so it would open a gap in terms of having that aircraft for having that specific capability.” The testimony from a top military commander is the second omission in as many days that moving forward with the Administration’s plan would leave gaps in our military’s capabilities. On Tuesday, a top Department of Defense official testified that the F-35 would not be as survivable as the A-10 in certain CAS scenarios, and thus, likely “stand off” more for many threats. Watch the exchange below
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement on the second anniversary of the Boston Marathon bombing that left four Americans dead, including an MIT Police Officer who was killed three days later, and injured more than 260 others: “Today marks the second anniversary of the terrorist attack at the Boston Marathon, a race I had the privilege of running during my time in graduate school. It is a day to remember the four victims who lost their lives in the attack and ensuing manhunt, honor the survivors whose lives were changed forever, and thank the brave first responders and medical personnel who worked tirelessly to save lives and protect the City of Boston that day and in the days that followed.” “This solemn anniversary also serves as a reminder of the need to constantly work to share information and enhance our preparedness through planning, training and exercising. As Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications, I am committed to ensuring that emergency response providers across the country have the tools they need to accomplish their important mission of keeping our communities safe."
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Confirming the A-10’s unmatched capabilities as the U.S Air Force’s best Close Air Support (CAS) asset, U.S. Rep. Martha McSally yesterday during a House Armed Services subcommittee hearing got top Department of Defense officials to concede that the F-35 would not be as survivable as the A-10 in certain CAS scenarios. The testimony conflicts with previous Air Force claims about the A-10’s survivability compared to other aircraft and exposes a gap in capabilities should the Administration mothball the A-10 without a replacement. “As a former A-10 pilot and squadron commander, there are times, and there will still be times in the future, where you must get down and dirty with the guys on the ground who are often on the run, unable to give you their coordinates,” said Rep. McSally in response to the testimony. “And you have to visually be able to see, where are the good guys and the bad guys. You cannot stand off in all CAS scenarios even in the future, and that’s a concern I have with the limited capabilities in replacing the A-10.” Rep. McSally repeatedly has described the flaws in the Air Force’s justification to retire the A-10 ahead of schedule, saying the decision is reckless and would put, “American lives at risk.” “The (F-35) has some vulnerabilities that you would expect a high performance aircraft to have. The A-10 is going to be able to, can take, hits an F-35 couldn’t take,” said Department of Defense Director of Operational Test and Evaluation Michael Gilmore during the hearing. “The plan would probably be for the F-35 to stand off more for many of these threats than the A-10 does not stand off from. So the survivability of the F-35 against some of these threats isn’t going to be as good as the A-10, but I think the operators would say they wouldn’t use the F-35 the same way they would use the A-10 to do close air support.” To watch Rep. McSally’s questioning, click HERE. Rep. McSally has led a bipartisan effort to request appropriators reject the Administration’s plan to divest the A-10 fleet beginning in Fiscal Year 2016. Later this month, Rep. McSally and other lawmakers serving on the House Armed Services Committees will meet to decide national defense spending authorization for Fiscal Year 2016.
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today successfully offered two amendments to strengthen cyberattack preparedness to legislation being marked up by the Homeland Security Committee. The amendments build on Rep. McSally’s continued efforts to increase preparedness against potential attacks on our homeland and critical infrastructure. “A successful cyberattack on infrastructure like our energy, water, or emergency networks could devastate our economy and put public safety at risk,” said Rep. McSally. “My amendments would help protect against these attacks by making sure our federal government is sharing critical information related to cybersecurity threats with major state and urban centers as well as making sure our framework in place to prepare for a cyberattack is updated and complete. I look forward to continue working with my colleagues to pass this critical legislation when it comes to the House floor and ensure we’re well prepared against cyberattacks.” Rep. McSally’s first amendment would require the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center to share, as appropriate, information related to cybersecurity with state and major urban area fusion centers and to participate in exercises meant to test, assess and improve the nation’s preparedness and resiliency. The amendment also requires the Office of Emergency Communications to assess the risk of cyber threats to public safety communications networks. Rep. McSally’s second amendment requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to maintain and update an annex that outlines the framework for a response to a cyber-incident. DHS regularly updates similar annexes related to other types of disasters and emergencies, yet the cybersecurity annex has not been updated since 2004. Keeping an up-to-date annex helps maximize preparedness for any potential cyberattack. The amendments were favorably reported to legislation to enhance sharing of information related to cyber risks while strengthening privacy and civil liberties protections. That legislation passed the Committee on Homeland Security today unanimously and is expected to receive a vote in the full House next week.\ Rep. McSally is the chair of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications subcommittee and has placed a strong focus on increasing protections against attacks on our homeland.
04.10.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the U.S. Air Force announced its reprimand of General James Post following an Inspector General report. The report found that comments made by General Post in January stating officers would be “committing treason” by advocating for the A-10 to Congress had the “chilling effect on some of the attendees and caused them to feel constrained from communicating with members of Congress.” “No Airman should be intimidated from exercising their lawfully protected right to communicate with Congress, especially on issues that concern life or death decisions of U.S. troops. Those standing up for the A-10 know the Administration’s proposal to retire it ahead of schedule will put American lives in danger, and these concerns deserve to be heard.”
04.10.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement about the passing of former Arizona Governor Raul Castro: “Southern Arizona today mourns the loss of one of its own. Governor Castro was a dedicated public servant who overcame adversity and discrimination to lead an incredible life of service. As a lawyer, judge, governor, and U.S. Ambassador, Governor Castro dedicated himself to the people of Pima County, Arizona, and our country. As our states’ first and only Hispanic Governor, he paved the way for a generation of Latino’s to serve in public office. His impact on our state and Southern Arizona especially will be lasting, and my deepest condolences go out to his family, friends, and all who mourn him.” Governor Castro grew up in Southern Arizona, graduated from Douglas High School, and later received a law degree from the University of Arizona. He is survived by his wife, Pat, and daughters, Mary Pat James and Beth Castro.
04.09.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally is inviting local high school students and their parents or guardians to attend “Academy Day” on Saturday, April 18 to learn more about attending a U.S. service academy. At the event, which will take place at Empire High School in Tucson, representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, and University of Arizona R.O.T.C. will answer questions and provide more information about the nomination and application process. “One of my highest honors as Representative for Arizona’s Second District is nominating outstanding youth from our district for appointment to a U.S service academy. The leadership skills and top of the line education I received as a distinguished graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy were invaluable to preparing me for a career in service and beyond. I encourage any youth or parent interested in learning more about the quality education offered at our service academies to join us on Saturday.” Nominations from Members of Congress are required for five U.S. service academies: the U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. More information about requesting a nomination can be found at https://mcsally.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations or by calling the Tucson District office at (520) 881-3588.
04.06.2015	TUCSON – Coming off a busy week in the district that included a town hall, meetings with students and constituent groups, and a ceremony for fallen service members, U.S. Representative Martha McSally today kicked off another full district work week. A sampling of events for the upcoming week is below. For photos from last week’s district work period, click HERE. Tomorrow, Rep. McSally will speak at the Canyon Vista Medical Center Grand Opening in Sierra Vista. The new 100-bed, four story facility will provide improved care for residents of Cochise County and start seeing patients on April 23, 2015. Later in the day Rep. McSally will tour and meet with employees of Best Buy in Sierra Vista and speak with veterans of American Legion Post 96 in Tucson. She also will tour the UA Tech Park, a facility that houses 40 businesses and organizations that employ nearly 6,500 people and contributes $2.3 billion annually to the local economy. Later in the week, Rep. McSally will be the keynote speaker at the Southern Arizona Home Builders Association Government Liaison Breakfast as well as tour the Tucson Medical center to discuss the latest advancements and challenges in the local health care marketplace. Rep. McSally also will visit the El Rio Birth & Women's Health Center to learn more about its services for women in Southern Arizona and attend the groundbreaking for the Salvation Army’s new $1.6 million, 10,000 square foot building in Sierra Vista. On Friday, Rep. McSally will speak at a “Reception of Champions” event hosted by the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance. The event will bring together active U.S. military missile defenders, representatives of Arizona’s aerospace industry, and elected officials to recognize the role Arizona plays in U.S. missile defense. Media Availability What: Canyon Vista Medical Center Grand Opening and Ribbon Cutting Where: 5700 E. Highway 90, Sierra Vista, AZ 85635 When: Tuesday, April 7 – 10:00AM What: American Legion Post 36 Riders Meeting Where: American Legion Riders Post 36, 5845 East 22nd St., Tucson, AZ 85711 When: Tuesday, April 7 – 6:00 PM What: Salvation Army Groundbreaking ceremony Where: Sierra Vista Community Center, 156 E. Wilcox Dr. Sierra Vista, AZ 85650 When: Thursday, April 9 – 2:00 PM What: Arizona Reception of Champions: Recognizing Arizona’s Champions in our Nation’s Missile Defense Where: La Paloma Resort and Spa, Cottonwood Mezzanine Level, 3800 E. Sunrise Drive, Tucson, Arizona, 65718 When: Friday, April 10 – 10:00 AM
04.03.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the U.S. Air Force forward deployed 12 A-10 Thunderbolt IIs from the 354th Fighter Squadron and 200 airmen from Spangdahlem Air Base, Germany to Campia Turzii, Romania. The aircraft will conduct training operations with NATO allies to deter Russian aggression in Ukraine. “I commend the 354th Fighter Squadron and our brave service members from DM for their contributions to NATO’s Operation Atlantic Resolve and efforts to protect our allies in the face of Russian aggression – and wish them a safe return. With A-10s now deployed in Europe and against ISIS in the Middle East, we are reminded again of the complex array of threats facing our nation and the A-10’s critical role in maintaining our national security. The A-10 continues to be called upon because there simply is no better aircraft to provide close air support to troops, and without a replacement capability, we should not be divesting this asset well ahead of its scheduled retirement date. I will continue fighting to make sure our troops in harm’s way have the best close air support available flying overhead.” In February, 12 A-10s from Davis-Monthan were deployed to Europe to help support NATO’s presence in the face of Russian aggression in Ukraine. Rep. McSally has led a bipartisan effort to keep the A-10 flying and last week led her colleagues in a request to House appropriators to reject the Administration’s plan to divest the A-10 fleet beginning in Fiscal Year 2016.
03.30.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally continued her strong district outreach over the weekend, kicking off a two week district work period that includes town halls, discussions with students, and visits to local organizations and businesses. Below is a sampling of upcoming events and additional announcements are pending as more events are confirmed. On Saturday, Rep. McSally took part in the Missing in America Project’s Veteran Recovery Program, where 14 forgotten servicemen were laid to rest in a ceremony honoring their service. She also was one of 76 individuals to go “Over the Edge” for the Girl Scouts of Southern Arizona, rappelling 17 stories down one of Tucson’s tallest buildings and spoke at and walked in the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Great Strides 5K at the University of Arizona. Rep. McSally also spoke with the Boards of the Tucson Association of Realtors and Multiple Listing Service to discuss housing policy and receive a Southern Arizona update For photos and wrap-ups from this weekend’s events and to subscribe to our e-newsletter, click HERE. On Tuesday, Rep. McSally will make remarks at the Hughes Access Road groundbreaking ceremony near Raytheon in Tucson. The new access road will provide additional space for expansion at Raytheon, Southern Arizona’s largest private employer. On Wednesday, Rep. McSally will speak with a local AP Government high school class about her first few months in office and priorities for Southern Arizona. Also on Wednesday, Rep. McSally will be the keynote speaker at the Biosciences Roadmap Luncheon hosted by the Flinn Foundation and the Southern Arizona Leadership Council to discuss the advancement of biosciences and high-tech jobs in Southern Arizona. On Friday, Rep. McSally will hold a town hall with approximately 100 employees of Citibank in Tucson. Over the weekend, Rep. McSally will attend the 15th anniversary service to remember the 19 Marines who died in Marana after their Osprey aircraft crashed on April 8, 2000. Media Availability What: Hughes Access Road groundbreaking ceremony Where: East Hughes Access Road, just south of Raytheon entrance When: Tuesday, March 31, 3:00PM What: 15th Anniversary service to remember the 19 Marines who died in Marana on April 8, 2000 Where: Marana Northwest Regional Airport (11700 W. Avra Valley Road) When: Saturday, April 4, 10:00AM
03.27.2015	Bill Would Require Better Oversight, Cost-controls For DHS Projects WASHINGTON, D.C. – In her second bill this week, U.S. Representative Martha McSally introduced legislation to improve the management and accountability of new border technology projects. The legislation follows government reports showing Department of Homeland Security (DHS) acquisitions are a “high-risk” for waste, fraud, and abuse and lack important cost control measurements. “When our border technology projects lack the proper oversight or accountability, it’s bad for taxpayers, those who defend our border, and those living along our border,” said Rep. McSally. “Southern Arizonans want to see Washington act to secure our border and they expect us to do it in a smart, cost-effective way. The Border Security Technology Accountability Act of 2015 will provide improved management of border security technology projects, safeguarding taxpayer dollars and increasing accountability for some of the Department’s largest acquisition purchases. I am pleased to be working with my fellow freshman Members on the Committee on Homeland Security on this legislation to combat waste, fraud, and abuse and increase accountability at DHS." Rep. McSally’s legislation is her second bill to improve border security introduced this week and is part of a larger package of DHS accountability legislation, of which Rep. McSally also is a cosponsor, introduced by freshman members on the Committee on Homeland Security. The legislative package aims to curb waste, fraud, and abuse and increase transparency at DHS. A full list of bills can be found HERE. Earlier this week, Rep. McSally introduced her first bill of the 114th Congress, the Transnational Criminal Organization Illicit Spotter Prevention and Elimination Act, to increase penalties for drug spotters operating along our border. The legislation continues her strong focus since being elected on improving border security. Why The Border Security Technology Accountability Act is needed: According to a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), since 2005, DHS Acquisition Management Activities have been on a “High-Risk List” due their high susceptibility to waste and mismanagement. A 2012 GAO report found that less than 1/3 of major DHS acquisition programs do not have Acquisition Program Baselines in place, important measurements for performance and cost-control. In 2012, the DHS Chief Financial Officer reported that major acquisition programs will cost 30% more than DHS’ five-year funding plan. Specifically, the Border Security Technology Accountability Act would improve accountability by requiring DHS border technology programs: Implement Acquisition Program Baselines before moving to the next phase of the acquisition cycle; Adhere to internal controls identified by the Comptroller General of the United States, and; Have a plan for testing and evaluation as well as use independent verification and evaluation resources. For the full bill text, click HERE.
03.26.2015	Letter signed by 18 House Members Urges Continued A-10 Funding Washington, D.C. – In a letter request to House appropriators, Rep. McSally led a bipartisan group of 18 lawmakers to urge rejection of the Administration’s plan to divest the A-10 fleet beginning in Fiscal Year 2016. The letter shows across the aisle support in the House for keeping the A-10 funded and opposing the Administration’s plans to mothball the weapons system ahead of schedule. “We recognize the challenges imposed by the Budget Control Act, but we believe that now is not the time to divest an aircraft that has demonstrated success in combat for decades and has saved lives, especially at a time when there is no suitable replacement,” the lawmakers said in the letter. “We urge you to reject the President’s request to divest the A-10 aircraft fleet in the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill.” The letter represents the first step in officially requesting continued A-10 funding in the House. In April, the House Armed Services Committee, on which Rep. McSally serves as a member, will meet to mark up the National Defense Authorization Act, legislation to provide funding authorization for national defense operations. During a subcommittee hearing today on the Armed Services Committee, Rep. McSally again questioned Air Force officials about the lack of replacement capabilities for the A-10 and EC-130, two aircraft housed at Davis-Monthan Air Force that the Administration has slated for divestment in Fiscal Year 2016. Both aircraft are currently deployed in combat operations overseas. Video of Rep. McSally’s questioning can be seen HERE. For a PDF of the letter, click HERE. March 25, 2015 The Honorable Rodney Frelinghuysen The Honorable Pete Visclosky Chairman Ranking Member Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Defense Appropriations Subcommittee H-405 The Capitol 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Visclosky, As the subcommittee prepares its Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations legislation, we respectfully ask for your support of the A-10 aircraft fleet. The A-10 provides unmatched Close Air Support (CAS) capability, delivering firepower to save American lives when they are under fire in close proximity to enemy forces. The A-10 offers long loiter time, lethality, survivability, and the ability to strike moving targets in a complex visual fight. It can operate in rugged environments at all altitudes and under weather ceilings or with low visibility. The A-10 also uniquely provides critical Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) capabilities, absolutely vital to ensure downed pilots do not meet the same fate as the Jordanian pilot who was captured and lit on fire by ISIS. A-10s are currently deployed to the Middle East for CSAR and offensive operations in the fight against ISIS. They are also deployed to Europe to reassure and train our allies in CAS in the face of increased Russian aggression. In a March 17th House Armed Services Committee hearing, Secretary of the Air Force Deborah James and Chief of Staff of the Air Force General Mark Welsh both confirmed that mothballing the A-10 was driven by budget constraints only. Over the past several Congresses, both chambers have successfully protected the A-10 fleet from complete divestment, but the equivalent of four squadrons have been mothballed since 2012. Over $1 billion has been invested recently in the A-10 to upgrade its avionics and strengthen its wings, extending its lifespan until 2028. However, the President’s Budget Proposal for Fiscal Year 2016 again directs the Air Force to divest the entire A-10 Fleet, starting with 160 aircraft in FY 16. This divestiture, particularly because of a lack of a similarly-capable replacement platform, puts Americans’ lives at risk. We recognize the challenges imposed by the Budget Control Act, but we believe that now is not the time to divest an aircraft that has demonstrated success in combat for decades and has saved lives, especially at a time when there is no suitable replacement. We urge you to reject the President’s request to divest the A-10 aircraft fleet in the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill. Sincerely,
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after voting against the Republican budget for Fiscal Year 2016: “I appreciate the ideas put forward by my colleagues, but I was elected to represent the voices of Southern Arizonans and their priorities. I’ve continually heard from them that we need to protect retirement programs and ensure we have a military capable of defending us against growing national security threats, and I have concerns that this budget does not meet those priorities.” “The Federal Government’s number one function is to protect American citizens and our interests. From an extremely sophisticated and well-resourced terrorist group in ISIS, to Russia’s increased aggression in Europe, China’s continued military build-up, and Iran marching toward a nuclear capability, we face serious and growing threats to our national security. Drastic across-the-board cuts have already devastated many current capabilities and continue to weaken readiness and hollow out our military.” “As any family in Southern Arizona knows, putting together a budget requires hard decisions. Getting our spending under control and tackling the greatest challenges facing us will require both sides to come together and find common ground to make our country stronger. As this is just the first step in the appropriations process, I look forward to continue working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to protect the priorities of Southern Arizonans and ensure their voices are heard.” Rep. McSally was one of only 17 Republicans to vote against her party’s budget, which passed the House today 228 to 199.
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement following an announcement by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that it will change how it measures the 40-mile eligibility rule for the Veterans Choice Program from a straight-line measurement to road mileage. “I’m glad to see the VA act to increase rural veterans’ access to health care, something my colleagues and I called on them to do earlier this year. Using road mileage instead of the straight-line measurement to determine the 40-mile eligibility for the Veterans Choice Program will increase the number of veterans who qualify for this care and help better meet the health care needs of those who served our nation.” “While this move is a positive step, the Administration still must answer for many concerns my colleagues and I outlined, including the decision to raid funding for the Veterans Choice Program in its Fiscal Year 2016 budget and addressing how to meet a veteran’s specialty need should the VA clinic within 40 miles not offer it. This program was designed and passed into law to make sure veterans affected by unacceptable wait times get the health care they need. The Administration should reconsider its decision to cut funding for this critical program and redouble its efforts to provide our veterans with the care they deserve.” On February 23, 2015, Rep. McSally joined 29 Members of Congress to call on the Administration to change the eligibility measurement under the Veterans Choice Program and explain proposed funding cuts in the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget. The program, which was signed into law last August as part of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, aims to expand network health care coverage to veterans living in rural areas who have experienced wait times exceeding 30 days or live at least 40 miles from the nearest VA clinic.
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today introduced her first legislation of the 114th Congress, a bill to increase penalties for drug spotters operating along our border. The bill follows Rep. McSally’s continued efforts since taking office three months ago to improve border security, which include co-introducing legislation to improve our border strategy and hosting over 20 Members of Congress along the Southern Arizona border. “Since taking office, I’ve made it a top priority to improve our border strategy and make our communities safer, and that’s exactly what this legislation will do,” said Rep. McSally (R-AZ). “During multiple trips to the border, I’ve seen where these spotters operate from and heard frustrations from ranchers and Border Patrol about the lack of consequences and penalties spotters face. Stricter penalties will prevent experienced spotters who are caught from quickly returning to action and deter many others from joining a criminal cartel operation, degrading their ability to circumvent our border controls.” The Transnational Criminal Organization Illicit Spotter Prevention and Elimination Act would increase penalties for transmitting information about the position or surveillance efforts of Border Patrol or destroying United States border controls by increasing fines and imposing a maximum prison time of 10 years. Arizona Senator John McCain today introduced identical companion legislation in the Senate. “All across southern Arizona, so-called ‘spotters’ can be seen sitting on mountains directing drug cartels and human traffickers as they attempt to skirt our laws and illegally cross over the U.S.-Mexico border.” said Senator McCain (R-AZ). “Our legislation would help to dismantle a central part of these cartels’ communications and logistics networks by providing enhanced penalties for spotters. I thank Congresswoman McSally for her leadership on this issue in the House and am pleased to be working together to secure the border and protect Arizona communities.” “Stopping traffickers takes a multifaceted approach that involves degrading their ability to move and communicate,” said Tucson Sector Border Patrol Chief Manuel Padilla Jr. “We need to make sure that after we catch them, spotters don’t end up right back at their posts, and this bill makes the positive step of helping stop and deter these activities.” “Any time we can strengthen consequences for those who jeopardize our residents’ safety, that’s a good thing,” said Cochise County Sheriff Mark Dannels. “I’m glad to see efforts being made by our Members of Congress to take spotters out of action for good and improve security along our border.” Arizona Representatives Trent Franks (R-AZ), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), David Schweikert (R-AZ), and Matt Salmon (R-AZ) joined as original cosponsors of the legislation. The full bill text can be found HERE.
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally yesterday led her first hearing as chair of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee on the threat of chemical attacks. Officials from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and local municipalities testified before the subcommittee about terrorist groups’ use of chemical weapons overseas and the potential of an attack on our homeland. “We find ourselves at a pivotal time in our fight against terrorists around the world. ISIS is better resourced, more brutal, and more organized than any terrorist group to date,” Rep. McSally said during her opening statement. “We must ensure we work to prevent any attacks on U.S. soil, but we must also be prepared should one occur.” Rep. McSally delivers her opening statement To watch Rep. McSally’s opening statement, click HERE. As Rep. McSally’s first hearing as chair, she led questioning of witnesses who included Director of the Chemical Defense Program at DHS Dr. Mark Kirk and Associate Director of the Office of Critical Event Preparedness and Response at Johns Hopkins Hospital Dr. Christina Catlett as well as local response officials. During the hearing, witnesses discussed how chemical facilities in the United States could be targeted to attack Americans. “While hazardous chemicals are vital to the American economy and quality of life, we must recognize that extremists can take advantage of weaknesses in the nation’s transportation system or at chemical facilities to obtain toxic chemicals for nefarious purposes,” said Oklahoma City Fire Department Chief Keith Bryant. Rep. McSally speaking with Essex County, New Jersey Sheriff Armando Fontoura Earlier in the week, Rep. McSally toured the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) National Response Coordination Center and met with FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate to discuss how FEMA is working with state and local entities to coordinate disaster preparedness and response. In addition to serving as chair of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications subcommittee on the Homeland Security Committee, Rep. McSally serves on the House Armed Services Committee. Rep. McSally meets with FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate More photos from yesterday’s hearing and the FEMA site tour can be found HERE.
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Earlier this week, U.S. Representative Martha McSally questioned Air Force Secretary Deborah James and Chief of Staff General Mark Welsh on what it would take to keep the A-10 flying. Noting that the decision to retire the A-10 was budget driven, Secretary James agreed she would not mothball the A-10 if the Air Force had more funds.
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor in honor of Ruth Helm, an aviation pioneer and World War II pilot who passed away recently in Tucson. Ruth was a member of the Women Air Force Service Pilots (WASPs), a group of less than 1,100 women who ferried aircraft across the country during World War II and broke down gender barriers to women serving in the military. Ruth was inducted into the Arizona Aviation Hall of Fame in 1999 and received the Congressional Gold Medal with the other WASP women in 2010. “(The WASP women) were more than role models who broke down gender barriers to serve in the military,” Rep. McSally said on the House floor. “They were my personal wingmen-or wingwomen-and I will be forever grateful to Ruth and all the WASP women for paving the way for me, for serving as my friends and mentors, and for proving that women could be exceptional pilots too.” To watch Rep. McSally’s speech, click HERE. Ruth Helm Love Field, Dallas, TX, 1943 Photo source: https://wingsacrossamerica.us/wasp/ Ruth was born in Grapeland, Texas in 1916 and earned a Bachelor’s Degree from Baylor University in 1937. She earned her pilot’s license through the Civilian Pilot Training Program and joined the WASPs in December, 1942, reporting to the 5th Ferrying Group at Love Field in Dallas. During her career, Ruth flew more than 2,500 hours, including 800 of them for the military. After retiring from flying, she moved to Southern Arizona and remained active in the community, opening one of the first fly-in ranches in the country and co-founding the Institute for Better Education, an organization that provides scholarships to needy students. Full transcript Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Ruth Ellen (Dailey) Helm, who passed away at the age of 98 recently in Tucson. Ruth was a pilot during World War II, one of the first female pilots to serve in our military, and a trail blazer. Unlike many of the male military pilots who served at that time, Ruth was qualified to fly multiple aircraft as a member of the Women Airforce Service Pilots, or WASPs, and she ferried bomber, transport, and pursuit aircraft all over the country during World War II. She was inducted into the Arizona Aviation Hall of Fame in 1999 and awarded the Congressional Gold Medal with her WASP colleagues in 2010. In addition to serving their country, Ruth and the WASPs were pioneers who inspired an entire generation of women to pursue their dreams of serving as pilots in our military, and that includes me. When I was going through the challenges of becoming a fighter pilot in the first wave, there were no mentors to see us through in front of us. But when I needed encouragement or wanted to quit, Ruth and her fellow WASPs, starting 20 years ago, would be there for me to inspire me and encourage me and to give me what I needed to fight another day. They were more than role models who broke down gender barriers to serve in the military. They were my personal wingmen-or wingwomen-and I will be forever grateful to Ruth and all the WASP women for paving the way for me, for serving as my friends and mentors, and for proving that women could be exceptional pilots too.
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) today led an effort by members of the Arizona delegation to call on Postmaster General Megan Brennan to revisit decisions that would consolidate operations at the Cherrybell Processing & Distribution Center in Tucson, effectively terminating all operations there. In a letter co-signed by Representatives Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Rep. McSally and her colleagues requested the factors and metrics used to justify the closure of the Tucson facility and urged Postmaster General Brennan to visit Tucson to see the impacts of the closure first-hand. “Southern Arizona businesses, residents, veterans, and senior citizens rely on the Tucson Postal Processing & Distribution Center/Cherrybell for timely and reliable mail service that delivers everything from our veterans’ medications from the VA to Social Security payments,” the lawmakers said in the letter. In February 2012, after completing a review of distribution operations, the United States Postal Service (USPS) announced it would move all mail processing operations from the Tucson Processing and Distribution Center to Phoenix. USPS continued steps toward closing the center in 2013 and 2014, with full consolidation projected for July 2015. “As shifts and changes have invariably occurred since the original Area Mail Processing (AMP) analysis was conducted in 2011, we seek to understand the factors and metrics used for USPS to justify proceeding with closure of the Tucson facility within the context of the national network,” the lawmakers continued. “It is confounding how other areas of the country with populations smaller than the state of Arizona – such as Vermont and New Hampshire – can be judged to have two processing facilities when a state twice their size and population, with a projected growth rate of 17 percent by 2030, would only have one.” Residents and businesses in Southern Arizona already have reported experiencing delays in mail delivery from previous consolidations. The lawmakers closed by inviting Postmaster General Brennan to see the impacts of those delays and the center’s closure first-hand: “We invite you to visit Tucson, as nothing would please us more than to have the chance to host you on site so that you might witness what we are reporting.” For a PDF version of the letter, click HERE. March 17, 2015 Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260 Dear Postmaster General Brennan: A change in leadership offers every organization a fresh start and a chance to review, and if necessary, reverse prior decisions that no longer make sense. We welcome you to this crucial position and urge you to revisit one decision that has caused widespread concern and potential economic damage to the state of Arizona -- the proposed consolidation that will effectively terminate operations at the Tucson Processing & Distribution Center/Cherrybell. Since the enactment of service delivery standard changes in early January 2015, constituents have expressed their concerns over the negative effects these changes will more than likely have and the possibility of mail exceeding even USPS’ stated delivery goal of 2-4 days. Southern Arizona businesses, residents, veterans, and senior citizens rely on the Tucson Postal Processing & Distribution Center/Cherrybell for timely and reliable mail service that delivers everything from our veterans’ medications from the VA to Social Security payments. The anecdotal experiences are accentuated by the troubling reports from the USPS’ own Inspector General that show there was insufficient consideration of how service standard changes would impact the Tucson region and a lack of public engagement in the process. As shifts and changes have invariably occurred since the original Area Mail Processing (AMP) analysis was conducted in 2011, we seek to understand the factors and metrics used for USPS to justify proceeding with closure of the Tucson facility within the context of the national network. We are concerned that a decision of such significance to the Tucson region and Arizona, as a whole, can be made without clear, transparent and persuasive data that shows no harm to the community. It is confounding how other areas of the country with populations smaller than the state of Arizona – such as Vermont and New Hampshire – can be judged to have two processing facilities when a state twice their size and population, with a projected growth rate of 17 percent by 2030, would only have one. Further, we seek to better understand the decision-making that prompted the reversal of decisions in other similarly-sized or smaller metropolitan areas, including Boston, Detroit and Cincinnati and a decision-delay in Buffalo, NY, when there was no additional study or reconsideration in Tucson, essentially forcing its closure. Madame Postmaster General, we understand the challenges you face, and support exploring the role Congress can play in addressing them. Certainly, as any decision made will have a direct impact on our community, there is a strong need for USPS to provide clear and definable metrics and engage the public in the process. As such, we strongly urge you, at a minimum, to enact a moratorium on continued consolidations to allow USPS to fulfill its regulatory and statutory obligation to engage in a complete, fair, and transparent review of service standard changes and the factors that have led to the consolidation decisions. We invite you to visit Tucson, as nothing would please us more than to have the chance to host you on site so that you might witness what we are reporting. Sincerely,
03.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today called on Secretary of Defense Ash Carter to cease the movement by the Air Force of 18 A-10 Warthogs into Backup Inventory Status (BAI), citing her concern in a letter that the move is a backdoor route to divestment. A former A-10 pilot and squadron commander, Rep. McSally wrote the move would put American troops in danger during a critical time for national security and disrupt military families. “While I understand the realities of budget constraints, this Administration is placing today’s military men and women at greater risk by further cutting the A-10 fleet,” Rep. McSally said in the letter. “My first national security concern is the safe return of any service member who volunteers to fight for our nation.” On February 27, 2015, the Air Force announced it would move 18 A-10’s in backup status, including nine aircraft at Davis Monthan Air Force Base (DM) in Tucson. Rep. McSally called the disproportionate cuts at DM “alarming.” “This Administration already mothballed three A-10 squadrons in the last few years, and this would essentially be the first nearly irreversible step to mothball the equivalent of two squadrons’ worth of aircraft… Once you give orders to the personnel and families to retrain in another aircraft and move them to another base, you cannot easily reverse this decision without significant additional cost and disruption to their lives.” Rep. McSally also noted the increased deployment of A-10s to Europe and the Middle East, citing their unique ability to provide Close Air Support to troops and serve in Combat Search and Rescue missions, and called on the Secretary to release to the public a classified report used to justify the movement of the A-10s. “The classification of the explanation for cutting the most effective Close Air Support platform flies against the open nature of our government. The public has a right to review the analytic methods used, the alternatives assessed, and any competing recommendations.” Rep. McSally has repeatedly pressed the Department of Defense on their lack of a replacement aircraft to provide Close Air Support to troops on the ground and continues to fight to protect the A-10 from early retirement. For a PDF version of the letter, click HERE. The Honorable Ash Carter Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 March 12, 2015 Dear Mr. Secretary, I write this letter to express my objection to placing 18 A-10 Warthogs into Backup Aircraft Inventory (BAI) status. I’m deeply concerned that actions to move 18 planes into BAI status will harm military readiness and put American troops in danger during a critical time for our national security. I’m also concerned this is a backdoor route to divestment. While I understand the realities of budget constraints, this Administration is placing today’s military men and women at greater risk by further cutting the A-10 fleet. My first national security concern is the safe return of any service member who volunteers to fight for our Nation. I urge you to immediately cease any transfers of A-10s to BAI status, which is clearly the first step to putting these aircraft in the boneyard. I am a former A-10 pilot and 354th Fighter Squadron Commander with 325 combat hours in the A-10 in Iraq and Afghanistan. I know first-hand the unique capabilities the A-10 brings to the Close Air Support and Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) missions. As an A-10 squadron commander, I was responsible to deploy 24 aircraft anywhere in the world on 24 hours notice. To meet that requirement, I had 24 primary aircraft assigned (PAA) and three BAI aircraft to ensure we always had 24 aircraft to deploy while accounting for heavy maintenance and normal rates of aircraft malfunctions. This is the intent of BAI, and those three aircraft came with no resources or manpower. I was not in Congress until January 6th, 2015 and would not have supported the 2014 “compromise” provision in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291) that provided any opportunity to put any A-10s into BAI status. This Administration already mothballed three A-10 squadrons in the last few years, and this would essentially be the first nearly irreversible step to mothball the equivalent of two squadrons’ worth of aircraft. This initial decision to put 18 A-10s in BAI status is the equivalent of losing the capabilities of one A-10 squadron. Once you give orders to the personnel and families to retrain in another aircraft and move them to another base, you cannot easily reverse this decision without significant additional cost and disruption to their lives. This Administration closed down the only remaining A-10 squadron in Europe in recent years, and now A-10s from Davis-Monthan are deployed to Europe to show resolve and train our Allies in the face of increased Russian aggression. A-10s are also deployed to the Middle East to conduct strikes against ISIS and provide critical CSAR Rescue Mission Commander (RMC) capabilities. After the barbaric murder of the Jordanian F-16 pilot, we must ensure we have a robust CSAR posture for our pilots flying missions over Iraq and Syria. The A-10 is the only platform and community that is trained and suited for the critical RMC role to locate, communicate with, protect, and coordinate all assets for the rescue of a downed airman. We must use our best resources and capabilities to ensure we do not have an American pilot captured and subject to the same horrific fate as the Jordanian pilot, and the A-10 is a critical part of that mission. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291) explicitly forbids the Air Force from moving any A-10s to BAI status without an independent assessment. By keeping the information in this assessment hidden from the public, you have not honored the intent of Congress. The classification of the explanation for cutting the most effective Close Air Support platform flies against the open nature of our government. The public has a right to review the analytic methods used, the alternatives assessed, and any competing recommendations. Otherwise, it is reasonable to conclude the ‘rubber stamp’ nature of the classified report is simply a backdoor attempt at divestment. I represent Arizona’s 2nd district where Davis-Monthan (DM) Air Force Base houses the U.S. Air Force’s 355th Fighter Wing which has two training A-10 squadrons and one operational squadron (the one I commanded), which is currently deployed to Europe. Of the 18 A-10s you desire to move to BAI status, 9 of them will come from DM. That is 50% of the global cuts and over 10% of the DM fleet. We know from negotiations last year that you desired to close the 354th Fighter Squadron this fiscal year, and this disproportionate distribution of cuts at DM is alarming. I strongly urge you to reconsider this decision. Moving A-10s to BAI status will affect national security, risk the lives of our troops, and disrupt military families. The public deserves to see how the decision was justified. Do not continue to take actions against the intent of Congress, declassify the independent assessment, and recommit the Pentagon to protecting every member of our all-volunteer force by reversing the A-10 BAI status decision. Sincerely, Martha McSally Member of Congress
03.10.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally recently kicked off a busy district work week with events in Cochise and Pima Counties. Her upcoming week includes constituent meetings, a town hall event, and discussions with local officials around Southern Arizona. Below is a sampling of recent and upcoming events. Over the weekend, Rep. McSally spoke at the Pima Air and Space Museum’s Women in Flight Showcase and took part in a hiking tour of Saguaro National Park along with local National Park Service officials to hear about the economic impact of local national parks. On Monday, Rep. McSally toured General Dynamics Information Technology Fort Huachuca/Sierra Vista Headquarters and met with employees of the company supporting Fort Huachuca and the community. Later, she met with administrators at the University of Arizona South to discuss the unique opportunities the campus offers to students in Cochise County. She also was the keynote speaker at the Huachuca 50 Annual Dinner. On Wednesday, Rep. McSally will hold a town hall with employees of Raytheon Missile Systems, Southern Arizona’s largest private employer, as well as meet with members of the Metropolitan Pima Alliance and Alzheimer’s Association. Later in the week, Rep. McSally will meet with the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation to hear the experiences of Second District residents living with Type 1 Diabetes and discuss research efforts to find a cure. Rep. McSally also will participate in the Pima County/Tucson Women’s Commission “Women in Government Day,” held annually to recognize and celebrate the achievements of women within City and County governments. The event coincides with Women’s History Month. On Saturday, Rep. McSally will participate in a ceremony awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to Tucson resident Dorothy Hansen and other former members of the Civil Air Patrol for their contributions to our national defense during World War II. Established in 1941, the Civil Air Patrol took on such challenges during the war as searching for missing aircraft, responding to natural disasters, and defending U.S. ships along our coasts. Congress passed legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian award, to the Civil Air Patrol last May. On Sunday, Rep. McSally will take part in the Wild West Days Parade, a Salute to the Troops on historic Allen Street in Tombstone. Media Availability What: Town Hall with Raytheon Missile Systems employees When: Wednesday, March 11 – 11:00 AM Where: Raytheon Missile Systems (Arizona Tech Park, 9000 S. Rita Road, Building 9030, Tucson, AZ 85747) *Press must RSVP to Patrick Ptak by Tuesday, March 10 at 10:00 AM to gain security access. What: Meeting with the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation When: Thursday, March 12 – 12:00 PM Where: Tucson district office, 4400 E Broadway Blvd., Suite 510, Tucson, AZ 85711 What: Women in Government Day When: Friday, March 13 – 11:30 AM Where: Tucson Convention Center (260 S. Church Ave., Tucson, AZ 85701) What: Civil Air Patrol Congressional Gold Medal Ceremony When: Saturday, March 14 - 1:00 PM Where: Navy Operational Support Center (3655 S. Wilmot Drive, Tucson, AZ 85730) What: Wild West Days Parade, a Salute to the Troops When: Sunday, March 15 – 11:00 AM Where: Tombstone, Arizona (the parade starts at 6th & Allen Streets and concludes at 2nd & Allen Streets by the American Legion)
03.05.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally announced today her office is accepting submissions from local high school students for the Congressional Art Competition, a contest held in each Congressional district across the country that showcases the artistic talents of local students. One winner from the Second District will be selected to have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol along with the winning pieces from other districts and will be invited to attend a reception in Washington, D.C. “The art competition is a great opportunity for young, local artists to showcase their talents and have their art displayed where it will be seen by visitors to our district offices and people from across the country in Washington, D.C.,” said Rep. McSally. “From working with many of the young people around the district, I know it is full of talented, driven individuals, and I look forward to seeing the great works of art they put forward.” The Art Competition is open to high school students living in or attending high school in the Second District. After submissions are collected, a local panel of judges will choose one overall and two runner-up winners and announce them at a reception to be held in the district. The overall winner will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol along with the winning pieces from other Congressional districts and receive an expenses-paid trip to Washington D.C. to attend a reception in his or her honor. The two runner-up winners will have their artwork displayed in the Tucson or Sierra Vista district offices. The deadline for submission is Friday, April 10 at 5:00 p.m. Students can deliver submissions to the Tucson district office at 4400 East Broadway Blvd., Suite 510 or the Sierra Vista district office at 77 Calle Portal, Suite B-160. Guidelines for submission as well as a student release form to be included with submission can be found HERE. Individuals with questions about turning in entries or the guidelines can call the Tucson district office at (520) 881-3588.
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor in recognition of a new statue unveiled in honor of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry, who was killed on December 14, 2010 while on patrol near Nogales, Arizona. The new statue shows Agent Terry carrying a member of his team on his shoulders and was unveiled over the weekend at the Brian A. Terry Border Patrol Station near Naco, Arizona. For a high resolution photo of the statue, click HERE. Transcript Thank you, Mr. Speaker. On Saturday, Border Patrol unveiled a new statue honoring slain agent Brian Terry at the Naco, Arizona Border Station in my district named in Agent Terry’s honor. The statue, depicted here, shows Agent Terry carrying a member of his Border Patrol Tactical Unit on his shoulders and is a fitting tribute to a man who loved his job and his fellow agents. Agent Terry entered service with the Border Patrol on July 23, 2007. Before that he served in the U.S Marine Corps and as a police officer in Michigan. On December 14, 2010, Agent Terry was on patrol with three of his fellow agents in Peck Canyon near Nogales, Arizona when they came across 5 individuals suspected of crossing the border illegally. The agents approached the suspects and were fired upon, prompting them to return fire. In the gun fight that ensued, two agents were wounded, including Agent Terry. He died from his wounds in the desert later that morning while waiting for medical assistance. Agent Terry’s sacrifice is a constant reminder of the dangers those who defend our homeland face every time they put on the uniform. Their job is to protect our communities, and, often, they are the last line of defense against terrorist attacks on our country. Agent Brian Terry gave the ultimate sacrifice to carry out his duties, and every day, agents like him put everything they have on the line to keep us safe. They deserve everything we have to support them. Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the House voted to ensure funding for the Department of Homeland Security: “The first and highest priority of the federal government is to keep Americans safe, and, right now, we face greater threats to our country than I’ve ever seen. Allowing funding for our critical homeland security assets to lapse would not only be irresponsible and harm many families in Southern Arizona, it would put our national security at risk at an increasingly dangerous time.” “The President clearly overreached with his executive actions, and Congress should act to stop his overreach, but not by putting the safety of Americans at risk. As I’ve continually stated, Congress needs to do its job by securing our border and revamping our legal immigration system so it aligns with our economic needs. I will continue to work with my colleagues to find solutions that will improve security along our border, fix our broken immigration system, and make our communities safer.” Today’s legislation provides funding for the Department of Homeland Security including Customs and Border Patrol agents and passed the House 257-167. Last week, Rep. McSally wrote in USA Today about the importance of keeping our national security assets funded, which can be read HERE. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Martha McSally today released the following statement after Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu’s address to Congress: “I was honored to be present for Prime Minister Netanyahu’s speech, shake his hand, and hear his unfiltered perspective at such a critical time. He is exactly right when he says one of the greatest dangers facing our world is the marriage of militant Islam with nuclear weapons, and the deal being worked on by the Administration would quicken that marriage. The deal would be a disaster for regional and global stability, paving the way for a nuclear Iran-the world’s leading sponsor of state terror. This result would not only pose an existential threat to our close ally Israel, but a threat to America and our interests around the world. We must do everything in our power as the leader of the free world to not just contain Iran’s destructive ambitions, but stop them and ensure the defense of Israel.” ###
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. McSally today voted in support of legislation to improve long-term care for veterans. The bill, H.R. 294, the Long-Term Care Veterans Choice Act, would allow eligible veterans to receive medical foster home care to meet their long-term care needs, something currently unavailable to them. “We have a responsibility to do everything in our power to care for the men and women who have served in defense of our country,” said Rep. McSally. “Allowing veterans to receive care at a smaller, more home-like setting, instead of nursing homes, can make a big difference in their daily lives, giving them the improved quality of life and care they deserve.” Yesterday, Rep. McSally hosted Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee Jeff Miller in Tucson to tour the Southern Arizona VA and meet with veteran students at the UA VETS Center. She has actively worked to improve care for Southern Arizona veterans, including recently calling on Administration officials to explain how they’re working to implement critical new programs to improve rural veterans’ access to health care. The Long-Term Care Veterans Choice Act passed today with strong bipartisan support 405 to 0.
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after the House and the Senate voted to extend funding for the Department of Homeland Security for one week: “Keeping our communities safe is a top priority of mine. Instead of holding up funding for the men and women who secure our border and defend our homeland, Congress should act to stop the President’s overreach by doing its job. I remain committed to ensuring that our homeland security assets are funded and will continue to work with my colleagues to secure our border and fix our broken immigration system.” Earlier this week, Rep. McSally wrote in USA Today about the importance of keeping our national security assets funded. Her op-ed can be read HERE. ###
02.27.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally will host Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee Jeff Miller in Tucson Sunday for a tour of the Southern Arizona VA Hospital and to meet with students and administrators at the University of Arizona (UA) VETS Center. The tours will showcase the innovative programs and services being offered to veterans in Southern Arizona. “Southern Arizona has a tradition of excellence in service to our veterans, exemplified by the high quality of care administered at the VA hospital and the nationally recognized VETS Center at the University of Arizona,” said Rep. McSally. “These institutions can serve as a model for veterans communities around the country, and we’re excited Chairman Miller will have a chance to see them first-hand.” Media Availability What: Tour and briefing of University of Arizona VETS Center Who: U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller (R-FL) Where: UA VETS Center, Room 404 on the fourth floor of the UA Student Union Memorial Center (1303 E. University Blvd., Tucson, AZ 85719) Note: Parking is available in the Second Street Garage located north of the Student Union near Second Street and Mountain Avenue. When: Sunday, March 1 3:15 PM Background The Southern Arizona Health Care System serves over 170,000 Veterans located in eight counties in Southern Arizona and one county in Western New Mexico. In Fiscal Year 2014, it treated over 8,000 inpatients, performed over 5,100 surgeries and completed an excess of 680,000 outpatient visits. It employs over 2,400 health care professionals and support staff, making it one of the largest employers in Southern Arizona. The University of Arizona Veterans Education and Transition Services (VETS) Center serves as a one-stop hub of information and services for student veterans and veterans looking to enter the UA and has received national recognition. In May 2014, Senior Vice President Melissa Vito spoke before a Congressional subcommittee on the University’s innovative programs to support student veterans, which include the VETS Center, Disability Resource Center, and Supportive Education for Returning Veterans Program.
02.26.2015	TUCSON – The office of U.S. Representative Martha McSally today announced it is accepting submissions from veterans who qualify as wounded warriors for a fellowship position to be based in either the Tucson or Sierra Vista District Office. The fellow would work with military and veteran constituents to handle veterans-related casework and act as a facilitator between constituents and federal, state, and local agencies. “We make a covenant with our veterans that we will care for them when they return, and making sure we honor that commitment is one of my highest priorities,” said Rep. McSally. “That’s why I’m pleased to be working with the House of Representatives to help make sure veterans and military personnel living in Southern Arizona have access to our federal government and the care and services they have earned.” The Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program was established by the House of Representatives to provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within Member or Committee offices. The program is limited to veterans who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, with less than 20 years of service and have a minimum 30% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs. Interested veterans should submit a resume, copy of the last DD214 issued, and a letter from the VA indicating a 30% or greater rating (not necessary if medically retired) to housewoundedwarriors@mail.house.gov. More information can be found by calling the Wounded Warrior Program Office at 202-226-1965 or by visiting www.cao.house.gov. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S Representative Martha McSally today was appointed to a bipartisan task force assigned to develop solutions to increase U.S. security against the risk of foreign terrorists. The Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel is comprised of 5 Republicans and 3 Democrats and will meet with top government officials and security experts to evaluate the U.S. government’s efforts to prevent foreign fighters from traveling to the U.S. and develop legislative recommendations to increase U.S. security. “I’m honored to have the opportunity to use my experience overseeing counter-terrorism operations to help improve our nation’s security measures,” said Rep. McSally. “We face unprecedented threats from Islamist terrorist groups abroad, who control vast amounts of ungoverned territory and have a growing ability to reach and recruit foreign fighters – many of whom have Western passports. We have to make sure we have a strategy in place to prevent these fighters from traveling to the U.S. to carry out attacks, and I look forward to reviewing what programs are in place and working with my colleagues to enhance our security.” “It’s critical that we continue to provide robust oversight of the Administration’s security measures in the face of the growing threat of foreign fighters, and there may be nobody more qualified for that task than Rep. McSally,” said Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, Michael McCaul. “Her experience leading oversight of counter-terrorism missions will be a great asset to the task force and we look forward to seeing the recommendations she and her colleagues put forth.” Experts estimate that the total number of foreign fighters to join Sunni Islamist groups in Iraq and Syria exceeds 20,000, making the Syria and Iraq conflict the largest mobilization of foreign fighters in history. Over 4,000 fighters are estimated to come from Western Europe, where many countries have preferred visa status that allows their citizens to travel to the U.S without going through the visa acquisition process. Prior to her retirement from the Air Force, Rep. McSally was handpicked as part of the initial leadership team tasked to stand up U.S. Africa Command and went on to lead oversight of counter-terrorism missions for the continent of Africa. She is a member of the Homeland Security Committee and chairs the subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications. ###
02.23.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today called on the Administration in a letter to explain proposed funding cuts to the Veterans Choice program in the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 Budget. The new program, which was signed into law last August as part of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, aims to expand network health care coverage to veterans living in rural areas who have experienced wait times exceeding 30 days or live at least 40 miles from the nearest VA clinic. In the letter, Rep. McSally and her colleagues said: “It has been over half a year since the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act was signed into law, yet veterans are still struggling to gain adequate healthcare. More importantly, for those of us who represent rural districts, the Veterans Choice program represented a new opportunity to address the wait time backlog for veterans. While this program aims to help veterans living in areas with limited VA access, details surrounding its implementation, and the president’s recent budget, have raised some concerns.” The letter was signed by 29 Members of Congress, who requested Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert McDonald respond to several questions about the Administration’s proposal to reduce funding for programs that aim to increase rural veterans’ access to health care. To view a PDF of the letter, click HERE. The full text of the letter is below. The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald, It has been over half a year since the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act was signed into law, yet veterans are still struggling to gain adequate healthcare. More importantly, for those of us who represent rural districts, the Veterans Choice program represented a new opportunity to address the wait time backlog for veterans. While this program aims to help veterans living in areas with limited VA access, details surrounding its implementation, and the president’s recent budget, have raised some concerns. Last week, President Obama released his Fiscal Year 2016 budget and chose to raid funding for the Veterans Choice Program that he signed into law a mere 6 months ago. The Choice Program was designed to directly help eligible veterans seek care outside the Veteran Affairs (VA) network if they experience a wait time over 30 days or don’t live within 40 miles of a VA clinic. As a pillar of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, it stood to show Americans that the VA was trying to improve and change its scandal plagued culture. Simply put, cutting funding for this program to relieve other deficit shortfalls is a step backward for those of us who supported this breakthrough legislation. Although the President’s budget is just a proposal and the VA network has improved since its widespread scandal in 2014, members of Congress are still left asking themselves many of the same questions. Fundamentally, how can we effectively care for our veterans? Basic in nature, this question sets the foundation for improvement. To answer it, several questions need to be asked regarding the programs designed to improve our veterans’ lives: Was the VA consulted before determining cuts to funding for the Veterans Choice program? Are the cuts a signal by the VA that the program has been unsuccessful and will not be renewed? Although some veterans live within the 40 mile limit set by the VA to be eligible for the Choice Card program- roads seldom create such direct path. Shouldn’t the 40 mile VA clinic proximity rule apply to actual road mileage? What steps are being taken to address concerns about VA facilities that are within the 40 mile limit, but do not provide the necessary medical services the veteran requires? How effective has the VA been in reimbursing health care providers who accept the Choice Card? As Congress continues with its budget process in the weeks and months ahead, knowing the current state of the Choice Card program will allow members to consider appropriate funding levels. We appreciate all the work you have done on behalf of veterans and look forward to your response. Sincerely,
02.17.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after a United States District Court issued a preliminary injunction blocking President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration: “The President himself has already said he doesn’t have the authority to unilaterally change immigration laws, and today’s ruling confirms that. But it doesn’t change the fact that we have a broken immigration system and an unsecure border that’s putting Southern Arizonans at risk. We have to take action to fix our immigration system so it aligns with our economic needs and secure our border, and neither side can get it done alone. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to find solutions that will make our communities safer and our immigration system stronger and I urge the President to work with us, not continue to go it alone.”
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) and U.S. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) today released the following statement on the deployment of 12 A-10 Thunderbolt IIs from Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in Tucson, Arizona, to Europe to help support NATO’s presence in the face of Russian aggression in Ukraine: “Arizona is very proud of the hundreds of men and women from Davis-Monthan deploying in support of Operation Atlantic Resolve, reassuring our NATO allies and partners in the face of continued Russian aggression in Ukraine. Our state has a long and distinguished record of contributing to the security of the nation though our military installations, the thousands who serve there, and our communities which do so much to care for them. “In a time of great tension in Europe, the fact that the Air Force is deploying this contingent of A-10 Thunderbolts and the airmen who support them reflects once again the A-10’s continued role as the finest close air-support platform in the U.S. inventory. It is also a vivid reminder of the great folly of this Administration’s attempts to retire the A-10 fleet without fielding a suitable replacement – efforts we will do everything in our power to oppose.”
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today joined C-SPAN’s Washington Journal to speak with viewers about the President’s proposed Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) to combat ISIS, which the Administration released today. The request comes a day after Administration officials confirmed the death of Arizona native Kayla Mueller at the hands of ISIS. Members of the Arizona Congressional delegation led a moment of silence today on the House floor in honor of Kayla, which can be seen HERE. To listen to Rep. McSally’s comments on the proposed AUMF, click HERE or the video below. To listen to the full interview on ISIS, our military budget, and the use of A-10s in combat, click HERE. Quotes “As somebody who wore the uniform for 26 years, it seems pretty cut and dry what we’re trying to do to make sure the commander-in-chief has the tools that he needs and the military has the tools that they need to meet the objectives to address the threats to America.” “I don’t take that lightly, authorizing anybody to go to a combat zone, but we’ve seen ISIS is a very tremendous terrorist threat to us and, again, we’ve seen it close to home here in Arizona with our own being lost.” “This is a generational conflict against Islamist extremists and we are their main target. They want nothing more than to be able to attack America and our way of life and our freedoms and what we believe in. This is an ideological struggle and they have military capabilities and they don’t just want to stay where they are.”
02.10.2015	TUCSON – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today in a statement expressed her condolences to the family of Kayla Mueller, the Arizona native who had been held hostage by ISIS, after her family confirmed her death today. “I offer my sincerest condolences to Kayla’s family, friends, and loved ones on the loss of such a compassionate and extraordinary person,” said Rep. McSally. “Kayla was a light in this world when so often there was only darkness. With her premature and tragic death, the world misses out on a lifetime of compassion and service that she no doubt would have given. As we remember the incredible person she was, we also should resolve to carry on her legacy and be a light in the darkness for those suffering or in need.” Kayla Mueller was an Arizona native from Prescott and 2009 graduate of Northern Arizona University. Her family confirmed this morning her death over a year after she was reportedly taken captive by terrorists in Syria.
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement after President Obama requested in his budget to retire the A-10 Warthog ahead of schedule and retire 7 EC-130 Compass Call aircraft at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. “Even as we’re seeing the A-10 play a crucial role in the fight against ISIS and EC-130’s being deployed from D-M, the President is again making the irresponsible decision to retire these aircraft ahead of schedule,” said Rep. McSally. “Not only will this decision weaken our defense capabilities and jeopardize our national security, it will endanger the lives of American troops deployed in harm’s way.” “Cutting back a one of a kind capability with no clear replacement is an example of a budget-based strategy, not a strategy-based budget, which is what we need to meet our defense needs. The President’s request represents a nearly $40 billion increase in defense spending, yet he still is not prioritizing resources for the Air Force’s best close air support asset. Currently, there is no other asset in our inventory or under development that can match the lethality, loiter time, and survivability of the A-10. In fact, just last week, Pentagon officials told me that any replacement for the A-10 would take 10-15 years to develop. Considering taxpayers recently invested over $1 billion to upgrade and modernize the A-10 fleet, which has the lowest per-flight-hour cost of any aircraft in use, this decision is not only reckless, but wasteful.” “Congress made clear its position to preserve the A-10 during last year’s budget debate and that position has not changed. I will continue to work with my colleagues to protect the A-10 and look forward to engaging Air Force officials at upcoming hearings to make sure our budget decisions meet our national security needs.” Last week, Rep. McSally called on President Obama and Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel in a letter to preserve funding for the A-10. In the letter, McSally noted that the Air Force’s use of A-10s in 11 percent of sorties against the terrorist group ISIS in just a three month time period demonstrates the A-10’s continued importance and battlefield success. McSally recently was appointed to serve on the Tactical Air and Land Forces subcommittee on the Committee on Armed Services, which oversees tactical operations such as providing close air support to our troops and modernization and procurement of military aircraft. The subcommittee is expected to meet with top Air Force officials in coming months on issues such as the use and deployment of the A-10. ###
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today called on President Obama and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel to include funding for the A-10 Thunderbolt II in the Administration’s FY 2016 budget, noting in a letter the irreplaceable capabilities the A-10 brings to the battlefield. McSally, who flew the A-10 in combat and commanded the one deployable A-10 squadron at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, has made protecting the A-10 a top priority. “From my experience as an A-10 pilot and Squadron Commander, I know first-hand the unique capabilities of the A-10 in Close Air Support (CAS), Forward Air Control-Airborne (FAC-A), and Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) missions. The Warthog is anything but a “single mission aircraft” and there is simply no other asset that can match its lethality, loiter time, and survivability. The decision to retire it is reckless and will put American lives at risk,” McSally said in the letter. On January 9, 2015 and more recently on January 15, 2015, Department of Defense and Air Force officials reiterated their positions to retire the A-10 ahead of schedule, while noting the A-10’s involvement in combat missions against the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). McSally pointed to the battlefield success of the A-10 in the fight against ISIS as a sign of its continued importance. “When American troops find themselves in perilous positions on the battlefield, there is no better sound overhead than the A-10 bringing its 30 mm gun to bear on the enemy, often in very close proximity to friendly forces or civilians. There is simply no other asset in the inventory or under development that can match these crucial capabilities.” The A-10 originally was scheduled to remain in the Air Force inventory until at least 2028. The Air Force recently invested over $1 billion in upgrades to the A-10 fleet, including rebuilding the wings and upgrading the avionics to increase its lifespan, capabilities, and survivability. “Last year the House and Senate both overwhelmingly rejected the DoD’s proposal to mothball the A-10. That position has not changed in the 114th Congress. I strongly urge you to reconsider any language that may be included in the Fiscal Year 2016 budget that would cut funding to the A-10.” McSally recently was appointed to serve on the Tactical Air and Land Forces subcommittee on the Committee on Armed Services, which oversees tactical operations such as providing close air support to our troops and modernization and procurement of military aircraft. The subcommittee is expected to meet with top Air Force officials in coming months on issues such as the use and deployment of the A-10. To view a PDF version of the letter, click HERE. January 29, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 The Honorable Chuck Hagel Secretary of Defense Department of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301 Dear President Obama and Secretary Hagel, On January 9, 2015, the Department of Defense (DoD) reiterated its commitment to retiring the A-10 Thunderbolt II, also known as the “Warthog.” On that date, Defense Department spokesman, Admiral John Kirby, expressed in a Pentagon news conference that despite the A-10 involvement in current combat missions against the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), the DoD was not changing its position on retiring the A-10. I am deeply concerned with the fact that the DoD is again trying to mothball such a one of a kind asset that saves American lives deployed in harm’s way. I am a retired Air Force Colonel and A-10 pilot with 325 combat hours in the A-10 in Iraq and Afghanistan. I had the privilege of commanding an A-10 operational squadron from 2004-2006, including a combat deployment to Afghanistan in 2005-2006. From my experience as an A-10 pilot and Squadron Commander, I know first-hand the unique capabilities of the A-10 in Close Air Support (CAS), Forward Air Control-Airborne (FAC-A), and Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) missions. The Warthog is anything but a “single mission aircraft” and there is simply no other asset that can match its lethality, loiter time, and survivability. The decision to retire it is reckless and will put American lives at risk. The A-10 was originally scheduled to remain in the Air Force inventory until at least 2028. The taxpayer recently invested over $1B to upgrade the A-10 to the A-10C model and rebuild the wings to increase the lifespan, capabilities and survivability. Despite these investments, the comments made by Admiral Kirby show that the DoD still desires to send the A-10 to the boneyard as soon as possible. The proponents of taking such actions blame budget constraints brought on by sequestration. However, with the lowest per-flight-hour cost, the A-10 remains our most survivable, affordable, and cost effective air to ground aircraft. When American troops find themselves in perilous positions on the battlefield, there is no better sound overhead than the A-10 bringing its 30 mm gun to bear on the enemy, often in very close proximity to friendly forces or civilians. I have seen the Department’s misleading statistics that state the A-10 only performed a small percentage of CAS missions in Afghanistan. I hope you know that there is a big difference between a CAS mission where a ground controller is stationary and able to provide 8 digit coordinates of a fixed target to a fast mover or bomber, and some of the more complex CAS missions scenarios where enemy and friendly forces are on the move and in very close proximity, increasing the risk of fratricide. These other assets are simply less capable than the Warthog in these dangerous scenarios, and we owe it to the men and women in uniform to provide the best air support overhead. The A-10 also provides the best FAC-A and CSAR Rescue Mission Commander capabilities to maximize firepower and rescue downed airmen or isolated personnel in hostile territory. There is simply no other asset in the inventory or under development that can match these crucial capabilities. The battlefield success of the A-10 has been demonstrated frequently during Operation Inherent Resolve. Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James recently noted that the A-10 has performed 11 percent of Air Force sorties against ISIS. This statistic contains an important caveat. Other Air Force assets have been engaged in operations against ISIS since August, but the Air Force did not start deploying the A-10 until November. That the A-10 was used in 11 percent of all operations in just three months signals the Air Force is frequently using the aircraft against the group. In fact, recent reports stated that an A-10 mission carried out air strikes that killed and wounded dozens of ISIS components near Mosul. Iraqi News went so far as to note that “the aircraft sparked panic in the ranks of ISIS.” Last year the House and Senate both overwhelmingly rejected the DoD’s proposal to mothball the A-10. That position has not changed in the 114th Congress. I strongly urge you to reconsider any language that may be included in the Fiscal Year 2016 budget that would cut funding to the A-10. To do so would significantly reduce the Air Force’s unique capability to provide unrivaled firepower and protection for American troops on the ground. Sincerely, Martha McSally Member of Congress
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today spoke on the House floor about ending human trafficking in Southern Arizona and around the country. McSally's remarks came as the House of Representatives debated 12 bills designed to enhance tools available for law enforcement, provide resources to help identify and respond to instances of trafficking, and improve services to care for victims. To watch Rep. McSally’s remarks, click HERE. Video of McSally Speaks on Ending Human Trafficking A list of bills considered by the House to help end trafficking can be found at the Judiciary Committee’s website HERE. Transcript of remarks Thank you Madame Speaker, Chairman Sensenbrenner, Congresswoman Wagner, and all the other members for your hard work on this important legislation put forward last night and today to combat human trafficking. Human trafficking is a 21st century form a slavery and it’s devastating lives across the country. In Arizona’s Second Congressional district, a lack a resources to identify victims, prevent instances of trafficking, and prosecute those who participate leads to many young girls and boys being victimized by these traffickers. I spoke very recently with Jerry Peyton, the Founder of an organization called, “Sold No More,” dedicated to ending trafficking in Tucson, Arizona. Jerry experienced the devastation of trafficking firsthand in his own family. His daughter, Lisa, who was a high school honors student, ran away from home after the death of her boyfriend, where she quickly was preyed upon by traffickers and forced into smuggling and prostitution. Jerry found his daughter living with five men who ran a drug ring and was able to rescue her, yet the police never apprehended the men who victimized Lisa. The only police record of the incident reads: “A juvenile returned to the custody of her parents.” Jerry’s family’s experiences highlight the growing need for resources to train law enforcement to identify and respond to instances of trafficking. He told me that in Pima County, there’s not a single law enforcement officer in any agency dedicated full-time to the trafficking issue. Before 2010, there had not been a single case of sex trafficking in Pima County, despite arrests for prostitution that treat victims like criminals. And when they place online ads in “backpages” for clearly young victims, within 24 hours, there’s 100 calls that come in looking to exploit these victims. This is wrong. We can start raising awareness of trafficking by changing the perception of trafficking victims. It is estimated that only about 10% of those trafficked in our country have come across the border. The overwhelming majority are runaways and vulnerable children who are preyed upon. These are our neighbors, being trafficked in our communities, not some distant, far off place. Under the surface of our communities, sex trafficking is a prevalent and devastating reality. Widely attended events like the Super Bowl coming up in Glendale, Arizona or the annual gem show in Tucson act like a magnet for traffickers, and unfortunately, their victims. It’s critical that we pass this bill to prosecute all offenders who victimize, participate, and advertise, including online, in the trafficking of children. We also must support efforts to raise awareness and educate those who work in law enforcement, health care, child protective services, and elsewhere to prevent all trafficking, give law enforcement the tools they need to be proactive, and care for the victims after they’ve been rescued. I support this legislation and the other 11 bills put forward to combat human trafficking and urge support from my colleagues. ###
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a markup hearing yesterday held by the House Homeland Security Committee, U.S. Representative Martha McSally successfully offered an amendment to the Secure Our Borders First Act, legislation to gain and maintain control of our borders. McSally’s amendment directs Border Patrol resources to be placed at the border, instead of miles inland, requires more manpower at forward operating bases, and requires additional manning and deployment of air assets to rapidly respond to incursions in remote areas. “I thank my colleagues on the committee for their support of my amendment, which is critical to stopping illegal activity at the border and protecting our residents,” said McSally. “Right now, our border patrol agents do all they can to stop illegal activity, but our current “defense in depth” strategy just isn’t working. It puts the lives of Southern Arizonans at risk, while allowing traffickers and cartels to enter and move through our communities. I’ve had a lot of conversations with our border residents, and re-focusing our strategy at the border is a top priority I’ve heard. By directing resources actually at the border, adding manpower to forward operating bases in remote areas, and taking advantage of our airborne assets, my amendment helps ensure our residents are kept safe and illegal activity is kept out.” “Rep. McSally has provided a solid amendment helping those Americans who are affected by our porous border,” said Rep. Michael McCaul, chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. “I believe her amendment strengthens the overall direction of the bill and helps protect the American people and sovereignty of this nation.” Rep. McSally’s amendment directs the Chief of Border Patrol to ensure Border Patrol personnel are deployed and patrol as close to the international boundary as possible. The amendment requires the Chief to deploy the maximum practicable amount of agents to forward operating bases in remote areas and requires the use of air capabilities and other assets to respond quickly to incursions in remote areas. Finally, the amendment requires the Border Security Verification Commission, a commission established by the bill to independently verify that the border is secure, to consult with ranchers living along the border. The full text of Rep. McSally’s amendment can be seen HERE. McSally joined Chairman McCaul to introduce the Secure Our Borders First Act on Friday, January 16, but expressed concerns at the time about its direct impact on Southern Arizona. McSally has spent her first two weekends in office meeting with ranchers, border residents, and Customs and Border Protection agents to gain their insights to direct a better strategy for Southern Arizona.
01.20.2015	TUCSON - U.S. Representative Martha McSally announced she will attend the State of the Union on January 20 with a member of the Boys & Girls Clubs of Tucson, Gilbert Valenzuela, an honors student at Alta Vista High School and the 2015 Roy Drachman Clubhouse Youth of the Year. Members of Congress are given one ticket each year to invite a guest to the President’s speech. “Even at his young age, Gilbert exhibits an incredible passion for giving back and making a positive difference in his community through volunteerism and community service,�? said McSally. “His work with the Boys and Girls Clubs allows Gilbert to share his energy and positive attitude with other youngsters to motivate them to excel in school and stay on a positive trajectory. I can’t think of anyone more deserving or appropriate to come to Washington for this great tradition and represent Southern Arizona at the State of the Union.�? Linda Wojtowicz, CEO of the Boys & Girls Clubs of Tucson noted, “Civic engagement and academic excellence are at the core of the mission of the Clubs. This opportunity provided by Representative McSally offers Gilbert the chance to reinforce these critical areas as he looks toward creating a Great Future.�? “I never imagined I would be going to Washington DC and be present when the President addresses the nation,�? said Valenzuela. “I am so thankful that by participating in the Boys & Girls Clubs, working hard in school and pursuing my dreams every day has put me in a position to do this really cool thing. I’m beyond honored to have been chosen to represent my Clubhouse and my community.�? Gilbert is 17 years old and has been a member of the Roy Drachman Clubhouse for ten years. He actively participates in the Keystone Service Club and has created the Hip-Hop Club where he shares his musical and performing talents with other members. His goal is to be a professional music artist, recording engineer, and run his own recording studio/record label. He plans to attend college when he graduates Alta Vista High School in 2016.
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today joined chairman of the Homeland Security Committee Michael McCaul to introduce The Secure Our Borders First Act, legislation to gain and maintain control of our nation’s land and maritime borders. The Committee on Homeland Security, on which McSally serves as a member, is expected to consider the legislation through the regular order process before bringing it to the House floor. “Earlier this week, the House passed legislation to make sure our homeland security assets are funded and now, this bill takes the important step of addressing and improving our broken border strategy,” said McSally. “I’ve been working hand in hand with Chairman McCaul to make sure this legislation takes into account our residents’ experiences living along the border and addresses their needs and concerns. While I support the bill, I have some concerns still about its direct impact on Southern Arizona and intend to work with the Chairman to ensure they get addressed by the Committee and included in a final bill.” “The federal government’s number one priority under the Constitution is to provide for the common defense, but when it comes to border security the administration has failed,” said chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, Michael McCaul. “Failure is not an option on this issue, so Congress must lead. The Secure Our Borders First Act ensures a smart, safe, and cost-effective border by building fencing where fencing is needed and allocating technology where technology is needed.” The Secure Our Borders First Act establishes a better strategy for securing our border by emphasizing the smart application of resources and creating quantifiable targets for success. The bill includes measures to: Gain “Operational Control” of the High Traffic Areas of the southern border in two years and “Operational Control” along the entire southern border in five years; Deploy specified technology and new infrastructure to increase security in targeted areas; Establish metrics used to measure the effectiveness and success of our border strategy; Enforce penalties on the Department of Homeland Security political appointees if they fail to meet the terms of the bill; Provide funding for National Guard along our border; And require the establishment of an exit strategy using biometric data to address visa overstays.
01.15.2015	HERSHEY – Following a briefing by Air Force officials on the state of the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Representative Martha McSally today reiterated her support for the A-10 Warthog and its importance to our national security: “The A-10 continues to be a critical asset to our military and its ability to provide close air support to our troops, demonstrated by the fact that we currently have A-10s deployed in the fight against ISIS,” said McSally. “Having flown the A-10 and commanded a squadron of A-10s in combat, I know first-hand it brings irreplaceable capabilities to the battlefield, as we’re currently seeing in the Middle East. We must not overlook the importance of defending against the serious and growing threats we currently face as we plan for the long-term, which is why I pledge to continue working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to ensure this important weapons system is not prematurely retired.”
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today voted to pass legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security through fiscal year 2015. The bill provides additional funding for Customs and Border Protection agents to do their jobs while improving security along our border. “I’m glad to see the House pass legislation to fund our homeland security assets and ensure those who protect our border have the resources they need,” said McSally. “Improving border security is something on which Southern Arizonans can agree, and today’s vote gets us closer to that goal, but it is only step one. We need to continue working to address our broken border strategy. That’s why I’m working with the Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee to craft legislation that places more of our resources at the border and stops cartels, traffickers, and criminal organizations before they enter our communities.” “By refusing to work with Congress and acting alone on immigration, the President has set a dangerous precedent that threatens the very Constitutional principles and separation of powers on which our country is founded. It’s critical that Congress, as the direct representation of the people, stand up for those principles. Going forward, our focus needs to be on securing our border and revamping the legal immigration system so it is consistent with our economic needs and provides a way for people who want to come here to work hard and contribute a simple, fast, and legal way to do so.” On December 11, 2014, Congress passed a short-term funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) by extending its current funding level until February 27, 2015. H.R. 240, which passed the House today 236 to 191, provides $39.7 billion in discretionary funding for DHS and prioritizes frontline security, which includes operational, counterterrorism, threat-targeting activities, and essential tactical equipment. The bill increases funding for Customs and Border Protection (CBP) by $118.7 million, supporting the largest operational force levels in history – 21,370 Border Patrol agents and 23,775 CBP officers. The bill also includes over $750 million for cybersecurity operations administered by DHS to prevent cyber-attacks and foreign espionage.
01.09.2015	TUCSON – On her first weekend after being sworn-in to Congress, U.S. Representative Martha McSally will tour Customs and Border Protection (CBP) installations with CBP officers and meet with ranchers and border residents to discuss the issue of border security. McSally, a member of the Committee on Homeland Security, has made improving our border strategy a top priority in Congress. “One of the top concerns I’ve heard about from Southern Arizonans is the safety of our communities, especially as it relates to security along our border” said McSally. “I’ve made numerous trips to our border with ranchers and know first-hand it is not secure. That’s why one of my first actions in Congress will be to meet with border residents and those charged with protecting our border to gain their perspective on how we can better protect our communities.” “We’re one of only nine southern border districts in the entire country, which means the experiences of our residents are invaluable to the work of Congress. I’ll take my experiences along the border and what I hear on Saturday directly back to Washington and the Committee on Homeland Security to add our residents' insights to legislation being worked on by the committee and help bring about a better strategy for Southern Arizona.” On Saturday morning, McSally will meet with Customs and Border Protection Agents, including Joint Field Command - Arizona, Commander Paul Beeson, Chief Patrol Agent Manuel Padillia, and Division Chief Tim York for a briefing and tour of the Joint Intelligence and Operations Center in Tucson. From there, the group will head out for an aerial tour of the West Desert area, an area ranging from Nogales to the Arizona/New Mexico border. Later, the group will visit the Hedglen Forward Operating Base near the state line followed by a tour of the Brian A. Terry Station and its area of responsibility, which covers approximately 1,175 square miles in Cochise County. The station is one of eight located in the Tucson sector and has been one of the busiest CBP stations in terms of apprehensions. After the tour, McSally will meet with a group of over a dozen ranchers and border residents to hear about their experiences living along the border. Following the discussion, McSally will host a conference call with members of the press and rancher John Ladd to discuss the day’s events. Details for the call are below. McSally serves on the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee and is chairman of the Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security. CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION (pending confirmation) Date: Saturday, January 10 Time: 4:45 PM Call-in #: 888-810-4789 Participant passcode: 64625 Please RSVP to Patrick Ptak at repmcsallypress@gmail.com or (630) 615-1068.
01.08.2015	TUCSON - U.S. Representative Martha McSally today released the following statement marking the four-year anniversary of the shooting in Tucson, Arizona that killed 6 people and wounded 13 others, including U.S. Representatives Gabrielle Giffords and Ron Barber. "Four years ago, our community was shaken to its core by an act of senseless violence that took the lives of six of our own and wounded thirteen others. They were our friends, neighbors, and loved ones. Our community still carries the enduring pain of their loss but also the bright recollection of their lives and memories." "We remember the victims and what they came to do that day: speak with their elected representative. We remember the selfless acts of bravery and love by those who put themselves in harm's way, even giving their own lives to save others. We remember how the city of Tucson came together, in grief and consolation, to move forward with a spirit of compassion and strength that was felt across the nation." "Our thoughts and prayers continue to be with the family and loved ones of those lost or wounded, who carry the pain of what happened on that quiet Saturday each and every day. We are inspired by their courage; made stronger by their strength." "Today, as the bells ring out from the University of Arizona and in the moments of silence that follow, our community, united and strong, proclaims with one voice: we will never forget those we lost." Christina Taylor Green Dorothy Morris John Roll Phyllis Schneck Dorwan Stoddard Gabriel "Gabe" Zimmerman *In recognition of the anniversary, the above statement along with the names of those who perished will be entered into the Congressional Record.
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Martha McSally today was sworn in as a member of the 114th Congress. Shortly after being sworn-in, McSally voted in favor of legislation to ease burdens on small business owners and incentivize the hiring of out of work veterans. “I’m humbled by this opportunity to serve the people of Southern Arizona and be their voice in Congress,” said McSally. “I stepped up to serve and was elected to help bring Southern Arizonans more economic opportunity, to help those struggling in our community get ahead, and the legislation passed today is a strong first step.” “Southern Arizona is home to over 80,000 veterans, many of them returning home in hopes of finding a good job that will provide for them and their families. Today’s bill will ease restrictions on small business owners and give our soldiers a leg up as they look to transition to civilian life.” Rep. McSally pictured with family Currently, Obamacare mandates that employers with 50 full-time employees provide health care to all workers. Included in this count are veterans who already receive health care through Tricare or the VA. The Hire More Heroes Act exempts veterans who already receive health care from being counted toward the employer mandate, reducing burdens on small business owners and incentivizing the hiring of out of work veterans. McSally was an original cosponsor of the legislation, which passed the House today 412 to 0.
01.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative-elect Martha McSally today was appointed to chair the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response and Communications on the Committee on Homeland Security. The appointment to chair one of six subcommittees under the Committee on Homeland Security is a significant appointment for a freshman Member of Congress. “With her background of providing leadership in the military, Congresswoman McSally is well-prepared to take on the role of Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response and Communications,” said chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, Michael McCaul. “I look forward to working with her and all the members of the subcommittee to provide oversight of our government’s emergency preparedness and ensure we are doing all we can to keep Americans safe.” “I’m honored to lead the Homeland Security Committee’s efforts to provide oversight of our government’s emergency systems and make sure our country is best equipped to deal with emergency situations,” said McSally. “I look forward to working with all my colleagues on the subcommittee to help ensure our preparedness is at its highest level.” The Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response and Communications provides oversight on issues such as threats posed by bioterrorism, the interoperability of the nation’s emergency communications, and disaster response and preparedness. McSally also was appointed to the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security on the Homeland Security Committee, which provides oversight of Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement and handles issues related to border security, ports of entry, and Coast Guard operations.
