02.27.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), a Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus’ Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019: “For far too long Congress has sat idly by as countless Americans have lost their lives to senseless gun violence. That ended today with the House passing the Bipartisan Background Checks Act. Requiring background checks for all firearm purchases and closing the gun show loophole both have large public support, and they are an important first step in making our communities safer. Today’s vote reflects our commitment to addressing the gun violence epidemic in our country. It is now up to the Senate to follow our lead and pass this long overdue bill.” ###
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.J. Res. 46, a resolution to terminate President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border: “Today, the House voted to stop President Trump’s unconstitutional abuse of emergency power. There is no sudden emergency at the border. Furthermore, the wall does not address any of the alleged problems outlined by the President. We know the wall would not reduce crime, stop the flow of drugs into the country, nor address the issue of refugees seeking asylum at ports of entry. “By trying to raid the Department of Defense’s military construction budget, the President would directly harm our national security. If Republicans and the courts legitimize this unconstitutional abuse of power, then they cannot raise objections when a Democratic President eventually decides to issue an emergency declaration to address legitimate issues.” # # #
02.26.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Chairman Bobby Scott (VA-03), House Committee on Education and Labor, and Chairman Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (NMI-AL), House Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education, along with 96 other cosponsors, introduced the Child Care for Working Families Act − a comprehensive early learning and child care bill to ensure affordable, high-quality child care for working middle class families and those living paycheck to paycheck. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), ranking member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, Senator Bob Casey (D-PA), and Senator Mazie Hirono (D-HI) introduced a companion bill in the Senate with 35 cosponsors. “The high cost of child care is a heavy burden that falls on children, families, and our economy as a whole. Children are too often denied the foundation they need to reach their potential, parents are forced to choose between child care and work, and these challenges have both short- and long-term consequences for our economy. The Child Care for Working Families Act addresses this national crisis by ensuring that all families can afford to send their children to a quality child care program that will support them through a critical stage in their lives,” said Chairman Bobby Scott, House Committee on Education and Labor. “All around the country, parents are struggling to find and afford high-quality child care, and some are even being forced to work fewer hours or not work at all, so they can take care of their children,” said Ranking Member Murray, Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. “I know we can do better—that is why I’m proud to reintroduce the Child Care for Working Families Act today to ensure every working family has access to high-quality, affordable child care, and that our child care educators are paid what they deserve. This is not only the right thing to do for working families, but it’s a smart investment in our children, our future, and our economy.” The Child Care for Working Families Act would address the current early learning and care crisis by ensuring that no family under 150 percent of state median income pays more than seven percent of their income on child care. Families would pay their fair share for care on a sliding scale, regardless of the number of children they have. Families under 75 percent of the state median income will not have to pay anything at all. The bill would also support universal access to high-quality preschool programs for all 3- and 4-year olds. Finally, the bill would significantly improve compensation and training for the child care workforce to ensure that our nation’s teachers and caregivers have the support they need, as well as the children they are caring for, to thrive. “Too many working families today are priced out of high-quality child care and pre-school,” said Congressman Sablan. “The Child Care for Working Families Act is a bold proposal to close the gap in access to affordable, quality child care and early education. As Chair of the Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education, I will continue to fight to ensure our children have the best possible start in life, and families have access to high-quality child care and preschool.” “Affordable, high-quality child care helps give children the early learning experiences they need to succeed in school, enables parents to work so they can support their families and provides certainty to employers who are able to retain skilled, productive workers,” said Senator Casey. “Investing in child care is good for children and for our economy and that is why I am a proud original cosponsor of the Child Care for Working Families Act. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the HELP Committee to advance this legislation.” The Child Care for Working Families Act would jumpstart our economy by creating 770,000 new child care jobs and allowing 1.6 million parents, primarily mothers, go back to work. It would also lift one million families out of poverty. “Child care is foundational for future academic and social success yet remains unaffordable and unavailable for working and middle class families in Hawaii – who face the highest cost of living in the country,” said Senator Hirono. “At nearly $700 per month, child care is the second highest household expense after housing for most families – surpassing the amount they spend on food, utilities, transportation or health care. The Child Care for Working Families Act represents a long-term investment in our keiki to ensure that every family can access high-quality, affordable early learning and child care programs.” Bipartisan support for child care and early learning is already building in Congress. In March 2018, Congress agreed to the largest increase in child care funding ever, and continued the increased investments in child care while increasing funding for Head Start in the Fiscal Year 2019 bill. In addition to Congressman Scott and Sablan, the bill is also cosponsored by Representatives McEachin (VA-04), Schiff (CA-28), Espaillat (NY-13), Hastings (FL-20), Adams (NC-12), ?McLane Kuster (NH-02), Eshoo (CA-18), Brown (MD-04), Lee (CA-13), Luján (NM-03), Thompson (MS-02), McCollum (MN-04), Pascrell (NJ-09), Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Lawrence (MI-14), Maloney (NY-12), Crist (FL-13), Pingree (ME-01), Davis (IL-07), Cicilline (RI-01), Price (NC-04), Dingell (MI-12), Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Heck (WA-10), Kilmer (WA-06), Beyer (VA-08), Norcross (NJ-01), Holmes Norton (DC), Cummings (MD-07), Vela (TX-34), Wilson (FL-24), Meng (NY-06), Napolitano (CA-32), Moore (WI-04), Johnson (GA-04), Speier (CA-14), Langevin (RI-02), Raskin (MD-08), Schakowsky (IL-09), Nadler (NY-10), McNerney (CA-09), McGovern (MA-02), Gomez (CA-34), Castro (TX-20), Courtney (CT-02), Serrano (NY-15), Kennedy III (MA-04), Vargas (CA-51), Brownley (CA-26), Blunt Rochester (DE), Frankel (FL-21), Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Fudge (OH-11), Kaptur (OH-09), DeSaulnier (CA-11), Pocan (WI-02), Takano (CA-41), Quigley (IL-05), Lowey (NY-17), Torres (CA-35), Velázquez (NY-07), DeFazio (OR-04), Welch (VT), Krishnamoorthi (IL-08), Grijalva (AZ-03), Khanna (CA-17), Gallego (AZ-07), Maloney (NY-18), Moulton (MA-06), Cohen (TN-09), DelBene (WA-01), Bonamici (OR-01), Deutch (FL-22), Lieu (CA-33), Cox (CA-21), Ryan (OH-13), Clarke (NY-09), Omar (MN-05), Haaland (NM-01), Jackson Lee (TX-18), Levin (MI-09), Hill (CA-25), Wild (PA-07), Schrier (WA-08), Hayes (CT-05), Green (TX-09), Trahan (MA-03), Tlaib (MI-13), Pressley (MA-07), DeGette (CO-01), Richmond (LA-02), Shalala (FL-27), Underwood (IL-14), DeLauro (CT-03), Lofgren (CA-19), and Morelle (NY-25). In addition to Senators Murray, Casey, and Hirono, the bill is also cosponsored by Senators Baldwin (D-WI), Blumenthal (D-CT), Booker (D-NJ), Brown (D-OH), Cantwell (D-WA), Cardin (D-MD), Coons (D-DE), Cortez Masto (D-NV), Duckworth (D-IL), Durbin (D-IL), Feinstein (D-CA), Gillibrand (D-NY), Harris (D-CA), Hassan (D-NH), Klobuchar (D-MN), Leahy (D-VT), Markey (D-MA), Menendez (D-NJ), Merkley (D-OR), Murphy (D-CT), Peters (D-MI), Reed (D-RI), Rosen (D-NV), Sanders (I-VT), Schatz (D-HI), Schumer (D-NY), Smith (D-MN), Udall (D-NM), Van Hollen (D-MD), Warren (D-MA), Whitehouse (D-RI), and Wyden (D-OR). Legislative text of the Child Care for Working Families Act can be found here. Fact sheet on the Child Care for Working Families Act can be found here. Section by section of the Child Care for Working Families Act can be found here. ###
02.21.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Chairman Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Ranking Member Virginia Foxx (NC-05) announced plans to hold five bipartisan hearings on higher education, marking the formal start of an effort the reauthorize the Higher Education Act (HEA) in the 116th Congress. The joint announcement reflects the Committee’s shared intention to host a thoughtful and open exchange of ideas for improving America’s higher education system. The five hearings will be: The Cost of College: Student Centered Reforms to Bring Higher Education Within Reach Strengthening Accountability in Higher Education to Better Serve Students and Taxpayers The Cost of Non-Completion: Improving Student Outcomes in Higher Education Engines of Economic Mobility: The Critical Role of Community Colleges, Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and Minority-Serving Institutions in Preparing Students for Success Innovation to Improve Equity: Exploring High-Quality Pathways to a College Degree “Through regular order and a collaborative process, the Committee will consider a comprehensive Higher Education Act reauthorization that puts a quality and affordable higher education within reach for every student,” said Chairman Scott. “Today’s announcement reflects our commitment to developing bold solutions that are supported by evidence and research on higher education. I look forward to working with Dr. Foxx and all Members of the Committee to produce legislation that addresses the complex and wide-ranging challenges facing students, families, and institutions.” “The promise of postsecondary education is broken—of this, we are certain,” said Ranking Member Foxx.“Over the past many years on this committee, Chairman Scott and I have listened and grown increasingly concerned with the path of higher education in this country. I am heartened by his eagerness to address these serious issues early in this Congress, and renew my commitment, once again, to working with him and any of our colleagues who understand that the status quo cannot hold.” Chairman Scott and Ranking Member Foxx are also inviting members of the public to submit research and evidence to be considered during the Committee’s work, as well as experts who could serve as potential witnesses. All submissions should be sent to EdLaborHigherEd@mail.house.gov. ###
02.15.2019	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after President Trump declared a national emergency to build a border wall: “The President failed to convince Congress to fund his expensive, ineffective and diplomatically obnoxious wall. Now he has concocted a faux emergency at the border to fund his border wall that he always promised would be paid for by Mexico. “There is no sudden emergency at the border. Furthermore, the wall does not address any of the alleged problems outlined by the President. We know the wall would not reduce crime or stop the flow of drugs into the country. “By raiding the Department of Defense’ military construction budget he will directly harm national security and important Army Corps projects in Hampton Roads as we continue to deal with the effects of rising sea levels. I am confident the courts will halt this unconstitutional use of emergency power by the President.” # # #
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the anniversary of the tragic shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. “One year ago, 17 students and educators lost their lives in the tragic shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. For many of us, that day will always be remembered for the mixture of shock, frustration, and profound grief we felt as we witnessed another mass shooting at an American school. Today, we join together as one nation to honor the memories of the people we lost, comfort the families and friends they left behind, and reflect on our responsibility to prevent this from happening again.” ###
02.08.2019	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement: “The recent allegations against Lieutenant Governor Fairfax are disturbing and extremely serious. Both allegations must be investigated immediately. If either is found to be true – and there appears to be significant corroborating evidence – then the Lieutenant Governor should resign immediately.” # # #
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine and U.S. Representatives Bobby Scott, Gerry Connolly, Don Beyer, A. Donald McEachin, Elaine Luria, Abigail Spanberger and Jennifer Wexton released the following statement: “Like other Virginians, we have been devastated by these horrible developments. We are brokenhearted that the actions of Governor Northam and Attorney General Herring have reopened old wounds left by Virginia’s long history of slavery, Jim Crow segregation, and systemic racism. There’s no question that Virginians’ faith in their government and leaders has understandably been deeply shaken. “Yesterday, we were shocked and saddened to learn of the incident in the Attorney General’s past. The Attorney General has earnestly reached out to each of us to apologize and express his deep remorse. We understand that he is currently engaged in in-depth discussions with leaders and others in Virginia. The Attorney General must continue those conversations, and stand ready to answer questions from the public if he is to regain their trust. “We are deeply disturbed by the account detailing the alleged actions of Lieutenant Governor Fairfax. We believe these allegations need to be taken very seriously, and we respect the right of women to come forward and be heard. “We will continue in dialogue with one another and our constituents in the coming days, and evaluate additional information as it comes to light.” # # #
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Thomas Massie (R-VA) reintroduced the Justice Safety Valve Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. Senators Rand Paul (R-KY) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. The Justice Safety Valve Act would give federal judges the ability to impose sentences below mandatory minimums in appropriate cases based on mitigating factors. “Last year, Congress took an important first step in recognizing that mandatory minimum sentences distort rational sentencing systems, discriminate against minorities, waste money, and often require a judge to impose sentences that violate common sense,” said Congressman Scott. “To add insult to injury, numerous studies confirm this and have also shown that mandatory minimum sentences fail to reduce crime. Our bill will give discretion back to federal judges so that they can consider all the facts, issues, and circumstances before sentencing.” “The First Step Act was an historic, bipartisan accomplishment that proved we can achieve real change in our criminal justice system,” said Senator Paul. “Now we have the opportunity to build on this momentum by freeing judges to ensure sentences are fair and fit the individual’s specific circumstances instead of forcing them to impose mandatory minimums that have disproportionally impacted minorities and low-income communities.” “The Justice Safety Valve Act represents the next step in criminal justice reform,” said Senator Leahy. “For far too long, mandatory minimum sentencing has resulted in many offenders remaining in prison for far longer than public safety or justice requires, harming communities, families, and individual lives. This bill would ensure that judges have the flexibility to sentence offenders based on their individual merits. By giving judges appropriate discretion, it would promote justice, save taxpayer dollars, and keep our communities safe.” Mandatory minimums force federal judges to issue indiscriminate punishments, regardless of involvement, criminal history, mental health, addiction, and other mitigating factors. The Justice Safety Valve Act would apply the current "safety valve" provision to all federal crimes, restoring proportionality, fairness, and rationality to federal sentencing by allowing federal judges to tailor sentences on a case-by-case basis. Such judicial discretion would help reduce the bloated federal prison population and tackle dangerous overcrowding while ensuring sentences fit the circumstances of the crime. This landmark bipartisan, bicameral legislation would also reduce correctional spending, which currently accounts for almost a third of the Department of Justice's annual budget. This would allow the Department to focus more on victim services, state and local law enforcement, staffing, investigation, and prosecution. You can read the Justice Safety Valve Act HERE. # # #
02.06.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after President Trump delivered this State of the Union address before Congress. “President Trump’s State of the Union – like the first two years of his presidency – largely ignored the challenges facing students, workers, and communities across the country. Access to a quality education, a good-paying job, and affordable health care are fundamental issues for all Americans. Rather than offering credible solutions, the president continued to spread misinformation about immigration and advocate for an ineffective and inefficient wall. “Committee Democrats will continue focusing on the urgent issues that affect people’s everyday lives. This past November, the American people made their voices clear that we must protect and improve upon the Affordable Care Act. Tomorrow, we hold our first hearing of the 116th Congress on the need to protect access to health care for people with pre-existing conditions, and the following day we will hold a hearing to discuss the Raise the Wage Act, our proposal to gradually increase the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024 for all workers. Next week, we will examine the need to reinvest in public education. “These are the issues we were elected to address. Unfortunately, tonight’s State of the Union was another missed opportunity for President Trump to promote policies that will improve the quality of life in communities across America.” # # #
02.05.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, Chairman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Committee on Education and Labor, along with Chairwoman Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions, introduced the Health Benefits for Miners Act of 2019. This legislation would ensure coal miners, who are at risk due to recent coal company bankruptcies, will not lose their retiree health care. “Two years ago, Congress took bipartisan action and upheld the federal government’s commitment to protecting retired miners’ health care. Due to recent coal company bankruptcies, miners are at risk again of losing their retiree health care. It is imperative for Congress to responsibly act once again and keep our promise to hard-working miners. That’s why I’m introducing the Health Benefits for Miners Act of 2019, and I will work advance this legislation,” said Chairman Bobby Scott (VA-03). Because of additional coal companies declaring bankruptcy since Congress last acted in 2017, approximately 1,200 miners and their dependents are at risk of losing their retiree health care in the coming months. “The U.S. government has consistently met its promise to retired miners and their dependents, most recently in 2017 when Congress preserved the health care of 22,600 retirees and widows. Rep. Scott’s bill will once again fulfill that promise to miners who earned their health care through decades of hard, dangerous work, and I thank him very much for his leadership on this,” Cecil E. Roberts, President, United Mine Workers of America (UMWA). To read the bill text, please click here. ###
02.02.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators and former Governors of Virginia Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine along with Congressman Bobby Scott released the following statement: “After we watched his press conference today, we called Governor Northam to tell him that we no longer believe he can effectively serve as Governor of Virginia and that he must resign. Governor Northam has served the people of the Commonwealth faithfully for many years, but the events of the past 24 hours have inflicted immense pain and irrevocably broken the trust Virginians must have in their leaders. He should step down and allow the Commonwealth to begin healing.” # # #
02.01.2019	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement regarding Virginia Governor Ralph Northam: “It is never easy to condemn a personal friend, but Governor Northam’s past behavior is indefensible. I know the Governor has dedicated his life to public service, and he has advanced policies to help African Americans and Virginians from all walks of life. I take him at his word that he is deeply sorry, and that he understands that his behavior was inappropriate and offensive. History will have to judge his life and public record, and this chapter will be a major stain on that record.The Governor must now make the right decision that is best for the Commonwealth of Virginia.” # # #
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Bobby Scott (VA-03), Rob Wittman (VA-01), A. Donald McEachin (VA-04) and Elaine Luria (VA-02) issued the following statement after U.S. Secretary of the Navy Richard Spencer signed a contract to buy two Ford-class aircraft carriers, which will be constructed in Newport News, Virginia: “Today’s announcement that the Secretary of the Navy has signed the contract for a two-carrier buy is great news for the dedicated shipbuilders in Hampton Roads and the small business community across Virginia and the nation that support the construction of our carrier fleet. Carriers are deployed across the globe and are critical to our defense and national security. The dual buy finalized by the Navy today will save taxpayers’ money and bring stability and certainty to our shipbuilding industrial base. This will secure thousands of jobs for Virginians in the coming years.” # # #
01.31.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor, Senator Bob Casey (D-PA), and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) introduced theTransformation to Competitive Employment Act, which provides states, service providers, subminimum wage certificate holders, and other agencies with the resources to help workers with disabilities transition into competitive, integrated employment. The Transformation to Competitive Employment Act is legislation designed to strengthen and enhance the disability employment service delivery systems throughout states while subminimum wages, which are currently allowed under Section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, are phased out over a six-year period.Currently, under section 14(c), employers that obtain a certificate are permitted to hire individuals with disabilities at less than minimum wage. “Every worker should have access to fulfilling employment and economic self-sufficiency. This bill achieves those goals by advancing a culture of inclusion and collaboration between employers and service providers to enable individuals with disabilities to be successful in the workforce with a fair wage,” said Congressman Scott. “By expanding competitive integrated employment, we can raise wages, increase job satisfaction, and promote community participation for workers with disabilities. This legislation is an important step toward creating one fair wage for all.” “Holding a job provides many benefits including economic self-sufficiency, a sense of self-worth and social networks. But, for far too many individuals with disabilities, the dignity of work is still out of reach,” Senator Bob Casey (D-PA). “Addressing the barriers to employment for people with disabilities means ensuring supports for finding and keeping good-paying jobs. Chairman Scott and I introduced the Transformation to Competitive Employment Act to help organizations strengthen and expand disability employment services and make it possible for people with disabilities to achieve financial security.” “Disability employment is the next policy frontier to empower people with disabilities to live full and independent lives. A job is so much more than just a paycheck, it’s what gives us dignity, purpose, and the opportunity for a better life. I look forward to continuing to work in a bipartisan fashion to ensure more people -- who are ready, willing, and able to work -- find employment,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. Upon enactment, the Transformation to Competitive Employment Act would: Create a competitive state grant program to assist states to transition all 14(c) certificate holders to models that support competitive, integrated employment for individuals with disabilities. States will be able to apply for these transformation grants and must establish an advisory committee that includes employers, organizations specializing in employment for individuals with disabilities, Medicaid agencies, AbilityOne contractors, individuals with disabilities, and vocational rehabilitation agencies. Create a competitive grant program for current 14(c) certificate holders, located in states that do not apply for the state grant, to transition their business models to support individuals with disabilities in competitive, integrated employment. Immediately freeze the issuance of any new 14(c) certificates by the Department of Labor (DOL) and phase out the use of existing 14(c) certificates over 6 years until employees are paid the federal minimum wage. Establish a technical assistance (TA) center to support all entities, even those not receiving the transformation grants, to transition to competitive integrated employment. The TA center, which will be funded by DOL, is tasked with disseminating information about best practices, lessons learned, and models for transition to all entities transitioning to competitive, integrated employment. Require reporting and evaluation on the progress of creating and expanding the service delivery structure to support workers with disabilities in competitive integrated settings and the inclusive wraparound services they receive when not working. States and 14(c) certificate holders will also be required to report on their grant activities, evaluate changes in employment for individuals with disabilities, report average wage information, and evaluate employer actions taken to comply with the phase out of 14(c) and transformation grants. To read the section-by-section of the Transformation to Competitive Employment Act, click here. To read a fact sheet on Transformation to Competitive Employment Act, click here. List of Supporting Organizations: American Network of Community Options and Resources (ANCOR), Association of People Supporting Employment First (APSE), Association of University Centers on Disabilities (AUCD), Autism National Committee, Autistic Self Advocacy Network (ASAN), Autism Society of America, Center for Public Representation (CPR), Collaboration to Promote Self-Determination (CPSD), Council of State Administrators of Vocational Rehabilitation (CSAVR), Disability Rights California, Disability Rights Education & Defense Fund (DREDF), Disability Rights Florida, Disability Rights Iowa, Disability Rights New Mexico, Michigan Protection and Advocacy Service, Inc., National Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities (NACDD), National Association of State Directors of Developmental Disabilities Services (NASDDDS), National Council on Independent Living (NCIL), National Disability Institute (NDI), National Disability Rights Network (NDRN), National Down Syndrome Congress (NDSC), National Federation of the Blind (NFB), National Rehabilitation Association, TASH, Inc. ###
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Senator Jack Reed (D-RI), and Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, led House and Senate Democrats in introducing a proposal to invest more than $100 billion in America’s public schools. The Rebuild America’s Schools Act would fund $70 billion in grants and $30 billion in bonds to help address critical physical and digital infrastructure needs in schools across the country. According to economic projections, the bill would also create more than 1.9 million good-paying jobs. The bill comes as students, teachers, and parents across the country are demanding more support for public education. In a recent poll, 84 percent of Democrats and 65 percent of Republicans said increasing K-12 funding is an “extremely important priority” for the 116th Congress. There is currently a $46 billion nationwide shortfall in annual funding for public school infrastructure. The bill was introduced with 153 House cosponsors. Chairman Bobby Scott: “Students and educators across the country go to school every day in crumbling buildings that are either unsafe, not equipped with essential resources, or both. The Rebuild America’s Schools Act is an important step toward ensuring that every student, regardless of their family’s wealth, can attend a safe, welcoming, and high-quality public school. This bill would strengthen our communities today by employing local workers and strengthen our communities in the future by setting a strong foundation for all students to reach their potential.” Rep. Donald Norcoss: “In Congress, my top three priorities are jobs education and security, and the Rebuild America’s Schools Act will create jobs in our communities, improve educational opportunities and ensure students learn in buildings that are safe and more secure. It’s a win-win-win. “No student should be going to a school that poses a serious safety threat but, unfortunately, that’s happening right now. The Rebuild America’s Schools Act provides investments that help students and teachers, as well as the men and women who will build new schools. As a grandfather of students and a construction worker by trade, I’ll continue to support initiatives that lift up workers, improve schools and help students succeed.” Sen. Jack Reed, Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD): “In his last State of the Union Speech, President Trump urged ‘both parties to come together to give us the safe, fast, reliable, and modern infrastructure our economy needs and our people deserve.’ And we hope he will heed those words and include school infrastructure as part of the equation. Because rebuilding and modernizing public schools will boost student achievement, grow our economy, and pay dividends for future generations. “Many schools were built over half a century ago and the state of America’s school infrastructure today is not as strong as it should be. The Rebuild America’s Schools Act will help change that by providing a steady source of federal funds to help local schools catch up on overdue repairs, renovation, and new construction. We need to start responsibly investing today in order to help build the classrooms of tomorrow.” Lily Eskelsen García, a sixth grade teacher from Utah who serves as president of the 3 million member National Education Association: “Every public school in America should reflect how much we value our students and educators. For decades, too many students and educators have been forced to learn and teach in classrooms with leaky roofs, moldy carpets, asbestos and other health hazards, broken heating or air conditioning systems, and facilities that are infested with cockroaches, rats and other vermin. These conditions are unacceptable. NEA welcomes champions in Congress — like Chairman Bobby Scott, Senator Jack Reed, Congressman Donald Norcross and the Democratic leadership — for stepping up to make students, educators and their safety a priority.” Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers: “Every day, millions of students and educators across the country attend schools that put their health and safety at risk—black toxic mold on floors, classrooms without heat, leaking ceilings and contaminated water. We cannot send our kids to schools in these conditions and expect them to learn and thrive. Our children deserve better. “Thanks to the leadership of Chairman Scott and Sens. Reed and Brown, Congress can take long-overdue action to address the deteriorating and obsolete school facilities that exist in far too many of our communities. Rebuilding America’s public schools requires making our school infrastructure a priority and committing resources to back that claim up.” James Boland, president of the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers: “It is critically important that we rebuild our crumbling school facilities now so that our students are able to attend schools that are conducive to learning and that our teachers can do their important work in safe and healthy environment. And when we rebuild our schools, we must rebuild them with our skilled trades workers. “The Rebuild America’s Schools Act provides much needed investment to address our urgent school Infrastructure needs. It will stimulate the economy and create nearly 2 million good-paying jobs. The time to rebuild our schools is NOW.” The Rebuild America’s Schools Act would: Create a $70 billion grant program and $30 billion tax credit bond program targeted at high-poverty schools with facilities that pose health and safety risks to students and staff. Leverage federal, state, and local resources for an overall investment of $107 billion, creating over 1.9 million jobs, based on an Economic Policy Institute analysis that each $1 billion spent on construction creates 17,785 jobs. Develop a comprehensive national database on the condition of public school facilities; such a national database currently does not exist and would provide much-needed insight into the condition of our public schools. Expand access to high-speed broadband to ensure that public schools have the reliable and high-speed Internet access they need for digital learning. To read the bill text of the Rebuild America’s Schools Act, click here. To read the section-by-section of the Rebuild America’s Schools Act, click here. To read the fact sheet on Rebuild America’s Schools Act, click here. List of Supporting Organizations: 21st Century Schools Fund, American Association of School Administrators, American Federation of Teachers, Association of Educational Service Agencies, Association of Latino Administrators and Superintendents, Association of School Business Officials International, Californians for School Facilities, Council of Great City Schools, Healthy Schools Network, International Union of Operating Engineers, National Association of Federally Impacted Schools, National Association of Elementary School Principals, National Association of School Nurses, National Association of Secondary School Principals, National Concrete Masonry Association, National Education Association, National PTA, National Rural Education Advocacy Consortium, National Rural Education Association, National Urban League, North America's Building Trades Union, Organizations Concerned About Rural Education, Public Advocacy for Kids, Rebuild America's Schools Coalition, Rural School and Community Trust, Teach Plus, The Brick Industry Association, U.S. Green Building Council, International Union of Painters and Allied Trades, and the United Steelworkers ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Representatives Bobby Scott (D-Va.) and Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), co-chairs of the US-Philippines Friendship Caucus, released the following statement after two bombs went off at the Cathedral of Our Lady of Mount Carmel in Jolo, Philippines, on Sunday: “We are completely stunned by the Jolo cathedral bombing. Many innocent people lost their lives in a double assault as they were worshipping and trying to escape the explosion. Our hearts are with the families who have lost loved ones and we pray for the speedy recovery of the more than one hundred individuals who were wounded in the attack. As co-chairs of the US-Philippines Friendship Caucus we will continue to stand with our friends in the Philippines and more importantly, we condemn the heartless actions and will remain vigilant to ensure that these terrorist groups are stopped.” Background: The bombing occurred on Sunday. According to the authorities, one bomb went off inside the church and another went off in a nearby parking lot. The bombs killed 20 people and injured many others. ISIS has claimed responsibility for the terrorist attack, although this claim has not yet been independently verified. ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after being appointed to the House Budget Committee for the 116th Congress: “I am very excited to return to the House Budget Committee,” said Congressman Scott. “We must restore fiscal sanity to the federal budget process in order to balance the federal budget. Under Republicans’ unified control of the federal government, we have exploded the deficit to give tax breaks to corporations and the top 1% without paying for them. I know that under Chairman John Yarmuth’s leadership, we will create a budget that will be For the People and prioritize workers and the middle class instead of the wealthy and well-connected.” Congressman Scott has previously served on the House Budget Committee in the 108th (2003-2004) 110th (2007-2008) and 111th (2009-2010) Congresses. He also serves as Co-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus’ Budget Task Force. In addition to his appointment to the House Budget Committee, Congressman Scott serves as the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor. # # #
01.16.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor, joined House and Senate leadership to introduce the Raise the Wage Act of 2019. The bill would gradually raise the minimum wage to $15 in 2024, index future minimum wage increases to median wage growth, and ensure all workers are paid at least the full federal minimum wage by phasing out the subminimum wages for tipped workers, youth workers, and workers with disabilities. The Raise the Wage Act was introduced with 181 House cosponsors. “No person working full-time in America should be living in poverty. The Raise the Wage Act will increase the pay and standard of living for nearly 40 million workers across this country. Raising the minimum wage is not only good for workers, it is good for businesses, and good for the economy. When we put money in the pockets of American workers, they will spend that money in their communities. This bill is a stimulus for Main Street America,” said Chairman Bobby Scott, Committee on Education and Labor. Senator Bernie Sanders introduced a companion bill in the Senate with 31 cosponsors. “Just a few short years ago, we were told that raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour was ‘radical.’ But a grassroots movement of millions of workers throughout this country refused to take ‘no’ for an answer. It is not a radical idea to say a job should lift you out of poverty, not keep you in it. The current $7.25 an hour federal minimum wage is a starvation wage. It must be increased to a living wage of $15 an hour,” said Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT). “A $15 federal minimum wage affirms the bedrock idea of fairness in our country: that hard work deserves a decent wage. We will open up opportunities for working families and drive economic growth that lifts up all communities – because our economy works best when it works for everyone, not just the wealthy and privileged few. I commend Chairman Bobby Scott and all our House Democrats for their leadership for America’s working men and women, who are the backbone of our country,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi. “For a long time, Democrats have been trying to raise the minimum wage to keep pace with the times. The harsh truth of the matter is that the minimum wage is now a poverty wage in too many parts of America. And no American with a full-time job should be living in poverty. Despite campaigning as a champion for working Americans, President Trump has abandoned working Americans while in office. He’s tried to strip away workers’ health care, given a massive tax cut to corporations and the wealthy, and used workers as bargaining chips in shutting the government down. If President Trump isn’t going to stick up for American workers on key issues such as raising the minimum wage, Democrats will,” said Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer. “I was proud to help lead the charge to increase the minimum wage the last time Democrats held the House Majority. It has been too long since workers have received the raise they deserve. Democrats promised to improve economic opportunities for workers and their families in the 2018 election, and the introduction today of the Raise the Wage Act as one of our first bills in the Majority demonstrates our intention to keep that promise. I look forward to working with Chairman Scott and Education and Labor Committee Democrats to bring this legislation to the Floor following Committee consideration,” said House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer. “There are millions of women and men across the country who work a full-time job, or work multiple jobs, and are still unable to pay their bills and make ends meet. Women make up almost two-thirds of minimum wage earners and it’s even worse for women of color. So I’m proud to introduce the Raise the Wage Act today as one of the many steps we can take to ensure workers, especially the millions of women supporting their families, have the economic security to build better lives,” said Senator Murray, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. “More than a decade after Congress last voted to raise the minimum wage, no family in the United States can live on $7.25 an hour. Raising the minimum wage is the right thing to do and long past due. While some cities and states have led on this issue, we must raise the wage everywhere – from Madison, Wisconsin, to Mobile, Alabama – to ensure that every American worker can succeed. Every Member of Congress should recognize the urgent need to raise the wage, and if they support a salary of only $15,080 per year, they should be forced to live on it. I’m proud to co-sponsor this legislation and I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance it through the 116th Congress,” said Congressman Mark Pocan. “Over the last decade, most working families have seen an increase in the cost of almost everything they need, yet their wages have barely moved. No person who has the dignity of a full time job should face the indignity of not being able to provide for themselves and their loved ones. This bill will finally give hardworking families in central Florida a much-needed raise - putting more money in their pockets to spend at small businesses and helping to grow our economy for everyone,” said Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy. “I've worked for minimum wage and I was once a young single dad raising my son and having to balance work, family life and a checkbook. Back then it was hard. Today, for far too many Americans, it's nearly impossible.No American who works full-time should live in poverty. But that’s exactly what’s happening all around us, and Congress hasn’t even voted to raise wages in over 11 years. When people finally receive $15 an hour, they’ll spend more, become less reliant on government assistance and give our economy a needed boost,” said Congressman Donald Norcross. To read the bill text of the Raise the Wage Act, click here. To read the section-by-section of the Raise the Wage Act, click here. To read a fact sheet on Raise the Wage Act, click here.
01.14.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, DC – Chairman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after a federal court in Pennsylvania granted an injunction to freeze Trump administration rules that would allow employers and institutions of higher education to deny women coverage of contraception based on “religious or moral” objections. “By issuing a nationwide injunction, the court has taken the necessary and immediate step of shielding workers and students from a harmful and discriminatory policy that would restrict coverage for preventive services under the guise of religious freedom. Freedom of religion is a sacred and fundamental right, but it is not a tool to deny women access to health care. “The Affordable Care Act (ACA) made affordable, comprehensive health care available to millions of Americans. The Trump administration’s attempt to undermine that progress by attacking protections for contraceptive coverage is a threat to the health and safety of women across the country. Democrats are committed to ensuring that the administration does not succeed in this effort – or any other effort – to erode Americans’ access to quality health care services.” ###
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement: “Thousands of federal employees did not receive their pay checks today because President Trump is holding them as hostages to get funding for a wall that he always promised would be paid for by Mexico. The shutdown has caused unnecessary financial pain to thousands but also jeopardized the security of our nation. This must stop. “I was proud to support legislation today to ensure that all federal employees receive retroactive pay once we end this pointless shutdown. As of tomorrow, this will be the longest government shutdown in our nation’s history. Since the 116th Congress was sworn in last week, the House has voted numerous times to end the shutdown, including legislation that Senate Republicans overwhelmingly supported last month. Unfortunately, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has not allowed any of those bills to come up for a vote.” # # #
01.08.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, DC – House and Senate Democratic health leaders sent a letter to the Trump administration today renewing their requests for information on the Administration’s Final Rule expanding the availability of junk Short-Term, Limited-Duration Insurance (STLDI) plans, which jeopardize Americans’ ability to get quality, affordable health care. The letter was signed by Education and Labor Chairman Bobby Scott (D-VA), Energy and Commerce Chairman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA), Senate Finance Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Senate HELP Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA). This is the third letter the Democratic Health leaders have written to the administration demanding answers on the administration’s junk plan proposal, but they have yet to receive all of the information and answers they requested. “We have written to you on multiple occasions regarding the Administration’s actions to promote these junk plans, and we have not received a substantive response,” the Democrats wrote to the Trump Administration officials. “Families and patients across the country deserve transparency around decisions, such as the finalization of this rule, that jeopardize their ability to get quality, affordable health care.” The Democrats are asking the administration for answers to a series of outstanding questions including a response to their May 2018 letter that raised concerns regarding the administration’s flawed economic analysis on the expansion of short-term plans, which appeared to significantly underestimate the number of individuals who would sign up for junk short-term plans and the impact the proposal would have on premiums in the individual market. Since these junk plans lure healthy people out of the insurance risk pool, working families who want or need comprehensive coverage will likely see their premiums increase substantially. The Democrats also noted that they believe the Trump Administration’s Final Rule allowing short-term junk insurance plans to be renewed for up to 36 months is illegal. “Expanding STLDI plans will take us back to the days when consumers could be denied coverage entirely, charged more based on age, gender, or health status, or denied access to basic health care benefits such as prescription drugs, maternity coverage, and treatment for substance use disorders,” the Democrats continued. “We believe allowing for renewal or extension of short-term policies for up to 36 months is contrary to law, and that the creation of an entirely unregulated parallel market competing against the market for Qualified Health Plans (“QHPs”) goes against Congressional intent in enacting the comprehensive consumer protections embodied in the Affordable Care Act (“ACA”).” In their letter, the Democrats requested answers to the two outstanding letters from April 2018 and May 2018 as well as information on how the Administration crafted its final rulemaking, including: All documents and analyses relating to whether it is consistent with the law, including the ACA, to allow for the creation of a permanent parallel market for individual market coverage that is entirely exempt from the law’s consumer protections for individuals with preexisting conditions; Whether it is consistent with the law, including the Administrative Procedures Act, to promulgate a Final Rule allowing for STLDI plans to be renewable for up to 36 months, when the Proposed Rule made no mention of the Administration’s intent to permit STLDI plans to be renewable for such a term; Any documents and communications pertaining to the potential impact of the Final Rule, including its impact on premiums in the ACA-compliant market and its impact on individuals with preexisting conditions; and, A list of all stakeholder meetings pertaining to the subject matter of the Proposed Rule or Final Rule, including meetings with any health insurance issuers that have sold STLDI plans in the past, or have expressed interest in selling these policies in the future. The Democrats’ letter is available here.
01.08.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, DC – Chairman Bobby Scott (D- Va.), Committee on Education and Labor and Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) led a letter to the Department of Labor (DOL) Office of Inspector General (IG) Scott Dahl requesting an audit of DOL to determine whether the agency deviated from agency regulatory and data quality requirements when it developed a proposed rule relaxing child labor standards in health care occupations. Joining Chairman Scott and Senator Warren in sending the letter are Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), Mark Takano (D-Calif.), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.). On September 27, 2018, DOL issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to remove the operation of power-driven patient lifts from the list of prohibited activities for 16- and 17-year-old workers under Hazardous Occupation Order (HO) 7, which would in effect allow untrained young workers to perform this work independently. "While we have serious concerns that the Secretary of Labor is deviating from his statutory duty to protect the safety of young workers in hospitals and nursing homes, we write to draw your attention to flaws we have identified in DOL's rulemaking process for this NPRM," wrote the Members. Under current DOL policy, workers under 18 years of age are prohibited from operating or assisting in the operation of several types of hoisting apparatus without supervision, which, according to research by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, is unsafe. To justify its proposal to allow 16- and 17-year-olds to operate power-driven patient lifts unsupervised, DOL pointed to a survey that the Department said showed current policy is restricting employment and training opportunities for young workers. But DOL did not include in its public docket for the NPRM a copy of a survey or any information regarding its methodology, and it has failed to do so despite requests from members of Congress. Beyond DOL's failure to disclose its evidentiary basis for the rule, the agency's reliance on the survey also raises questions about whether DOL used reliable, accurate data in the rulemaking process. After reviewing an obtained copy of the 2012 survey results, the senator and the chairman raised concerns that the survey data does not actually justify the proposed rule, and the use of this data in the NPRM may violate DOL's data quality guidelines. Based on these serious concerns about whether DOL is complying with requirements related to transparency and data quality, the Members urged IG Dahl to conduct an audit of this ongoing rulemaking process. In addition to the continuation of the Member’s efforts to ensure DOL's rulemaking process is based on compelling evidence and advances the interests of American workers, Senator Warren's bill, the Anti-Corruption and Public Integrity Act, would explicitly require agencies to publicly disclose how it considered scientific evidence, including any studies or research, in the rulemaking process, so that members of the public are able to fully evaluate and comment on the justification for a proposed regulation and determine whether it is truly in the public interest. In December 2017, after DOL proposed a harmful rule that would have allowed employers to take employees' tips, reports surfaced that DOL political leadership, along with OMB officials, hid an internal analysis that showed the proposal would cost workers billions of dollars. The Members have sent several letters questioning the administration. The Inspector General has since opened an investigation into that rulemaking. To read the letter, click here. ###
01.04.2019	As originally released by the Committee on Education and Labor WASHINGTON, DC – Chairman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 312,000 in December and the unemployment rate increased to 3.9 percent. “Despite the gains shown in today’s job report, the reality is many Americans are still struggling. Wages have remained largely stagnant – particularly for low-wage earners – and too many workers are forced to work multiple jobs just to make ends meet. By undermining our health care system, giving a massive tax cut to corporations and wealthy, and forcing an ongoing government shutdown, President Trump and Congressional Republicans have injected uncertainty and volatility into our economy. “As we enter the Majority, Democrats will restore Congress’ commitment to serving working families and the middle class. This means reopening the government, raising the federal minimum wage, expanding access to overtime pay, protecting all workers from discrimination, expanding access to health care and child care, and ensuring that all Americans can retire with dignity.” ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Chairman Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement after he was elected the next Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor by the House Democratic Caucus. “I am honored to have the support of my colleagues and grateful for the opportunity to serve as Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor in the 116th Congress. As Chairman, I will work to expand access to the building blocks of a strong middle class – a quality education, a rewarding job, and affordable health care. These goals not only reflect the values of our Caucus, they have the overwhelming support of the American people. “We have been granted the opportunity to advance a vision for a country where everyone can succeed, not just the wealthy few. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pursue a unifying agenda that will improve the standard of living for people from all walks of life.” ###
12.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement: “Republicans currently control the House of Representatives, the Senate and the White House, yet we are entering the third government shutdown this year. The Senate unanimously passed a bipartisan solution to keep the government open until February 8th while we continue to debate the best way to fund the government for the remainder of the fiscal year, and House Democrats were willing to support that compromise. However, House Republicans blocked a clean continuing resolution at the request of President Trump. This Republican dysfunction will force government employees to pay the price. 800,000 of them will be forced to go without pay during the holidays – including 420,000 federal employees who will have to work without pay. This shutdown will needlessly hurt federal employees and undermine public safety. I stand willing and ready to find common ground to do the right thing for the American people.” # # #
12.21.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Department of Education announced that it is rescinding the 2014 ED-DOJ Discipline Guidance. “The Department’s decision to rescind the 2014 discipline guidance will undermine access to a quality education for students of color and students with disabilities. The guidance was issued to help schools address the troubling and undeniable evidence that Black students, boys, and students with disabilities receive harsher punishments than their classmates for similar or lesser offenses, without jeopardizing students’ safety. Rescinding the guidance will stall, if not reverse our progress toward addressing these disparities. “Even worse, by using the school safety commission report to justify this decision, the Department is sending a terrible message that schools are safest when they discriminate against students of color. “Title VI of the Civil Rights Act expressly prohibits policies and programs that disproportionately impact students of color, regardless of their intent. With or without the discipline guidance, the administration is legally responsible for ensuring school discipline policies do not have a disparate impact on historically disadvantaged students. “Congress must hold the administration accountable for meeting its obligation to fully enforce federal civil rights law and for providing justifications for this decision based on facts, not rhetoric.” ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the First Step Act of 2018: “Our criminal justice system is long overdue for significant and comprehensive reform. For far too long, policymakers have chosen to play politics by enacting so-called ‘tough on crime’ slogans and soundbites, such as ‘three strikes and you’re out,’ ‘mandatory minimum sentencing,’ and even rhymes such as, ‘you do the adult crime, you do the adult time.’ These policies may sound appealing, but their impact ranges from a negligible reduction in crime to an actual increase in crime. A better policy has always been to follow evidence and research to reduce crime and save money. “I voted in favor of the First Step Act when it was first considered in the House in May of this year, despite my concerns with the process. I commend Representatives Jeffries and Collins for incorporating several provisions that I have advocated for over the last several congresses. These include fixing the calculation of good time credits, improving the auditing process for enforcing the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA), prohibiting the shackling of pregnant and post-partum women, expanding the use and transparency of compassionate release for terminally ill prisoners, and requiring the Bureau of Prisons to house prisoners closer to home so they can maintain ties to their family and community. The bill also makes significant new investments in programs designed to reduce recidivism. “The bill before us today includes several sentencing reform provisions that were not included in the House bill, but have been proposed in the Sentencing Reform Act and the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act in this and the last session of Congress. Some of the sentencing provisions are long overdue. The bill finally makes retroactive the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, legislation that I authored in the House and that was signed into law by President Obama that finally reduced the crack-power cocaine sentencing disparity from 100-1 to 18-1. The Senate additions also include an overdue reauthorization of the Second Chance Act of 2007, which I proudly helped author with my friend and colleague Congressman Danny Davis of Illinois that was signed into law by President George W. Bush. “In spite of all of the good work on the bill, the lack of extensive hearings and a meaningful CBO score make it impossible to fully analyze the impact of the bill. For example, the bill appears to create a meaningful reduction in incarceration and recidivism, yet the CBO score shows an overall increase in federal spending over ten years. Previous CBO scores of many crime bills have shown significant federal budget savings, so the CBO score on this bill raises questions about the impact of expansions of mandatory minimums in some parts of the bill. However, I agree with advocates and proponents of the legislation who argue that on balance the bill does more good than harm. But that’s the problem when we rush criminal justice reform legislation to the floor without hearings and a full vetting and impact analysis of each provision. “It is clear that this bill will help some, but it is also clear that the bill may actually make our system less just and fair for others. I decided to vote for this legislation, but I hope that in the new year and with a new Congress we can revisit some of these problematic provisions and actually advance legislation that is based on evidence and research and will address the injustices in our justice system and truly reduce mass incarceration.” # # #
12.18.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the release of the Trump administration’s school safety commission report. “The Federal School Safety Commission Report is not a serious or good-faith effort to make schools safer for students and educators. The report’s recommendations ignore both the research consensus and the demands of students and parents for tougher gun laws. Instead, the report promotes a longstanding, conservative agenda to undermine policies that protect students’ civil rights. “The report makes no recommendations to address the common denominator in school tragedies – easy access to assault-style firearms designed for the battlefield. Rather than confronting the role of guns in gun violence, the Trump administration blames school shootings on civil rights enforcement – specifically the 2014 guidance that assists local school leaders in ending discrimination in discipline without jeopardizing school safety. This guidance has no connection to school shootings. “The 2014 guidance was issued to help address the troubling and undeniable evidence – outlined in a recent GAO report – that Black students, boys, and students with disabilities receive harsher punishments than their classmates for similar or lesser offenses. The Commission’s report ignores this disparate impact and attempts to blame civil rights protections for school tragedies. This sends the message that schools are safest when they discriminate against students of color. “With or without the discipline guidance, the administration is legally responsible for ensuring students are free from discrimination. Congress will hold the administration accountable for meeting its obligation to fully enforce federal civil rights law and for providing fast-based justifications for the report’s recommendations.” ###
12.13.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), the top Democrat on the Committee on Education and the Workforce, issued the following statement after the passage of the Juvenile Justice Reform Act of 2018 (H.R.6964), which reauthorizes and reforms the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA) to help state and local leaders better serve juvenile offenders and at-risk youth. “Today is the culmination of a multi-year, bipartisan effort to improve our juvenile justice system. Rather than setting policy based in slogans and soundbites, the Juvenile Justice Reform Act is guided by the best-available evidence and the best interests of young offenders, at-risk youth, and communities across the country. “This legislation strengthens each of the core protections for children in the juvenile justice system: It ensures children are treated separately – both in approach and location – than adult offenders; it shifts the focus from punishing young people to supporting them through education and programming; and it puts a spotlight on the racial disparities in our juvenile justice system. I am particularly gratified that this bill incorporates key elements of the Youth P.R.O.M.I.S.E. Act, which I have worked on over the last decade, as a way to reduce juvenile delinquency and gang involvement. “Lastly, while the bill reauthorizes the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (RHYA) through 2020, I look forward to working with my colleagues next Congress on a full reauthorization of RHYA programs that makes needed improvements and recognizes the need for appropriate funding for such programs. I’d like to thank Chairwoman Foxx and Representative Lewis for their steadfast work in producing a bill that will change the trajectory for countless young people and strengthen our communities.” ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House and Senate leaders of the Agriculture Committees unveiled a bipartisan, bicameral 2018 Farm Bill conference report. The conference report contains several major provisions from the Chesapeake Bay Farm Bill Enhancements Act, which was introduced by Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) last year. “Improving conservation practices throughout the Chesapeake Bay Watershed is critical to our efforts to help restore the Chesapeake Bay, and that is why we introduced the Chesapeake Bay Farm Bill Enhancements Act,” said Congressman Scott. “I am very thankful that the leaders of the House and Senate Agriculture Committees have decided to include important provisions of our legislation in this year’s Farm Bill so we can continue our work to protect and restore the Bay.” “The Chesapeake Bay isn’t just a national treasure – it is vital to Maryland jobs and our economy,” said Senator Van Hollen. “I introduced the Chesapeake Bay Farm Bill Enhancements Act to boost restoration efforts and improve the health of the Bay. I want to thank Chairman Roberts and Ranking Member Stabenow for working with me to include much of the legislation in this year’s Farm Bill. This new investment will help ensure that our Bay economy continues to thrive and that Marylanders and tourists can enjoy this treasure for generations to come.” This final Farm Bill contains major provisions of the Chesapeake Bay Farm Bill Enhancements Act including: $300 million in mandatory funding for the Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP), which provides funding to conservation partners and agricultural producers to work together to reduce pollution and improve water quality. A higher percentage of RCPP funding for Critical Conservation Areas like the Bay – an increase from 35 percent to 50 percent. Important reforms and technical assistance for partners. # # #
12.07.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 155,000 jobs in November. The unemployment rate held steady at 3.7 percent. “Today’s jobs report reveals the economic state of workers and middle-class families remains fragile despite a prolonged period of low unemployment. Wages have remained largely stagnant – particularly for low-wage earners – and too many workers are forced to work multiple jobs just to make ends meet. What’s worse, the Majority’s major legislative accomplishment from the 115th Congress was a massive tax cut that overwhelmingly benefits corporations and the wealthy. “Next year, this Committee will work to build an economy that works for everyone, not just the wealthy few. This means raising the federal minimum wage, expanding access to overtime pay, protecting all workers from discrimination, expanding access to health care and child care, and ensuring that all Americans can retire with dignity.” # # #
12.06.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) statement on today’s announcement that the Education Corporation of America (ECA) will close all of its more than 75 campuses, affecting roughly 20,000 students. ECA is accredited by ACICS and makes up about half of ACICS accredited schools. ECA’s abrupt closure calls into question the Department’s recent decision to reinstate ACICS as a recognized accreditor. “We have repeatedly warned about the risks low-quality, for-profit education companies and irresponsible accreditors pose to students and taxpayers across the country. Today’s announcement is another painful reminder of those risks. Just as with ITT Technical Institute and Corinthian Colleges, Education Corporation of America’s (ECA) abrupt closing will leave thousands of students with non-transferrable credits, crippling debt, and few of the job opportunities they were promised. And, once again, the programs being shuttered were accredited by the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools (ACICS) until the day before ECA announced they were closing. “Students, their families, and the federal government rely on accreditors to set a standard for quality higher education and determine which institutions should be eligible to receive federal student aid. It is particularly notable that within the past two weeks the Department moved to restore ACICS as a recognized accreditor, despite its long record of granting legitimacy to schools like ECA. Previously ECA unsuccessfully attempted to be recognized by another accreditor but was ultimately denied because they failed to meet the minimum standards. “This announcement captures many of the substantive issues we have raised about the Department’s efforts to rollback accountability in for-profit education by lowering standards for schools and accreditors and making it harder for defrauded students to be made whole. “I hope the Department will take this opportunity to rethink its recognition of ACICS as an accreditor.” # # #
11.28.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), Ways & Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced that 2.4 million Americans have selected health insurance plans through state and federal marketplaces, a drop from this point in 2017: “While there are still two weeks remaining in open enrollment, these lagging numbers show that Republicans’ sabotage of our nation’s health care system is working. The Trump administration has starved the program intended to help families get covered by refusing to make congressionally-required investments in outreach and enrollment. And the administration’s promotion of inadequate coverage options, like short-term health plans, has led to cost increases for Americans, particularly those with preexisting conditions. “When we invest in enrollment outreach, it pays dividends in reducing the number of uninsured, strengthening the markets, and providing people with affordable coverage that is there when they need it. All Americans should have the opportunity to make fully-informed decisions about their family’s health care and know how to access affordable plans that are available now.” ###
11.16.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Democratic leaders on health care committees in the House and Senate today called on the Trump administration to cease their continued attacks on affordable, comprehensive health care for Americans, following a proposed change to the interpretation of Section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act that would further open the door to junk insurance plans and undermine health care for people with pre-existing conditions. “We write to express our serious concerns that the Administration’s new guidance on Section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act is inconsistent with congressional intent, will raise costs for consumers, and will undermine protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions,” the Members wrote. “We urge you to rescind this guidance and work with stakeholders and Congress to give states the flexibility to innovate without raising costs or harming people with pre-existing conditions who need quality, affordable health care the most.” The letter, sent to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin comes as open enrollment for 2019 is underway and Americans attempt to shop for comprehensive, ACA-compliant plans while the Trump Administration is pushing people to buy junk insurance plans instead. The letter was signed by House Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott, D-Va., House Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr., D-N.J., House Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal, D-Mass., Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden, D-Ore., Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee Ranking Member Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Senate Aging Committee Ranking Member Robert P. Casey, D-Penn. Section 1332 was included in the ACA to give states the ability to build on the strong foundation created by the ACA, not to allow them to undermine core consumer protections that families count on today. “Congress enacted Section 1332 of the ACA to provide states with the flexibility to improve coverage, affordability, and comprehensiveness of benefits,” the Members continued. “Under the Administration’s new 2018 guidance, the Secretary may approve waivers that will result in less coverage, fewer protections, and higher costs for older, sicker, and low-income residents.” The full letter can be found here. ###
11.16.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement in response to the Education Department’s proposed rule, released today, which revises standards for schools’ responsibility under the Title IX to respond to campus sexual assault and harassment. “The Title IX proposal released today would be a damaging setback for our efforts to prevent campus sexual harassment and assault. The bottom line is that by allowing schools to use this new process and evidentiary standard, this rule would make it harder for survivors of sexual misconduct to achieve justice. Institutions must secure due process for the accused, while achieving dignity and providing the support services survivors deserve. “In addition, this proposal provides schools with numerous opportunities to evade responsibility for incidences of sexual misconduct involving their students. For example, institutions are currently required to intervene if they have general knowledge of an incident. Under this proposed change, institutions could avoid their Title IX obligation unless the institution has ‘direct’ knowledge of an incident. This would limit students’ ability to seek redress under Title IX. “Once again, I strongly encourage the administration scrap this proposal and join the effort to make college campuses and school classrooms safer and more welcoming for all students.” ###
11.14.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08), Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT), Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), the top Democrat on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, and Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, introduced the Keeping All Students Safe Act to protect students from the dangers of seclusion and restraint at school. The legislation would make it illegal for any school receiving taxpayer dollars to seclude children. The legislation also limits the use of physical restraint to instances when it is necessary for the safety of students and teachers. The bill would establish minimum safety standards in schools, require states to monitor the law’s implementation, and increase transparency and oversight to prevent future abuse of students. “No child should be afraid for their safety when they go to school. All too often students are subjected to abusive discipline techniques, which disproportionately affects minority and students with disabilities. A majority of states have already instituted bans on seclusion and inappropriate restraint in the classroom, and it is time we do so nationwide,” said Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08). “The Keeping All Students Safe Act will safeguard students from these incidents of harmful discipline by setting minimum safety standards for schools and by providing training and support to school personnel. It is my duty as a parent, and all our duties as members of our communities, to keep kids safe whenever and wherever we can.” "It's barbaric for schools to confine students alone in locked rooms, or to use abusive methods to restrain little children. Treating school kids this way should not be tolerated in America. Period,” said Senator Murphy (D-CT). “Our bill would establish strong federal standards to keep students safe, while giving school staff alternatives to respond to challenging situations in the right way. I look forward to working with students and advocates to advance this important piece of legislation.” “Every school should be a safe and welcoming place where all students can get a quality education. Unfortunately, despite evidence that seclusion and restraint practices make schools less safe, thousands of students are still subjected to these disproven methods of discipline,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “While it is encouraging that some states have begun to prohibit or limit the use of seclusion and restraint, it is important that Congress pass the Keeping All Students Safe Act, which would establish a nationwide minimum safety standard. Moreover, this legislation would provide states and teachers the support they need to improve their schools’ culture by using only evidence-based interventions.” “I’m proud to cosponsor the Keeping All Students Safe Act to curb the use of dangerous practices like seclusion and restraint, which are not only harmful, but have lasting effects on students,” said Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA.) “These practices are disproportionally used on students with disabilities and children of color, so I’m pleased this bill starts to address the inequities in education that hold so many students back from reaching their full potential. We must keep working to ensure every student is able to learn in a safe and supportive environment—no matter where they live, how they learn, or how much money their parents make.” The legislation refers to key facts and findings that reveal a concerning history of seclusion and restraint of students in schools, including a 2009 Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation that revealed hundreds of incidents of child abuse in schools as a result of seclusion and restraint practices that disproportionately impacted children with disabilities and children of color. FACT SHEET: The Keeping All Students Safe Act SECTION BY SECTION: Keeping All Students Safe Act ###
11.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott sent the following letter to his Democratic colleagues in the House of Representatives announcing his support for Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to serve as Speaker in the 116th Congress: November 13, 2018 Dear Democratic Colleague: Later this month, our Caucus will nominate our candidate for Speaker for the 116thCongress. In these uncertain times, there is no one more qualified to lead our Caucus and the House of Representatives than Nancy Pelosi. Leader Pelosi has a proven track record of accomplishment for our Caucus and the American people. Against the opposition of a Republican president, she successfully fought to increase the minimum wage for the first time in a decade. In 2008, she worked to secure the largest expansion of educational benefits for our veterans when the House passed the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill, which also faced opposition from a Republican administration. She has also been on the frontlines defending women’s reproductive rights and LGBTQ rights. After Democrats won back the White House in 2008, then-Speaker Pelosi worked with President Obama in securing passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which helped save our economy from the worst economic recession since the Great Depression. And she took up the cause of making sure our government actually takes steps to address climate change and curtail carbon emissions, but not at the expense of our most vulnerable communities. During her first tenure as Speaker, she was instrumental in expanding the State Children’s Health Insurance Program to cover millions of more uninsured children. A few months later, then-Speaker Pelosi delivered an Affordable Care Act out of the House with a robust public option. And since then, she has been a tenacious leader and advocate for affordable and universal health care coverage for every American. It is because of her tireless efforts in keeping our Caucus unified that the Affordable Care Act still stands today. These victories were not easy. On each of these tough votes, Leader Pelosi successfully brought together every faction of our caucus to deliver for the American people. She is not only our most talented legislative strategist, she is the most effective House leader in modern history. With a Republican White House and Senate, we need a proven, experienced leader at the helm to protect the constitutional rights of all Americans and deliver a legislative agenda that is truly For the People. Nancy Pelosi remains that leader. I hope you will join me in supporting Nancy Pelosi for Speaker of the People’s House. Very truly yours, /S/ ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTT Member of Congress
11.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) sent the following letter to his Democratic colleagues in the House of Representatives: “Last night was a tremendous victory for House Democrats and the American people. As we prepare our new majority for the 116th Congress, I am writing to seek your support to serve as Chairman of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. I am proud to have served as the Committee’s Ranking Member for the past four years, and I look forward to working with you to advance our goals as we enter the Majority.” Below is full the text of the letter: November 7, 2018 Dear Democratic Colleague: Last night was a tremendous victory for House Democrats and the American people. As we prepare our new majority for the 116th Congress, I am writing to seek your support to serve as Chairman of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. I am proud to have served as the Committee’s Ranking Member for the past four years, and I look forward to working with you to advance our goals as we enter the Majority. The American people have spoken and they are looking to our Committee – which enacts policies that impact the lives of Americans from birth to retirement – to restore confidence in a government that works For the People! I am committed to upholding the core values of our Democratic Caucus by advancing equity in education, expanding access to affordable health care, ensuring workers have a safe workplace where they can earn decent wages, and conducting rigorous oversight into this Administration’s deregulatory agenda. Although the last two years have forced us to block harmful policies, we must also pursue a proactive agenda that clearly articulates a better, more inclusive vision for our country. As Ranking Member, I have joined with many of you to introduce ambitious and unifying proposals that would significantly improve the lives of people from all backgrounds. Together, we have introduced legislation to free students from the burdens of crippling debt, support workers’ access to fair wages, safe workplaces, and a secure retirement, and expand affordable, accessible health care coverage to all Americans. These proposals not only reflect the values of our Caucus, they have the overwhelming support of the American people. Last night, the voters granted us the opportunity to advance a vision for a country where everyone can succeed. As Chairman, I will continue to work with you to present meaningful solutions that secure a better future for children, students, workers, and families across the country. Thank you for your consideration and support. Sincerely, /S/ ROBERT C. "BOBBY" SCOTT Member of Congress # # #
11.02.2018	NEWPORT NEWS, VA. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after Virginia Governor Ralph Northam signed an executive order to bolster Virginia’s resilience to sea level rise and natural hazards: “With neighborhoods and streets already underwater in the Hampton Roads area, Governor Northam knows that making Virginia more resilient to flooding is of the utmost importance. Creating a broad resiliency plan for the Commonwealth and a coordinated effort with localities is an important step to managing sea level rise and reducing future flooding risks. “I introduced the Building Up Infrastructure and Limiting Disasters through Resilience (BUILD Resilience) Act with Senators Kaine and Warner to make our communities more resilient. The BUILD Resilience Act would create a federal Community Resilience Grant Program to assist with community resilience efforts. The bill would also create a National Center for Resilience to coordinate a best practice sharing network to support grantees and provide evidence-based support for resilience work throughout the United States. “I commend Governor Northam for making sure our Commonwealth is leading the way in resiliency. I look forward to working with his administration on this effort as I continue to advocate for increased federal assistance for community resilience programs in Congress.” # # #
10.22.2018	NEWPORT NEWS, VA. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring outlined a new proposal to reform Virginia’s cash bail system: “I commend Attorney General Mark Herring for applying a common sense approach to bail reform. Many defendants cannot afford to post cash bail, creating a justice system where individuals are incarcerated simply because they are poor. Unfortunately, too many of these individuals end up losing their jobs, and eventually their homes, because they are locked up awaiting trial. Some defendants are eventually sentenced to no jail time at all or to a sentence that could have been served on weekends, allowing them to preserve their jobs and homes. The economic instability inflicted on these individuals with our current bail system too often leads to unnecessary recidivism. There is no public safety rationale for jailing people because they do not have money. A bail system should be based on risk and not wealth. Our current bail system only further increases mass incarceration, drives up costs to the taxpayer, and unnecessarily breaks up families and communities. The reforms proposed by Attorney General Herring will save Virginians millions of dollars, which can be invested in evidence-based initiatives proven to actually reduce crime and make our communities safer.” # # #
10.17.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, along with Representatives Susan Davis (CA-53) and John Sarbanes (MD-03), and Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO), led more than 150 Democrats requesting Education Secretary Betsy DeVos turn over more information—and swiftly act to fix— regarding the Department’s flawed handling of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program. This request follows the release of a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report which revealed an alarming number of PSLF borrowers have been denied loan forgiveness. The report also showed the Department has neglected to provide clear guidance and instructions to loan servicers. This failure at the Department has left servicers and borrowers in the dark about which employers qualify and without detailed, accurate information regarding their loan payments. Additionally, official Department data recently showed that a shocking 99.6 percent of borrowers applying for PSLF have thus far been denied. Previous requests to Secretary DeVos to improve PSLF have been ignored, and the Administration has even proposed eliminating the critical loan forgiveness program entirely. “Consumer advocates, state regulators, Members of Congress, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and GAO have all repeatedly raised alarms about the Department’s handling of the PSLF program,”the Members wrote. “Not only has this Administration ignored the mounting warning signs about … but it has actively reduced oversight of student loan servicers—thereby contributing to the current problems in student loan servicing.” “We are deeply troubled that millions of dedicated public servants may not obtain the loan forgiveness that they deserve if the Department does not act quickly to correct program implementation issues,” the Members continue. Members also requested a timeline for implementing each GAO recommendation, a copy of the Department’s corrective action plan, and further details about the Department’s plan to reach out to all Direct Loan borrowers about PSLF and to fully digitize the employment certification and application process. It is critical that Congress have this information as authorizers of the program and to make any potential legislative corrections. To read the full text of the letter, click here. To read more about the GAO report entitled, “Public Service Loan Forgiveness: Education Needs to Provide Better Information for Loan Service and Borrowers, ”click here and here. ###
10.16.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after a federal court judge ruled the Department of Education illegally delayed the “Borrower Defense” (BD) rule. The rule was established under President Obama in the wake of two massive for-profit college closures to provide relief to defrauded students. “Today’s court ruling is a major victory for students. In September, the Court found the Department illegally delayed the Borrower’s Defense regulations, delaying relief for students who were cheated out of their education, their money, and their future. Today, the Court ordered the Department to provide relief to more than 100,000 borrowers who have waited over a year to get the relief they deserve. “I urge Secretary DeVos to faithfully implement the Borrower’s Defense regulations by discharging loans for students who have been defrauded by their schools, providing automatic relief for eligible students when their school suddenly closes without notice, and banning a provision that deny students their day in court.” ###
10.15.2018	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after signing on as a co-sponsor of HR 2472 the Disability Integration Act: “Today I’m joining as a cosponsor of the Disability Integration Act. Despite the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) becoming law more than 28 years ago, many individuals with disabilities are still forced to live in segregated settings due to the way our health care system provides services. All Americans with disabilities have the right to achieve economic self-sufficiency, live independently, and fully participate in all aspects of their community. “Individuals with disabilities leaving segregated settings and moving into the community need accessible, affordable housing and accessible, reliable transportation. As the Disability Integration Act moves forward, it is important that funding of these services is included to ensure proper support to enable individuals with disabilities to live healthy, independent lives in their community.” ###
10.05.2018	NEWPORT NEWS, VA. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), the ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, issued the following statement in advance of the Senate vote to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be an Associate Justice on the U.S. Supreme Court: “Judge Kavanaugh’s judicial record gives every indication that his addition to the Supreme Court will establish a reliable majority that will undermine core constitutional rights now enjoyed by all Americans. He will support businesses over workers by sabotaging their right to organize through voting to expand the recent Janus decision to the private sector thus federalizing right-to-work laws. He will support big corporations over the rights of consumers by voting to limit protections against unfair arbitration clauses and to restrict the ability of plaintiffs to file class actions. A Justice Kavanaugh will vote to upend the Court’s decades of precedents on disparate impact making it harder or even impossible to address ongoing segregation in our public schools and ending racial disparities in our criminal justice system. He will also likely be the deciding vote to adopt the alternative legal theory that promoting racial diversity is not a compelling state interest. This will have serious ramifications for affirmative action policies in college admissions and government contracts. It will also open the door to a serious constitutional challenge to the Voting Rights Act. “Aside from significant concerns about his judicial record, Judge Kavanaugh’s appearance last week before the Senate Judiciary Committee demonstrated that he lacks both the judicial temperament and impartiality required of judges who sit on any court of law, especially the United States Supreme Court. There are also serious questions about whether Judge Kavanaugh has been honest in answering questions on multiple topics throughout his confirmation process. Finally, there are real concerns about how the White House did not allow the FBI to conduct a fair and thorough investigation into Dr. Christine Blasey Ford’s claims or other credible allegations of sexual misconduct against Judge Kavanaugh. For all of these reasons, I urge my colleagues in the Senate to reject this nomination.” # # #
10.01.2018	As originally released by the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) released the following statements in recognition of Filipino American History Month, which is celebrated throughout the month of October: Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-27), CAPAC Chair: “Filipino American History Month is an important time to celebrate the rich heritage and significant contributions Filipino Americans have made to our nation since the arrival of the first Filipino immigrants in 1587 on what is now considered U.S. soil. Since then, Filipino Americans have contributed greatly to the diverse tapestry of America, serving as laborers, health care providers, educators, entrepreneurs, elected officials, and military service members. Last year, I proudly joined my congressional colleagues to recognize over 200,000 Filipino and Filipino American World War II veterans with the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian honor that Congress can bestow. As Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, I will continue to fight for the Filipino American community all across our nation and ensure that we honor and uplift their contributions for generations to come.” Senator Tammy Duckworth (IL): “During Filipino American History Month, we celebrate the incredible contributions and sacrifices Filipino Americans have made to our great nation over many years. From serving in the U.S. Armed Forces during World War II, to strengthening our economy by helping to shape emerging technology and health care industries, the Filipino American community has overcome prejudice and discrimination to thrive and become a vital part of the American story.” Senator Brian Schatz (HI): “This month, we celebrate the vibrant culture, hard work, and strong values of the Filipino American community. For generations, Filipinos have made Hawai‘i and the United States their home. From labor to business to arts and education, Filipinos have helped write the history of our state and our country. Some of the most significant contributions came from the more than 200,000 Filipinos who fought alongside American service members during World War II. Far too many of them have still not received the basic veterans’ rights they earned. As we celebrate Filipino American History Month, we must continue our efforts to honor those brave Filipino veterans and their families by finally giving them the benefits and recognition they deserve.” Congressman Jimmy Gomez (CA-34): “As the Representative of Historic Filipinotown in Los Angeles, I’m proud to celebrate the rich history, culture, and contributions of the Filipino American community. From World War II veterans to farmworker organizers, the Filipino American community has played an instrumental role in shaping the trajectory of our nation. The everyday contributions of Filipino Americans in Los Angeles – from business, to entertainment, to public service – continues to make our city one of the most vibrant in the nation. I am honored to join my colleagues in recognizing the Filipino American community’s achievements and serve as their champion in Congress.” Congressman Al Green (TX-09): “From culture to innovation, the labor movement, civil rights, and intellectual prowess, Filipino Americans have continuously been in the arena of change and justice in the United States. As we celebrate Filipino American History Month, I am proud to serve and advocate for the second largest Asian American population in the nation as a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus.” Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13): “Every October we mark Filipino American History Month. This is an important time for our nation to reflect on the history and culture of Filipino Americans, who have served proudly in our armed forces, started small businesses and excelled in the arts and sciences. These contributions help enrich our East Bay culture and values. I am proud to join in marking this month with our community in the East Bay and across the country. As a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus and co-chair of the CAPAC Health Care Task Force, I will keep fighting in Congress for policies that uplift and empower all members of our AAPI and Filipino American community.” Congresswoman Grace Meng (NY-06): “I am proud to salute the tremendous accomplishments made by Filipino Americans and I thank the Filipino American community for contributing enormously to our nation. Last year, Filipino World War II veterans were finally awarded with the Congressional Gold Medal, an overdue honor for which I was proud to advocate. They put their lives on the line to preserve and protect our democracy. Presenting them with Congress’ highest civilian honor finally provided these veterans with the recognition they long deserved. I continue to applaud their service and I am honored to celebrate the achievements, heritage and values of all Filipino Americans. I send my warmest wishes for a happy Filipino American History Month to all who celebrate.” Congressman Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (CNMI): “In honor of Filipino American History Month, we reflect on the struggles and victories of our brothers and sisters from the Philippines over the centuries. We remember the first immigrants from the Philippines who sweated in the fisheries of Louisiana and the pineapple plantations of Hawaii. We thank the Filipino farmworkers who advanced our labor rights from the grape fields of Delano. We honor the Filipino soldiers who fought in World War II and all the wars that followed. And we recognize the Filipino artists whose talents enliven our culture every day. In my home district of the Northern Marianas, Filipinos are an indelible part of the community. They teach our children. They care for our sick and our elderly. And they provide much needed labor to expand our economy. As we reflect on Filipino Americans’ contributions to our society, let us also pause to recognize the sacrifices they have made to build and defend our country.” Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03): “I am pleased to celebrate Filipino American History Month, and I am honored to be the only currently serving Member of Congress with Filipino ancestry. Filipino Americans have made fundamental contributions to society, from music to union strikes; from education to serving in our Armed Forces, they have served unselfishly for the greater good of our society. As we celebrate this special month, let us remember the innumerable contributions made by Filipino Americans, especially the sacrifice of those who served in military during World War II.” Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52): “It’s an honor to represent the almost 200,000 Filipino-Americans that call San Diego home and join them in celebrating Filipino American History Month. San Diego is proud of our military history and cultural roots, which were largely shaped by our Filipino community. Since World War II, Filipino-Americans have courageously served in the Navy, which increased Filipino immigration to San Diego and built the communities we have today. As a member of CAPAC, I’m working to make sure our Filipino community is represented and their veterans get the care and support they earned.” ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after passage of H.R. 6760 the so-called “Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act of 2018”: “Nine months ago, Republicans passed a tax scam that is projected to cost $2 trillion over the next decade and gives significant tax cuts to corporations and the top 1%. And today they have pushed through a second tax package that will cost an additional $3.2 trillion. This legislation threatens the future stability of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. Congress should instead work on tax reform for the people, not corporations.” # # #
09.27.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement following passage of the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act of 2019. “This funding package is a bipartisan rejection of President Trump’s proposed cuts to education, workplace safety and training, and programs that expand access to affordable health care for families across the country. "In fact, many programs targeted by the administration for Draconian cuts or outright elimination are preserved or expanded in this bill. “As with any compromise, this agreement is far from perfect. For example, while this bill provides incremental increases to programs that support working families, it still falls well short of what’s required to restore economic mobility to all Americans. “Overall, this is a spending package worthy of bipartisan support. For the first time in four decades, this spending package does not include a restriction on the use of federal funds to integrate schools. And, during floor discussions, we reached bipartisan consensus that existing law prohibits the use of federal funds to arm teachers. “I am grateful to my colleagues for finding a compromise that preserves critical investments in our future.” ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following passage of the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 6157 the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019: “I have the honor of representing Hampton Roads, Virginia, home to hundreds of thousands of service members and the heart of our nation’s shipbuilding industrial base. That is why I am very pleased that we have passed a full defense appropriations bill before the start of the fiscal year for the first time in a decade. This bill gives our shipbuilders the certainty they need to continue building and repairing our Navy ships on schedule. Additionally, this bill will also provide for a well deserved pay increase for our servicemembers. I was proud to support this legislation and I look forward to the President signing it into law.” # # #
09.26.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), and Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41), and Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Labor released a proposed rule to allow 16- and 17-year-olds to operate patient lifts in health care settings. “This rushed proposal to repeal restrictions on teens’ use of patient lifts could endanger the safety of young workers and the patients they serve. It appears the Department of Labor submitted this proposal without any input from National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). In fact, the proposal directly ignores previous expert warnings about the danger of allowing 16- and 17-year-olds to use this equipment by themselves. “In 2011, when NIOSH was asked to review this precise issue, it cautioned that ‘many 16- and 17-year-old employees cannot safely operate power-driven patient lifts to lift and transfer patients by themselves.’ Those safety concerns are no less relevant today. “There are many ways to expand job opportunities for young people without risking their safety and the safety of patients in hospitals and nursing homes across the country. The administration should follow the scientific evidence and withdraw this proposal.” ###
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Trump administration’s Department of Homeland Security released a proposed rule to expand grounds for denying legal U.S. residency to immigrants. “The Trump administration’s ‘public charge’ proposal would force hundreds of thousands of immigrants to make the impossible choice between receiving basic assistance for food and shelter and risk being separated from their families. “Existing policy ensures that immigrants seeking a new life in America are not penalized for accessing vital services for which they or their children are eligible. By broadening how individuals who use public benefits can be denied U.S. residency, the Trump administration is weaponizing public benefits against immigrant families who need them.” “This proposal is cruel, counterproductive, and in violation of the basic principles that make America an example for the world.” ###
09.20.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), the top Democrat on the Committee on Education and the Workforce, sent a second letter to Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (NC-05) requesting hearings before the full Committee to examine the troubling state of education in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria. The U.S. Virgin Islands Board of Education reported a drop of nearly 4,000 students enrolled in schools in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, while Puerto Rico’s Department of Education closed 265 schools last summer. “Compounding the trauma and anxiety are hastily implemented reforms and school closures without community input from citizens relying on schools as anchor institutions for a return to stability,” Ranking Member Scott wrote. “With recovery far from over, Members of the Committee and the American public should have the opportunity to hear directly about the federal government’s ongoing efforts to address the educational needs of our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.” The letter to Chairwoman Foxx, which comes on the one-year anniversary of the devastating storm, follows up on a previous request for a hearings sent by Ranking Member Scott in November of last year. The full text of the letter is available here and below. Dear Chairwoman Foxx, Today marks one full year since the catastrophic Category 5 hurricanes struck Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. I write to you, again, to request that the Committee on Education and the Workforce hold a hearing with officials from the U.S. Department of Education and the Office of Management and Budget to examine whether the federal response afforded the Territories the resources and flexibility needed to reopen and resume operations in public schools and institutions of higher education. The U.S. Virgin Islands Board of Education reported that post-hurricane school enrollment dropped by nearly 4,000 students. Of 32 schools in the territory, 10 closed. At least eight schools were condemned due to irreparable damage. As a result, many schools had to operate on double session schedules so that students could at least receive 180 days of instruction. However, the sessions did not allow students to receive the required 1,080 hours of instruction. To end double sessions by this fall’s back to school season, Governor Kenneth Mapp announced a plan for temporary repairs to most schools and modular unit installation to demolished school campuses. Temporary repairs prioritized replacing ceiling and floor tiles, sanitization, and safe treatments for mold. Puerto Rico also continues to deal with serious trauma. Recently, the government finally acknowledged that the initial count of 64 lost lives was grossly inaccurate. In fact, nearly 3,000 people lost their lives due to Hurricane Maria, significantly more than Hurricane Katrina’s estimate. Sadly, George Washington University researchers – the team tasked with the official recount – anticipate that a second analysis will reveal a higher mortality count. Although electricity has been restored, the power grid remains fragile and officials acknowledge that the island is not prepared for the current hurricane season. Given the circumstances, a joint study by Puerto Rico’s Department of Education (PRDOE) and the Medical University of South Carolina found that roughly one in every 10 students is exhibiting symptoms of trauma at school. Compounding the trauma and anxiety are hastily implemented reforms and school closures without community input from citizens relying on schools as anchor institutions for a return to stability. Last summer, shortly before Hurricane Maria, the PRDOE closed 165 out of 1,278 schools due to a decline in student enrollment. This summer, 265 more were summarily closed before the start of the 2018-2019 school year – effectively cutting one-third of public school options from the island within a year. Families only learned of those closings with the rest of the public from the news media. The first day back to school in Puerto Rico was nothing short of chaotic. Many students returned to temporary classrooms on which the island has spent millions in FEMA aid. Educators continued to wait for replacement books, computers, and repairs in classrooms they could not occupy despite overcrowding. Hundreds of displaced teachers awaited school reassignments. At least one school held a teacher walk-out to protest a new law’s expansion of charter schools and the changes to the education system. As of August 17, 2018, Puerto Rico had not spent any of its $589 million funding set aside specifically for school recovery while PRDOE claims the process is just slow. This month, PRDOE announced that it will spend less than 10 percent of the funds on hiring school nurses to address trauma and nutrition. Although schools have been in session for over a month, it is still unclear how or when the rest of the funds will be spent to meet the needs of students and teachers. With recovery far from over, Members of the Committee and the American public should have the opportunity to hear directly about the federal government’s ongoing efforts to address the educational needs of our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. I look forward to your support for a hearing that helps us to learn about the Administration’s effort to bring stability to the impacted Territories, specifically as it relates to prioritizing recovery efforts to ensure that students, teachers, and families have the resources necessary to live and learn safely in their communities. Sincerely, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce ###
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Within the first two weeks of re-entry, individuals released from correctional facilities are 129 times more likely to die from an opioid overdose than the general population. To help ensure that individuals can access the care they need, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) introduced the Supporting Positive Outcomes After Release Act, legislation that prohibits states from terminating an inmates’ Medicaid coverage while they are incarcerated, a practice that often prevents individuals from accessing treatment in the critical days and weeks after release. The legislation would prohibit states from terminating eligible individual’s Medicaid because of incarceration, and instead, with coverage only temporarily suspended, ensure access to health care services more quickly upon release. “Evidence shows that access to health care for individuals re-entering society can reduce recidivism,” said Rep. Scott. “This legislation will ensure that formerly incarcerated individuals have access to the supports they need to put them on the right path.” “We know that connecting vulnerable populations to health care, and especially substance use treatment, can save money and lives,” said Senator Markey. “As we work to address this nation’s opioid crisis and right the wrongs of the failed War on Drugs, we must do more to remove barriers to care, including for those who have been incarcerated. My legislation will help bridge the precarious time after release by ensuring Medicaid-eligible individuals can access their benefits as soon as possible. As the nation debates the need for criminal justice reform, we must address the need to make access to substance use treatment easier, not harder.” A copy of the legislation can be found HERE. Nearly 85 percent of prisoners in the United States either have a prior or present substance use disorder or committed a crime that was related to substance use. When many of these individuals return to the community after incarceration, their health care needs are great, but their ability to access coverage is typically poor because many states cancel Medicaid coverage for this population. As of 2016, only 16 states and the District of Columbia suspended Medicaid coverage for inmates during incarceration. The legislation is endorsed by the National Council for Behavioral Health, American Public Health Association, Families USA, the Center for Law and Social Policy (CLASP), and Drug Policy Alliance. ###
09.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Sens. Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine, along with U.S. Reps. Rob Wittman (VA-01), Scott Taylor (VA-02), Bobby Scott (VA-03), A. Donald McEachin (VA-04), Tom Garrett (VA-05), Bob Goodlatte (VA-06), Dave Brat (VA-07), Don Beyer (VA-08), Morgan Griffith (VA-09), Barbara Comstock (VA-10), and Gerry Connolly (VA-11), called on President Donald Trump to issue a federal emergency declaration ahead of Hurricane Florence, a tropical storm which was recently upgraded to a Category 4 hurricane and is expected to make landfall somewhere on the southeast or Mid-Atlantic coast Thursday night. Virginia’s congressional delegation wrote to the President in support of a request from Gov. Ralph Northam in advance of the storm’s potentially devastating effects on the Commonwealth of Virginia. “A federal emergency declaration would ensure the full availability of federal resources to support the Commonwealth’s efforts to guarantee public safety and rapid recovery from the direct and indirect effects of Hurricane Florence. Thank you for your consideration of Governor Northam’s request. We look forward to working with you, FEMA, and other relevant federal agencies to ensure that the Commonwealth of Virginia has the resources available to ensure the safety of our constituents,” wrote the Virginia Senators and Representatives. On September 8, 2018, Gov. Northam declared a state of emergency in Virginia in preparation for Hurricane Florence, which is projected to have a significant impact on the Commonwealth in the coming days. It is increasingly likely that Virginia will face damaging winds, heavy rainfall, and potentially life-threating storm surge flooding. Many localities have already ordered mandatory evacuations to prevent potential physical harm or loss of life. The full text of the letter can be found below: Dear Mr. President: We write today to express our support for Governor Ralph S. Northam’s request for a federal emergency declaration in advance of Hurricane Florence’s potentially devastating effects on the Commonwealth of Virginia. As you may know, on September 8, 2018 Governor Northam declared a state of emergency in Virginia in preparation for Hurricane Florence, which is projected to have a significant impact on the Commonwealth in the coming days. It is increasingly likely that Virginia will face damaging winds, heavy rainfall, and potentially life-threating storm surge flooding due to Hurricane Florence. Many localities have already ordered mandatory evacuations to prevent potential physical harm or loss of life. Governor Northam’s emergency declaration ensures a fully coordinated state response to support local recovery efforts. The Commonwealth has activated the Virginia Evacuation Coordination Team for Operational Response to assess the storm’s potential effects and the Virginia Emergency Operations Center is already coordinating the state’s response with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). A federal emergency declaration would ensure the full availability of federal resources to support the Commonwealth’s efforts to guarantee public safety and rapid recovery from the direct and indirect effects of Hurricane Florence. Thank you for your consideration of Governor Northam’s request. We look forward to working with you, FEMA, and other relevant federal agencies to ensure that the Commonwealth of Virginia has the resources available to ensure the safety of our constituents. Sincerely, ###
09.07.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 201,000 jobs in August, with the unemployment rate at 3.9 percent. “Today’s jobs report once again shows that the Republican tax bill is nothing but a broken promise to American workers. The White House predicted passing their tax scheme would increase the average family’s annual income by at least $4,000. Nine months later, the typical worker’s wages are not even keeping up with inflation while corporations and their CEOs are raking in historic sums of money. “Workers are not getting a fair deal in this economy. This is not an accident; it is the product of policy choices in Congress and across the federal government. Rather than spending nearly $2 trillion on a tax cut that overwhelmingly benefits the richest Americans, we should be investing in America’s future. Rather than fighting for the well-off and the well connected, we should be fighting for the people who work long hours and multiple jobs just to barely get by. “An important first step would be to pass the Raise the Wage Act of 2017 (H.R. 15). This bill would gradually increase the federal minimum wage and ensure that the minimum wage is no longer a poverty wage.”
08.30.2018	NEWPORT NEWS, VA. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after President Trump announced that his Administration would cut the cost-of-living adjustment for civilian federal employees and would eliminate locality pay across the board: “President Trump’s announcement today that he is seeking to freeze locality pay and deny federal employees a cost-of-living increase for 2019 is insulting to our federal workforce. It is puzzling that the President would do this at a time when his Administration has insisted that our economy is doing so well and his tax cuts for the wealthy are ‘paying for themselves.’ “I am honored to represent thousands of Federal employees in Hampton Roads whose work supports our military and other federal agencies. The President’s actions undermine that work and makes it more difficult for the federal government to retain and recruit talented individuals. And once again, federal employees are being asked to sacrifice for the fiscal maleficence of a Congress addicted to tax cuts without realistic offsets. “Additionally, I am concerned the President’s animosity towards our federal employees may jeopardize efforts led by me and my colleagues in the Virginia and North Carolina congressional delegations to urge the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to finalize a rule that will establish Virginia Beach-Norfolk (VA-NC CSA) as a separate locality pay area - which would give local civil servants a much-deserved raise. “The President’s plan harms our federal government, our federal workforce, and ultimately the American people.” # # #
08.30.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement in response to a report from the New York Times that revealed Secretary DeVos’s draft proposal to rewrite policies for addressing sexual misconduct on campus. “The draft regulation regarding sexual harassment and misconduct that is reportedly under consideration by Secretary DeVos would be a major step backward in our collective effort to provide a safe learning environment for all students. The proposed rule creates a new process and evidentiary standard that makes it harder for survivors of harassment, abuse, and assault to achieve the justice they deserve. “Campus sexual misconduct is already underreported and those who do come forward are too often denied respect, compassion, and a fair investigation of their claim. The recent scandals at Ohio State University, the University of Southern California, and Michigan State University demonstrate the need to strengthen protections for survivors. If submitted without significant revision, the Secretary’s draft rule would be a radical shift in the opposite direction. “Secretary DeVos should scrap this proposal and refocus the Department’s efforts toward making colleges campuses and school classrooms safer and more welcoming for all students.” ###
08.27.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after Seth Frotman, Student Loan Ombudsman at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, announced his resignation in a letter to Acting Director Mick Mulvaney. In the letter, Frotman says the Bureau has “abandoned the very consumers it is tasked by Congress with protecting.” “Seth Frotman’s resignation from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is further evidence that the Bureau’s current leadership is failing to do its job on behalf of America’s 44 million student loan borrowers. Mr. Frotman’s assessment that the Bureau has lost its independence and is now a political arm of the administration should be taken seriously. It not only reflects his personal experience, but it is also supported by the series of recent actions taken by the Bureau to weaken protections for students and their families. “While the Trump administration’s hostility toward consumer protections is well-documented, Mr. Frotman’s letter includes at least one new disturbing allegation that warrants immediate investigation. The revelation that last year the Bureau concealed evidence showing the nation’s largest banks were ripping off students through legally dubious account fees is a serious violation of its duty to the American people. “An independent, effective Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is critical to the integrity of our higher education system. Since its inception, the Bureau has processed more than 60,000 student loan complaints and returned more than $750 million to defrauded student borrowers. The absence of meaningful consumer protections will affect thousands of students and families for years to come. “I am calling for congressional hearings to examine the Bureau’s sudden withdrawal from its necessary role in protecting students and student loan borrowers from predatory companies.” ###
08.10.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s decision to eliminate the Gainful Employment rule, which was established by the Obama administration to set a clear enforcement standard for career programs and for-profit institutions that have a demonstrated history of leaving students with debt they cannot repay. “The Trump administration’s decision to eliminate – rather than revise or replace – the Gainful Employment rule is yet another example of its willingness to prop up low-quality for-profit colleges at the expense of students and taxpayers. According to the Education Department’s own analysis, this decision will cost taxpayers nearly $5 billion in federal financial aid, which will go to college programs that have failed to meet the existing standards and would have otherwise closed. “The Higher Education Act specifically states that training programs and for-profit institutions must prepare students for "gainful employment in a recognized occupation” to be eligible for federal funding. While the Trump administration can eliminate the Obama-era rule that set clear standards for enforcement, it cannot discard the legal requirement for schools to provide their students a worthwhile education. Accordingly, by eliminating this rule without replacing it with any alternative standards or enforcement tools, the Education Department is violating its duty to faithfully execute the laws passed by Congress. “Despite the intent of Congress and the letter of the law, an Education Department run by former senior for-profit college officials is once again using its authority to direct taxpayer money to low-quality for-profit institutions that fail to prepare students for good-paying jobs.”
08.08.2018	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – NEXT WEEK, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will host two town hall meetings where he will provide an update to constituents on the ongoing efforts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act, the growing cost of the recent Republican tax cuts, and legislation he recently introduced to provide every student with the opportunity to earn a debt-free college degree. The first town hall is Monday, August 13th in Newport News, and the second town hall is on Tuesday, August 14th in Chesapeake. Newport News Town Hall Monday, August 13, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. Homer L. Hines Middle School 561 McLawhorne Drive Newport News, VA 23601Click here to RSVP. Chesapeake Town Hall Tuesday, August 14, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. Camelot Community Center 948 King Arthur Drive Chesapeake, VA 23323Click here to RSVP. These town halls are free and open to the public. ###
08.03.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 157,000 in July, with the unemployment rate at 3.9 percent. “Today’s jobs report highlights the failure of the Republican tax bill to improve the lives of hard-working Americans. The report shows that unemployment dropped to 3.9 percent but annual wage growth remained at a paltry 2.7 percent. Instead of benefitting workers or investing in new equipment, the massive tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy have been funneled into a wave of stock buybacks that overwhelmingly benefit the wealthiest one percent. In fact, a recent report found that companies have distributed 57 percent of their tax savings to shareholders and just 7 percent to their workers. “Rather than spending nearly $2 trillion on a tax cut that overwhelmingly benefits the richest Americans, we should be investing in America’s future. Last week, Democrats introduced the Aim Higher Act, a comprehensive higher education plan that would provide every student the opportunity to earn a debt-free degree or credential that leads to a rewarding career. If we are going to reverse the extreme income inequality that is dividing our nation into the rich and poor, we must ensure every American can access the education and training they need to compete for good-paying jobs.” ###
08.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the Education and Workforce Committee, and Congressman Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Committee, sent a letter signed by 67 Members of Congress to the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) in response to the agency’s recent revisions to the Transgender Offender Manual. The revisions as written by the BOP make it harder for transgender prisoners to be placed in appropriate facilities and housing, increasing the likelihood of sexual assault and rape. “Prisoners should never face rape or sexual assault as part of their sentence and the Supreme Court agrees,” said Ranking Member Scott (D-VA) and Ranking Member Nadler (D-NY). “With these changes to the Transgender Offender Manual, the Bureau of Prisons will knowingly place transgender prisoners at risk by denying them appropriate facility placements – violating the bi-partisan and unanimously passed Prison Rape Elimination Act, as well as the Constitution’s prohibition on cruel and unusual punishments. “BOP has a constitutional requirement to protect the health and safety of all individuals in its charge – including transgender prisoners. According to the Department of Justice, between 2011 and 2015, incidents of sexual assault tripled in our nation’s prisons, and BOP should be doing more to protect prisoners, not less. These changes to the Transgender Offender Manual should be immediately reversed.” A copy of the letter is below, and a full version can be found here: August 1, 2018 Hugh J. Hurwitz Acting Director Federal Bureau of Prisons 320 First St., NW Washington, DC 20534 Re: Transgender Offender Manual Dear Acting Director Hurwitz: We write to express our deep concern that the Bureau of Prisons’ (BOP) recent changes to its Transgender Offender Manual may be in violation of the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA), as well as the U.S. Constitution. We urge the agency to reverse course to avoid violating its constitutional obligations and to prevent transgender prisoners from being exposed to heightened risk for sexual abuse. Prisoners should never face rape and sexual abuse as part of their sentence. In recognition of the extreme harm and horror caused by sexual victimization in confinement settings, both to individuals and society at large, Congress unanimously passed the bi-partisan PREA in 2003. As part of PREA, Congress explicitly acknowledged the Supreme Court’s findings in Farmer v. Brennan, 511 U.S. 825 (1994), which held that deliberate indifference to the substantial risk of sexual assault violates prisoners’ rights under the Eighth Amendment’s prohibition on cruel and unusual punishments.[1] The problem of sexual victimization of prisoners has not abated since 2003. As the Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS) is expected to release this month, as part of the Sexual Victimization Reported by Adult Correctional Authorities, 2012-15, substantiated allegations of sexual victimization rose an astonishing 63% between 2011 and 2015.[2] The BJS has found that transgender prisoners are particularly vulnerable, with nearly 40% reporting experiencing sexual victimization while incarcerated in a 2011-2012 survey, compared to only 4% of all prisoners making such reports. In 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice published the final National Standards to Prevent, Detect, and Respond to Prison Rape under the Prison Rape Elimination Act in the Federal Register.[3] These PREA Standards recognized that central to the goal of preventing, detecting, and responding to sexual abuse is safeguarding vulnerable prisoners from sexual abuse and sexual harassment. Transgender prisoners are noted as facing “particular vulnerabilities” and the standards were explicit that in determining whether to assign a transgender prisoner to a facility that houses male or female prisoners, “an agency may not simply assign the inmate to a facility based on genital status.”[4] Instead, agencies must consider whether a placement would ensure an inmate’s health and safety on a case-by-case basis, giving “serious consideration to the inmate’s own views regarding his or her own safety.”[5] The new BOP policy for transgender prisoners contravenes these guidelines, mandating that the Transgender Executive Council use “biological sex” – a term undefined in the policy or by PREA – for all initial facility designations. Presumably, the agency intended to refer to a prisoner’s assigned sex at birth to avoid the prohibition of using “genital status,” but failed to adequately define its intent. We are gravely concerned that the undefined term “biological sex” will function in practice as a moving target, one that opens the door to significant discrimination and animus as its meaning is allowed to shape-shift to keep transgender prisoners from ever being housed in accordance with their gender identity in violation of PREA’s standards. The new policy further strains the PREA standards by specifically stating housing based on a prisoner’s gender identity “would be appropriate only in rare cases” and “where there has been significant progress towards transition as demonstrated by medical and mental health history.”[6] While the revised policy appropriately requires a transgender prisoner’s views of their own safety be taken into consideration for “housing unit and programming assignments” it does so only after a facility designation has been made, contrary to the requirements of the PREA Standards, which explicitly require these concerns be considered in facility designation. Among the revisions to the Transgender Offender Manual, only a single, telling sentence is eliminated: “The [Transgender Executive Council] will recommend housing by gender identity when appropriate.”[7] Given these facts, we are deeply concerned that the BOP is seeking to violate the intent and letter of PREA by prohibiting housing based on gender identity entirely, absent any legitimate rationale. The BOP has a constitutional requirement to protect the health and safety of all individuals in its charge – including transgender prisoners. The research is clear that transgender prisoners will face grievous and unconstitutional harm if this policy is implemented as written. We urge the BOP to immediately reverse these changes, and ensure that transgender prisoners are housed appropriately and based on their individual needs. Sincerely, Full list of signers: Nanette Barragan, Karen Bass, Earl Blumenauer, Suzanne Bonamici, Michael Capuano, Matthew Cartwright, David N. Cicilline, Yvette D. Clarke, Steve Cohen, Charlie Crist, Peter DeFazio, Diana DeGette, Mark DeSaulnier, Ted Deutch, Adriano Espaillat, Elizabeth H. Esty, Tulsi Gabbard, Al Green, Raúl M. Grijalva, Michelle Grisham, Luis V. Gutiérrez, Colleen Hanabusa, Brian Higgins, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Shelia Jackson Lee, Jared Huffman, Pramila Jayapal, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Jr., Joseph P. Kennedy III, Dan Kildee, Derek Kilmer, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, Zoe Lofgren, Alan Lowenthal, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Stephen Lynch, Sean Patrick Maloney, Doris Matsui, Betty McCollum, Donald McEachin, Seth Moulton, Jerrold Nadler, Donald Norcross, Frank Pallone Jr., Scott Peters, Mark Pocan, David Price, Mike Quigley, Kathleen Rice, Cedric Richmond, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Tim Ryan, Jan Schakowsky, Adam B. Schiff, Bradley S. Schneider, Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, José E. Serrano, Carol Shea-Porter, Adam Smith, Darren Soto, Nydia M. Velázquez, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Maxine Waters, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Peter Welch, Jamie Raskin # # #
07.30.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Department of Education announced plans to form a negotiated rulemaking committee to rewrite rules regarding accountability in higher education. “The regulatory agenda announced today by Education Secretary Betsy DeVos is an ominous sign for students and taxpayers. The current rules governing oversight and accountability in higher education reflect the responsibility and intent of Congress to create a system in which student and taxpayer dollars are spent on quality programs that prepare students for success. By initiating a process to weaken or eliminate those rules, Secretary DeVos is attempting to rewrite the Higher Education Act (HEA) in a way that undermines the quality of our higher education system and increases the opportunities for predatory institutions to profit by exploiting student financial aid. “The Trump administration’s repeated efforts to weaken consumer protections for students – including its most recent action to dramatically limit support for students defrauded by a for-profit institution by rewriting the Borrower Defense rule – is a call to action for Congress to reaffirm and strengthen its commitment to protecting students and taxpayers from waste, fraud, and abuse. Democrats are answering that call. “Last week, Democrats on the Education and the Workforce Committee introduced the Aim Higher Act, a comprehensive HEA reauthorization that strengthens accountability and rewards quality in higher education. We will continue to push our vision for a higher education system that provides every student access to an affordable education that leads to a rewarding career.” ###
07.26.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC ─ Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), ranking member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA), released a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report, Historically Black Colleges and Universities: Action Needed To Improve Participation in Education's HBCU Capital Financing Program. The members requested this report to review the capital finance needs of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). “This report identifies important challenges that act as a barrier to a thriving network of HBCUs, including policies that unfairly hinder the financial health of these institutions. I strongly support the GAO’s recommendations and call on the Department of Education to work with Congress to make the necessary changes which will allow HBCUs to invest in their students and in their facilities,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “HBCUs play an important role in providing opportunities for students historically left out of higher education, and this report makes it clear we must do more to support these colleges to get the funding and resources they need to help their students succeed,” said Ranking Member Pattie Murray (D-WA), Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. “As we work to make college more affordable and accessible for underrepresented students, I urge Congress and the Department of Education to work together to support investments in infrastructure at HBCUs to foster a safe, welcoming, and supportive environment to help students succeed.” “HBCUs are integral to the foundation of our higher education system, but sadly they have faced significant funding challenges,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield (NC-01). “It is critical that we ensure HBCUs have the federal support and resources they need to continue to thrive for generations to come. This report shed light on the challenges that still exist when it comes to access to funding at HBCUs.” “Historically Black Colleges and Universities, such as Lincoln University and Cheyney University in Pennsylvania, play an important role in our Nation’s education system. Unfortunately, these critical institutions have faced financing challenges in recent years. This report helps to shine a light on the issues they face and provides recommendations on ways that the Department of Education can strengthen institutions and the many students they serve,” said Senator Bob Casey (D-PA). The success of HBCUs remains critical to providing students an equitable opportunity in our higher education system. To help HBCUs facing challenges accessing funding for capital projects, including through discrimination in the bond market, in 1992, Congress created the HBCU Capital Financing Program to provide HBCUs with access to low cost loans. This report provides a path to ensure HBCUs can continue to fulfill their vital role in higher education for generations to come. The GAO recommends the Department of Education (1) include direct outreach to individual HBCUs and state systems and (2) analyze the potential benefits and costs of offering loan modifications in the program. FACT SHEET: Historically Black Colleges and Universities: Action Needed To Improve Participation in Education's HBCU Capital Financing Program REPORT: Historically Black Colleges and Universities: Action Needed To Improve Participation in Education's HBCU Capital Financing Program ###
07.25.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives sent to the President's desk H.R. 2353, the bipartisan Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. Sponsored by Reps. Glenn Thompson (R-PA) and Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), the legislation will help more Americans get the skills they need to compete for good-paying, in-demand industry jobs. During floor debate, Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, said: “Because of bipartisan leadership in both the House and the Senate, we were able to pass a comprehensive reauthorization of Perkins CTE program, which will improve program quality and support educational programming that engages all students. It will also require more inclusive collaboration between educational institutions, industry, employers, and community partners. Today’s CTE is not the vocational education of the past. This legislation updates the federal investment in career and technical education to provide increased state flexibility while ensuring greater accountability for program success.” During debate on the bill, Congresswoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC), chairwoman of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, said: “We have more than six million unfilled jobs in this country, due in large part to the skills gap. The skills gap is partly the result of an outdated approach to workforce development. H.R. 2353 supports innovative learning opportunities and strong community partnerships, addressing the problem of vacant jobs and workforce development needs where they exist: at the local level. “I want to recognize the bipartisan effort that has gotten us here today. Congressman Glenn Thompson and Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi along with a great staff delivered a great bill for us to work on at the Education and Workforce Committee. Since we marked it up, reported it, and the House passed the bill last year, I have been pleased, and I have been proud, to work with Ranking Member Bobby Scott in urging Senate consideration of this bill.” ###
07.25.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s release of a final proposed Borrowers Defense rule. “The Trump administration’s final proposed Borrowers Defense rule is yet another assault on consumer protections for student borrowers. Rather than supporting students who are cheated out of the education and the future they signed up for, the administration is proposing a new, burdensome process for evaluating claims that will shield schools from accountability and prevent a vast majority of students from getting desperately needed relief. In fact, a state investigation could find a school defrauded a student and violated state law, but that student’s claim for relief could still be denied by the U.S. Department of Education. “Most troubling, the proposed rule forces students to suffer the long-term, devastating impact of default before even filing a claim for relief. This is not only bad for students, it is bad for taxpayers who are on the hook when a federal student loan goes into default. “The proposed rule will cut off access to desperately needed relief for students defrauded by predatory schools. Under the leadership of Secretary DeVos, the Trump administration is sending an alarming message: Schools can cheat its student borrowers and still reap the rewards of federal student aid.” ###
07.24.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Today, all 17 Committee on Education and the Workforce Democrats are unveiling the Aim Higher Act, a comprehensive reauthorization of the Higher Education Act that reflects Democrats’ vision for an accessible, affordable higher education system. The bill provides every student an opportunity to earn a debt-free degree that leads to a rewarding career. “The Aim Higher Act is a serious and comprehensive proposal to give every student the opportunity to earn a debt-free degree or credential,” said Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), the ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. “It provides immediate and long-term relief to students and parents struggling with the cost of college, it puts a greater focus on helping students graduate on time with a quality degree that leads to a rewarding career, and it cracks down on predatory for-profit colleges that peddle expensive, low-quality degrees at the expense of students and taxpayers. “In addition, the bill modernizes student financial aid to ensure that students have access to the full range of quality four-year and two-year degrees as well as short-term credentials that give students an accelerated path to the workforce. This bill is in stark contrast to the Republican alternative, the PROSPER Act, which cuts $15 billion from federal student aid. This bill reflects Democrats’ commitment to investing in education and making college more affordable and accessible for all students.” “As the Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development, I am proud to support this exciting vision for debt-free higher education in our country,” said Ranking Member Susan Davis (CA-53), Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Development. “Every student in America, regardless of their race, gender, or income, deserves access to a quality education that will result in a fulfilling career. I am excited to say that this bill, which incorporates other legislation I have introduced, moves to fulfill that promise. The Aim Higher Act: Makes college more affordable today – by investing in federal student aid – and helps states make public college tuition more affordable in the future – by incentivizing states to reinvest in higher education, Cracks down on predatory for-profit institutions that target students and veterans with expensive, low-quality programs, Protects and expands the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, which is eliminated in the GOP PROSPER Act, and makes student loans simpler and easier to repay, Provides students the tools they need to graduate on time with a quality degree, and Invests in teachers and strengthens training for teachers and school leaders to improve the quality of our schools. To read a summary of the Aim Higher Act, click here. To read a fact sheet on Aim Higher Act, click here. ###
07.24.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08) released the following statement after the Senate passed the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, which will reauthorize the Perkins Career and Technical Education program. “At a time when skilled workers are in such high demand, investments in quality education and training programs will provide more hard-working Americans the opportunity for good-paying jobs and financial security. We applaud the Senate for advancing the bipartisan Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, which will fund important and effective job-training, apprenticeship, and technical education programs that will support workers and boost our economy. “Congress has a vital role in closing the skills gap and ensuring our workforce is prepared for success now and in the future. This bill is a major step toward fulfilling that responsibility and we look forward to this legislation receiving overwhelming support on the House floor.” ###
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of Bill Ward, the former Mayor of Chesapeake: “It is with great sadness that I learned of the passing of former Chesapeake Mayor Bill Ward. Bill spent his entire life dedicated to the Chesapeake and Hampton Roads community. As Chesapeake’s longest serving mayor, and first and only black mayor, Bill is leaving behind a powerful legacy of bringing about positive change for the city of Chesapeake. Even when he was out of office, Bill still found ways to constantly serve his community in a variety of ways. I extend my deepest condolences to all of his friends and family.” # # #
07.06.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 213,000 jobs in June, with the unemployment rate at 4 percent. “Today’s jobs report once again shows that – despite consistently low unemployment – wages for American workers are still stagnant. In a fair and functioning economy, the tightening job market would trigger an increase in worker pay as employers compete for talented employees. However, the disappointing annual wage growth of 2.7 percent reflects the reality that there are structural problems in the economy suppressing wages and undermining workers’ access to financial stability. “Six months after Republicans spent nearly $2 trillion on a tax cut for corporations and the wealthy, the benefits they promised to workers have not materialized. The mirage of one-time bonuses has given way to the realization that many workers are still not getting a fair return on their work. Rather than pursuing another failed experiment in trickle-down economics, we should be setting policies that are proven to improve the quality of life for workers and their families. “Union workers consistently earn higher pay and have greater access to health care and retirement benefits. That is why Democrats recently introduced two comprehensive bills to defend workers’ rights to join a union and negotiate for better wages and working conditions. The Public Service Freedom to Negotiate Act and the Workers’ Freedom to Negotiate Act will ensure that public and private-sector workers have the right to stand together and bargain collectively. In the face of unprecedented attacks on workers in the courts, in Congress, and in state legislatures across the country, restoring workers’ freedom to negotiate is critical to rebuilding the middle class and expanding economic security to millions of working families.”
07.03.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, and Congressman Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), ranking member of the House Committee on the Judiciary, issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced it will rescind Obama-era guidance that provides recommendations to boost diversity on campuses. “The Trump administration’s decision to rescind Obama-era guidance promoting campus diversity contradicts the Supreme Court’s ruling in Fisher v. University of Texas that schools have a compelling interest in pursuing a diverse student body. In addition, it disregards extensive research demonstrating the benefits of campus diversity for all students. Today, the Trump administration is once again eroding important civil rights protections without providing a legitimate rationale or legal justification. “Diversity is a core American value. While the administration has the authority to change existing guidance, it does not have the power to amend existing law. Admissions policies that promote equal opportunity for students by using race as one of several factors remain lawful and valuable to students of all races. We strongly encourage educators to continue implementing diversity initiatives that expand access to a quality, well-rounded education.” The Trump administration has repeatedly taken action to undermine students’ civil rights protections. The administration recently delayed the implementation of a long-overdue rule designed to address racial disparities in the identification, placement, and discipline of children of color with disabilities. According to a ProPublica analysis, the Education Department has shut down more than 1,200 civil rights investigations that were begun under the Obama administration and lasted at least six months. The Department of Education continues to signal its intent to rescind the 2014 ED-DOJ School Discipline Guidance Package, which addresses the dramatic racial differences in school discipline.
06.30.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in response to the Education Department’s delay of a rule that would ensure consumer protections for students enrolled in online college programs, many of which are at for-profit colleges, no matter where the school is physically located. “The Program Integrity and Improvement rule was a response to widespread confusion about state oversight of online programs. The rule made it clear that regardless of where an online education program is physically located, it must earn approval from any state where its students reside. The rule provided clarity for online programs and it reaffirmed that states have the right and the responsibility to maintain strong oversight over academic institutions. By delaying this rule, the Trump administration is creating more uncertainty in higher education while undermining states’ role in protecting consumers and taxpayers from fraudulent online college programs. “In addition, delaying this rule also delays important transparency requirements. The rule required online programs to notify students if a prospective program does not qualify them to work in their particular state. For example, if students are considering an online nursing program that does not meet their states’ licensing requirements, the program would be accountable for disclosing that information. “The administration’s decision to delay this rule undermines state oversight of online educational programs, blocks important transparency requirements, and increases uncertainty regarding oversight, all of which is a great disservice to students across the country.”
06.29.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), ranking member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Education announced a two-year delay of the Equity in IDEA rule. Congressman Scott said: “The Education Department’s decision to delay the Equity in IDEA rule, which addresses disproportionate identification, placement, and disciplinary treatment of students of color with disabilities, is another example of this administration’s continued failure to protect students’ civil rights. We know that clear standards for compliance with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) are critical to addressing the over-representation, inappropriate placement, and over-discipline of black and brown students in special education. “By delaying this rule, the administration is delaying our progress towards addressing the systemic challenge of racial discrimination, and it is allowing the disparities in the ‘school to prison pipeline’ to continue. This is why parents, teachers, students, state education officials, and advocacy groups overwhelmingly objected to the delay. “Regardless of the Department’s decision to delay this important rule, states and school districts are still bound by the statutory requirements of IDEA to identify, address, and reduce significant disproportionality. I applaud states that are moving forward to implement the standardized methodology and taking meaningful action to reduce educational disparities for children of color with disabilities.” Senator Murray said: “By delaying a critical rule aimed at addressing the widespread disparities in the treatment of students of color with disabilities, Secretary DeVos is once again abandoning the Department’s commitment to uphold and protect students’ civil rights—this time for some of the students who need the most help. After years of research and input from students, parents, teachers, schools, and advocacy groups, this rule was intended to ensure the students who often need the most help are being supported—not punished, and delaying it will further perpetuate the school to prison pipeline we have worked so hard to address. Once again, Secretary DeVos is prioritizing her ideological agenda and the generation of students that may fall through the cracks will pay the price.”
06.27.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision in Janus v. AFSCME, which found that public-sector unions cannot collect “fair share fees” for the services they are legally required to provide workers. “Today, the Supreme Court’s conservatives once again used dubious legal reasoning to achieve a partisan objective. The Court’s ruling in Janus ignores four decades of precedent and now rigs the rules against teachers, police officers, firefighters, and other public-sector workers who are fighting for fair wages and decent working conditions. Using the First Amendment as a weapon, the Court has effectively required unions to provide an array of services to non-union members, while simultaneously prohibiting unions from charging a fee for those services. “Rebuilding unions is critical to rebuilding America’s middle class. Union workers have more access to paid sick leave, better medical and retirement benefits, and higher pay than non-union workers. Instead of applying clear legal precedent and practical reasoning to uphold the rights of public-sector unions, the Court’s conservatives have sought to dismantle them by violating decades of legal precedent. “As Justice Kagan wrote in her dissent, the majority overturned established precedent, ‘for no exceptional or special reason, but because it never liked the decision…it wanted to pick the winning side in what should be—and until now, has been—an energetic policy debate.’”
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court handed down a 5-4 decision in Hawaii v. Trump, upholding the President’s Muslim ban: “President Trump promised voters a ‘total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States’ during his campaign. He then enlisted Rudy Giuliani to help disguise a policy borne from religious and racial animus toward Muslims. Giuliani was honest about the strategy: ‘When he first announced it, he said “Muslim ban”…He called me up, he said, “Put a commission together, show me the right way to do it legally.”’ The Administration followed Giuliani’s advice, and unfortunately, the Supreme Court legitimized their scheme in spite of the President’s multiple statements declaring his true intent which was to discriminate against Muslims. This is a dangerous decision that undermines the Constitution and American values.” # # #
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the Republican Majority’s failure to address the family separation crisis at the border: “President Trump’s reprehensible ‘zero-tolerance’ policy led to thousands of children, including toddlers and infants, being wrenched from the arms of their parents. According to the medical community, such a traumatic event can cause irreparable psychological damage to these innocent children. The Administration then repeatedly lied to the American people about the policy. Making matters worse and even more traumatic, the Administration was so ill-prepared they now cannot guarantee that all these children will ever be reunited with a parent. Giving into pressure to undo this reprehensible policy, the President signed an Executive Order (EO) that he claims will end the humanitarian crisis he created. Unfortunately, this is another false claim by this Administration. This EO will lead to other problems and presents us all with an absurd choice of having to choose between jailing children or jailing families. Shockingly, the EO says nothing about shutting down facilities detaining children and returning them to their family. Administration officials must detail how they plan to release these children to their families swiftly and responsibly, in compliance with child welfare laws. “Instead of addressing the family separation crisis at the border, House Republicans proposed two bills that would make everything demonstrably worse. These bills would nullify existing protections for children, dismantle our existing family immigration system, shrink legal immigration, and provide no relief for most Dreamers. One of these bills failed on the Floor yesterday and the vote on the other bill has been delayed until next week due to lack of support. This kind of governance highlights the Republicans’ inability to solve the crisis at the border. Congress should pass the Keep Families Together Act, which plainly stops the Trump Administration from separating children from families, and pass bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform legislation that protects Dreamers and actually fixes our broken immigration system.” # # #
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, commonly known as the Farm Bill. “The Farm Bill is traditionally a bipartisan piece of legislation that recognizes the importance of agriculture to the economy and the social fabric of communities across the country. Unfortunately, House Republicans broke that tradition today by advancing a partisan bill that makes deep cuts to food assistance programs and makes it harder for millions of Americans from all walks of life to make ends meet. “By erecting new barriers that will prevent struggling people from receiving SNAP benefits, the Republican bill would cut $23 billion from this vital food assistance program. It would also cut access to free school meals for 265,000 children and undermine school nutrition standards, despite the mountain of evidence showing a healthy diet is vital to helping students reach their full potential. “After passing a nearly $2 trillion tax cut for the wealthy and corporations, it is shameful that Republicans are asking poor families and children to foot the bill. I hope they will consider the devastating impact this legislation will have on our economy and work with Democrats to rewrite this legislation so that it ensures financial security for farmers and families across America.”
06.21.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s proposal to merge the departments of Labor and Education. “The Trump administration’s plan to reorganize the federal government is a hastily concocted proposal that uses the false promise of ‘streamlining’ to cut investments in our future. “There is no evidence that merging the Departments of Labor and Education would strengthen the performance of these agencies or produce better outcomes for students and workers. The Department of Labor is no more equipped to oversee elementary education policy than the Department of Education is prepared to enforce standards for coal mine safety. The logic behind this proposal is painfully thin. “Instead of spending time rearranging organizational boxes in government, the country would be far better off if the president’s cabinet refocused its energy on working with Congress to strengthen education, support American workers, and improve the quality of life for people across the country.” ###
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after re- introducing H.R. 6145 the Fairness and Accuracy in Criminal Background Checks Act of 2018, along with Representatives Jerry Nadler (NY-10), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), and Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18): “Although considered the gold standard of criminal background checks, FBI records routinely fail to accurately report important information. For example, these reports frequently omit the outcome of arrests, information that is often beneficial to workers subject to these reports. Given the massive proliferation of FBI background checks for employment—roughly 30 million in 2014—these inaccuracies can have a devastating impact on workers, especially workers of color who are disproportionately impacted by the criminal justice system. The FBI must ensure that records are accurate and complete prior to being released for employment and licensing decisions. “This bill provides an effective solution to the serious problems with the FBI database by requiring that records are accurate before they are sent to the agencies and employers that rely on them to make hiring and licensing decisions. The provisions of this bill, when enacted into law, will ensure that job seekers are treated fairly, increase the likelihood that employers will have access to the best and most qualified workers in a timely fashion, and increase public confidence in the integrity of the FBI criminal background check process.” ###
06.19.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01), and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) issued the following statement after the Department of Labor finalized a rule to rollback health coverage protections by expanding association health plans. "The administration’s rule expanding the use of association health plans is yet another attack on Americans’ access to affordable health care. By allowing the sale of junk plans, the rule will remove younger, healthier individuals from insurance pools, which will drive up the cost of coverage for all other Americans. When people in these low-quality health plans unexpectedly need care, they are often surprised by excessive out-of-pocket costs, which can drive families into bankruptcy and force everyone else to absorb the cost of unpaid medical bills. “This is why legal experts, consumer groups, and advocacy groups have consistently warned about the dangers of this rule ? specifically, about the impact this rule will have on premiums for 2019. “The association health plan rule is just the latest in a series of attempts by the Trump administration and congressional Republicans to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. Whether it’s through questionable lawsuits or executive action, this administration and Republicans in Congress are relentlessly undermining patient protections, increasing uncertainty for insurers, and inflating the cost of coverage for the American people. Democrats will continue to press the administration to faithfully execute the law to ensure that every person has access to quality and affordable health care.” ###
06.13.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY), House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Senate HELP Committee Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), and House Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), introduced legislation as part of their economic agenda, “A Better Deal.” As the income inequality gap reaches the highest levels since the Great Depression, many middle class families are finding it increasingly difficult to achieve basic economic security. To help address rising inequality and related challenges in obtaining a quality education, safe housing, sustainable work, and a secure retirement, the Democrats’ legislation would strengthen workers’ freedom to join unions and negotiate collectively to win better pay and conditions, stiffen penalties on corporations, protect workers’ right to strike, streamline procedures to secure worker freedoms, and protect the integrity of union elections. The Better Deal legislation comes as the Trump administration and congressional Republicans continue their efforts to maximize corporate profits through their tax giveaway to the richest few and largest corporations and the rollback of crucial labor rights designed to protect the American worker. Giving workers the freedom to negotiate A Better Deal would: Strengthen penalties on predatory corporations that violate workers’ rights, and combat misclassification of workers as supervisors and independent contractors. Strengthen workers’ right to strike for basic workplace improvements, including higher wages and better working conditions. Create a mandatory mediation and arbitration process to ensure corporations and newly formed unions reach a first contract. Ban state laws that undermine worker freedoms to join together and negotiate. Streamline the National Labor Relation Board’s (NLRB) procedures to secure worker freedoms and effectively prevent violations. Protect the integrity of union elections against coercive captive audience meetings. Use federal purchasing power and policy to help expand opportunities to negotiate. See a fact sheet on the legislation here. See the text of the legislation here. “The Golden Era in America was defined by the existence of unions; families had opportunities, people bought homes, had cars, went on vacations. Since then, unions have been under relentless attack by big corporate special interests backed by Congressional Republicans,”said Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer. “If Mr. Trump truly wants to make America great again, he needs to start by protecting the American worker and disassembling the rigged system that undermines workers’ freedoms instead of empowering special interests and big corporations.” “The hard-working men and women of labor are the backbone of our economy and the foundation of our strength,” said House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “Generations of American workers paved the way to higher wages, better health care, safer working conditions and stronger retirement security for everyone. Yet, Republicans are doubling down on their anti-worker, special interest agenda by rolling back decades of progress and shamelessly undermining workers’ fundamental rights. I am proud to join my fellow Democrats to tilt the playing field back to the side of the American people and offer A Better Deal that protects the right to stand together in union and strengthens protections for American workers.” “The Workers’ Freedom to Negotiate Act is a comprehensive response to decades of attacks on workers’ rights,” said House Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member, Bobby Scott. “Workers must be empowered to negotiate for fair wages and decent benefits, so they can provide for their families, access affordable health care, and retire with dignity. This legislation takes necessary steps to improve the quality of life for workers and their families, and recognizes that empowering workers’ right to negotiate is critical to unrigging the economy.” “After decades of corporate special interest attacks on workers and unions, too many families today are struggling to make ends meet and feel financially secure,” said Senate HELP Committee Ranking Member, Senator Patty Murray. “I’m proud to join my colleagues to introduce legislation that will strengthen workers’ bargaining power and their right to join a union to advocate for safer working conditions, better pay, and a secure retirement—and I urge my Republican colleagues to join us in working to build an economy that works for all—not just those at the top.” “Our economy is rigged against working people. The Republicans who control Congress are bought and paid for by corporate special interests,” said House Democratic Policy & Communications Committee Co-Chair Congressman David Cicilline. “Democrats have A Better Deal that puts working people first so everyone has a chance at the American Dream, not just the wealthy.” Co-sponsors of the Workers’ Freedom to Negotiate Act in the Senate are: Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Patty Murray (D-WA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Gary Peters (D-MI), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Bob Casey (D-PA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Tina Smith (D-MN), Tom Carper (D-DE), Tom Udall (D-NM), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Chris Coons (D-DE). Co-sponsors of the Workers’ Freedom to Negotiate Act in the House are: Reps. Bonamici (OR-1), Boyle (PA-13), Brady (PA-1), Cicilline (RI-1), Chu (CA-27), Cummings (MD-7), Davis (IL-7), DeLauro (CT-3), DeSaulnier (CA-11), Doyle (PA-14), Ellison (MN-5), Espaillat (NY-13), Garamendi (CA-3), Hanabusa (HI-1), Khanna (CA-17), Lowenthal (CA-47), Nadler (NY-10), Napolitano (CA-32), Norcross (NJ-1), Norton (DC), Pallone (NJ-6), Pocan (WI-6), Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Sablan (Mariana Islands), Sanchez (CA-38), Schakowsky (IL-9), Shea-Porter (NH-1), Takano (CA-41), Watson Coleman (NJ-12), and Wilson (FL-24).
06.08.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01), and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) issued the following statement after the Department of Justice told a federal court that it will not defend the key patient protections in Affordable Care Act. The brief, filed yesterday in Texas v United States, breaks with the Department’s longstanding tradition of defending laws enacted by Congress regardless of whether it supports the underlying policies. “The Justice Department’s refusal to defend the Affordable Care Act in federal court is a stunning attack on the rule of law, the stability of our health care system, and Americans’ access to affordable health care. “The administration’s attempt to eliminate protections for the 130 million Americans with pre-existing conditions is just the latest – and potentially the most damaging – example of the coordinated effort by congressional Republicans and the Trump administration to sabotage the Affordable Care Act, driving up uninsured rates and out-of-pocket costs for Americans. Unfortunately, that effort will continue to have profound consequences for patients, the health care system, and the American economy. “Our Constitution requires the executive branch to faithfully execute the laws passed by Congress. The brief filed by the Trump administration yesterday represents a shocking break from precedent, and relies on legally dubious, partisan claims to argue against the constitutionality of the current law. “If the Trump administration is successful in arguing against the constitutionality of protecting patients’ access to care, it will have immediate and disastrous effect on our health care system and the American people. But even if the Justice Department’s arguments fail, as they should, the administration’s violation of its duty to faithfully execute our nation’s laws will still raise the cost of health care for most Americans, undermine the economy, and weaken our democracy for years to come.” ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after voting for H.R. 3249 the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act of 2018, which would establish a grant program that is supposed to curb gang activity: “Once again, we were asked to vote on a crime bill that was not subject to a hearing. We have no input from experts as to the value and effectiveness of this grant program. In the absence of expert advice in developing this bill, I supported it because it authorizes evidence-based and data-driven intervention and prevention initiatives. These programs are essential to reducing violent crime and include juvenile justice programs, drug and mental health treatment, and violence-reduction programs. Part of my support for the bill was based on the fact that Chairman Goodlatte committed on the floor that these grants will not be used to target people based on race or national origin. I will monitor the implementation of this legislation to ensure those guarantees are met.” # # #
06.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court handed down a ruling in the case of Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission: “The Supreme Court’s narrow ruling did not address the core question of whether or not the couple was discriminated against based on sexual orientation. By avoiding the heart of the matter, the Court is allowing a dangerous level of uncertainty to continue to persist. “In 1964, the Civil Rights Act was signed to protect people from illegal discrimination from businesses that open their doors to the public. This ruling highlights the need for Congress to pass the Equality Act and ensure that the LGBTQ community will have equal protection under the law. Additionally, it is a reminder that we must pass the Do No Harm Act, so the right to religious liberty will not be used as an excuse to discriminate.” # # #
06.04.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Committee on Education and the Workforce and Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01), Committee on Ways and Means issued the following statements after the release of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report titled, “Black Lung Benefits Program: Options for Improving Trust Fund Finances.” The Members requested the report to investigate the solvency of the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund given the impending sunset of the coal tax rate at the end of this year, which would reduce the rate by 55 percent. “The GAO’s report on the solvency of the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund crystalizes the enormous cost of inaction. If we fail to at least extend the current tax rate on coal before it sunsets at the end of this year, the Fund’s debt will spiral out of control and inevitably force taxpayers to cover the cost. If history is any guide, an insurmountable debt could also jeopardize the benefits that disabled miners and their families were promised. In establishing the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund nearly 40 years ago, Congress made clear that the cost of caring for miners should not fall on the shoulders of taxpayers or the miners themselves,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Committee on Education and the Workforce. “At a time when cases of the most severe form of black lung disease are rising at an alarming rate ─ and more miners will need comprehensive and costly care – the administration’s silence on the potential insolvency of the Trust Fund is deeply concerning. Without action from the administration and Congress, coal companies will be allowed to shift their responsibilities to taxpayers and ultimately risk the modest benefits that support disabled miners and their families.” “The Black Lung Disability Trust Fund was established 40 years ago to pay benefits to disabled miners suffering from black lung disease. Today’s Government Accountability Office’s report on the solvency of the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund, points out that the fund is deeply in the red and that its debt will continue to grow if nothing is done. Insolvency of the trust fund could jeopardize the benefits that disabled miners and their families were promised,” said Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01) “Cutting benefits to these miners and their families is not an option and, as GAO has noted, will not solve the funding challenges facing the trust fund. The administration has done nothing on this issue so Congress must work to ensure that the promises made to these miners and their families are kept.” FACT SHEET: Black Lung Benefits Program: Options for Improving Trust Fund Finances GAO REPORT: Black Lung Benefits Program: Options for Improving Trust Fund Finances ###
06.01.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 223,000 jobs in May, with the unemployment rate at 3.8 percent. “The latest jobs report shows that while the employment numbers remain stable, workers are still not getting a fair return on their work. Despite a tightening job market, wage growth remains stubbornly sluggish. Today’s report shows that while unemployment dropped to 3.8 percent, wages grew by a disappointing annual rate of 2.7 percent in May. This imbalance strongly suggests there are structural problems in the economy that disadvantage American workers. “Unfortunately, the Trump administration and Congressional Republicans have prioritized cutting taxes for the wealthy and undermining access to health care over improving the lives of working families and people. This $1.9 trillion tax scam does little to create jobs, overwhelmingly benefits the wealthy, and squanders an opportunity to makes investments that will promote inclusive economic growth. Congress needs to refocus on more productive, bipartisan solutions that offer Americans a better deal by investing in education, creating good-paying jobs, and expanding access to affordable health care coverage.”
05.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Virginia General Assembly passed legislation to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act: “I am very pleased to see Republicans and Democrats come together to finally expand Medicaid. The Medicaid expansion means 400,000 Virginians will now no longer have to live without the security of health insurance. Additionally, the expansion simply makes good economic sense, as research has shown that Virginians with insurance have been paying more for coverage because of the lack of expansion. By expanding Medicaid, the budget will also bring over 3 billion federal dollars back to the Commonwealth. This expansion is years overdue, and I am thrilled that Virginia Republicans finally stopped playing politics with people’s health care.” # # #
05.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in honor of Memorial Day: “On Memorial Day, we honor all of the courageous people who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our nation, and we rededicate ourselves to promoting peace in an uncertain world so that their sacrifice will not have been made in vain. As we all gather to formally kick off summer, let us also take time to remember the fallen men and women who made the ‘last full measure of devotion’ in order to protect the freedoms we hold so dear.”
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) submitted the following statement into the Congressional Record regarding his position on H.R. 5682 the FIRST STEP Act: “Mr. Speaker, first I would like to acknowledge the gentleman from Georgia, Representative Doug Collins, and the gentlemen from New York, Representative Hakeem Jeffries, for their hard work and dedication in improving this bill over the last several weeks. “Historically, the United States of America has been plagued with serious, fundamental problems within our criminal justice system. For far too long, policymakers have chosen to play politics and disapprove of common-sense policy that is specifically geared towards reducing crime by instead enacting so-called ‘tough on crime’ slogans and soundbites, such as ‘three strikes and you’re out,’ ‘mandatory minimum sentencing,’ and even rhymes such as, ‘you do the adult crime, you do the adult time.’ These policies may sound appealing, but their impact ranges from a negligible reduction in crime to an actual increase in crime. “Turning to the bill we are debating today, I recognize that the FIRST STEP Act includes a fix to the calculation of good time credit, which I have sought for many years. Calculating good time credit as Congress had originally intended is a serious improvement made by this bill. This bill also improves the auditing process for enforcing the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) to protect prisoners from sexual assault. It places prohibitions on shackling pregnant and post-partum women. The bill expands the use and transparency of compassionate release for terminally ill prisoners. It also requires the federal Bureau of Prisons to house prisoners closer to their primary residence, so they can maintain ties to their family and community. And there is a significant investment in programs designed to reduce recidivism. “But process is essential to crafting an effective bill. There were no hearings on this bill. Nor has a CBO score been done. Nor has a prison impact analysis been prepared. And it is obvious that experts had little to do with drafting the bill. As a result of this process, there are several problems with the bill. First, the version of the bill we are voting on today is unnecessarily complicated by the use of a risk assessment tool. I have reached out to experts in the field of prison reform, and I have not found anyone who will say that risk assessment tools should be used to determine which prisoners can use time credits to gain early release from prison. Instead, they suggest that simply increasing programming for everyone will reduce recidivism and the complicated risk assessments are unnecessary and will stand in the way of reducing recidivism for many prisoners. The risk assessment process may also exacerbate existing racial disparities in the federal prison system. “Second, experts have raised serious concerns about excluding groups of prisoners from this program who we know will be released from prison and therefore should be involved in the program. “Third, there are questions of cost and funding. The Bureau of Prisons has cut contracts with halfway houses and terminated 6,000 correctional officers. This bill cannot achieve its goals without an adequately staffed prison system, as well as sufficient space at halfway houses. “Even in the absence of hearings and experts, we can see that some of the opposition to this bill is almost comical, because it is lodged by advocates who support other legislation that carries the same provisions that are either similar to or worse than what they complain about in the FIRST STEP Act. Others oppose the bill because it does not include sentencing reform and therefore does not address mass incarceration. Unfortunately, the bill those advocates hold up as “sentencing reform” fails to make any meaningful reduction in mass incarceration, and may in fact add to mass incarceration. “It is in the context of this absurd process that we have to vote on this legislation. Unfortunately, without the appropriate analysis, we can only guess about its impact. Based on that guess, it is my determination that no prisoner will be worse off, but many may be significantly better off, under the FIRST STEP Act. I expect that public safety will be enhanced by this bill, because more people will receive programming to reduce their likelihood to commit future crimes. Although this is a shameful process, I will therefore support the bill. “Mr. Speaker, as the process moves forward, I hope that the sponsors of this legislation will continue to improve it, based on evidence and research.” # # #
05.21.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement after the Supreme Court issued its 5-4 decision in Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis. “The National Labor Relations Act guarantees workers the right to collectively stand together to improve their wages and working conditions. However, today the Supreme Court ignored the plain text of the law and held that employers may force workers into signing arbitration agreements that waive the right to pursue work-related claims together. By undermining the right of workers to collectively seek recourse for wage theft, discrimination, and other workplace violations, the Court’s conservative bloc has rolled back a key provision of the National Labor Relations Act. “Today’s decision will have serious consequences for millions of workers. As part of our commitment to giving workers a better deal, Democrats will introduce legislation to correct this injustice and strengthen workers’ rights to collective action.” Mandatory arbitration agreements have become increasingly common, and research from the Economic Policy Institute shows that over 55 percent of all workers are subject to mandatory arbitration requirements and 30 percent of employers that require mandatory arbitration also include class action waivers. ###
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after voting against S. 2372, the VA MISSION Act of 2018: “The VA MISSION Act includes several provisions that I have long supported, including expanding caregiver benefits to pre-9/11 veterans and authorizing additional funding for the Veterans Choice Program. Unfortunately, I ultimately voted against this bill because it seriously jeopardizes future funding for the Choice Program and gives the Trump Administration new authority to privatize key VA healthcare services and programs. “The bill converts funding for the Choice Program from 'mandatory spending' where appropriations are automatic each year to 'discretionary spending' where appropriations are subject to annual Congressional approval and must compete against other spending priorities. Since the current bipartisan budget agreement does not account for this change, this transfer may actually require cuts to existing VA programs. For example, to pay for the Choice Program, the VA may have to change eligibility to the caregivers program or cut funding for construction and maintenance of VA hospitals and clinics. As the federal budget deficit continues to grow largely as a result of the Republican tax scam and cuts to discretionary spending are more likely in the near future, it makes little sense to require veterans’ health programs to compete for scarce additional funding at a time when the VA desperately needs more resources to fulfil its mission. “Finally, I have serious concerns with granting the Trump Administration additional authority to privatize and divert money away from already underfunded critical VA healthcare programs. Congress must be committed to strengthening and modernizing the VA healthcare system, but this legislation unfortunately falls woefully short of achieving that goal.” # # #
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 5698 the Protect and Serve Act: “The evidence shows that violence against law enforcement has been in overall decline for 25 years, and I want that decline to continue. What has changed in recent years is a rising demand by citizens for police accountability. The appropriate response to strained police-community relations is not to criminalize what is already a crime. Instead, we should support bills like the Congressional Black Caucus’s Jobs and Justice Act of 2018, which helps law enforcement obtain training on de-escalation techniques and policing persons who are disabled or mentally ill. The Jobs and Justice Act also makes corrections officers safer by addressing problems of overcrowding, insufficient funding, and the lack of recidivism programming in prisons and jails.” # # #
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott issued the following statement after President Trump announced that he is not waiving sanctions pursuant to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), commonly referred to as the Iran nuclear agreement: “Today’s decision by President Trump is not based in facts, evidence or research and leaves America less safe and less credible. The International Atomic Energy Agency, the European Union, a huge swath of nuclear policy experts, and the Trump Administration officials themselves all agree that Iran is upholding its end of the deal. “Similarly to the Paris Climate Agreement, pulling out of this deal erodes other countries’ faith in the trustworthiness of the United States, especially as North Korea negotiations ramp up. This action sends the message that America doesn’t live up to its word. By pulling out of the deal, Iran can do so as well, point to America as the impetus, which leaves no barrier between Iran and a restarted nuclear weapons program.” # # #
05.08.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after two of Virginia’s Marketplace insurers proposed significant premium increases for 2019. The insurers specifically attributed the premium hikes to the Republican repeal of the individual mandate and other initiatives adopted by the Trump administration, such as their plan to weaken the Obamacare Marketplace by loosening restrictions on junk health plans that undermine patient protections. “In response to repeated Republican attempts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act (ACA), I warned that the schemes would raise costs and the ultimate cost of their efforts would be paid by consumers. Unfortunately, we are now seeing the bill come due. As the insurers specifically spelled out, the significant premium hikes proposed for 2019 are a direct consequence of the politically motivated actions taken by the Trump administration and Congressional Republicans. “I am deeply frustrated that my Republican colleagues continue to destabilize our health care system without regard for the impact on Virginians and families across the country. “Earlier this year, I joined two House Democrats to introduce legislation that would reverse efforts to sabotage Obamacare while lowering premiums and strengthening patient protections, both of which are essential to ensuring patients have access to the care they need. Recently, we asked Speaker Ryan for an opportunity to vote on that legislation. “It is not too late to repair the damage done to the Affordable Care Act and save people across the country from a wave of premium increases. I encourage President Trump and the Republican Congress to stop undermining the Affordable Care Act and start working with Democrats to make sure that every American has access to quality and affordable health care.” For more than a year, Ranking Member Bobby Scott has warned that premiums would skyrocket as a result of Republican sabotage: When the Trump administration pulled marketing and outreach for the Affordable Care Act in January 2017, Ranking Member Scott warned that the action would suppress enrollment, weakening the risk pool and resulting in greater costs for everyone. Ranking Member Scott warned that the Trump administration’s decision to cut off cost-sharing reduction payments in October 2017 would, according to CBO, cause premiums to rise 20 percent by next year. Ranking Member Scott warned that Republicans’ repeal of the individual mandate in December 2017 would, according to CBO, increase premiums by 10 percent. When the Trump administration proposed harmful rules on association health plans in January 2018 and short-term insurance in February 2018, Ranking Member Scott warned that as healthier and lower cost consumers get cheap plans with skimpy benefits that may not meet their health needs, older, sicker, and higher cost consumers and those with pre-existing conditions would be left behind in the traditional market with skyrocketing costs.
05.04.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the three House Democratic leaders of the Committees with jurisdiction over health care, Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), sent a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) urging him to allow a vote on legislation that would help improve the affordability and accessibility of health care in the United States. The Undoing Sabotage and Expanding Affordability of Health Insurance Act of 2018, H.R. 5155, helps stabilize the health care markets, makes coverage more affordable, and reverses harmful policies that the Trump administration and congressional Republicans have implemented to undermine the U.S. health care system. “Medical associations, hospital associations, patient and consumer groups, and even insurance companies have expressed serious concerns that President Trump’s and Congressional Republicans’ actions will have serious consequences for the health care of millions of Americans,” wrote the members. “The administration’s actions, coupled with Republican-led legislation, have destabilized the health care markets, resulting in skyrocketing premiums and a significant increase in the number of uninsured Americans.” May 4, 2018 marks one year since Republicans in the House of Representatives passed the American Health Care Act (AHCA), legislation that would have caused 23 million Americans to lose health insurance, increased out-of-pocket costs for millions of families, punished people with pre-existing conditions, and made massive cuts to Medicaid. The bill failed to pass the Senate. In their letter, Scott, Neal, and Pallone reminded Ryan that, “Just this week, the Commonwealth Fund found that an estimated 4 million people have lost coverage since 2016,” and cited former Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price’s recent comment that we can expect further premium increases as result of the Republican tax law’s repeal of the individual mandate. “We believe we should be working across the aisle to strengthen health insurance and consumer affordability and access,” the members added. “Even Congressional Republicans have expressed support for measures to stabilize the market to help it weather the blows from recent actions.” Full text of the letter is available here. ###
05.04.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 164,000 jobs in April, with the unemployment rate at 3.9 percent. “The latest jobs report shows that our economy remains relatively stable, but the work is far from over and there are those in Congress working to undermine these economic gains. On average during President Obama’s last full year in office, the economy added roughly 195,000 jobs a month, far more than the 164,000 jobs added last month.d “Just a year ago, the House Republicans voted to pass the Affordable Health Care Act (AHCA), which would have caused almost 14 million Americans to lose health coverage this year. Since the Affordable Care Act passed, Republicans have taken every opportunity to undermine the law – including the administration’s proposals to promote junk plans and repealing the individual mandate as part of their $1.5 trillion tax scam. Fewer people have health care coverage as a result of their efforts to undermine the law. “Increased access to affordable health care coverage under the ACA has provided economy security to millions of Americans and set the foundation for continued economic growth. The repeated attempts by Congressional Republicans and the Trump administration to undermine the ACA will also undermine the health of the economy. Instead of cynically continuing to sabotage the law, Congressional Republicans should join Democrats to take constructive, bipartisan action to ensure that every American has access to affordable health care and the chance to create a better life for themselves and their families.” ###
04.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Bobby Scott (VA-03) and A. Donald McEachin (VA-04) invited Robert "Jack" Ewald of Suffolk, Virginia as their guest to attend the address delivered by French President Emmanuel Macron to a Joint Meeting of Congress. Mr. Ewald, a World War II veteran, fought in the Army's 115th Infantry Division at Normandy on D-Day. President Macron highlighted Mr. Ewald’s story in his remarks. “It is my great honor to have Jack Ewald as our guest at today’s historic address by President Macron,” said Congressman Bobby Scott. “Jack’s incredible life story embodies the very best of our country. I am very pleased that more people were able to learn more about his service and sacrifice that helped free Europe from tyranny, and we are so thankful for his continued service to our community.” "I am so pleased and honored that Mr. Ewald, a fellow Virginian, is able to be our guest for President Macron's address to Congress,” said Congressman Donald McEachin. “Mr. Ewald's bravery in service to our country and to defend our freedoms is an example to all. We are incredibly appreciative and humbled by his service and so pleased he can join us.” Yesterday, Mr. Ewald was awarded the French Legion of Honor by President Macron for his service in France during World War II. After D-Day, Mr. Ewald continued fighting with the Allied Forces and helped to stop the German advance to Percy. He was later captured by the Germans, and he then spent nine months in four separate German prisoner-of-war camps. The last camp was ultimately liberated by Russian forces, and Mr. Ewald was able to escape. Photos available here. ###
04.19.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, and nine other Democrats submitted a public comment to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) about their request for information on whether to retain, rescind, or modify the 2014 Election Rule. The Obama-era rule streamlined the NLRB’s process for union elections, eliminating unnecessary litigation and delays which companies have used to suppress workers from organizing. Ranking Members Scott and Murray have repeatedly asked the Board for relevant information on how the 2014 Rule was working so the public can see whether it needs to be changed. The limited evidence the Board has produced clearly disproves business groups’ critiques of the rule—making it clear that this attempt to roll back the rule is simply a political attempt to make it harder for workers to join a union. “The Board appears to lack any substantive, evidence-based grounds to reopen the 2014 Election Rule. This action indicates an intent to appease employers who want every tool possible to defeat workers’ efforts to form a union, instead of ensuring the fairness of the union representation process,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA). “Research shows that the longer an election is delayed, the more likely an unscrupulous employer is to engage in coercive tactics that chill support for the union. Every court where the Rule was challenged has rejected arguments from corporate interests opposing the NLRB’s Rule, including the contention that the Rule would somehow ‘ambush’ employers.” “After a series of last-minute and unprecedented actions by the Board last year, it’s no surprise to see the Republican-controlled Board is once again attempting to roll back worker protections without any evidence or reasoning other than appeasing corporate special interests,” said Senator Murray (D-WA). “Unions helped create the middle class, and I hope the Board will guarantee workers free and fair elections so they are able to collectively bargain for better pay, safer working conditions, and a chance to join the middle class.” The major points made in the comment letter are: The Board’s previous election rules enabled employers to game the system by burdening pre-election hearings with frivolous motions and unnecessary delays. The 2014 Election Rule has reduced unnecessary delays in the Board’s election procedures, without imposing unfair burdens on employers and employees. The 2014 Election Rule better protects employees’ free and fair choice of bargaining representative by updating the rules encouraging an informed election by the employees. The Board has provided no data to justify reconsidering the 2014 Election Rule. Rescinding the 2014 Election Rule would be inconsistent with the United States’ commitments under international law. See here for full text of the letter. For links to the data made available to Congress by the National Labor Relations Board, click here. ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), the Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, was presented the Congressional Champion of Children Award from Child Care Aware. Child Care Aware is an organization dedicated to ensuring the child care system supports all children and families. Recently, Congressman Scott worked to ensure the FY18 omnibus appropriations bill included an increase of $2.37 billion in the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG), including specific language to ensure that parents were not sending their children to places of neglect and harm. “It is a real honor to receive this award,” said Scott. “I promise to continue working with all of you, and with the rest of the early learning community. Protecting children from neglectful providers and increasing funding for early learning is only the first step.” Rep. Scott is the lead sponsor of the Child Care for Working Families Act, which will ensure every family has access to high-quality, affordable child care. “We must expand quality early learning opportunities and ensure that all working families have access to high-quality, affordable child care; providers are reimbursed at an amount reflective of the cost required to deliver high-quality learning and care; and, early learning professionals are paid, at the very least, a living wage and receive the professional development necessary to improve their practice and advance in their career.” A fact sheet on H.R. 3773, the Child Care for Working Families Act can be found HERE. # # #
04.16.2018	Washington, D.C. - Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Director, Dr. Jeff Pon, responded last week to a bipartisan letter sent by Representatives Scott Taylor (VA-02), Bobby Scott (VA-03), Walter Jones (NC-03), and G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) about the delay in establishing Virginia Beach-Norfolk (VA-NC CSA) as a new locality pay area. President Trump's Pay Agent, which consists of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Director of OPM, and the Secretary of Labor, is responsible for administering the locality pay program based on recommendations from the Federal Salary Council. Since 2015, the Council has been recommending to the Pay Agent that Virginia Beach-Norfolk be established as a separate locality pay area, which will assist with recruitment and retention efforts for the approximate 30,500 civilian federal employees who reside and work in this region. According to the letter, OPM received approval from the Pay Agent on December 20, 2017, to move forward with the regulatory process, which takes several months to complete due to requirements contained in the Administrative Procedure Act. The letter further states that OPM's goal is to have both proposed and final regulations issued in conjunction with the next pay adjustment cycle, which is January 2019. "Since the Federal Salary Council's recommendation in 2015, the pay gap for our area constituents and neighbors in federal employment has continued to grow. Many of the federal workers in Hampton Roads are employed in the defense industry, which means their work product is directly tied to our national security. As we continue ahead to January, my office will continue monitoring this situation to ensure that OPM completes their end of this process to make sure our constituents are properly paid”, said Congressman Scott Taylor. “I am pleased that OPM has started the process to establish Virginia Beach-Norfolk (VA-NC CSA) as a new locality pay area which is a victory for over 30,000 federal workers. The cost of living in our districts has been outpacing federal salary increases and employees were overdue for a raise. Our national security is dependent on ensuring these federal employees are paid properly for their work," stated Congressman Bobby Scott. “I am very pleased that OPM has met our request to designate the Virginia Beach-Norfolk VA-NC region as a locality pay area,” said Congressman Walter Jones. “It is the right thing to do for over 30,000 military men and women, as well as our workers at the Norfolk Naval and Newport News shipyards. They contribute so much to the security of our nation, and we are grateful for all they do.” “Our nation’s federal workforce is highly-skilled and dedicated to serving our country despite pay being modest,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield. “If we want our federal agencies to attract and keep quality employees, the pay and benefits need to be competitive. OPM’s response to our request to designate the Virginia Beach-Norfolk (VA-NC CSA) region as a locality pay area is a good first step to filling the pay gap for our neighbors who are federal employees.” ###
04.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after President Trump, in conjunction with France and the United Kingdom, launched airstrikes against the Syrian regime, following a brutal chemical weapons attack on civilians in Douma: “I am deeply disturbed by the Assad regime’s continued use of chemical weapons against innocent Syrian civilians. This and the many other crimes against humanity committed by the Assad regime, which are in violation of international law, must be addressed by the entire international community. “The President must now present a comprehensive plan to Congress detailing how his Administration intends to address the situation in Syria, ensure that the United Nations and our allies will participate in this effort, and clarify how these strikes fit into that strategy. This plan should keep our nation safe, engage our allies in this effort, and ideally keep our men and women in uniform from another protracted military intervention in the Middle East. However, the President must not commit our military to further engagement in Syria without first securing a new Authorization of Use of Military Force from Congress.” # # #
04.13.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – House and Senate Democratic Committee health leaders called on the Trump administration to withdraw a proposed rule that would encourage the sale of junk health plans that will undermine consumer protections, sabotage the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Marketplaces, and expose consumers to great financial risk. The proposed rule, published on February 21, 2018, would extend the allowable duration of short-term, limited-duration insurance (STLDI) plans from three months to up to 12 months. House Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), House Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), House Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Senate HELP Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), and Senate Finance Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) requested the withdrawal of the rule in a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. “This proposed rule would expand the availability of discriminatory, deceptive, and insufficient plans– like those that existed before the Affordable Care Act (ACA) – that deceive consumers into thinking they are covered for major medical expenses, and is yet another attempt to sabotage the health care markets on which millions rely for coverage,” the five Democrats wrote to Azar, Acosta, and Mnuchin. “Expanding STLDI would take us back to the days when consumers could be denied coverage or charged more based on age, gender, or health status and when they had no guarantee of coverage for basic benefits, such as maternity care, mental health and substance use disorder, prescription drugs coverage, and preventive services. These junk policies fail to cover needed benefits, particularly for people with preexisting conditions,” the Members continued in the letter. Democrats are concerned that expanding junk insurance would undermine the individual insurance market, cause premiums to skyrocket for working families who need comprehensive coverage, leave consumers on the hook for paying exorbitant amounts in deductibles and out-of-pocket costs, and allow insurers to inflate profits by denying access to basic benefits guaranteed under Federal law, such as preventive care, prescription drugs, mental health and substance use disorder treatment, and maternity care. A study by the Urban Institute found that the rule, taken together with the repeal of the individual mandate and other policy changes, will result in 6.4 million more uninsured compared to prior law, and will cause an additional 18 percent on average premium rise – disproportionally affecting middle-class Americans – in states that do not prohibit or limit STLDI. “We are dismayed that the administration is taking this step in the wrong direction. Instead of finalizing this proposed rule, the Departments should apply all Federal consumer protections to short-term plans and make them truly short-term in nature: limiting their duration so they fill in gaps, without becoming a poor substitute for quality, comprehensive coverage,” the Members continued. “We urge the Departments to protect access to affordable health coverage for families and reject this ill-advised proposed rule.” To read the full letter, click here. ###
04.12.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after House Republicans released text of their Farm bill. “The Republicans’ newly released Farm Bill is the latest attack on the economic security of American families and workers. The proposed changes to SNAP, including punitive work requirements, would put food out of reach for many. Because SNAP is tied to eligibility for other vital federal programs, the proposed changes to SNAP will keep families from accessing public benefits they rely on to meet basic needs, including home heating assistance and school lunches. The evidence is clear that access to nutritious foods is paramount for children’s health and development. “Stripping children of their access to a healthy meal at school is both cruel and counterproductive to improving their long-term health and well-being. In the wake of a $1.5 trillion tax scam to benefit the wealthy and corporations, this bill is the latest in the long list of misguided policy proposals that harm working families.” ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen A. Donald McEachin (VA-04) and Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, hosted a briefing on Protecting Students’ Civil Rights to amplify the importance of preserving critical civil rights protections for students in light of recent hostile scrutiny from the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans. “Discriminatory discipline practices in our nation’s schools hurt our children, particularly students of color and students with disabilities,” said Congressman Donald McEachin. “The briefing this afternoon – and the valuable information shared by the expert panelists – highlights those disparities, and the work that must be done to address and improve school climate. We should be strengthening, not removing, important protections for our nation’s students – such as the 2014 Discipline Guidance Package discussed today. I once again urge the administration and Secretary DeVos to advance evidence-based preventative measures that protect students’ civil rights.” The 2014 School Discipline Guidance Package, developed and released jointly by the Departments of Education and Justice, describes schools’ obligations under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to administer discipline in a nondiscriminatory manner. During the briefing, subject-matter experts spoke about the importance of maintaining the guidance to clarify legal obligations, present evidence to counter arguments suggesting the guidance has decreased school safety, and explain research supporting evidence-based preventative measures to address and improve school climate. “Last week, the Government Accountability Office released a first-of-its-kind analysis of national data which documents pervasive racial disparities in school discipline and dispels claims that these disparities are based solely on income,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03). “This report underscores the need to combat these gross disparities by strengthening, not rescinding, the 2014 Discipline Guidance Package, which recommends specific strategies to reduce the disparities without jeopardizing school safety. Today’s panelists shared valuable information about the legal obligation of schools to address these disparities. I urge Secretary DeVos to address the issue of pervasive educational inequity by focusing on the evidence-based and proactive solutions discussed today, rather than dismantling civil rights protections for students of color and students with disabilities.” You can view the briefing here and view photos from the briefing here. Panelists who spoke at today’s briefing included: Adaku Onyeka-Crawford, Senior Counsel for Education, National Women’s Law Center Monique Dixon, Deputy Director of Policy and Senior Counsel, NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Dr. Leticia Smith-Evans Haynes, Vice President, Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity at Williams College Liz King, Senior Policy Analyst and Director of Education Policy, Leadership Conference for Civil and Human Rights Isaiah Quiñones, Youth Leader at Make the Road New York/Urban Youth Collaborative and Hunter College student Dr. Talaya Tolefree, CEO of Koinonia Leadership Academy, LLC.
04.11.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after President Trump signed an Executive Order (EO) asking Departments to examine federal programs that support working families. “The Trump administration and Congressional Republicans want to pay for their $1.5 trillion tax cut for the wealthy and corporations by undermining federal programs on which millions of working families depend. By adding unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles and punitive work requirements, this executive order is likely to make it more difficult for families to access federal programs that help them make ends meet. “The research shows that work requirements do not lift people out of poverty, unlike high quality job training programs and work support programs, such as quality child care. Denying people nutrition, education or health care benefits in no way gets Americans ‘back to work’, but it will make finding a job or keeping a job more difficult.” ###
04.05.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the eighth anniversary of the Upper Big Branch Mine explosion, which took the lives of 29 coal miners. “Since the Upper Big Branch Mine (UBB) explosion that took the lives of 29 coal miners eight years ago, all five independent investigation reports by state and federal agencies agree that the mine operator violated multiple safety standards. Key safety controls, such as water sprays, were disabled which enabled a small fire to be sparked that led to a devastating disaster. Inadequate rock dusting enabled the fire to propagate into a massive coal dust explosion. “In the 15 months prior to the explosion, the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) issued over 600 citations, and ordered the UBB mine closed, in whole or in part, over 50 times due to unsafe conditions. Despite a pervasive pattern of violations, the Massey-operated mine gamed the system and evaded the most severe sanctions. The UBB mine had even set up elaborate advance notice schemes to forewarn mine foremen before the arrival of mine inspectors. “Coal miners, mine safety regulators and the UBB families have asked Congress to address long, overdue reforms to the nations’ mine safety laws. These reforms would ensure that all miners are able to return home safely to their families at the end of their shift. The reforms include replacing the weak misdemeanor criminal sanctions in the Mine Act with strong felony penalties for those operators who knowingly violate mandatory health or safety standards and recklessly expose miners to a significant risk of serious injury, serious illness, or death. That is why it is imperative for Congress to enact the Robert C. Byrd Mine Safety Protection Act of 2017. This tragedy will be in vain if Congress does not close the glaring loopholes that have allowed a small minority of mine operators to put profit ahead of their miners’ safety.” ###
04.04.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and Congressman Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), ranking member of the House Committee on the Judiciary released a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report entitled, “Discipline Disparities for Black Students, Boys, and Students with Disabilities.” The ranking members requested that the GAO investigate disparities in discipline policies and practices applied to students of color, boys, and students with disabilities. “The Government Accountability Office has conducted first-of-its-kind analysis of national data which dispels claims that racially disproportionate rates of discipline are based solely on income. The analysis shows that students of color suffer harsher discipline for lesser offenses than their white peers and that racial bias is a driver of discipline disparities,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03). “This report underscores the need to combat these gross disparities by strengthening, not rescinding, the 2014 Discipline Guidance Package, which recommends specific strategies to reduce the disparities without jeopardizing school safety.” Black students, boys, and students with disabilities are disproportionately disciplined in K-12 public schools. This pattern of disproportionate discipline persists regardless of the type of disciplinary action, level of school poverty, or type of public school students attend. “After an extensive analysis by the Government Accountability Office, there can be no ignoring the facts of racial biases – facts that the Trump Administration must face head-on and cannot refute,” said Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) of the House Judiciary Committee. “The GAO report shows that race plays a significant role in discipline disparities, with students of color suffering harsher punishment in school compared with their peers. To suggest otherwise would require ignoring the major factor in these disparities, and ignorance of the facts can be no excuse for failing these students. Ignoring the impact of race on school discipline would be unconscionable and fail to address a critical issue impacting school performance by students of color. I thank Ranking Member Scott for his dedication to this important issue, and hope the Administration will finally come to grips with the realities faced by students of color. Secretary DeVos and the Department of Education must ensure that the necessary resources and guidelines are in place to address these disturbing racial disparities in our schools, and I hope this report will provide the necessary urgency for quick action on this matter.” In 2014, the Department of Education and the Department of Justice issued a School Discipline Guidance Package, to remind schools of their legal obligations to administer school discipline without discriminating on the base of race, color, or national origin. Based on the empirical evidence provided in this GAO report, it is critically important the guidance be strengthened, and not rescinded, as some have suggested. If the Department moves to turn a blind eye to the evidence-based research in this report, it will rob our nation’s students of full civil rights protections and informed decision-making. FACT SHEET: Discipline Disparities for Black Students, Boys, and Students with Disabilities REPORT: GAO Report on Discipline Disparities for Black Students, Boys, and Students with Disabilities ###
04.02.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the eighth anniversary of the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA). “The higher education reforms and investments made in SAFRA were historic in size and scope. As working families struggled to recover from the Great Recession, SAFRA brought relief to millions of students and parents. Notably, SAFRA made higher education more accessible and affordable by increasing the maximum Pell Grant award and indexing it to inflation; establishing the direct lending program that stopped using billions of taxpayer dollars to subsidize corporate lenders; and strengthening investment in Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and other Minority-Serving Institutions (MSIs). “As Congress looks to reauthorize the Higher Education Act (HEA), House Democrats launched Aim Higher, introducing student-centered legislation to build on the success of SAFRA and further improve college access, affordability, and completion. Unfortunately, H.R. 4508, the Republican’s misguided bill to reauthorize HEA, would undo much of SAFRA’s progress. The bill would weaken the Pell Grant program by eliminating the inflationary award increase. H.R. 4508 would also force many graduate students and parents back into the private market, where they would enjoy less consumer protection and higher student loan costs. Additionally, the bill would end SAFRA’s investments in HBCUs and other MSIs, harming the fiscal health of these institutions and the academic prospects of the students they serve. “I urge my Republican colleagues to abandon their partisan approach and work with Democrats to write a higher education bill that expands upon the progress of SAFRA to ensure the HEA empowers all students to pursue an affordable, quality degree that leads to a good-paying job.” ###
03.28.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) sent a public comment letter urging Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar to withdraw a harmful proposed rule that would allow hospitals, doctors, and other individuals and institutions to deny care to patients based on religious beliefs. The Members raised concerns that the HHS’s Office for Civil Rights’ proposed rule would ultimately allow for greater discrimination in America’s health care system. “[T]he proposed rule [is] just the latest in a long list of attacks by the Administration to erode civil rights under the guise of religious liberty. Religious liberty is a fundamental American value, but religion should not permit a person to cause harm to others or subvert the rights of others,” wrote the Members.“Women, minorities, members of the LGBTQ community, and other marginalized groups already face widespread discrimination in our health care system and this policy would only make this worse by offering an extensive group of individuals and entities a license to discriminate. The proposed rule contradicts the Office for Civil Rights’ core mission and should be rejected. Everyone, regardless of race, color, national origin, sex (sexual orientation and gender identity), age, or disability, should be treated as equals in our health care system.” Full text of the letter can be found here.
03.27.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of Linda Brown, who, as a young child, was at the center of the Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision that ended legal segregation in public education: “The courage and conviction of a nine-year-old girl named Linda Brown and her family serve as a powerful marker in our nation’s long march toward educational equity. The 1954 landmark Supreme Court case that bears her name etched a powerful phrase into this country’s history: ‘separate educational facilities are inherently unequal.’ Yet today, more than 60 years after this decision, millions of public school students remain segregated by race and relegated to under-resourced, over-disciplined, and unequal educational opportunities. While the era of legal Jim Crow may be history, educational discrimination continues to threaten equal access to a quality public education. The work of Linda Brown is far from over. The country owes a huge debt to Ms. Brown for her sacrifice and perseverance. In her passing, we celebrate not only her life’s work, but also the advocacy she inspired in countless others. I offer my heartfelt condolences to her family during this difficult time, and I vow to honor her life and legacy through continued efforts in Congress to improve educational equity for all children.” ###
03.23.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA)—the top Democrats on committees with jurisdiction over the Affordable Care Act (ACA)—today released the following joint statement to highlight the eighth anniversary of the law: “Today marks the eighth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, legislation that ended decades of insurance companies price gouging, setting lifetime limits, and discriminating against Americans with pre-existing conditions. For the first time in our nation's history, this landmark law expanded protections so that no matter where people lived or worked in the United States, their families would have access to affordable, comprehensive health care. Americans of all ages and all walks of life have benefitted. “Since the ACA’s passage, congressional Republicans have made numerous unsuccessful attempts to repeal the law and undo its improvements to millions of Americans’ health and financial security. Over the last year, the Trump Administration joined in these misguided efforts to sabotage our country’s health care system, taking steps to weaken consumer protections and causing premiums to skyrocket. We once again call on Republicans to work constructively with us on meaningful and lasting bipartisan improvements to our nation’s health care system, such as those in the Undo Sabotage and Expand Affordability of Health Insurance Act of 2018.” ###
03.23.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the National Labor Relations Board Office of Inspector General’s Report of Investigation involving Member William Emanuel’s violation of his ethics pledge: “The Inspector General’s investigation confirms that Member William Emanuel violated his ethics pledge by participating in a case where he had a conflict of interest. In doing so, Member Emanuel has undermined the public’s confidence in the Board’s ability to protect workers’ rights in an impartial manner. I have previously called on the Chair of the Committee on Education and the Workforce to conduct a hearing on this manner, and I reiterate that call today, so we can hear from the Inspector General and get a full understanding of his findings and what is being done to prevent this from happening again.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after he voted in favor of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018. “While this spending bill is about funding the government, it also a statement of values. When Congress prioritizes federal investments, the country makes progress. As a whole, I see this as a win for students. I support the increased investments in education from birth through college and rejection of misguided cuts proposed by the Trump administration. I am particularly encouraged by the increases for child care; k-12 education; school-based violence prevention; special education; TRIO and other higher education programs; and the maximum Pell award. In the President’s FY18 budget, he had proposed cutting, or outright eliminating, many of these programs. “While this sizable increase in education funding is a step in the right direction, we can and must do more – even this $3.9 billion increase fails to restore the Department of Education’s purchasing power for America’s students. I am also disappointed that Congressional Republicans fought to include discriminatory education policy riders that discourage efforts to increase public school integration. I vow to fight again for their removal during the Fiscal Year 2019. “This bill also rejects the Trump administration’s proposal to cut 20 percent of Department of Labor’s budget. Rather, this bill bolsters registered apprenticeship programs; protects senior community service programs; and ensures that the Occupational Safety and Health Administration will continue to support effective worker health and safety training programs. I am also pleased that the bill includes increased investments in Older Americans Act programs that support our nation’s seniors and caregivers. Additionally, the bill provides increased funding for black lung clinics to help coal miners. “Unfortunately, tipped workers lose out under this bill. I continue to be opposed to language in the omnibus that would allow employers to confiscate workers’ tip and use the money to supplant wages already being paid to other workers. The provision is a rollback of the 40-year-old policy that tips are the property of the workers who earn them. “I voted for this bill because I believe that, despite several troubling provisions, this is a positive step forward, and prioritizes students and workers. “Additionally, there are many other necessary investments included in this bill. The National Institutes of Health will see a $3 billion increase, and a $3.2 billion increase in funding to combat the opioid crisis, including programs focused on prevention, rehabilitation, and research to develop alternative pain medication. The bill also includes critical investments in programs to benefit our veterans. Lastly, I am very relieved that we are passing an omnibus appropriations bill as opposed to another dysfunctional continuing resolution, which we know hurts military readiness, as well as shipbuilding and ship maintenance contracts.” To read more about the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018, click here. # # #
03.21.2018	Washington, DC- Rep. Jared Polis, D-Colo.; Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis.; Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla.; Rep. Bobby Scott, D-Va.; and Rep. Mark Takano, D-Calif. introduced the Student Non-Discrimination Act (SNDA), which would help protect public school students from bullying, harassment, and discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. The bill has over 100 cosponsors in total. The Student Non-Discrimination Act is more necessary than ever, as the Departments of Education and Justice - under the guidance of President Trump, his Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos, and his Attorney General Jeff Sessions – rescinded Obama Administration guidance on the rights of transgender students and refuse to investigate cases of discrimination against transgender students. Polis, Ros-Lehtinen, and over 90 other members of congress recently asked the Dept. of Education to reverse course and investigate cases of transgender discrimination. “All students, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, have the right to a safe learning space and should feel comfortable at school,” said Polis. “Congress needs to act and let all students know that we are on their side, and we not only believe everyone belongs - we believe that every child deserves a safe and civil learning environment.” “Congress must make absolutely clear that every student, including LGBTQ youth, must have access to an education free from discrimination, harassment and bullying,” said Baldwin. “As multiple federal courts of appeals have recognized, current law is properly understood to protect these young people. But with the Trump Administration walking back the federal government’s commitment to equality, it is critical that Congress act to eliminate any doubt and ensure these students are protected from discrimination.” “As a former Florida certified teacher, I recognize that schools should be safe places where learning is the memorable experience students takes with them. I’m once again introducing the Student Non-Discrimination Act with my colleagues, Jared and Mark, to increase protections for LGBT students. We have seen too many cases of LGBT youth feeling unaccepted, and this can lead to depression, substance abuse, and, in some cases, suicide. We have the opportunity to make a difference by fostering a more inclusive environment for students to succeed,” said Ros-Lehtinen. “School must be a place where all students feel welcome and safe. We know that LGBT students face higher rates of discrimination and bullying, both of which increases their likelihood of skipping school, underperforming academically, and dropping out. I am proud to cosponsor this important legislation that will ensure LGBT students have access to equal educational opportunities,” said Scott. “After more than 20 years teaching in California’s public schools, few things matter more to me than ensuring that every young person in America is able to attend a school free from fear and discrimination. That is why I am proud to join Rep. Polis as he reintroduces the Student Non-Discrimination Act. America’s LGBTQ youth often face harrowing discrimination in their schools — mistreatment that can impact their academic achievement and forever limit their success in life. At a time when three-quarters of LGBTQ youth report feeling unsafe in their school - and are twice as likely as their non-LGBTQ peers to experience harassment or violence - Congress must act to provide these young people with the protections they deserve. Every young person in America should receive an education that allows them to fulfill their potential in life, and this legislation is an important step to providing that education to our LGBTQ youth,” said Takano. The group of legislators drafted the legislation for students like Emma and Marc who have endured harassment at school. Emma, a student in Fort Collins said: “I am a student who identifies as part of the LGBT community. I have come out to my family and close friends, but just because they accept me doesn't mean my school does. Even if my school told me straight forward they accepted and supported me, that doesn't limit the actions of the individual students. I have overheard and been in the middle of conversations that are negative towards the community, and for the sake of keeping my identity safe, I don't speak out against it. Passing the act to protect LGBT students in their school environment will be at least a step towards treating comments that put down the LGBT community as any other rude and bullying comment.” Marc, a student in Erie said: “I'm an LGBT student, and I've faced harassment on the bus coming home from school by my peers. I've been called tranny, yelled at, and watched others be yelled at as well. Because of this I have to wait another hour before coming home, change my work hours, and it's been very stressful on me. Passing the SNDA act would be a blessing. I'd be able to get home on time and ride the bus without fear of being attacked.” A national study of adolescents in grades 7 - 12 found that lesbian, gay, and bisexual youth were more than twice as likely to have attempted suicide as their heterosexual peers. Further, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, negative attitudes toward LGBT youth put these students “at increased risk for experiences with violence, compared with other students.” Numerous advocacy groups locally and nationally have championed the Student Non-Discrimination Act. “At a time when the Trump administration has chosen to turn its back to LGBT students, it’s more important than ever for Members of Congress to step up. The ACLU applauds Representatives Polis, Ros-Lehtinen, Scott, and Takano, as well as Senator Baldwin, for today’s introduction of the Student Non-Discrimination Act. No student in our nation’s public elementary and secondary schools should ever be denied a quality education because of discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. This legislation will help to ensure that our public schools are places where every student, including those who are LGBT, can learn and thrive,” said Ian Thompson, American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). "Every child in this country has a right to feel safe in their school. The Student Non-Discrimination Act (SNDA) would provide crucial protections against discrimination for LGBTQ young people, one of the most vulnerable groups in our community. We thank Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Representatives Jared Polis (D-CO), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Mark Takano (D-CA), and Bobby Scott (D-VA) for their leadership on this issue and being champions of equality for all people,” David Stacy, Human Rights Campaign (HRC). Read the fact sheet about SNDA. ###
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the White House released its new plan to address the nation’s opioid crisis: “Today, the President announced policies to ensure that we lose the war on opiates. Our nation has been losing the so-called ‘war on drugs’ for nearly fifty years now, and the President remains committed to those failed policies. Slogans like ‘mandatory minimum sentences’ and ‘three strikes and you’re out’ do nothing to curb the drug trade, and have instead resulted in mass incarceration - a burden that has been borne largely by minorities. If the White House wants to get serious about solving this crisis they will dispense with the failed policies based on slogans and soundbites, and consider evidence-based proposals that focus on prevention, early intervention and rehabilitation.” # # #
03.19.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – In response to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit’s ruling to vacate the U.S. Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule, Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce; Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services; Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI), Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services; and Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN) issued the following statement. The common sense rule, which is partially in effect, simply requires financial advisers to act in the best interests of their retirement clients. Up to this point, several federal district courts and the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals have upheld the rule. “The Fifth Circuit’s appeals court ruling will only benefit unscrupulous financial advisers who put their own financial interests and profit motives ahead of their retirement clients. Senior citizens and hardworking Americans saving for retirement deserve to be protected, which is why numerous courts across the country have upheld this common sense rule. We have long opposed any efforts to undermine this critical protection and will continue to fight for workers and families to ensure they aren’t ripped off when investing their hard-earned retirement savings.” ###
03.19.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and Workforce, sent a letter to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos requesting the Department of Education (ED) maintain a 2014 School Discipline Guidance Package. The guidance, developed jointly with the Department of Education and the Department of Justice (DOJ), was issued to remind schools of their legal obligations to administer school discipline without discriminating on the base of race, color, or national origin. The Ranking Member requested that any decision from the Department to rescind or alter the guidance be made after the public has access to a new, soon to be published a GAO report regarding disparities in discipline policies and practices applied to students of color, boys, and students with disabilities. “Ensuring public access to the GAO’s findings prior to any agency action on the guidance is especially necessary given the recent factually-inaccurate assertions made by the Administration and Congressional Republicans that wrongly place blame for the recent school shooting in Parkland, Florida on the 2014 guidance package,” wrote Ranking Member Bobby Scott. “In reality, there is no evidence to support the claim that the current guidance package contributed to tragedy in Parkland, Florida or school shootings generally. Furthermore, it strains credibility to suggest that schools cannot be made safer unless states and districts can employ racially discriminatory discipline policies and practices.” The GAO’s research and findings will very likely substantiate claims that the severity of disparate treatment for students of color and students with disabilities persists; affirm the importance of the 2014 discipline guidance and the larger Rethink School Discipline guidance package; and, make clear the urgent need to address these gross disparities in our educational system. Rescinding or altering the 2014 discipline package prior to GAO’s findings are made public would not only turn a blind eye to evidence-based research, but also rob our nation’s students of full civil rights protections and informed decision-making. See below for the full text of the letter: Dear Secretary DeVos: I am writing to reiterate my request from our meeting on January 11, 2018, urging you to maintain the 2014 ED-DOJ School Discipline Guidance Package.[1] As you know, the guidance, developed jointly with the Department of Education (ED) and Department of Justice (DOJ), was released on January 8, 2014 to explain the non-discrimination requirements under Titles IV and VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and remind schools of their legal obligations to administer student discipline without discriminating on the base of race, color, or national origin. This guidance package is important to ensure states and school districts have the tools and resources to comply with federal education and civil rights laws, and to continue taking steps to dismantle the school-to-prison pipeline, as required by the recently reauthorized Elementary and Secondary Education Act. In the past month, the Department of Education had an opportunity to respond to an investigation conducted by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) regarding disparities in discipline policies and practices applied to students of color, boys, and students with disabilities. This investigation follows GAO’s investigation, released in May of 2016, which confirmed that students in racially and socioeconomically isolated schools experience exclusionary discipline at disproportionately higher rates than do their peers in non-isolated schools. Both reports were requested by me and the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, given our oversight jurisdiction regarding the enforcement of education and civil rights laws. Per GAO’s protocol, the Departments of Education and Justice were afforded the opportunity to review this report and provide agency responses to the GAO’s findings. As you know, the GAO’s research and findings will very likely substantiate claims that the severity of disparate treatment for students of color and students with disabilities persists; affirm the importance of the 2014 discipline guidance and the larger Rethink School Discipline guidance package; and, make clear the urgent need to address these gross disparities in our educational system. Given the impending release of GAO’s report and its important findings, it is in the interest of everyone to assess the findings so that the Department of Education can make an informed decision regarding the guidance package. Ensuring public access to the GAO’s findings prior to any agency action on the guidance is especially necessary given the recent factually-inaccurate assertions made by the Administration and Congressional Republicans that wrongly place blame for the recent school shooting in Parkland, Florida on the 2014 guidance package. In reality, there is no evidence to support the claim that the current guidance package contributed to tragedy in Parkland, Florida or school shootings generally. Furthermore, it strains credibility to suggest that schools cannot be made safer unless states and districts can employ racially discriminatory discipline policies and practices. Any efforts to rescind or alter the agency’s existing discipline guidance must be informed not only by robust public dialogue with parents, teachers, students, and civil rights advocates, but also evidence. Naturally, the body of evidence to inform any such efforts must include public awareness of the GAO’s imminent investigation, which will also include ED and DOJ response to GAO’s findings. Rescinding or altering the 2014 discipline package prior to GAO’s findings are made public would not only turn a blind eye to evidence-based research, but also rob our nation’s students of full civil rights protections and informed decision-making. Thank you for considering this request. Sincerely, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25): “It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of Louise Slaughter. Louise spent over three decades in Congress fighting for what she believed in. As the first woman to chair the powerful Rules Committee, she was a fearless leader and a relentless advocate for women, diversity and inclusion. I was lucky enough to call Louise my friend, and she never failed to make everyone laugh. Her spirit was infectious, and we will all miss her terribly. This is a great loss for New York, the entire House of Representatives, and our country. I extend my sincerest condolences to her children, grandchildren, friends, staff and all those positively impacted by her remarkable life and work.” # # #
03.14.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the passage of H.R. 4909, the “STOP School Violence Act of 2018” [407-10]. Democrats will continue the conversation on school safety next week at our forum entitled, ‘Preventing School Shootings: A Comprehensive Approach.’ “Today’s vote is a positive first step, but more must be done. “I am pleased that H.R. 4909 rejects President Trump and Secretary DeVos’ misguided proposal to arm teachers by prohibiting program funds from being used to buy guns or firearms training for school staff. While I applaud the bill’s provisions to support implementation of evidence-based staff training and school-based threat assessments, I remain concerned with any federal efforts to increase law enforcement presence in schools. “In the years since the Columbine school shooting, school districts rushed to hire more school resource officers. Since then, thousands of children of color and students with disabilities have entered the ‘school-to-prison pipeline’ due to school-based arrests for what should be treated as routine behavior violations. My concern grows more urgent in light of the Trump administration’s efforts to rollback civil rights protections. Shockingly, in the wake of last month’s school shooting, Congressional Republicans and Secretary DeVos are placing the blame for this public health crisis - not on guns - but on civil rights protections for students of color. “I urge legislative improvements to this bill before it becomes law to ensure any ‘hardening’ of schools does not jeopardize educational opportunity for vulnerable students. I also urge Secretary DeVos and Attorney General Sessions to maintain existing guidance on school discipline and school resource officers to ensure that the bill’s new violence prevention program does not disproportionately harm students of color. “H.R. 4909 rightly shifts the federal focus to support implementation of evidence-based violence prevention, but Congress must do more to prevent school shootings. The ‘STOP School Violence Act’ is an insufficient response to the calls of millions of students, parents, and teachers without subsequent action by Congress to enact common sense gun control legislation. Enough is enough.” ###
03.13.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the Education and Workforce Committee, along with top Democrats, sent a letter to Peter Robb, General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), requesting that he resume the litigation of the McDonald’s case. The General Counsel decided to pursue settlement of the McDonald’s case – with only a handful of days remaining before the close of hearings. “[W]e are troubled that your decision to prematurely suspend this litigation adversely impacts the charging parties’ due process rights,” the Members wrote. “Imposing a settlement that the charging parties do not approve would risk denying them recourse for the harms the General Counsel’s office alleged in its complaints. For that reason, it appears both imprudent with respect to resources already committed, and unfair to the charging parties to prematurely terminate prosecution of this matter.” Over the past three years of litigation, this high-stakes case produced an extensive record of allegations that McDonald’s and its franchisees retaliated against its employees for exercising their rights under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA). In addition to resuming the case, the Members also asked the NLRB to produce the entire record of the litigation against McDonald’s by April 1, 2018. The text of the letter can be found here. ###
03.12.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Trump administration released their proposals for school safety. “Yesterday’s school safety proposals from the Trump administration are both inadequate and concerning. The administration has misplaced its focus on arming school personnel and dismantling civil rights protections for students instead of offering meaningful, evidence-based solutions to gun violence prevention. Our students and families do not need a federal Commission to study violence prevention, when real solutions that curb access to high-powered firearms and evidence-based violence prevention strategies are readily available. “While school security infrastructure is part of the conversation, evidence tells us that ‘hardening schools’ fails to address the root causes of school violence. Worse, it creates a culture of fear and anxiety that exacerbates the ‘School-to-Prison Pipeline.’ Removing school district resources that improve discipline practices and student supports might fit the administration’s deregulation agenda, but it certainly will not make students and teachers safer. Now is the time to focus on violence prevention that takes a collaborative and comprehensive approach. This must include not only commonsense gun violence prevention measures, but also better access to mental health, inclusive and welcoming school climates, and early interventions to provide positive supports to help students succeed. “I strongly urge President Trump and Secretary DeVos to listen to the voices of teachers, students, civil rights advocates, and researchers. Safe schools will only come from a shared commitment to equip all teachers and school leaders with the tools and resources they need to tackle the conditions that cause school violence and support student learning.” ###
03.09.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 313,000 jobs in February, with the unemployment rate unchanged at 4.1 percent. “Today’s job report shows the economy has built on the progress of the previous administration by adding almost as many jobs in 13 months as the number of jobs added in the last 13 months of the Obama administration. However, even though the economy is generating new jobs, workers are still struggling to find economic security. Compounding this instability is the Trump administration’s proposed rule that would allow employers to confiscate workers’ hard-earned tips. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that tipped workers could lose $5.8 billion dollars a year. “Congress needs to be making investments in infrastructure and education, which would create millions of good-paying jobs. We can also boost wages by passing the Raise the Wage Act of 2017 (H.R. 15), which would raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 an hour to $15 and give millions of hard-working Americans a much needed raise.” ###
03.09.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Department of Education (ED) published a ‘notice of interpretation’ of state’s rights to protect federal student loan borrowers. “In recent years, there have been numerous credible claims of servicing failures stemming from potentially unethical practices and purposeful misinformation provided to student loan borrowers. States under both Democratic and Republican leadership have rightly increased their investigation of such claims; implemented additional consumer protections for borrowers in their states; and where appropriate, taken legal action. States are well within their rights to enact and enforce consumer protection laws. “Congress has not given the Secretary the authority to preempt state consumer protection law for student borrowers. House Republicans recognized this fact, as they are now attempting to grant this explicit authority to the Secretary in H.R. 4508 – their partisan bill to reauthorize the Higher Education Act. This bill has not, and should not, become law. I urge the Secretary to reverse this egregious overreach of Federal authority to rescind states’ ability to protect student borrowers and hold unscrupulous servicers accountable.” ###
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Scott Taylor, joined by Representatives Bobby Scott (VA-03), Walter Jones (NC-03), and G. K. Butterfield (NC-01), sent a bipartisan letter to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), urging them to establish the Virginia Beach-Norfolk (VA-NC CSA) locality pay area by January 2019. Since 2015, the Federal Salary Council has recommended to the President's Pay Agent that Virginia Beach-Norfolk be established as a separate locality pay area. However, despite receiving approval from the Pay Agent, OPM has yet to act on the recommendation, leaving this issue unresolved for the approximate 30,500 federal employees who live and work in this locality area. "The over 30,000 Federal employees in our area serve largely in the defense sector, which means their work product is directly linked to our national security," said Congressman Scott Taylor. "The Federal Salary Council has found cost of living is outpacing their salaries. OPM must fulfill their end of this process to fill the pay gap for our neighbors who are federal employees." “The Federal Pay Agent has determined that federal employees in our districts deserve a raise due to the cost of living outpacing regular federal salary increases. Federal employees are the backbone to our economy and are experiencing an unfair pay gap due to lack of action. I hope that the Administration will take immediate action to protect our national security and ensure that these workers receive the pay they deserve," said Congressman Bobby Scott. “In the last year, federal employees have endured shutdowns and furloughs, attacks on pay, and across the board hiring freezes,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield. “These workers are essential to keeping our government running and it is critical that we do more to recruit and retain a 21st century workforce. That is why I urge OPM to take this critical step toward providing our public servants adequate compensation so that we may maintain an efficient and effective federal government.” Read the letter here. # # #
03.06.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, released the following statement after the Department of Education (ED) Office of Inspector General (OIG) released their recommendations for H.R.4508. “Independent analysis continues to confirm what we have said about H.R. 4508 from the beginning, it makes college more expensive for students and is a wish list for for-profit schools. Our claim that it will make college more expensive was supported by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office’s analysis that the bill slashes $15 billion from federal student aid. And today, the Office of the Inspector General has confirmed that the ‘accountability’ provisions in H.R. 4508 could result in less scrutiny of the sector responsible for the overwhelming majority of OIG investigations and monetary recoveries. I again urge the Majority to abandon this legislation and work with House Democrats on meaningful higher education reform in a way that makes sense for students, taxpayers, and employers.” ###
03.05.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, released the following statement after the Department of Education announced their final list of priorities last Friday March 2, 2018. “As with many recent actions by the Department, I am deeply disappointed with Friday’s announcement. I am disappointed by the Secretary’s failure to heed the advice of many commenters, including Members of Congress, who urged her to abandon school privatization proposals and focus on making sure every public school succeeds. I am disappointed that the words espoused in the final priorities –‘ to support the needs of students with disabilities and improve school climate’ – do not align with recent actions taken by the Department to remove protections for students of color with disabilities and undermine the efficacy of the Office of Civil Rights. And I am disappointed that the Secretary failed to amend the priority for multiple skill pathways to protect students and taxpayers from fraud and low-quality programs. I will work alongside my Congressional colleagues to ensure that the Secretary employs these priorities within the constraints of authorizing statute.” In November, Ranking Member Scott, Ranking Member Murray, and Congresswoman DeLauro sent a letter to Secretary DeVos citing concerns with the Department of Education’s Notice of Proposed Priorities (NPP) when distributing competitive grants. ###
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017: “While I support the underlying goal of prosecuting those who facilitate sex trafficking online to the fullest extent of the law, I am opposed to how this bill accomplishes that goal. There are laws already on the books that have been successfully used by the Department of Justice (DOJ) to send executives of websites that promote prostitution to federal prison. Further, the bill will apply not only to online advertisers of sex trafficking, which Congress already criminalized in 2015 when we passed the SAVE Act (see 18 U.S.C. 1591), and punishes conduct that is much less serious than what is ordinarily viewed as 'sex trafficking.' “Despite attempts to amend the bill, the DOJ has indicated that the amended language would actually make it more difficult to prosecute these cases. To add insult to injury, DOJ has also said the bill is patently unconstitutional by being in violation of the Ex Post Facto Clause.” # # #
02.27.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), ranking member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Education (ED) announced a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for a two year delay of the Equity in the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) rule, which addresses disproportionate identification, placement, and disciplinary treatment of students of color in special education. When Congress last reauthorized the IDEA in 2004, it sought to correct disparate treatment of students of color with disabilities by requiring states, for the first time, to identify school districts with, and direct federal resources to address, gross inequities. Congress knew then, just as it knows now, that students of color are over-identified for special education services, placed in more restrictive settings, and disciplined at higher rates. Despite having had more than a decade to comply with this important IDEA requirement, too many states and districts continually fail to uphold their legal responsibility to address in the identification, placement, and discipline of students of color with disabilities. The Department’s proposed delay rewards that failure, undermines the fundamental goals of the IDEA, and jeopardizes educational opportunity for millions of children of color. “I am deeply disappointed by the Department’s proposed delay of the Equity in IDEA rule. Clearly, leaving IDEA’s requirement to address significant disproportionality unregulated has done a disservice to millions of students of color with disabilities and exacerbated the ‘school to prison pipeline.’ We cannot continue to ignore these disparities. Regardless of any proposed delay of this rule, states and school districts are still bound by the statutory requirements of IDEA and must continue efforts to reduce disproportionality in the identification, placement, and discipline of students of color with disabilities. I urge parents, students, advocates, and special education leaders to submit public comments in support of students, and I urge Secretary DeVos to abandon this proposal and maintain needed protections for students with disabilities. The Department must be accountable for enforcing IDEA and protecting the civil rights of all students,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA). “Secretary DeVos made it clear in her confirmation hearing that she didn’t understand an important federal law protecting students with disabilities, and this latest move shows that she hasn’t made much progress since. Students with disabilities should absolutely get the support and resources they need to succeed, but the policy that Secretary DeVos is trying to delay is intended to make sure that students aren’t inappropriately pushed into or denied special education, aren’t unfairly subjected to disciplinary action, and aren’t forced into more segregated school settings. This proposed delay would hurt our efforts to increase transparency and information for parents and policymakers, it would continue to push more students of color into the school-to-prison pipeline, and it would be a step backward in our efforts to make sure every student can access the quality education they deserve. Anyone who wants to fight back against Secretary DeVos’ latest attack on the civil rights of our students should make their voices heard in opposition to this delay,” said Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA). On February 27, 2018, the U.S. Department of Education’s Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services announced plans to postpone the compliance date of the “Equity in IDEA” or “significant disproportionality” regulations for K-12 students until July 1, 2020, and for children ages three through five until July 1, 2022. The public have 75 days to comment, which must be received by the Department on or before May 14, 2018. The public may comment by going to www.regulations.gov, enter “2018-04102” into the search window, and selecting “Comment Now”. For more information visit the Federal Register online here. ###
02.23.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after being appointed by House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to the Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Pension Plans​ (Joint Select Committee). Ranking Member Scott is one of only 16 Members of Congress to be appointed to it. Established by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, the Joint Select Committee is responsible for putting forward solutions to Congress before the year’s end to significantly improve the solvency of multiemployer pension plans and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). “I am honored to be appointed by Leader Pelosi to this Joint Select Committee. Many multiemployer pension plans are in financial crisis. If these plans fail as is currently projected, hundreds of thousands of retirees across the country would see devastating reductions to their pensions. These retirees earned their pensions in demanding industries such as construction, trucking, and mining, and through no fault of their own, their pensions are now in jeopardy. “But – make no mistake ─ it is not just retirees who are at risk. Participating employers and local economies would be negatively impacted if plans fail. Failure to act would likely result in an increased strain on the social safety net and reduced federal and state tax revenue. It is imperative that the Joint Select Committee deliver a responsible, bipartisan solution for Congress to consider later this year. Millions of workers, families, and retirees are counting on us — and the longer Congress waits to act, the more difficult and more expensive the problem will be to solve. I look forward to getting to work on this Joint Select Committee and addressing this urgent crisis threatening Americans’ retirement security.” # # #
02.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced the beginning of the 25th Annual Third Congressional District High School Art Competition. The competition is open to all high school students (grades 9-12) residing in the Third Congressional District of Virginia. Entries are due by 5:00 PM, April 27, 2018. An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. This year acceptable entries may include, but are not limited to, paintings, drawings, and photography. The first place winner will receive a scholarship and travel to Washington, D.C. to attend a Congressional Reception in honor of all the winners from around the nation. The first place entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year, where it will be seen by hundreds of thousands of people who visit the Capitol. Congressman Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate and various other prizes at an upcoming reception in the Third Congressional District later this year. All entries must be submitted by Friday, April 27, 2018. Students should submit their entries to Congressman Scott's District Office located at 2600 Washington Avenue, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607. If you have any questions regarding this year's art competition, please contact Congressman Scott's District Office at (757) 380-1000. The guidelines and other information about this year's competition can be accessed online at: http://bobbyscott.house.gov/artcontest. # # #
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), a vice chair of the House Democratic Caucus’ Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, released the following statement on the shooting yesterday at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida: “Once again our hearts go out to families and a community devastated by the epidemic of gun violence. While sending thoughts and prayers is important, they are useless without meaningful action. Yesterday was the 18th school shooting and 29th mass shooting in 2018 alone. When is enough finally enough? We cannot accept these atrocities as inevitable. While the parents and loved ones of the victims try to bear the unbearable, Congress cannot sit idly by. We have the power to take action and I urge my colleagues to bring commonsense legislation to the floor.” More information on the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task force recommendations can be found here. # # #
02.15.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 620, the ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017. The legislation attacks the civil rights of Americans with disabilities. “Passage of H.R. 620 is the latest attack on the rights of individuals with disabilities. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is a bipartisan civil rights law that prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities and ensures access to places of employment and schools, as well as public buildings and services. H.R. 620 undermines the goals of the ADA to create a more inclusive society and provide equal participation for all members of the community. "The bill removes incentives for businesses to comply with ADA requirements, placing the compliance burden on individuals with disabilities and delaying access to public accommodations for at least 180 days, perhaps indefinitely. A handful of lawyers threatening to file or filing frivolous lawsuits, many of whom are in the process of being disbarred, should not serve as a basis of sabotaging the ADA. I am disappointed in today’s action and urge the Senate to reject this harmful legislation.” To watch Ranking Member Bobby Scott’s floor remarks, click here. ###
02.12.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the White House released an outline of its Fiscal Year 2019 budget priorities. “The administration’s budget proposal does not prioritize America’s students and workers. President Trump’s budget hurts students by eliminating vital early childhood and K-12 education programs to divert $1 billion to private school vouchers; slashing federal grant aid to make college more expensive; and, continuing to woefully underfund special education. Additionally, a separate infrastructure proposal by this administration would siphon funds from the Pell grant program to fund short term workforce training initiatives which also lacks a dedicated federal funding stream. “President Trump’s budget undermines workers by gutting programs that help level the playing field for workers impacted by trade, cutting the safety net for workers disabled from job-related injuries, and reducing funds for training programs for disadvantaged youth by almost 25 percent. Moreover, the administration continues to wage war on Americans' health care by proposing to repeal of the Affordable Care Act, to roll back protections for people with preexisting conditions, and to gut Medicaid. “When confronted with the budget, choices must be made. The administration has obviously prioritized a 1.5 trillion dollar tax cut for primarily millionaires and corporations. Instead, I believe we should be choosing a budget that supports public education, creates good-paying jobs, and protects our health care.” ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the entire Virginia delegation joined together to send a letter to President Trump, urging the administration not to consider relocating a nuclear powered aircraft carrier from NAVSTA Norfolk, Virginia to NAVSTA Mayport, Florida. This is in response to a letter sent by the Florida delegation last week requesting the move. “As members of the Virginia Congressional delegation, we are writing to urge you to craft a Fiscal Year 2019 Presidential Budget based on a clearly articulated National Security Strategy, a National Defense Strategy, and responsible stewardship of taxpayer dollars – not on narrow interests disconnected from these priorities. At a time when our military continues to rebuild and restore readiness, critical taxpayer dollars should only be used to make our Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps more lethal and more capable,” the delegation wrote. Strategically, the Navy does not have a stated requirement for moving an aircraft carrier to Florida. The Navy considered a similar move in 2008, but after studying the cost impacts – decided against it. The estimated nonrecurring cost in 2008 was $565 million, and an updated assessment in 2010 found that the cost increased to $589.7 million. We are once again in the same situation. Currently, Norfolk is home to all 5 of the Navy’s aircraft carriers on the east coast. The entire Hampton Roads area has clear strategic value as the existing east coast aircraft carrier hub by boasting a world-class harbor, ship repair and overhaul capabilities, as well as an unmatched confluence of joint warfare components, including surface, aviation, expeditionary, and special operations activities. The Navy has no shortage of necessary materials at NAVSTA Norfolk, and a move would be an irresponsible use of Navy funds. “Greater value should be placed on current plans crafted by Navy leadership, based on current threats, rather than outdated reports drafted from almost a decade ago... Defense funding must be prioritized to restore readiness and defend the homeland, not to fund a non-existent requirement and duplicative capability that will cost the Navy nearly $1 billion over the next 15 years,” the delegation wrote. Virginia Delegation members signing the letter include U.S. Sens. Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine, and U.S. Reps. Rob Wittman (VA-1), Scott Taylor (VA-2), Bobby Scott (VA-3), Donald McEachin (VA-4), Tom Garrett, Jr. (VA-5), Bob Goodlatte (VA-6), Dave Brat (VA-7), Don Beyer (VA-8), H. Morgan Griffith (VA-9), Barbara Comstock (VA-10), and Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11). The full letter is included below and can be viewed here. President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: As members of the Virginia Congressional delegation, we are writing to urge you to craft a Fiscal Year 2019 Presidential Budget based on a clearly articulated National Security Strategy, a National Defense Strategy, and responsible stewardship of taxpayer dollars – not on narrow interests disconnected from these priorities. At a time when our military continues to rebuild and restore readiness, critical taxpayer dollars should only be used to make our Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps more lethal and more capable. We were disturbed to hear of a letter by the Florida delegation requesting to move a Navy nuclear powered aircraft carrier to Naval Station (NAVSTA) Mayport citing “strategic and operational value.” The Navy annually briefs members of Congress on its Strategic Laydown and Dispersal Plan and, as of 2017, did not identify a need nor a desire to move an aircraft carrier from NAVSTA Norfolk to NAVSTA Mayport within the next 5 years. The Florida delegation’s letter in favor of such a move referenced Department of Defense (DoD) and Navy reports from 2009 and 2010 because the concept has not appeared in studies since. Greater value should be placed on current plans crafted by Navy leadership, based on current threats, rather than outdated reports drafted from almost a decade ago. When the Navy studied the cost impacts of relocating an aircraft carrier from NAVSTA Norfolk to NAVSTA Mayport in 2008, the estimated nonrecurring cost was $565 million. In an updated assessment in 2010, the Navy found that the costs had increased to $589.7 million. This number only represents the up-front costs and not the day-to-day costs of maintaining such a capability. In 2008, the Navy estimated that homeporting an aircraft carrier at NAVSTA Mayport instead of NAVSTA Norfolk would result in a recurring annual cost of $25.5 million. Defense funding must be prioritized to restore readiness and defend the homeland, not to fund a non-existent requirement and duplicative capability that will cost the Navy nearly $1 billion over the next 15 years. The entire Hampton Roads area has clear strategic value as the existing east coast aircraft carrier hub by boasting a world-class harbor, ship repair and overhaul capabilities, as well as an unmatched confluence of joint warfare components, including surface, aviation, expeditionary, and special operations activities. Additionally, the Master Jet Base at Naval Air Station Oceana hosts the Carrier Air Wings assigned to these ships and minimizes the transit times for aircraft conducting routine training operations aboard the ship. The Navy faces no shortage of necessary fleet resources in the form of nuclear ports, which include five sites in addition to NAVSTA Norfolk, Virginia: Bremerton, Washington; Everett, Washington; Pearl Harbor, Hawaii; Yokosuka, Japan; and San Diego, California. All six of these locations have the experience and capability needed to homeport a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier should the Navy need to pursue greater strategic and operational dispersal. We strongly recommend that you remain consistent to your own Department of Defense’s plans and look to allocate funds in your Fiscal Year 2019 budget for areas of Navy’s needs based upon established requirements.
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after voting for the bipartisan budget deal: “This two-year budget deal ends the constant uncertainty and dysfunction that is created by short term continuing resolutions. The deal secures billions of dollars in additional investments in programs that are vital to communities all across the country. The agreement fully funds the military, community health centers, and extends the Children’s Health Insurance Program for the next ten years, and it includes robust funding to fight the opioid epidemic and provides relief to areas devastated by hurricanes and wildfires. It will fund additional research at the National Institutes of Health, help provide better care to our veterans, and enhance access to child care and quality higher education. “Additionally, I am pleased this agreement establishes a joint select committee to address the multiemployer pension crisis. Many multiemployer pension plans are in severe financial distress, and the retirement security of millions of Americans is in jeopardy through no fault of their own. For years, I have pressed for Congress to address this urgent crisis and protect workers’ hard-earned pensions. “While this budget deal addresses many critical priorities for our nation, it unfortunately leaves out a permanent solution that adequately addresses the DACA crisis that President Trump created. Now that the threat of shutdown and default have passed, it is time for Congress to get to work. There are many pressing issues that must be addressed including a permanent solution for the DREAMers, protecting workers’ tips, and reforming our criminal justice system. The American people deserve better than this constant dysfunction from the Republican-controlled Congress.” # # #
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – ON MONDAY, February 12, 2018 Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will host a town hall on the recently passed Republican tax bill. This will be an opportunity for residents of Virginia’s third district to get answers to any questions they may have regarding how the new tax law will impact their wallets and their communities. WHO: Congressman Bobby Scott WHAT: Town hall on recently passed GOP tax law WHERE: I.C. Norcom High School 1801 London Blvd Portsmouth, VA 23704 WHEN: Monday, February 12, 2018 6:00 p.m. Constituents can RSVP for the Town Hall by clicking here. # # #
02.07.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC -- Representative Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking Member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, and Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) released the following statement in response to the paid parental leave proposal announced today by Senate Republicans: “This proposal would put pressure on Social Security’s already strained resources,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott. “While I’m encouraged there’s bipartisan support for paid family and medical leave, we should not shortchange Social Security benefits for seniors to accomplish that desirable goal.” “While the time for paid family and medical leave for American workers is long overdue, the Republican paid parental leave proposal announced today is woefully insufficient and harmful to working families,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “Workers should not have to permanently cut their Social Security retirement benefits in order to spend time with a newborn child, and any paid leave plan that reflects the needs of working people and families must address the need to deal with a personal or family member’s serious illness. Legislation that reflects the Independent Women’s Forum plan to raid Social Security to pay for parental leave benefits would jeopardize workers’ future retirement security and would hurt women, low-wage workers and workers of color the most. Any such proposal would break the promise of Social Security program, which provides millions of Americans with economic security in their retirement. Instead, Congress should work to enact FAMILY Act—which would provide real paid family and medical leave to ensure workers have a safety net in their time of need.” ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after voting against the House Republicans’ latest short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government: “Today’s vote was for the fifth Continuing Resolution (CR) since September. We should have already begun working on the budget for next year. Instead we are still debating a budget that should have been finalized five months ago. The Republican Majority spent last fall obsessing over tax cuts for billionaires and corporations and forgot about the basics of governing. “CRs are an incredibly ineffective way to govern. They hamstring federal agencies and freeze their ability to act effectively. Additionally, due to operating under continued uncertainty as a result of CRs, federal agencies waste billions of dollars planning on different budget scenarios, including preparing for government shutdowns. The American people are the ones who pay the price for this dysfunction. It is time for the Republican Majority to reach across the aisle to Democrats, so that we can work together on a long-term budget agreement that actually funds the federal government for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 and addresses sequestration, disaster relief, the opioid epidemic, and DREAMers.” # # #
02.06.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released cost estimates for H.R. 4508. “The CBO’s score of H.R. 4508 confirms what we already knew to be true – this bill makes college more expensive for America’s students and working families. According to the CBO, H.R. 4508 would send $9.2 billion in taxpayer dollars to for-profit schools and low-quality programs, but fails to provide any substantial support to help low-income students afford college. If H.R. 4508 became law, it would require students and parents to pick up the tab for a massive corporate giveaway. The bill slashes nearly $15 billion from student aid by eliminating grants for low-income students and prospective teachers, making student loans more expensive, and killing Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) ─ a program with strong bipartisan support. Any suggestion that this bill is budget-neutral or does not cut available aid to students is false. “When President Johnson signed the original Higher Education Act (HEA), he made the solemn promise ‘that a high school senior, anywhere in this great land of ours, can apply to any college or university and not be turned away because his [or her] family is poor.’ This CBO score shows that H.R. 4508 has clearly abandoned that fundamental promise. The bill forces students to borrow more and then pay more to repay their loans. I urge my colleagues to abandon this partisan approach and work on a bipartisan solution that not only makes higher education accessible and affordable, but empowers all students to succeed in our economy.” ###
02.06.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC– Representatives Bobby Scott (D-VA), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP), and Donald Norcross (D-NJ), and U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Maggie Hassan (D-NH), sent a letter asking National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) member William Emanuel to clarify whether he violated federal regulations and the Trump Administration ethics pledge by participating in an eleventh-hour decision involving the “joint employer” standard. In a December vote, the NLRB weakened workers’ right to collectively bargain and shielded large corporate employers from liability. Member Emanuel participated in the vote to overturn the joint employer standard and in a separate vote to bring the joint employer case back to the Board, despite the fact that his former law firm represents one of the employers in the case. “By participating in the Board’s action to bring [the Browning Ferris case] back to the Board, you are likely in violation of both federal regulations and the Administration’s Ethics pledge,” wrote the Members of Congress. Both the Trump administration ethics pledge and federal regulations prohibit employees from participating in matters involving former employers. In a response to a Congressional inquiry of Emanuel’s actions, Emanuel claimed he was unaware his former law firm represented a party in the case that established the joint employer standard, Browning Ferris Industries (BFI)—despite this case being widely known as one of the most consequential labor cases of the past decade. This claim is also in direct contradiction of Emanuel’s written responses to Senator Murray’s questions during his confirmation process, where he listed BFI as a client of his law firm. In addition to his direct involvement in the BFI remand case, Emanuel voted to overturn BFI in the Hy-Brand Industrial Contractors case. These decisions were rushed out of the Board days before the NLRB Chair’s term expired late in December. The full text of the letter can be found here. Emanuel’s responses to Senator Murray’s questions for the record, referenced in the letter below, can be found here.
02.06.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), ranking member on the Education and the Workforce Committee, Senator Patty Murry (D-WA), ranking member on the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and 122 Democrats submitted a public comment to Secretary of Labor R. Alexander Acosta urging the Department of Labor (DOL) to withdraw its proposed change to the tip rules. DOL is considering changing existing rules to allow employers to pocket tips of workers, which could result in the loss of billions of dollars of tips for workers. “By proposing a rule that would allow employers pocket their workers’ tips, the Department is circumventing the will of Congress, overturning their own precedent of more than 40 years, and undermining other existing wage protections for workers,” said Ranking Member Scott. “Moreover, recent revelations that the DOL may have withheld estimates that the rule would cost workers billions of dollars only makes the DOL’s efforts all the more troubling. If DOL decides to push through this rule and ignore its costs to workers or the public’s concerns, there will be a real erosion of trust in the DOL’s commitment to protecting workers.” “Women make up two-thirds of tipped workers, and they rely on tips to support themselves and their families—so it is despicable the Trump Administration is considering allowing employers to pocket workers’ tips for themselves,” said Senator Murray. “Even the Department of Labor knows how deeply harmful this rule would be; they tried to cover up evidence showing their proposed change would result in billions of dollars of lost tips for working families. Now that we know how far the Trump Administration is willing to go to put businesses before workers, it is clear they must withdraw this proposed rule change.” The Members submitted their comment in response to the DOL’s Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM). Last week, news reports revealed that DOL allegedly withheld estimates that show the proposed rule change would result in billions of dollars of lost tips for workers. In their comment, Members also raise issues with DOL’s failure to provide analysis of the impact on workers. To read the letter, click here. ###
02.02.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Bobby Scott (D-VA), Representative Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA), sent a letter to Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta raising questions about the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) decision to reject health and safety recommendations for workers in meat and poultry plants, including ensuring workers have access to bathroom facilities. The recommendations by the independent Government Accountability Office (GAO) were made in response to interviews with workers in five states who were denied access to restrooms, which has resulted in kidney problems and other negative health effects. “By rejecting GAO recommendations that could prevent bad actors from placing workers’ health and safety at risk, we fear that OSHA is abandoning its core mission to ‘assure so far as possible every working man and woman in the Nation safe and healthful working conditions,’” wrote the Members of Congress. The Trump administration’s OSHA also rejected the GAO’s recommendation to conduct interviews with workers offsite, despite OSHA’s longstanding practice of doing so. Offsite interviews allow workers to speak candidly about unsafe working conditions without fear of retaliation from employers. The Members also asked OSHA what steps they plans to take to protect contracted sanitation workers who clean and disinfect meat and poultry plants and experience some of the highest amputation rates in the country. A 2016 GAO report found that meat and poultry plants do not include contracted sanitation workers in their safety records. The recent GAO report on workplace safety and health practices in meat and poultry plants was released in December 2017 in response to a request by Representative Scott, Senator Murray, and Senator Casey. Full text of the letter below and a PDF can be found here. The GAO report on workplace safety and health in meat and poultry plants can be found here. Dear Secretary Acosta: We write to bring to your attention a recent Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) report (“the Report”) on safety and health issues facing workers at meat and poultry plants and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) troubling response to its recommendations.[1] By rejecting GAO recommendations that could prevent bad actors from placing workers’ health and safety at risk, we fear that OSHA is abandoning its core mission to “assure so far as possible every working man and woman in the Nation safe and healthful working conditions.”[2] Among its findings, GAO reported that workers at many plants have trouble accessing the bathroom when they need it, going so far as to shun eating or drinking during their shifts to avoid reprimand from their supervisors for stepping off the production line.[3] GAO conducted interviews with workers in “five states who said their requests to use the bathroom are often delayed or denied” and with workers “in three states [who] said they had suffered negative health effects, such as kidney problems, from delayed or denied bathroom breaks.”[4] Despite this, OSHA officials told GAO that “they [do] not believe lack of bathroom access [is] a widespread problem in the meat and poultry industry.”[5]Although the report recommends that OSHA inspectors ask workers specifically about bathroom access and increase their use of off-site interviews to alleviate worker fears of retribution for talking to OSHA inspectors at the worksite, OSHA declined these recommendations in its response to the report.[6] Specifically, on October 5, 2017, OSHA responded: “GAO’s recommendation to conduct additional offsite interviews . . . is challenging in terms of witness cooperation, resources, and Compliance Safety and Health Officers (CSHO) safety. Moreover, each inspection requires a flexible approach to address unique workplace hazards. OSHA cannot commit to routinely asking about bathroom access during each inspection at a meat or poultry processing facility.”[7] It has been a longstanding OSHA practice, in both Republican and Democratic administrations, to conduct offsite interviews when workers fear retaliation for cooperating with OSHA inspectors at the worksite. Indeed, OSHA’s Field Operations Manual provides, “[a] free and open exchange of information between CSHOs and employees is essential to an effective inspection. Interviews provide an opportunity for employees to supply valuable factual information concerning hazardous conditions . . .” and “interviews may be conducted at locations other than the workplace.”[8] For over twenty years, OSHA has known that bathroom access is an occupational health hazard in meat and poultry plants: the first citations for lack of bathroom access were issued to a poultry plant in the late 1990s.[9] Further, OSHA has a regional emphasis program for the poultry processing industry in Regions IV and VI, which includes “assess[ing] the adequacy of toilet and sanitary facilities, and worker access to them” as part of the program.[10] Logic dictates that the only effective method to ascertain whether that particular hazard exists is to ask workers. The GAO report confirms that in the 21st century, workers in meat and poultry plants continue to suffer from kidney issues and other health hazards as a result of being denied their legal right to use the bathroom.[11] This can include “a host of physiological problems such as urinary tract infections, perinatal complications, and, in extreme cases, renal damage.”[12] Given OSHA’s statutory mandate to assure safe workplaces so far as possible, it is imperative that OSHA adopt these two commonsense measures: asking workers about bathroom access and conducting offsite interviews. This could help prevent injury and illness among particularly vulnerable workers. Further, we urge OSHA to review a recent Bloomberg Businessweek investigation confirming what GAO has reported and OSHA has recognized: sanitation workers at meat and poultry plants, who are often furnished by labor suppliers and not employed directly by the plants, face egregious safety and health hazards in cleaning and disinfecting meat and poultry plants.[13] Businessweek’s investigation found that from January 2015 through September 2016, one of the sanitation companies - Packers Sanitation Services - had the 14th highest number of severe injuries (defined as an amputation, hospitalization, or the loss of an eye) among the 14,000 companies tracked by OSHA in 29 states.[14] Its amputation rate of 9.4 dismemberments per 10,000 workers was almost five times higher than for U.S. manufacturing workers as a whole in 2015.[15] Accordingly, we respectfully request that you address the following questions, and provide a response by February 9, 2018: Will you commit that, when evidence suggests off-site interviews would be useful to secure witness cooperation or prevent retaliation, CSHOs will be required to offer workers the opportunity to conduct such interviews offsite, subject to interviewees’ agreement? Why did OSHA reject GAO’s recommendation to specifically ask about bathroom access during inspections, given GAO’s findings on meat and poultry workers’ limited access to bathrooms and OSHA’s inclusion of toilet access as an issue in its Regional Emphasis Programs for poultry plants? In your response, please inform us if the agency has reconsidered its position. If OSHA has not reconsidered its stance, then please explain how the rejection of this recommendation does not undermine the purposes of the Occupational Safety and Health Act? Beyond inspections following a severe injury, what specific actions is OSHA taking to address elevated injury rates experienced by sanitation workers at meat and poultry plants? Many sanitation workers at meat and poultry plants work exclusively on “graveyard” shifts. Will OSHA conduct nighttime programmed inspections (as the Mine Safety and Health Administration routinely does) to assure safe and healthful working conditions for night-shift sanitation workers? Or will OSHA limit its programmed inspections to routine business hours? If OSHA will not conduct nighttime programmed inspections, please provide a full explanation for that decision.
02.02.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05), vice chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, and Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), vice ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, sent a letter to Department of Labor (DOL) Secretary R. Alexander Acosta requesting the Department share any and all economic analyses they have on the effects of the tip rule. This request is in response to a Bloomberg BNA report that DOL intentionally withheld estimates that its proposed tip rule would cost workers billions of dollars in lost income. “If the Department has withheld such analysis and then misrepresented this relevant fact in the NPRM, such conduct raises serious questions about the integrity of the Department’s rule making process,” the Members wrote. “Further, a Department spokesperson speaking to Politico stated, “after receiving public comment, the department intends to publish an informed cost-benefit analysis as part of any final rule.” This deviates from the requirements of Executive Order 13563.” The members have asked that the DOL respond to their questions and requests for internal communications relating to a decision to withhold estimates no later than Monday, February 5, 2018. The members previously raised concerns about this lack of analysis, urging the Department to extend the rule’s public comment period and hold public hearings on the rule. The public cannot fully weigh in if the process excludes analysis of how much workers will lose under this rule. The text of the letter is enclosed below: Dear Secretary Acosta: On February 1, 2018, Bloomberg BNA reported that the Department of Labor (DOL) prepared and intentionally withheld an economic analysis quantifying the loss of tip income for tipped workers as part of its Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (RIN 1235-AA21), Tip Regulations under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) (hereinafter “NPRM”). The article states that the DOL “scrubbed an unfavorable internal analysis from” the NPRM, and also states that “senior department political officials—faced with a government analysis showing that workers could lose billions of dollars as a result of the proposal—ordered staff to revise the data methodology to lessen the expected impact, several sources said.” This internal economic analysis reportedly includes estimates that workers would lose billions in income as a result of the rule. If this is correct, such analysis would contradict the NPRM, which stated “[t]he potential benefits and transfers have not been quantified” for the proposed rule. If the Department has withheld such analysis and then misrepresented this relevant fact in the NPRM, such conduct raises serious questions about the integrity of the Department’s rule making process. Further, a Department spokesperson speaking to Politico stated, “after receiving public comment, the department intends to publish an informed cost-benefit analysis as part of any final rule.” This deviates from the requirements of Executive Order 13563. Pursuant to our oversight responsibilities under the Rules of the House of Representatives, this letter requests the Department provide no later than February 5, 2018 the following information related to the economic analyses that are or have been in the possession of the DOL regarding the impacts of the proposed Tip Regulations: Has there been any draft, interim, proposed or completed quantitative or economic analysis, including any cost-benefit analysis, that was prepared, procured or otherwise commissioned by the Department of Labor in the connection with or related to the NPRM? A copy of each and every draft, interim, proposed or completed economic analysis covered in item #1. Were the findings of any of these analyses disclosed in the NPRM? A copy of the methodology used in each draft, interim, proposed or completed economic analysis covered in item #1. A copy of any documents and communications, as defined in Appendix A, involving DOL personnel regarding the preparation or review of such economic analysis covered in item #1, including any communications regarding proposals or directives to change the methodology used to estimate impacts in order to lessen the potential impact of the rule. A copy of all documents and communications that discussed the basis for including or excluding such economic analysis in the NPRM. A list of all meetings held to discuss whether to include or exclude such economic analysis in the NPRM. Please provide the date and the participants in such meetings, whether conducted in person or by teleconference. A list of the names of all DOL officials who were involved in reviewing or deciding whether to include or exclude the results of such economic analysis in the NPRM. Please provide the title and email contact information for each individual. A copy of any documents and communications between the DOL and any private party outside the DOL regarding the economic analysis covered in item #1. A copy of any documents and communications between the Office of Management and Budget and the DOL pertaining to the preparation or inclusion of such quantitative or economic analysis in the NPRM. Sincerely, Bobby Scott (VA-03), Committee on Education and the Workforce, Ranking Member Keith Ellison (MN-05), Congressional Progressive Caucus, Vice Chair Mark Takano (CA-41), Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, Ranking Member Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Committee on Education and the Workforce, Vice Ranking Member
02.02.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following= statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 200,000 jobs in January, with the unemployment rate at4.1 percent. “Today’s job report shows that while our economic recovery remains stable, too many working people and families are still struggling to get ahead and make ends meet. During President Obama’s last year in office, the economy added over 2 million jobs, yet during President Trump’s first year in office only roughly 1.8 million jobs were added to the economy. This is partly because under President Trump’s leadership, workers have faced a constant barrage of attacks. Only yesterday, news broke that the Department of Labor allegedly violated protocol by withholding estimates that show workers would lose billions under the Department’s proposal to allow employers to confiscate employees’ tips. This is on top of the administration’s actions to roll back protections for workers’ safety, retirement security, and ability to form a union. “Rather than pass a tax bill that provided over 80 percent of its benefits to the top one percent, Congress should be working together to pass the Raise the Wage Act of 2017 (H.R. 15). This bill would increase the federal minimum wage from $7.25 an hour to $15 and give millions hard-working Americans a much needed raise.” ###
02.01.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, issued the following statement after Bloomberg Law reported that the Department of Labor (DOL) withheld a legally required economic analysis for its proposed rule to allow employers to pocket tips of workers. “I am deeply troubled by allegations that the Department of Labor (DOL) may have withheld estimates that workers would lose billions in tips each year under the Department’s proposed rule. If true, this would not only reflect a departure from the normal process, but raise serious questions about the integrity of the Department’s rule making process. When an agency puts out a rule, it must demonstrate that the rule’s benefits justify its costs. I will be sending an oversight letter to the Department, requesting they share any and all economic analyses they have on the effects of the tip rule. “I have previously raised concerns about this lack of information, urging the Department to extend the rule’s public comment period and hold public hearings on the rule. The public cannot fully weigh in if the process excludes analysis of how much workers will lose under this rule. “I urge the Department to withdraw its rule, which is just one of the many attacks on workers we saw during President Trump’s first year in office. Instead of advancing rules that would decrease workers' earnings, I urge the administration to work with us to boost wages by raising the federal minimum wage and strengthening overtime protections for workers." ###
01.31.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after President Trump delivered this State of the Union Address before Congress. “During President Trump’s first year in office, his administration and Congressional Republicans have subjected students and workers to a constant barrage of attacks. Under President Trump’s leadership, the administration has moved to allow employers to pocket workers’ tips, jeopardized workplace safety, and made it harder for workers to form a union or save for retirement. This administration has also prevented students saddled with debt from getting relief, removed protections that improve equity in education, and exposed victims of sexual assault and transgender students to potential discrimination and harassment. Congressional Republicans and the administration also spent the better part of a year sabotaging access to affordable health care. These actions include, denying women contraceptive coverage, pushing to undermine consumer protections for small businesses and their employees, increasing the cost of health insurance, and increasing the number of people who are uninsured. “Despite these attacks, I am hopeful that Congress can come together to put forth responsible solutions that address the problems that are plaguing the American people. Rather than pass a tax bill that provided over 80 percent of its benefits to the top one percent, we should work together to pass the Raise the Wage Act of 2017 (H.R. 15). This bill would raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $15 and give millions hard-working Americans a much needed raise. Additionally, as the administration works to improve the country’s infrastructure, they should consider the Rebuild America’s Schools Act of 2017 (H.R. 2475), which would help achieve greater educational equity, create jobs, and breathe new life into communities. “These proposals would actually address the real problems of America’s students and workers who are currently under attack.” To read the “The Top Twelve Attacks on Workers and Students during President Trump’s First Year in Office”, click here. ###
01.29.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the nine year anniversary of the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, a law that empowers workers to recover lost wages due to pay discrimination by extending the time period in which an employee can file a claim. “Last week, hundreds of thousands of women and men took to the streets to demand equal rights, including workplaces free from discrimination and harassment. As we commemorate the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act ─ a step towards equity in the workplace ─ we must also acknowledge we still have a ways to go. That is why Congress should pass the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 1869), a bill that would update the Equal Pay Act of 1963 to require employers to prove that differences in workers' pay are not based on gender. It would also prohibit employers from retaliating against employees who discuss their pay with other workers. “I am also working with businessman and Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08) to introduce a bill called the Equal Pay Transparency Act of 2018. The bill would authorize the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) to collect from employers data to address pay gap disparities based on gender, race, and ethnicity. Combined, these two bills will help the EEOC enforce the nation’s employment civil rights laws and help to end pay inequity as a form of workplace discrimination. Simply put, there must be equal pay for equal work.” ###
01.24.2018	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of Wyatt Tee Walker: “It is with deep sadness that I note the passing of Wyatt Tee Walker. Reverend Walker, a close aide to Martin Luther King Jr., was an international advocate for equality, but he began much of his work in Virginia. He graduated from Virginia Union University, founded the Petersburg Improvement Association, and led the local chapter of the NAACP. He was one of the most prominent voices for civil rights, and his passing is a loss for the Commonwealth and the nation. I extend my deepest condolences to his family, friends and to anyone affected by his passing.” # # #
01.24.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) today requested the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to expand a previously requested investigation into the potentially illegal submission of fake comments to federal regulatory agencies. The four Democratic committee leaders made their request in a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Christopher Wray. It follows a June request from Pallone that the DOJ and FBI investigate whether fake comments submitted to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) as part of the net neutrality public comment period violated federal law. In addition, earlier this month, in response to a December request by Pallone, Cummings, Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY) and eight other Democrats, the Government Accountability Office agreed to investigate and report on the extent that outside groups were using false identities during federal rulemaking processes, most notably, during the FCC’s net neutrality public comment period. Since June, reports have indicated that other regulatory agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Labor, also received fake comments that may have similarly violated the law. A significant portion of the fake comments submitted to the CFPB – opposing new regulations to protect consumers from unscrupulous payday lending practices – are reported to have come from a comment-generating platform and web address used by the Community Financial Services Association of America, a trade group representing payday lenders. “The practice of manipulating agency actions by flooding rulemaking dockets with fake comments is far more widespread than it appeared when you were initially asked to investigate. Some Americans’ voices are being co-opted in what appears to be a systemic attempt to corrupt federal policy-making,” the House Democrats wrote to Sessions and Wray. “Immediate action is needed in order to restore public trust in the federal rulemaking process. We urge you to use the full investigative powers of the FBI and DOJ to promptly uncover who is behind this conduct and prosecute the parties under applicable federal law.” The Democrats are requesting an update from the DOJ and FBI on their efforts to address the issue by no later than February 7, 2018. The letter to Attorney General Sessions and FBI Director Wray can be found here. ###
01.23.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05), vice chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, and Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), vice ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, sent a letter to Department of Labor (DOL) Secretary Alexander Acosta requesting the DOL hold public hearings on its proposed rule to allow employers to pocket tips of workers who are paid at least the minimum wage. “[P]ublic interest in the impact of the rule demands public hearings from the Department. At the time of the writing of this letter, nearly 115,000 public comments have been submitted, many from workers,” the Members wrote. “We urge the Department to hold public hearings, both at its Washington, D.C. headquarters and throughout the country, to respond to this strong public awareness and interest in providing input on the proposed rule’s impact.” In addition to providing workers with an opportunity to speak first hand of the impact of the proposed rule, a public hearing would provide an opportunity for the DOL to hear from economists on the rule’s costs to workers. The Members also expressed concern that the DOL has failed to calculate the amount of tips that would be transferred from workers to employers under the proposed rule. This quantitative analysis is legally required to demonstrate to that the rule’s benefits justify its costs. According to an analysis by the Economic Policy Institute, the rule could have the effect of allowing employers to pocket $5.8 billion of their employees' tips each year. This comes on the heels of members urging the DOL to extend its initial 30-day comment period for this proposed rule, which they agreed too. The text of the letter is enclosed below: Dear Secretary Acosta: We write to respectfully request that the Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division hold public hearings on its Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Tip Regulations under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). The Department’s proposed rule rescinds parts of its current regulations that clarify tips are the property of employees, regardless of whether the employer takes a tip credit or pays the employee the full federal minimum wage. We appreciate the Department’s decision to grant our request to extend the public comment period by 30 days, from January 4, 2018 to February 5, 2018. We believe this extension will be helpful in providing workers with an opportunity to share with the Department how the proposal will impact them. We believe, however, public interest in the impact of the rule demands public hearings from the Department. At the time of the writing of this letter, more than 120,000 public comments have been submitted, many from workers. We urge the Department to hold public hearings, both at its Washington, D.C. headquarters and throughout the country, to respond to this strong public awareness and interest in providing input on the proposed rule’s impact. Additionally, as we have stated before, the proposed rule lacks a quantitative analysis, as required under Section 1(c) of Executive Order 13563, that demonstrates its benefits justify its costs. A public hearing also provides an additional opportunity for the Department to hear from economists on the costs of the proposed rule, including the loss of income from the transfer of tips from workers to employers. Sincerely, Bobby Scott (VA-03), Committee on Education and the Workforce, Ranking Member Keith Ellison (MN-05), Congressional Progressive Caucus, Vice Chair Mark Takano (CA-41), Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, Ranking Member Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Committee on Education and the Workforce, Vice Ranking Member ###
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after voting for the three-week Continuing Resolution (CR) to end the Trump government shutdown: “While I have often said CRs are a bad way to govern, it became increasingly clear that President Trump and Congressional Republicans were willing to never reopen the government. That’s even worse than governing by CRs. “Republicans control the House, the Senate and the White House. We now have three weeks to come together to pass a year-long budget to avoid another shutdown. It is incumbent on Republicans to work constructively with Democrats on a long-term agreement that actually funds the federal government and the military for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 and fully addresses sequestration, health care, disaster relief, the opioid epidemic, and guarantees protections for DREAMers.” # # #
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after voting against the House Republicans’ latest short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government: “Today’s vote was the fourth Continuing Resolution (CR) in as many months. CRs are an abdication of Congress’ constitutional responsibility to ensure that our federal government efficiently and effectively serves the American people. CRs hamstring federal agencies and freeze their ability to award new grants and puts a hold on the Department of Defense’ ability to sign new contracts for shipbuilding, ship maintenance, and other critical national security priorities. Additionally, due to operating under continued uncertainty as a result of CRs, federal agencies waste billions of dollars planning on divergent budget scenarios, including preparing for a government shutdown. Compounding government waste and inefficiency, this CR only funds the critical Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years instead of ten, which would save the government billions of dollars. “Republicans control the House, the Senate and the White House. I am not sure what my Republican colleagues expect to accomplish what they have not been able to accomplish in the last four months by dragging this process out until February 16th – especially since the House will only be in session for a few full working days prior to this new deadline. Instead of going on recess next week, Congress should stay in session and work together on a long-term agreement that actually funds the federal government for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 and addresses CHIP, sequestration, community health centers, disaster relief, the opioid epidemic, and help for DREAMers.” # # #
01.18.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announcement on its decision to create a new Conscience and Religious Freedom Division in the Office for Civil Rights: “Today, the Trump administration announced its decision to create a new Conscience and Religious Freedom Division in the Office for Civil Rights. This announcement must be examined as part of the administration's broader pattern of promoting discrimination. There is no indication that patients’ access to appropriate health care will not be jeopardized. The administration has already issued a rule to allow virtually any employer or institution of higher education to deny preventive health services for women, and continues to take steps to open the door for discrimination against members of the LGBTQ community, those in interracial relationships, and minority religious groups. These actions make clear that so-called ‘religious liberty’ and moral views are being used as a knife to cut down the rights of others. To be clear – this effort does not represent religious liberty; it is government-sanctioned discrimination. “This announcement comes just after the anniversary of the Religious Freedom statute drafted by Thomas Jefferson and adopted in Virginia in 1786. The Virginia Statute – codified over 2 centuries ago – warns us against allowing religious views to supersede civil rights by stating, ‘our civil rights have no dependence on our religious opinions any more than our opinions in physics or geometry.’ Unfortunately, it is clear that the administration has not heeded the warnings of our forefathers and continues to erode legally-protected rights and liberties. “In light of the administration’s latest actions, I continue to press for the immediate passage of the Do No Harm Act, introduced by Congressman Joe Kennedy and me last year. The Do No Harm Act protects religious liberty and protects against discrimination by making clear that they cannot be used to cause harm to others by overriding discrimination laws such as the Civil Rights Act of 1964 or health care services to which persons are otherwise legally entitled.” ###
01.17.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and 153 House Democrats sent a letter to President Donald Trump urging the administration to invest in the critical infrastructure that affects every city and town in the nation – our public schools. Too many of the more than 50 million students and six million staff who learn and work in our public schools spend their days in facilities that fail to make the grade. “To address this crisis, the federal government should partner with states and territories to ensure that public schools in every community are safe, healthy, and modern – particularly in low-income and rural school districts where the need is often most profound. This is the right thing to do for students, teachers, and communities. It is also a smart investment, since it will give a needed boost to our economy by creating local jobs in every community across the country,” the members wrote. “According to recent economic analysis, every $1 billion dollars invested in construction creates nearly 18,000 jobs. That means a federal investment in school infrastructure of $100 billion would yield an estimated 1.8 million jobs that are high-paying and immediately available.” Democrats have already introduced legislation in the House that would create such a partnership, providing $100 billion for direct grants and low-cost financing to help states and local communities upgrade their school facilities. Full text of the letter can be found here and below. Dear Mr. President: Improving our nation’s physical infrastructure is the linchpin for growing our economy, securing our communities, and ensuring that we remain competitive globally. In addition to upgrading our bridges and roads, we must also invest in the critical infrastructure that affects every city and town in the nation – our public schools. On November 9, 2016, at a victory rally speech in New York City, you said, “We are going to fix our inner cities and rebuild our highways, bridges, tunnels, airports, schools, hospitals… and we will put millions of our people to work as we rebuild it.” We are eager to work with you to fulfill that promise. Indeed, safe, healthy, modern, well-equipped schools are essential for advancing student achievement and for ensuring that the next generation can achieve the American Dream and meet the economic, social, environmental, and global challenges our nation faces. Yet, too many of the over 50 million students and six million staff who learn and work in our public schools spend their days in facilities that fail to make the grade. A 2014 Department of Education study estimated that it would cost $197 billion to bring all public schools into “good” condition. An independent review, the 2016 State of Our Schools report, estimates that we underfund capital investments in our school buildings by $38 billion per year. To address this crisis, the federal government should partner with states and territories to ensure that public schools in every community are safe, healthy, and modern – particularly in low-income and rural school districts where the need is often most profound. This is the right thing to do for students, teachers, and communities. It is also a smart investment, since it will give a needed boost to our economy by creating local jobs in every community across the country. According to recent economic analysis, every $1 billion dollars invested in construction creates nearly 18,000 jobs. That means a federal investment in school infrastructure of $100 billion would yield an estimated 1.8 million jobs that are high-paying and immediately available. Legislation has been introduced in the House that would create such a partnership, providing $100 billion for direct grants and low-cost financing to help states and local communities upgrade their school facilities. We believe this investment is an essential piece of a national infrastructure plan and stand ready work to with you to make sure it is a feature of any comprehensive infrastructure bill that makes it to your desk. Sincerely, ###
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine and U.S. Representatives Donald McEachin, Gerry Connolly, Don Beyer, and Bobby Scott sent a letter to the Trump Administration requesting that Virginia be exempted from its offshore drilling proposal, citing local concerns over the risks to tourism, the watermen’s industry, and the country’s Naval operations. The Virginia legislators cited Secretary Zinke’s announcement that drilling off the Florida coast was taken “off the table” after listening to “local and state” voices, and asked that the Trump Administration take similar concerns from Virginians just as seriously. Virginia’s coastal leaders -from the Democratic mayor of Norfolk to the Republican mayor of Virginia Beach and the current Governor and Governor-elect of Virginia - have all voiced opposition to drilling off of the Virginia coast. “As Members of Congress from Virginia, we request you remove the Virginia offshore area from your proposed 2019-2024 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program. We note your willingness to listen to local voices in Florida with grave concerns over the risks of offshore drilling there. We ask that you likewise consider local opposition in Virginia’s coastal communities as well as opposition from its Governor, Senators, and House members to a new five-year plan at this point,” the group said. The full text of the letter appears below. Dear Secretary Zinke: As Members of Congress from Virginia, we request you remove the Virginia offshore area from your proposed 2019-2024 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program. We note your willingness to listen to local voices in Florida with grave concerns over the risks of offshore drilling there. We ask that you likewise consider local opposition in Virginia’s coastal communities as well as opposition from its Governor, Senators, and House members to a new five-year plan at this point. The statement from your office announcing the removal of the Florida offshore stated, “Local voice matters.” We couldn’t agree more. While many states have long histories of energy production, states like Florida and Virginia have robust economies based on other sectors like tourism, aquaculture, outdoor recreation, deepwater port commerce, and especially Department of Defense infrastructure. Florida is home to some 20 DOD installations, while Virginia’s coastal area alone has more than a dozen across every service branch, including Naval Station Norfolk, the world’s largest naval installation. While it is within DOD’s mandate to work with Interior, any look at a map displays vast offshore areas in which drilling could conflict with military activities. In a time of relatively stable prices and booming oil and gas production elsewhere, the risks outweigh the benefits. Opposition to offshore drilling is an opinion broadly shared by communities on the Virginia coast, including by the Democratic mayor of Norfolk and the Republican mayor of Virginia Beach. In fact, the city council of Virginia Beach (Virginia’s most populous city) actively voted to shift its prior support for offshore drilling from supportive to neutral, then from neutral to opposed. We hope you will take opposition from Virginia coastal communities as seriously as you took the concerns from Florida residents and elected officials. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, ###
01.11.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after a meeting with Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos to discuss priority issues for House Democrats. Today’s meeting was the first meeting between the Ranking Member and the Secretary. “My discussion with Secretary DeVos today reaffirmed for me that we share a common goal – to ensure all students are supported to achieve their full potential. Secretary DeVos and I will not always agree on the best ways to achieve that goal. But I am confident there are areas, like expanding access to quality career and technical education including apprenticeships, where we can work together. “I am hopeful that another such area is dismantling the school-to-prison pipeline. This is why I strongly urged the Secretary to maintain the 2014 School Discipline Guidance Package. States and school districts need the tools and resources provided by this guidance package to ensure compliance with federal education and civil rights laws which require that they identify and address any racial bias in discipline policies and practices. Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Title IV-A grants are another valuable tool, which is why I also urged the Secretary to support school districts in using ESSA dollars to keep students in school and out of prison. As we begin this new year, I hope that Secretary DeVos and I will continue to have productive conversations on ending the school-to-prison pipeline and other issues important to students and families.”
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed S. 139, the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2017: “S. 139 is an unprecedented re-authorization of Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that continues to allow the federal government to collect Americans’ emails, chat logs, and browser history without a showing of probable cause. “I was proud to join Congressman Amash and others in offering the USA RIGHTS Act as an amendment to S. 139. This bipartisan amendment would have maintained the tools that intelligence agencies need to protect our country, while protecting Americans’ liberties by requiring judicial oversight and curbing unwarranted government intrusion into our private lives. The amendment would have closed the ‘backdoor search loophole’ by requiring a warrant, yet allow for exceptions in true national security emergencies. The amendment would have also banned a program that the FISA Court has twice shut down, which sweeps up domestic communication of Americans who were never surveillance targets. “S. 139, without the Amash amendment, was a missed opportunity to meaningfully reform Section 702 to ensure stronger protections for the constitutional rights of all Americans.” # # #
01.11.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed S. 140 [239 to 173]. Hidden in the package of non-controversial tribal water supply and lands legislation, was the poison pill H.R. 986, the so-called “Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act.” “The so-called ‘Tribal Sovereignty Act’ strips hundreds of thousands of workers employed at Indian-owned enterprises—such as casinos, hotels, and mines—of their voice in the workplace and the protections under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA). At issue in this bill are two solemn and deeply rooted principles. The first is the rights of Indian tribes as distinct, independent political communities. The second is the rights of workers to organize and bargain collectively. Rather than attempting to balance these important principles, S. 140 simply strips workers’ of their rights to secure better wages and benefits. “Historically, both Democratic and Republican administrations have insisted that our trading partners abide by and enforce fundamental labor rights, and Congress has repeatedly ratified these obligations in free trade agreements. But today, the House voted on a bill that does just the opposite for all workers employed at tribal enterprises—including the 75 percent of tribal gaming employees who are not even members of the Tribe. “Longstanding legal precedent has long applied employment laws to tribal commercial enterprises—including the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). But this legislation singled out the NLRA. There is no principled basis for excluding hundreds of thousands of workers from coverage under our nation’s labor laws just because they work in commercial enterprises on tribal lands. If the ‘Tribal Sovereignty Act’ became law, it would be the first rollback to workers’ rights under federal labor law in over 70 years.” To read more from organizations opposing the Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act of A017, click here. ###
01.04.2018	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration released a 5 year proposal to drastically increase off-shore oil and gas drilling off America’s coastlines, including Virginia: “The proposal released by the Trump Administration to radically expand offshore drilling is bad for Americans, businesses, the economy, the military and the environment. There is a broad, bipartisan coalition of governors, advocacy groups and concerned Americans that are opposed to offshore drilling because of all the risks associated with the practice. It is simply not worth the risk to Virginia’s fishery, tourism and recreational economy, to our region’s relationship with the Department of Defense, or to the health of our coastlines and the Chesapeake Bay to drill for oil that would yield nothing more than a few days-worth of national oil and gas supply. I urge President Trump and Secretary Zinke to reconsider this reckless plan and instead work on protecting the oceans and our coasts.” # # #
01.04.2018	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON – Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01), and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) issued the following statement after the Department of Labor issued a proposed rule to rollback health coverage protections by expanding association health plans. “Today, the Administration took further steps to undermine the health and well-being of the American people. The Department of Labor proposed a new rule threatening health coverage for workers and owners of small businesses by allowing the sale of plans with no guarantee of comprehensive coverage for pre-existing conditions. This proposed rule comes less than a month after Congressional Republicans passed a tax bill that paid for tax cuts for billionaires and corporations by cutting health care for millions of middle class Americans. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the GOP tax bill will increase premiums by 10 percent and leave 13 million Americans without health insurance over the next 10 years. “We are discouraged the administration and Congressional Republicans continue to go to great lengths to undermine the law - no matter the pain caused to millions of Americans. Rather than undermining health coverage for millions of Americans, they should make good on their promise to work on real bipartisan solutions to improve our health care system and build on the progress of the Affordable Care Act.” For more information about Association Health Plans, click here and here. ###
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA), Mark Warner (D-VA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), and Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) applauded final Senate passage of their bipartisan 400 Years of African American History Commission Act – legislation establishing a National Park Service commission to commemorate the 400th anniversary in 2019 of the arrival of the first enslaved Africans into English Colonial America, marking the beginning of a new African American culture. The bill now heads to the President’s desk for signature. Scott, Congressmen Don Beyer and Congressmen G. K. Butterfield, former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, led the introduction of similar legislation that passed the House of Representatives this Congress. This commission will be charged with recognizing and highlighting the resilience and cultural contributions of Africans and African Americans over 400 years. In August 1619, some twenty enslaved Africans were brought ashore in an English-built, Dutch flag privateer at Point Comfort, Virginia, on the site of what is now Fort Monroe National Monument in the City of Hampton. Similar commissions have been established to commemorate America’s English roots through the 400th anniversary of the founding of Jamestown, Virginia, as well as its Hispanic roots through the 450thanniversary of the founding of St. Augustine, Florida. “This commission will be tasked with telling 400 years of the African American story. It is a story of achievement and beauty, poets and presidents, pain and degradation, triumph over adversity, and sometimes adversity following triumph. This story must be told in full to enrich our understanding of who we are as a country. I look forward to working with everyone involved commemorate the uniqueness and resilience of African American culture from 1619 to 2019 and beyond,” Kaine said. “The commission members will have a huge responsibility in faithfully documenting the African American experience – the journey, the arrival, and the individual strength and resilience as African Americans shaped our nation’s heritage,” Warner said. “This work can serve as a testimonial to the lessons in racial diversity and inclusion we have learned as a country, and help to shine a bright light on lessons we still need to learn.” “The history of Virginia and our nation cannot be fully understood or appreciated without learning about the first Africans who arrived at Point Comfort, Virginia in 1619. The commission established by the 400 Years of African-American History Commission Act will be charged with the important task of planning, developing and implementing a series of programs and activities throughout 2019 that fully tells the story of African Americans, their contributions to the fabric of our nation, and their resilience over the last 400 years. I applaud Senator Kaine for his vision, leadership and hard work on this legislation, and I look forward to President Trump signing this bill,” Scott said. “We would not be the nation we are today without the innumerable contributions African Americans have made over the past 400 years. America is a stronger, better nation when all of our citizens learn, understand, and appreciate our history. The creation of the 400 Years of African American History Commission provides us the opportunity to honor African American culture and educate current and future generations about the impact it has had on our nation,” Blunt said. “Black history is American history, and this commission will honor, reveal and pay respect to the rich experiences, lives, accomplishments and discoveries as well as the atrocities, the struggle and the terror that have shaped the past 400 years of our history as Americans,” said Booker. “The story of Black history in America is a story of profound struggle matched with profound purpose and of extraordinary hardship matched with extraordinary courage. As we learn more about this story, we will learn more about the ongoing struggle to fulfill the promise of justice and equality for all Americans.” The bill is supported by the National NAACP, National Urban League and the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Representatives Rob Wittman (R-VA), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Bradley Byrne (R-AL), and Joe Courtney (D-CT), were joined by 127 Representatives in sending a letter to Department of Defense Secretary James Mattis supporting a block buy of two Ford-class aircraft carriers in FY2019. “A dual procurement allows the Navy to build to a fleet of 12 aircraft carriers more quickly as prescribed by the FY18 National Defense Authorization Act – which established that the Navy should maintain 355 ships, including 12 aircraft carriers,” Rep. Wittman said. “A dual buy would be beneficial to both the taxpayers and our maritime industrial base as it shows that Congress is committed to the thousands of workers who work each day to build and maintain aircraft carriers. As Chairman of the Seapower and Projection Forces Subcommittee I fully back this provision, and I thank my colleagues for supporting this national security priority.” “Dual procurement allows our Navy to have the capabilities it needs to protect and defend this nation’s national security. A dual buy would provide predictability and sustainability to the shipbuilding industry. A more reliable procurement process will bring great benefits to the Navy’s shipbuilding programs, and save taxpayers’ money,” Rep. Scott said. “If we are going to build a 355 Ship Navy, then we need to be smart and innovative in how we procure new vessels,” Rep. Byrne said. “An obvious step in the right direction would be a block buy for the Ford-class aircraft carriers. I am pleased so many of our House colleagues joined us in making this strong recommendation to the Pentagon, and I look forward to continue working in a bipartisan fashion to build a strong and fully capable naval fleet.” “I was proud to help author this year’s National Defense Authorization Act which made it a national policy to pursue a 355-ship Navy,” Rep. Courtney said. “However, this will be a challenging undertaking and we have to be smart about looking for ways to streamline acquisitions and provide predictability to the industrial base. Purchasing ships and submarines in block buys has done just that, while providing significant savings to the taxpayer. If a similar arrangement would provide significant savings as we continue to modernize our carrier fleet, I would strongly encourage DOD to request the appropriate authorities in 2019.” In addition to Wittman, Scott, Byrne, and Courtney, the letter was signed by Reps. Michael J. Conaway, Morgan Griffith, Bob Gibbs, Derek Kilmer, Duncan Hunter, Mike Rogers, Hank Johnson, Donald McEachin, Steve Chabot, Don Norcross, David G. Valadao, Gerald E. Connolly, Scott Desjarlais, John Rutherford, Scott Peters, Mike Turner, Robert Brady, Walter Jones, Sanford D. Bishop, Scott Taylor, Peter King, Ann Wagner, Mike Gallagher, Marc Veasey, Seth Moulton, Luke Messer, Susan Davis, Elise Stefanik, Marcy Kaptur, Bob Goodlatte, Ruben Gallego, Mario Diaz-Balart, Sam Johnson, Donald S. Beyer Jr., Brad Wenstrup, Dave Brat, Ryan Costello, Jacky Rosen, Jim Langevin, John Culberson, Vicky Hartzler, Ed Royce, Rick Larsen, Al Lawson, Madeleine Z. Bordallo, Tom Cole , Jackie Walorski, John Larson, Gregory W. Meeks, Richard E. Neal, Colleen Hanabusa, Adam Smith, Denny Heck, Anthony Brown, Eric Swalwell, Martha Roby, David P. Joyce, Bill Flores, Ralph Abraham, Adam Kinzinger, Trent Kelly, Steve Knight, Richard Hudson, Rosa L. DeLauro, Joe Wilson, Clay Higgins, Marcia Fudge, Joyce Beatty, Gwen Moore, Dave Reichert, Tom Garrett, Tom O’Halleran, Daniel Lipinski, Stephanie Murphy, Elizabeth H. Esty, Brendan F. Boyle, Doug Lamborn, Pete Olson, Tim Ryan, Salud O. Carbajal, Mike Kelly, Bill Shuster, Jimmy Panetta, Keith J. Rothfus, Rick Crawford, Suzan DelBene, Dan Newhouse, Mike Coffman, Thomas R. Suozzi, David B. McKinley, P.E., John Carter, Lloyd Smucker, Austin Scott, Ed Perlmutter, Evan Jenkins, Brian Babin, Rob Woodall, Andy Harris, M.D., Dina Titus, Jim Himes, Juan Vargas, Barbara Comstock, Karen Handel, Kyrsten Sinema, Steve Stivers, Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson, Charlie Crist, Bennie Thompson, Earl L. "Buddy" Carter, Sean Patrick Maloney, Brian Fitzpatrick, Liz Cheney, Paul D. Tonko, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Jim Banks, Frank LoBiondo, G. K. Butterfield, Garret Graves, Darrell E. Issa, Jaime Herrera Beutler, Pramila Jayapal, Ralph Norman, Tim Walz, Steven M. Palazzo, Gregg Harper, Pete Aguilar, and Lucille Roybal-Allard. The letter reads in full: Dear Secretary Mattis, As you continue preparation of the fiscal year 2019 Budget Request for the Department of Defense, we are writing to express our interest in a dual procurement of Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carriers in the upcoming fiscal year. Over the last several months, both the Department of the Navy and industry have conducted analysis to determine the feasibility of dual procurement of CVN 80 (the future USS Enterprise) and the yet to be named CVN 81. We understand that initial cost savings estimates of $2.5 billion could be attained from a dual ship procurement when compared to single ship procurement with no additional future funding required beyond current Navy plans. We applaud the Department's willingness to examine smarter and better acquisition approaches that serve the interests of both our warfighters and taxpayers. Accordingly, if the Department of Defense concludes that these savings are attainable, we encourage the Navy to seek appropriate authorities to execute this dual procurement approach in the fiscal year 2019 budget request. In addition to the potential cost savings, a dual procurement of aircraft carriers would enable the Department of the Navy to reach and maintain a fleet of twelve aircraft carriers more quickly than current plans. Our nation's carrier fleet is deployed worldwide and is extremely busy, with three of eleven carriers deployed and as many as seven carriers underway in recent weeks. Dual procurement of aircraft carriers will enable the Navy to better meet future combatant commander requests for aircraft carrier presence worldwide. Finally, a dual procurement of aircraft carriers would send a strong signal to the shipbuilding industrial base about our national resolve to reach a 350+ ship fleet. With the massive consolidation of the shipbuilding industrial base over the last 25 years, the approximately 3000 remaining aircraft carrier suppliers nationwide will benefit greatly from the predictability and stability of the workload. Furthermore, we expect this approach will enable shipbuilding suppliers to create efficiencies and invest in their own businesses and therefore benefit other Navy shipbuilding programs as well. In closing, given the potential savings available to the taxpayer, the benefit to our Navy from additional aircraft carrier force structure, and the predictability and stability to the shipbuilding industrial base, we believe the dual procurement of Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carriers in fiscal year 2019 should be considered. Therefore, we urge the Department to conclude its analysis of potential savings and, if validated, request all applicable authorities in the upcoming budget request for dual aircraft carrier procurement. Thank you for your consideration and your service to our country. # # #
12.20.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Department of Education (ED) announced a new process for assessing and awarding borrowers defense to repayment claims submitted by former students of the now-closed Corinthian Colleges. “Today’s action by the Department of Education will short-change thousands of students defrauded by the now-defunct Corinthian Colleges, Inc. “By structuring financial relief according to earnings in comparison to other career programs, Secretary DeVos is implementing an unjust system. It is nonsensical for defrauded students who earn 49 percent of what they should be earning to receive full relief from their loan debt, while students earning just one percentage point more are relieved of only half of the debt. No student should be forced to repay any of the loans incurred to attend an institution found to have provided a worthless education. “It makes even less sense that many of the defrauded students who submitted their claims before the Trump administration took office received full relief – regardless of earnings. By December of last year, the Obama administration had processed more than 28,000 claims and provided $558 million in relief to defrauded Corinthian students. The Trump administration has failed to act, allowing the backlog of unprocessed claims to explode. So much so, that the Department’s own Office of the Inspector General recently chastised its failure to act on claims in a timely fashion. Instead of using the system already in-place, Secretary DeVos has chosen to reinvent the wheel. As a result, student borrowers will pay the price. “The mechanism now being used by the Department to determine relief for students, earnings derived from the Gainful Employment rule (GE), is particularly troubling. Despite being finalized in 2014, the Secretary has used questionable pretenses to delay GE implementation. It is inconsistent to suggest that the 2014 GE rule is not a good measure of program quality, yet still using that same rule’s rate calculations to now deny loan relief to borrowers. “I urge Secretary DeVos to revisit this process. In the meantime, I offer the same advice I gave Secretary King in 2016: ‘A strong group discharge process must be transparent and speedy to help students gain closure from the deceptive and predatory practices they faced. To expedite these claims, the Department should add a rebuttable presumption that students are entitled to full relief. The time, complexity, and expense necessary to determine exactly what relief is due adds insult to the injury these students experienced.’” ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Conference Report to accompany H.R.1 – GOP Tax bill, with only Republican votes: “This tax bill, which adds $1.5 trillion to the deficit over the next decade, is deeply irresponsible. The Tax Policy Center has confirmed that the final version of the bill is even more generous to the wealthiest Americans while harming even more middle class families. More than half of middle-class families will get a tax increase, while 83% of the tax cuts go to the top 1% of Americans. We know from experience that tax cuts do not pay for themselves, and we also know that this bill will do nothing to simplify the tax code. This tax scam is another giveaway to the wealthy at the expense of hardworking families. The only opportunity the middle class will have with this tax plan are the opportunities to lose access to affordable healthcare, lose investments in education, and lose the Social Security and Medicare benefits they worked so hard for.” # # #
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement: “Today, a former Congressional Black Caucus Foundation fellow, backed by a Republican operative known for dabbling in outlandish conspiracy theories, falsely alleged an act of sexual harassment against me. I absolutely deny this allegation of misconduct. I have never sexually harassed anyone in my 25 years of service in the United States Congress, or in my 40 years of public service, or at any other time. Sexual harassment and assault are serious issues deserving of critical attention and review. No one should be subjected to sexual harassment or be treated unfairly. I have fought to promote and ensure that in my political and professional life and I live by it personally. The recent national discussion about sexual harassment is valued and important to our work to continue to make the workplace free from harassment and discrimination. False allegations will squander this momentous opportunity for dialogue on meaningful change in the workplace. I am confident that this false allegation will be seen for what it is when the facts are adequately reviewed.” # # #
12.14.2017	As originally released by the Committee on the Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Education (Department) intends to seek a comment period for a delay of the Equity in the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) rule, which addresses disproportionate identification, placement, and disciplinary treatment of students of color in special education. “I am deeply disappointed by the Department’s efforts to propose a delay of the rule that addresses widespread disparities in the treatment of students of color with disabilities. This is particularly upsetting as we recently celebrated the 42nd anniversary of IDEA, which recognized the rights of students with disabilities to be educated in public schools in the least restrictive environment. “Despite clear evidence of pervasive and significant disproportionality, as documented by a 2013 GAO report, less than three percent of school districts nationwide are working to eliminate, reduce, and prevent these disparities. Failure to address these disparities continues to jeopardize educational opportunity for millions of children of color. “When Congress reauthorized the IDEA in 2004, my colleagues and I sought to correct this egregious wrong by requiring states, for the first time, to identify districts with gross disparities and direct federal resources to address these inequities. We knew then, just as we know now, that African American students are over-identified for special education services, placed in more restrictive settings, and disciplined at higher rates. Combatting this persistent problem is crucial to dismantling the ‘School-to-Prison Pipeline’ and helping students of color with disabilities achieve their full potential. Clearly, leaving the disproportionality provision unregulated has left states and school districts without the tools necessary to implement the law’s requirements. “Any effort to delay this rule, or remove it entirely, works against the fundamental goals of IDEA. Too many states and districts have failed to uphold their responsibility to address the deeply embedded inequities in special education in the identification, placement, and discipline of students of color. As I continue oversight on this issue at the federal level, I urge states to continue their efforts to address this national crisis. I also remain committed to holding the Department accountable for the civil rights of all students by ensuring critical protections for students with disabilities remain in place.” ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted to dismantle Title II net neutrality protections: “Today’s decision by the FCC will radically alter the internet as we know it and is another example of the Trump Administration siding with the wealthy and corporations instead of working families. Repealing net neutrality protections will only benefit the largest internet service providers at the expense of tech companies and consumers nationwide. Congress should immediately take action to restore Title II of the Communications Act and ensure that internet providers cannot discriminate or stifle innovation or free expression. The internet has become fundamental to almost every aspect of society, and we must ensure it remains free and open.” # # #
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Scott Taylor, joined by Virginia Reps. Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Rob Wittman (VA-01), introduced the National Centers of Excellence in Coastal Flood Research and Education Act. This legislation designates public colleges and universities that provide research, data, and recommendations on the scientific, economic, policy, and risk analysis of coastal flooding as National Centers of Excellence in Coast Flood Research and Education. Specifically, the bill instructs the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to designate and identify such centers as sources for expert advice and guidance for Federal agencies engaged in coastal flooding research and education issues and projects. “Sea level rise poses a significant threat to coastal regions and communities, especially coastal Virginia,” said Congressman Scott Taylor. “Our Commonwealth has the highest concentration of DoD coastal facilities and commercial port facilities in the nation that are at risk from sea level rise. Hampton Roads is home to thousands of federal employees, contractors, and military personnel, representing the second largest population center at risk from sea level rise impact. Providing a national designation for institutions that offer quality research and analysis, such as Old Dominion University, the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, and the Virginia Coastal Policy Center at the College of William and Mary, is the first step toward combatting the potentially devastating effects of sea level rise on our communities, infrastructure, and military capabilities.” “Dramatic sea level rise poses significant risk to Virginians, and I am proud to work on this bipartisan legislation with Reps. Taylor and Wittman,” said Congressman BobbyScott. “Virginia communities are some of the most vulnerable areas in the country in regards to the rising sea level. We must take this threat seriously. Virginia’s population, economy, military, and infrastructure are all at risk if we do not act. Our universities and colleges stand on the forefront of scientific and academic innovation with the potential to stem the tide of sea level rise, and this legislation is a promising step towards making sure that their expertise is listened to and respected.” “Hampton Roads and Coastal Virginia currently face challenges associated with rising sea levels and a sinking coastal plain – leading to costly and impactful repetitive flooding. As Virginia, and Hampton Roads specifically, is the east coast epicenter of military activity, I want to make sure our Department of Defense and Virginia installations have the tools they need to complete their mission in the face of coastal flooding. Designating these research institutions as “Centers of Excellence” will allow for ongoing studies and collaborations to model recurrent flooding and sea level rise and examine options for enhancing mission resiliency at impacted military installations and protecting coastal communities,” stated Congressman Rob Wittman. As a condition of designation as a National Center of Excellence, the public college or university must agree to collaborate on Federal flood-related issues with federal agencies such as the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and the Department of Agriculture (USDA) on best practices on regional, state, and locally specific flooding and flood related issues. The Administrator of NOAA will submit an annual report to Congress and the President detailing the findings and applicable information from the National Centers of Excellence, and make the report available to the public in an easily accessible electronic format on the NOAA website. ###
12.08.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 228,000 jobs in November, with the unemployment rate at 4.1 percent. “Today's jobs report shows that our economic recovery remains stable, but our work in Congress is far from over. The reality is too many working people and families are still struggling to make ends meet because of stagnant wages. This is particularly relevant as Congressional Republicans are attempting to push through a tax plan that will cost $1.5 trillion. “The Republican tax bill gives massive tax cuts to corporations and families with multi-million dollar estates, while the rest of the legislation imposes a net tax increase on everybody else. Instead of giving away hundreds of billions of dollars to the wealthy few, Congress should invest in infrastructure and education, which would create a better future and millions of good-paying jobs. The choice to provide tax cuts for corporations and the rich instead of making investments in the future of our country threatens our country's long-term economic stability." # # #
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after he voted to table Congressman Al Green’s (TX-09) resolution calling for the impeachment of President Trump: “This President has made statements and taken actions that approve of those who preach hatred and division while promoting policies that would imperil our democracy, weaken our economy, and undermine our national security. Legitimate questions have been raised about his fitness to lead our nation. At this time, Congressional committees are investigating the President’s actions before and after he took the oath of office. The special counsel’s investigation is progressing as well and we should allow Robert Mueller to complete his investigation. Then, if sufficient evidence exists, the House will be in a position to consider impeachment. “Congress currently owes it to the American people to address overdue priorities, including improving the lives of hard-working Americans and defeating Republicans’ assault on working families and defeat their tax scam and efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. We must focus on working across the aisle to fund the government and reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP).” # # #
12.06.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – TODAY, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, along with Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, Congressman Gregorio Sablan (MP-AL), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), and Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-01) introduced H.R. 4548, the Workplace Action for a Growing Economy Act of 2017, or the WAGE Act. “For too long, employers have used illegal tactics to fight back against union organizing drives – tactics like threatening workers and firing them for union activity,” said Congressman Scott (VA-03). “They have gotten away with it because the National Labor Relations Act – the law protecting workers’ right to organize – leaves workers with insufficient recourse. The WAGE Act changes that by creating meaningful penalties to prevent employers from violating the right to organize, by strengthening remedies for workers who suffer retaliation for exercising their rights, and by guaranteeing the right to seek relief in federal court.” “Strengthening workers’ ability to join a union and collectively bargain for pay and benefits is critical to restoring America’s middle class, which has been hallowed out by decades of anti-worker policies,” said Congressman Takano (CA-41). “This legislation is a step toward fixing the rules of the economy, which have left so many American workers behind.” “When working Americans are empowered to collectively bargain with their employers over wages and conditions of employment, wage growth can be linked to gains in productivity,” said Congressman Sablan (MP-AL). “By safeguarding workers’ freedom to join unions and negotiate with their employers, the WAGE Act protects workers’ abilities to share in the wealth they create.” “If you value the 40-hour, 5-day work week, child labor laws, family and medical leave, pensions, workplace safety policies, and fair wages—you can thank a union,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). “I am proud to partner with my colleagues in this effort to strengthen unions, which will continue to help all our nation’s workers.” “I worked for decades as an electrician and I know firsthand that having a voice in the workplace leads to higher wages and fairer working conditions,” said Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-01). “Unfortunately, the penalties for bad actors who break labor organizing laws are slaps on the wrist. It’s time we stand up for hardworking Americans by creating meaningful consequences to denying someone a fair day’s pay for a hard day’s work.” America’s working people are more productive than ever, yet they are not receiving their fair share of the wealth they create. Research shows that the decline in union density has contributed to wage stagnation and the erosion of the middle class. The freedom to join a union and collectively bargain is critical to reversing this trend and boosting stagnant wages. The WAGE Act deters employers from violating the National Labor Relations Act when workers exercise their rights to join unions. It does so by requiring civil penalties for serious violations, strengthening remedies for workers who have been unlawfully discharged, and empowering workers with the right to seek relief in federal court—similar to rights guaranteed under other civil rights and employment laws. The WAGE Act protects the freedom to join a union by: Increasing transparency by requiring employers to post notices of workers’ rights under the NLRA. Creating penalties to prevent violations of workers’ rights to join unions or engage in collective action. Strengthening remedies for workers who suffer retaliation for exercising their rights under the NLRA. Expanding coverage of the NLRA to prevent workers from being denied their legal recourse. Streamlining the process for workers to organize a union and negotiate a first contract. FACT SHEET: The WAGE Act of 2017 SECTION-BY-SECTION: The WAGE Act of 2017 BILL TEXT: The WAGE Act of 2017
12.06.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01), and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone Jr. (NJ-06) sent a letter to Health and Human Services Acting Secretary Eric Hargan, Department of Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta, and Department of the Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to share their comments on the Interim Final Rules (IFRs) that allow employers and institutions of higher education to use their religious or moral beliefs to deny coverage of preventive services for women. “In crafting the Affordable Care Act (ACA), a core tenant was the belief that access to comprehensive care, including preventive care services and essential health benefits, would improve the lives and health of the American people. Proponents of the ACA recognized that expanding access to preventive care could result in lower costs and better health outcomes,” the Members wrote. “Contraception coverage was then, and continues to be, a critical aspect of this overarching goal. Eviscerating this guarantee by giving employers and institutions of higher education carte blanche to opt out is contrary to the intent of Congress.” The members are gravely concerned that the IFRs will undo the progress made by the ACA, which ensures that women have coverage for a comprehensive set of preventive health services without any out-of-pocket costs. These sweeping new rules represent an unacceptable and unjustified attack on a basic health care service on which millions of women across the country rely. The full text of the letter is enclosed below: Dear Acting Secretary Hargan, Secretary Acosta, and Secretary Mnuchin: We write to share our comments on the Interim Final Rules (IFRs) regarding coverage of certain preventive services for women. As the Ranking Members of the Committees of jurisdiction, we are gravely concerned that the IFRs will undo the progress made by the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which ensures that women have coverage for a comprehensive set of preventive health services without any out-of-pocket costs. These sweeping new rules represent an unacceptable and unjustified attack on a basic health care service on which millions of women across the country rely. Before the ACA’s enactment, basic preventive services were often not fully covered by most insurance plans. Women in particular struggled to access needed preventive services and were more likely than men to forego preventive care due to costs. Recognizing this inequity, the ACA guaranteed that women have access to all necessary “preventive care and screenings,” including the full range of Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved contraceptive methods, without copayments or any other any cost sharing requirements. The women’s preventive services guarantee was a dramatic step forward for women’s health. As a result, more than 62 million women now have coverage for contraception and other preventive services, without having to pay a deductible, co-payment, or coinsurance. Some women now have coverage for contraception for the first time, and women are increasingly likely to choose long-acting, more effective methods of birth control that may have prohibitively higher upfront costs without coverage. The importance of coverage for contraception in narrowing the coverage gap for women has been repeatedly affirmed, including when these preventive services were first identified by the Institute of Medicine (IOM), and most recently in December 2016 by the Women’s Preventive Services Initiative. The recommendations of each of these expert panels were adopted by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Contraceptive coverage is essential for women to not only avoid unintended pregnancy and space pregnancies effectively for optimal birth outcomes and maternal health, but also as a critical preventive health tool that should be treated like any other preventive health service. Women have a fundamental right to determine the number, timing, and spacing of their pregnancies. Contraceptive coverage and access is essential to women’s equality and treating this care differently from other preventive services is unjustified and discriminatory. We are dismayed that the administration is now attempting to roll back the advances made to women’s health under the guise of religious liberty by providing broad exemptions for employers or institutions of higher learning that claim to have a religious or moral objection. The IFRs state that the Departments are seeking to issue these rules “to better balance the Government's interest in ensuring coverage for contraceptive and sterilization services in relation to the Government’s interests…to provide conscience protections for individuals and entities with sincerely held religious beliefs in certain health care contexts.” However, there is no doubt that the IFRs are dramatically imbalanced in their approach, by giving employers and institutions of higher education carte blanche to use their religious or moral beliefs to deny fundamental health services to women. In creating these sweeping exemptions that block contraceptive coverage for women and discriminate against them, the IFRs violate a number of constitutional and statutory provisions, including the Administrative Procedure Act, the Establishment Clause as well as the equal protection and due process guarantees of the U.S. Constitution, and the nondiscrimination provision of the ACA (Section 1557). The Establishment Clause of the First Amendment limits the government’s ability to create an exemption from generally applicable laws for religious or moral beliefs. The constitutional requirement is straightforward: “an accommodation must be measured so that it does not override other significant interests,” “impose unjustified burdens on other[s],” or have a “detrimental effect on any third party.” The exemptions in the IFRs clearly impose burdens on others: it compels employees and students who need coverage for contraceptives to pay the substantial costs themselves (if they are able) or else to forego that essential health care altogether. The IFR that specifically contains an exemption for moral beliefs does not change this Establishment Clause analysis. It is clear from the IFRs that the moral exemption is effectively just a religious exemption by another name. According to the moral exemption IFR, the scope of the exemption for moral convictions is based on Welsh v. United States. In Welsh, the Supreme Court held that a religious exemption must be provided equally to those who hold moral beliefs that are akin to religious beliefs. Again, the Constitution does not permit exemptions for religious or moral beliefs that result in discrimination or harm to others. Therefore, both IFRs fail the constitutional do-no-harm test. Further, the Departments’ invocation of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) in defense of the IFRs is misguided. Under RFRA, Congress required that government action may only substantially burden a person’s exercise of religion if it is in the furtherance of a compelling government interest, and is the least restrictive means to achieve that interest. It is clear that the government indeed has a compelling interest in ensuring that patients have unencumbered access to the health care they need and that women are not discriminated against in health care by being forced to pay more than men. Indeed, in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc., five Supreme Court justices found that the government has this compelling interest. As Justice Kennedy made clear in his concurring opinion, requiring health plans to provide contraceptive coverage “serves the Government’s compelling interest in providing insurance coverage that is necessary to protect the health of female employees, coverage that is significantly costlier than for a male employee.” However, the IFRs would shift this cost back to women by allowing virtually any employer, along with institutions of higher education, to claim a religious or moral objection to providing contraceptive coverage. RFRA was never intended to allow religion to supersede rights or legal obligations; RFRA was intended to provide heightened—but not unlimited—protection for religious exercise. The misapplication of RFRA improperly dilutes its original, solemn purpose to protect sincerely-held religious beliefs and opens the door to further erosion of civil rights, under the guise of religious freedom. Additionally, we remind the Departments that most recently in Zubik v. Burwell, the Supreme Court explicitly instructed the federal government and the parties to the case to find a solution that would ensure women have access to seamless contraceptive coverage. Not only do the IFRs fail to do this, they completely run afoul of the Court’s instructed approach that would “ensur[e] that women covered by petitioners’ health plans ‘receive full and equal health coverage, including contraceptive coverage.’” Finally, and perhaps most importantly, as Members of Congress who served during the passage of the ACA, we can provide clarity on the Congressional intent behind the preventive services requirement. While the IFRs list other statutes that include a religious or moral exemption, we note that Congress did not include such an exemption in the ACA. In fact, the inclusion of the women’s preventive services provision, often referred to as the Women’s Health Amendment, signals that Congress considered coverage for the preventive health services unique to women as paramount. In crafting the ACA, a core tenant was the belief that access to comprehensive care, including preventive care services and essential health benefits, would improve the lives and health of the American people. Proponents of the ACA recognized that expanding access to preventive care could result in lower costs and better health outcomes. Contraception coverage was then, and continues to be, a critical aspect of this overarching goal. Eviscerating this guarantee by giving employers and institutions of higher education carte blanche to opt out is contrary to the intent of Congress. It is our responsibility to uphold the delicate balance between freedom of religion and civil rights. The IFRs as published do not accomplish this goal, and we urge the administration to rescind these harmful rules. Sincerely, Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member, House Committee on Education and the Workforce Richard Neal (MA-01), Ranking Member, House Committee on Ways and Means Frank Pallone Jr. (NJ-06), Ranking Member, House Committee on Energy and Commerce ###
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13) announced he would be retiring from Congress: “As Dean of the House and founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus, John Conyers has served in Congress for more than fifty years and shaped some of the most consequential legislation of the last half century. However, the tremendous impact of someone’s legacy does not excuse credible allegations of harassment or discrimination. Last week, the House of Representatives unanimously voted to mandate sexual harassment and discrimination training for Members and staff. That is a good first step, but Congress must ensure greater transparency and accountability for the Office of Compliance. As we continue this important national discussion about sexual harassment, we must ensure that everyone is held accountable for credible allegations.” # # #
11.30.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Patty Murray (D-WA), along with U.S. Reps. Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Mark Takano (D-CA), today introduced legislation to make at least four million American workers newly eligible for overtime pay when they work more than 40 hours a week, providing economic security to millions of working families. The Restoring Overtime Pay Act would increase the overtime salary level from $23,660 per year to $48,412 per year, making at least four million workers newly eligible for overtime pay. This bill codifies the Obama Administration’s 2016 overtime rule, which would have strengthened overtime protections for millions of workers. However, an August 2017 ruling out of a federal district court in Texas has prevented the rule from being enforced. The Trump Administration has signaled it is considering lowering the overtime salary level. This means, compared to the 2016 rule, fewer workers would get the pay they have earned. Due to this uncertainty, Brown, Murray, Scott and Takano have introduced to bill to finally increase the outdated salary level. “In order to ensure that our economy works for all working people and not just the wealthy few, workers must be paid for every hour they spend on the job,”said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03). “This means ensuring that low- and mid-wage salaried workers are not forced to work overtime without additional pay. Unfortunately, the Trump Administration’s Department of Labor has indicated they will not support a robust salary level that ensures adequate protections. The Restoring Overtime Pay Act will guarantee that more salaried workers get much-deserved compensation for every hour they spend on the job.” “This legislation is based on a simple principle: America’s workers deserve to be paid for all of the hours they work,” said Congressman Mark Takano (CA-41). “It is unacceptable for middle-class employees to be working 50- and 60-hour weeks without receiving the pay or time with their families that they earned. After four decades without a meaningful update to the overtime rule or a meaningful raise for middle-class workers, the time for modest tweaks to the overtime rule passed a long time ago. This is a moment for bold action on behalf of working families, and that’s what this legislation would deliver.” “People who work 50 or 60 hours a week should be paid the wages they’ve earned. Period,” said Senator Brown (D-OH), who introduced the legislation as part of his plan to restore the value of work in America. “When we don’t pay workers what they’ve earned, it drives down the value of work. Let’s make sure workers are paid for every hour they put in.” “Millions of Americans work more than 40 hours a week and are still unable to support their families or join the middle class,” said Senator Patty Murray (D-WA). “To help working families get ahead, we must build our economy from the middle out, not the top down. So while the Trump Administration continues to undermine protections for workers, I’m proud to introduce the Restoring Overtime Pay Act to provide a much-needed update to our nation’s overtime rules and give millions of families the financial security they need.” The Restoring Overtime Pay Act strengthens overtime protections by attaching the salary level to the 40th percentile of wages in the lowest wage census region. The bill also requires automatic updates every three years to ensure the level remains in line with the changes in our economy. This means that if the bill were enacted today, the salary level would increase from $23,660 per year to $48,412 per year, making at least four million workers newly eligible for overtime. The level for overtime pay is out-of-date and does not support working families who are struggling to make ends meet. Only full-time, salaried workers who currently earn $455 or less per week or $23,660 annually are automatically guaranteed overtime pay when working over 40 hours per week. Under the Restoring Overtime Pay Act, full-time, salaried workers will be paid for every hour they spend on the job. ###
11.30.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON D.C. – TODAY, Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce was joined by Reps. G. K. Butterfield (NC-01) and Barbara Lee (CA-09) to release a Government Accountability Office report entitled, “Diversity in the Technology Sector: Federal Agencies Could Improve Oversight of Equal Employment Opportunity Requirements.” The report found that the environment and access to these opportunities have not improved in more than a decade, for women, Black and Hispanic workers, and that there remains a persistent lack of racial, ethnic, and gender diversity in the technology workforce. “I was compelled to request this report from the GAO in 2015 after reviewing the startling lack of racial and gender diversity and the many documented reports of the hostile racial and gender environment in the tech sector,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03). “The fact is there is bias in the recruitment, hiring and retention of Black, Hispanic and women workers in the tech sector. Decades of research show diversity is good for innovation and for the economic bottom line. Diversity and inclusion must not be treated as an aspiration; it is the law.” This report confirms that the glass ceiling for women and people of color has yet to be cracked within the leading technology companies. This is also true for Asian, Hispanic, and Black workers, who hold low levels of representation at senior positions relative to roles serving as the pipeline for those positions. Moreover, in the past decade, within the leading technology companies, Black workers have actually lost ground across the spectrum of jobs from senior management to mid-level management to professionals to technicians. “This GAO report is disappointing but not surprising,” said Congressman Butterfield (NC-01), Co-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Diversity Task Force. “The findings reinforce what we have known for some time- that when it comes to diversity and inclusion of African Americans, the tech industry has gone from making some progress toward losing ground. The Congressional Black Caucus is determined to move the needle toward full parity in the tech sector, and expect less talk from the industry and better results.” Technology firms have explained away their poor workforce diversity performance by claiming it is simply a pipeline problem; however, the evidence does not support this claim. Hispanic workers earned ten percent, and Black workers seven percent, of Bachelors and Masters in technology degrees, yet they represent a total of five percent or less of the professionals and mid-level managers in the leading technology companies. “By 2020 1.4 million new jobs will be available in the tech industry. If current trends persist, communities of color will continue to be locked out of these opportunities. That simply must change. I am pleased that Ranking Member Bobby Scott pressed for this vital report to hold the federal government accountable for its role in bringing diversity and inclusion to the tech sector,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee ( CA-09), Co-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Diversity Task Force. “Last month I visited the nation’s foremost tech companies in Silicon Valley and witnessed the stunning reversal they have made concerning diversity and inclusion. As we continue to press for racial parity within the tech industry, this new report will be an important tool to drive tech companies to be more transparent with their employee data, fully disaggregate their diversity data and establish robust goals to advance equity in tech.” To help reverse this disturbing trend, the Members of Congress support the GAO’s recommendation for the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) to require federal contractors to disaggregate the racial and ethnic data. This would help companies to detect and address underrepresentation of particular minority groups. OFCCP must also assess the diversity among tech sector subcontractors, given the widespread use of subcontracts in that sector. FACT SHEET: GAO Diversity in Tech Diversity Report REPORT: Diversity in the Technology Sector: Federal Agencies Could Improve Oversight of Equal Employment Opportunity Requirements ###
11.29.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in recognition of the 42nd anniversary of the landmark PL 94-142, now known as the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). “Following the Brown v. Board of Education decision in 1954, parents of students with disabilities pointed out that separate settings for students with disabilities were, and continue to be, unequal and discriminatory. Twenty-one years later, in 1975, Congress recognized the rights of students with disabilities to be educated in public schools in the least restrictive environment. “IDEA opened the doors of schools to students with disabilities, and we have made great strides in educating students with disabilities since the historic law. However, we still have hurdles to overcome, such as the disproportionate representation of students of color in special education. Despite these challenges, IDEA aims to guarantee students with disabilities access to a free, appropriate public education. That’s why I am pleased that the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the IDEA’s intent of Congress by affirming meaningful educational benefit from school in the Endrew F. v. Douglas County School District decision. “Congress must ensure that adequate funding is available to schools to realize that goal. And too, Secretary DeVos must ensure that the law protects the civil rights of students with disabilities and provides them with quality education to advance to college or a career. On this anniversary, I encourage Secretary DeVos to build on IDEA’s progress since 1975 and continue to fight for all students to have a high-quality, equitable education in the least restrictive environment.”
11.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, November 15, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) received the 2017 Hope House Award. This award is given to those who have made a significant difference in the lives of those who are incarcerated. “I am honored to accept this year’s Hope House Award,” said Congressman Scott. “I commend Hope House for the essential work they do to keep parents in contact with their children in meaningful ways. The work done by Hope House is sadly necessary here in the United States, where we have the highest incarceration rate in the world. I am working in Congress to fix our criminal justice system and address the problems of mass incarceration and the toll it takes on families and children in particular. That is why Congressman Jason Lewis and I have introduced the SAFE Justice Act, which starts with our children –investments in prevention and early intervention to get children and families on the right track and to keep them on the right tract. This is a thoughtful approach, based on evidence of what has worked at the state-level to reduce crime while reducing incarceration rates. I will remember this honor from the Hope House as I continue to gather support for the bill from my colleagues, and hopefully see the bill enacted into law.” # # #
11.17.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after a private meeting was held at the Department of Education discussing the “harmful effects” of school discipline guidance from teachers who experienced violence in the classroom. Enacted under the Obama administration, the guidance encourages schools, districts, and states to reassess their policies for and use of suspensions and expulsions that are disproportionately used on students of color and students with disabilities. “Decades of research consistently shows that exclusionary school discipline is at best ineffective, and at worst, counter-productive. Put simply, suspension and expulsion does not contribute to a safer school climate. Safety in schools occurs with high-quality relationships between teachers, students, and families and positive, proactive discipline practices. Any effort to address school discipline must also consider the deeply rooted inequities, including documented and pervasive racial bias, in school discipline practices that disproportionately harm students of color and contribute to the school-to-prison pipeline. Secretary DeVos has promised to protect the civil rights of all students. I urge her to make good on that promise by maintaining the Department’s evidence-based guidance on school discipline and civil rights enforcement.” ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), the co-chair of the bipartisan Chesapeake Bay Task Force, introduced the bipartisan Chesapeake Bay Farm Bill Enhancements Act of 2017. This legislation increases mandatory funding for the Bay, strengthens the Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCCP), and provides more opportunities for effective conservation efforts. Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) introduced the Senate companion measure with bipartisan support. The legislation is supported by Bay State Governors, including Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe, Maryland Governor Larry Hogan, West Virginia Governor Jim Justice, Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf, Delaware Governor John Carney, District of Columbia Mayor Muriel Bowser, and more than 70 conservation groups. “Improving conservation practices throughout the Chesapeake Bay Watershed is critical to our continued federal efforts to help restore the Chesapeake Bay,” said Congressman Scott. “By strengthening the Regional Conservation Partnership Program, we can make sure that those throughout the Watershed have the opportunity to implement these practices and reduce pollution of the Chesapeake Bay in a cost effective way. This bill is yet another step in fulfilling President Ronald Reagan’s promise of undertaking ‘the long, necessary effort to clean up… the Chesapeake Bay.’” “Farms and agriculture are vital to the Commonwealth; and farmers are committed to the stewardship and protection of the Chesapeake Bay,” said Congressman Rob Wittman (VA-01), Co-Chair of the Chesapeake Bay Task force. “This effort will ensure increased resources go directly to on-the-ground conservation projects that support farmers and restore the Chesapeake Bay.” “This bill will help step up conservation efforts and encourage environmental stewardship throughout the Chesapeake Bay Watershed,” said Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-03), Co-Chair of the Chesapeake Bay Task Force. “The bevy of support for this bill – from Democrats and Republicans at local, state and federal governments across the entire mid-Atlantic region – is a testament to our shared commitment to protect the Bay for future generations.” In the 2008 Farm Bill, Congress authorized the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Initiative to provide assistance to agricultural producers to minimize excess nutrients and sediments in order to restore, preserve, and protect the Chesapeake Bay. On average, approximately $50 million was invested annually in the Chesapeake Bay through in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Initiative. In 2014, the RCPP was created in order to prioritize conservation resources that were previously handled by separate conservation programs such as the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Initiative. Unfortunately, under the RCPP, the Chesapeake Bay has received significantly less funding – averaging around $13 million annually. The Chesapeake Bay Farm Bill Enhancements Act would help restore some of this much-needed funding by tripling the amount of mandatory RCPP funding available per fiscal year from $100 million to $300 million. The bill would also improve technical assistance for partners and prioritize projects that improve water quality and water quantity and implement multi-state watershed restoration plans. Cosponsors of the House version of the Chesapeake Bay Farm Bill Enhancements Act: Reps. Rob Wittman (R-VA), John Sabanes (D-MD), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Anthony Brown (D-MD), Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Dutch Ruppersburger (D-MD), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Donald McEachin (D-VA), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE), John Delaney (D-MD), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). Cosponsors of the Senate version of the Chesapeake Bay Farm Bill Enhancements Act: Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Bob Casey (D-PA), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Mark Warner (D-VA), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tom Carper (D-DE), Chris Coons (D-DE), and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY). A letter from Bay State Governors, supporting the legislation, can be found here. A letter from groups supporting this legislation can be found here. Additional information about the Chesapeake Bay Farm Bill Enhancements Act: Bill Text Fact Sheet
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Republicans’ tax plan: “The so-called ‘Tax Cuts and Jobs Act’ that passed the House today, with only Republican votes, is deeply irresponsible. By passing this bill, the Majority has voted to add $1.5 trillion in new deficits. This legislation cuts tax rates for billionaires and corporations and leaves working families stuck with the bill. When the tooth fairy doesn’t pay for these tax cuts, they will start cutting Medicare, Medicaid, social security, veteran services, educational resources, and other vital services for working families.” # # #
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 2810 – National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018: “I am very pleased to see the passage of the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act for 2018. I want to especially thank Representatives Robert Wittman (R-VA) and Joe Courtney (D-CT), the leaders of the Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces, for their tireless work to include provisions for shipbuilding and ship maintenance in the Hampton Roads area which I proudly represent. These provisions would fund the building of additional Virginia-class submarines, as well as accelerating the creation of Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carriers over the course of the next five years. Additionally, it calls for significant and sustained improvements to our nation’s public shipyards. This bill will help rebuild our nation’s military, and protect our servicemembers, their families and the nation’s security.”
11.09.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the National Education Association (NEA) released its analysis of the potential impact of eliminating the state and local tax deduction (SALT) on public education: “New analysis from the NEA estimates that if Republicans succeed in eliminating much of the state and local tax deduction, as proposed in H.R. 1, it would likely have a devastating effect on state and local public education budgets. According to the analysis, H.R. 1 puts nearly 250,000 education jobs at risk and could result in $250 billion in cuts to public education over the next 10 years. In Virginia alone, the GOP’s proposed changes to SALT would mean a potential loss of 9,264 public education jobs. Regrettably, congressional Republicans will pay for their five trillion dollar tax cut for wealthy donors and corporations with cuts to vital public services – services such as health care and public education. NEA’s analysis confirms that under this plan, the wealthy and corporations will profit at the expense of working families and the public educational services they need. ”
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on today’s announcement by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) that he will retire at the end of the 115th Congress: “Bob Goodlatte has dedicated his life to serving the Commonwealth of Virginia. Bob and I arrived in Congress the same year, and I have enjoyed working with him on issues important to the Commonwealth. Throughout his 25 years of service in Congress, Bob has selflessly advocated for his constituents and stayed true to his values. We also served together for many years on the House Judiciary Committee, and while we did not always agree, we were able to advance several bipartisan bills on behalf of the American people. I look forward to being able to continue to work with him during the remainder of his term, and I wish Bob, his wife Maryellen, his two children and his grandchildren all the best as he transitions back to private life.” # # #
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Jason Lewis (R-MN) introduced bipartisan legislation aimed at safely reining in the size and associated costs of the federal criminal code and prison system. H.R. 4261, the Safe, Accountable, Fair, and Effective (SAFE) Justice Act takes a broad-based approach to improving the federal sentencing and corrections system, spanning from sentencing reform to release policies. The legislation, which is inspired by the successes of states across the country, will break the cycle of recidivism, concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals, increase the use of evidence-based alternatives to incarceration, curtail over-criminalization, reduce crime, and save money. “Our criminal justice system is badly broken and in need of major reform,” stated Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA). “I am pleased to introduce a state-tested, evidence-based, bipartisan bill with Congressman Lewis. The SAFE Justice Act implements the successful reforms from the states and restores accountability, fairness, and rationality to the federal criminal justice system. Most importantly, it utilizes an evidence-based approach to reduce over-criminalization and over-incarceration and reinvests the savings from these reforms into communities with prevention and early-intervention programs to improve public safety.” “Criminal justice reform is one of my absolute priorities,” stated Rep. Jason Lewis (R-MN). “That’s why I was proud to work with Congressman Bobby Scott on a Juvenile Justice bill that’s already passed the House. And that’s why I’m glad to team up with Rep. Scott again to protect the constitutional rights of all Americans by cosponsoring the SAFE Justice Act.” “Since 1980, Congress usurped state and local authority by putting more than 4500 federal crimes on the books—including arbitrary mandatory minimums that in some cases throw non-violent or first-time offenders in jail, leading to a vicious cycle of recidivism,” continued Rep. Lewis. “There are better ways to spend Americans’ tax dollars and keep our communities safe through real evidence-based initiatives that actually reduce crime by reserving costly prison space for hardened criminals. These common sense, local solutions are why the SAFE Justice Act has wide bipartisan support and I look forward to continuing my work with Rep. Scott on this vital legislation.” In the past 10 years, the federal imprisonment rate has jumped by 15 percent while the states’ rate has declined 4 percent. The drop in the states’ imprisonment rate, which occurred alongside sustained reductions in crime, can be attributed in large part to the more than two dozen states that have enacted comprehensive, evidence-based corrections reforms. “The principles underlying the SAFE Justice Act would increase public safety, foster human dignity, and hold the Bureau of Prisons more accountable for the billions in taxpayer money it spends,” said David Safavian, the Deputy Director of the American Conservative Union Foundation. “These are principles on which Liberals and Conservatives can find common ground.” “I strongly commend the bipartisan efforts of Congressmen Bobby Scott and Jason Lewis to introduce the SAFE Justice Act,” said Hilary Shelton, Director of the NAACP’s Washington Bureau, and Senior Vice President for Advocacy and Policy. “The SAFE Justice Act adopts models that states have used to successfully cut prison costs and the prison population while reducing crime rates. It will effectively reform our expensive and ineffective criminal justice system by focusing mandatory minimums on drug kingpins, as Congress originally intended. It will reinvest prison savings into people by improving early prevention and intervention programs, prison programs, and reentry programs. Congress should immediately pass this bill and I urge President Trump to sign it into law.” Similar to the successful reform packages enacted in many states, the SAFE Justice Act aligns the federal prison system with the science about what works to reform criminal behavior. It reflects the growing consensus among researchers that, for many offenders, adding more months and years onto long prison terms is a high-cost, low-return approach to public safety. It also looks to the growing number of practices in correctional supervision that are shown to reduce recidivism. "The SAFE Justice Act will bring long-overdue sentencing reforms that will ensure prisons are reserved for violent and career criminals. It also proposes corrections reforms designed to reduce recidivism and enhance public safety,” said Jason Pye, the Vice President of Legislative Affairs at FreedomWorks. “More than 30 states -- including traditionally Republican states like Georgia, South Carolina, and Texas -- have enacted similar evidence-based reforms and seen crime rates continue to decline while also achieving budgetary savings. The SAFE Justice Act would bring the successes of the states to the federal level. We applaud Reps. Bobby Scott and Jason Lewis for reintroducing the bill, and we look forward to engaging on the bill in the days ahead." “Mandatory minimum sentences have wrecked the lives of people they were never intended to impact,” said Kevin Ring, President of Families Against Mandatory Minimums. “This bill is a step in the right direction to ensuring that low-level, nonviolent drug offenders are not spending decades in prison because of bad sentencing policies.” “More than 30 states have safely reduced the size and cost of incarceration by adopting evidence-based, consensus-driven sentencing and corrections reforms,” said Pew Charitable Trusts. “States have adopted these reforms with wide bipartisan majorities; more than 8788 votes in favor vs just over 800 against. From Texas to Oregon to South Carolina, these states have shown that it is possible to reduce crime and incarceration at the same time. Congress can learn from these states’ successes as they consider changes to the federal criminal justice system, and it is encouraging to see bipartisan support for reform in the House.” The SAFE Justice Act will: Reduce recidivism by – incentivizing completion of evidence-based prison programming and activities through expanded earned time credits; implementing swift, certain, and proportionate sanctions for violations of supervision; and offering credits for compliance with the conditions of supervision. Concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals by – focusing mandatory minimum sentences on leaders and supervisors of drug trafficking organizations; safely expanding the drug trafficking safety valve (an exception to mandatory minimums) for qualified offenders; and creating release valves for lower-risk geriatric and terminally-ill offenders. Increase use of evidence-based sentencing alternatives by – encouraging greater use of probation and problem-solving courts for appropriate offenders; and creating a performance-incentive funding program to better align the interests of the Bureau of Prisons and U.S. Probation Offices. Curtail overcriminalization by – requiring regulatory criminal offenses to be compiled and published for the public; ensuring fiscal impact statements are attached to all future sentencing and corrections proposals; and charging the Department of Justice, the Bureau of Prisons, and the Administrative Office of the Courts with collecting key outcome performance measures. Reduce crime by – investing in evidence-based crime prevention initiatives; and increasing funding for community based policing and public safety initiatives. Original cosponsors of the SAFE Justice Act: Reps. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Mia Love (R-UT), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA). Additional information about the SAFE Justice Act: Bill Text Two-Page Summary # # #
11.03.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 261,000 jobs in October, with the unemployment rate at 4.1 percent. “Today’s jobs report shows that our economic recovery remains strong and resilient, but our work in Congress is far from over. The reality is that too many families and individuals are still struggling to make ends meet, and lack some semblance of economic security. A substantial portion of that security is achieved through access to affordable health care coverage. Open enrollment for 2018, which began November 1st and runs through December 15th, gives families the opportunity to choose a coverage plan that works for them. “Despite constant sabotage of the Affordable Care Act by the Trump administration, it remains the law of the land. More than 80 percent of people can find a plan for less than $75 on healthcare.gov. Additionally, a new study from the Kaiser Family Foundation found more than 1,500 counties will be offering health care plans with zero premiums. Instead of undermining bipartisan solutions to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, the Trump administration should be working to get more Americans covered.” ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after Congressional Republicans unveiled H.R. 1, the so-called Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “The Republican’s proposed plan provides tax cuts for corporations and the wealthiest among us and adds $1.5 trillion to the deficit. This legislation provides no real investment in workers, jobs or the economy. Eventually these irresponsible tax cuts will be paid for by cutting Medicare, Medicaid, veteran services, educational resources, and other vital services for working families. # # #
11.02.2017	
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) issued the following statement on passage of H.Con.Res. 71 – Establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 216 to 212 (Roll Call 589) “I am disappointed that Republicans in Congress have insisted on passing a budget that is fiscally irresponsible. This budget also fails to provide necessary investments in the American people, investments that would help working Americans and provide a safety net for those in need. This budget also includes approximately $4 trillion in tax cuts, 80% of which will benefit the wealthiest 1% of Americans, and without any credible claims to offset $2.5 trillion by closing loopholes and cutting spending, both of which are unlikely. Unfortunately, these tax cuts will ultimately be paid for by reducing future investment in education, infrastructure, healthcare and our national defense.” # # #
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmembers Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Bobby Scott (VA-3), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) and Jared Polis (CO-2) announce introduction of the House companion to the Senate Medicare-X Choice Act of 2017. The Medicare-X Choice Act (H.R. 4094) builds upon the successful framework of the Medicare program by providing a public plan as an option on the individual and small business health exchanges. Rep. Higgins said, “For over 50 years Medicare has been an efficient and trusted healthcare option for older Americans. Building on a system that works to make it available to more people who want it, is simply common sense. Medicare-X adds choice and competition to the existing marketplace.” Congressman Larson said, “Medicare X is a practical approach that uses the successful framework of the Medicare system to provide Americans with an additional, affordable coverage option. In addition, by encouraging the use of innovative models and approaches for individuals with chronic conditions, this bill will help drive down costs and improve quality within our health care system. It’s a sensible step towards a healthier future.” “It is time that we consider ways to build upon the ACA by improving competition in the health care exchanges,” said Rep. Courtney. “By harnessing the value of Medicare, we can infuse high quality, affordable insurance plans into state’s marketplaces, lowering costs and offering new options to consumers.” Congressman Scott said, “At a time when Congress and the administration should be working to improve our current health system, the administration’s actions have undermined the Affordable Care Act and created uncertainty and confusion for American families. I am proud to join my colleagues in putting forth a plan to build on the ACA’s progress, and ensure that all Americans have greater access and more options for affordable health coverage.” “We need a public option such as Medicare offered through the ACA to increase coverage and lower costs so every American can afford to see a doctor when they need one,” said Representative O’Rourke. “There are many paths to reach universal coverage, and our Medicare-X legislation is a step in the right direction.” “While President Trump sabotages the Affordable Care Act, creating instability in the market, I am proud to help introduce Medicare-X in the House of Representatives, alongside Rep. Higgins. Medicare X will improve upon the Affordable Care Act by giving people more choices, and bringing down costs. It builds on the successes of Medicare by allowing individuals and small businesses to choose among existing private insurance plans and a public one. In my home district, this is especially important, where the options for rural and mountain counties are limited,” said Polis. The Medicare-X Choice Act uses the existing health care system, and gradually reinforces it, by providing more options for the public of all ages. Medicare-X would be offered through individual and family coverage plans and the Medicare provider network would be expanded to include pediatricians, children’s hospitals and others. The Act will ensure Essential Health Benefits like maternity, newborn care, and pediatric services are covered. The bill also allows for prescription drug negotiation through Medicare Part D. Under the bill, premiums are put into a new, separate trust fund, holding the Medicare trust fund for individuals ages 65 and over harmless. Beginning in 2020, the Medicare-X plan will be available in rural areas of the country where there is only one or no health insurance providers on the exchange. The plan will also be available in counties where there is a shortage of health plan options, which have driven up costs and rendered prices simply unaffordable for the American below the age of 65. By 2023, the public option would be available on the individual market and in 2024, the plan would be an option on the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) exchange. The Senate version of the Medicare-X Choice Act was introduced by Senator Michael Bennet (CO) and Senator Tim Kaine (VA). Additional Senate sponsors include Senators Harris, Cortez Masto, Leahy, Cardin and Feinstein. # # #
10.06.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy lost 33,000 jobs in September, with the unemployment rate at 4.2 percent. “The devastation from Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria have put millions of Americans out of work. As a result, the job loss reported from the Bureau of Labor Statistics during September reflects the tremendous impact of these hurricanes on Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. These numbers underscore the urgency to continue to help these communities recover and for Congress to pass a robust recovery package. “Notwithstanding the effect of these hurricanes on reported employment levels, wages remain stagnant despite historic gains in the stock market and the unemployment rate being at a 16 year low. As we look forward to October, which is National Work and Family Month, I urge my Republican colleagues to work with Democrats to raise wages, help workers better balance work and family life, guarantee universal child care, and ensure no worker faces discrimination on the job. These policies will help address the problems that have made our economy feel out of balance for so many and will help hard-working families get ahead. We must work together to make sure our economy puts families and working people first.” # # #
10.05.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Representative Mark Takano (CA-41), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, issued the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the Department of Justice is reversing a policy that protects transgender workers from discrimination. “Attorney General Sessions’ decision to dismiss the Obama administration’s memo to protect transgender Americans under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act is yet another example of the Trump administration’s disturbing pattern of rolling back the civil rights of the most vulnerable Americans. In 1989, the Supreme Court found in Price Waterhouse v. Hopkins that gender discrimination based on sex stereotyping is a violation of Title VII. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), and a number of federal court decisions built on the precedent from Price Waterhouse, have found sex discrimination does include discrimination on the basis of sex stereotyping – which also includes gender identity. This administration’s retreat on civil rights is ever growing and Congress must step in and pass the Equality Act, a bill to expressly protect the rights of transgender persons and the LBGT community.” # # #
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), a vice chair of the House Democratic Caucus’ Gun Violence Prevention Task Force issued, the following statement on last night’s mass shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada: “This morning Americans awoke to news of the deadliest mass shooting in our nation’s history. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims and the survivors of this horrific mass shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada. The frequency of mass shootings are far too common in our country. No one deserves to bear witness to the type of carnage that occurred in Las Vegas last night. “The federal government is charged with the basic responsibility of keeping Americans safe, and the President and Congress have an obligation to address our nation’s gun violence epidemic. Congress cannot continue to sit idly by. The American people are demanding that their elected officials take action to prevent more of these horrendous and widespread incidences of violence in our country from happening again. Addressing this issue must be our top priority and I urge the President and the leadership in Congress to take meaningful action that is long overdue. The House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force has made many recommendations that could serve as the beginning of deliberations. Congress could also establish a select committee on this issue pursuant to H. Res. 367, Establishing the Select Committee on Gun Violence Prevention. I and many of my colleagues are ready to work together to make sure these mass shootings are no longer a common occurrence in our society.” More information on the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task force recommendations can be found here. # # #
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approved a request from the Norfolk District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for $3M in reprogrammed funds that will go towards the Craney Island Eastward Expansion (CIEE) Project. This approval comes after a strong collaborative effort by Congressmen Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Scott Taylor (VA-02) who had been working with OMB to expedite approval of the request. “The Craney Island Eastward Expansion Project is critically important to Hampton Roads and the entire Commonwealth,” said Congressman Scott. “The Hampton Roads congressional delegation has been working together to advance this project for over a decade. So I am pleased that the Army Corps of Engineers and the Office of Management and Budget have agreed to reallocate funds to allow for additional federal funding for this project. I look forward to continuing to work with Senators Warner and Kaine, Congressman Taylor, the Army Corps and port officials to move this project forward.” “The Port of Virginia is not only a hub of international commerce or a key factor in our military’s readiness, it is a vital asset for Virginia,” said Congressman Scott Taylor. "After a strong bipartisan effort to orient the Office of Management and Budget to this project, they made the right decision in reprogramming the funds." The $3M in reprogrammed funds stems from a completed 50 foot outbound channel project in 2010. In early August of 2017, the Norfolk District issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for pre-dredge work on the main dike of CIEE which will be funded with the FY16 Work Plan funds ($4M) and $3.5M in non-federal contributions from the Port. With the addition of the reprogrammed funds, the CIEE Project can continue through October 30, avoiding a significant loss of productivity and increase in expenses. Background: The Craney Island Eastward Expansion is a Congressionally-authorized Civil Works project which extends the life of the existing Craney Island Dredge Disposal Management Area and creates the foundation for a future marine terminal to continue to serve the US economy. Investment in CIEE leverages future federal and non-federal investments in channel deepening and widening projects as well as $1.5 billion in non-federal investment towards the marine terminal construction. The CIEE will provide Norfolk Harbor and Channels with an economically efficient, reliable and safe navigation system. As one of the nation's 13 strategic military ports, Norfolk Harbor is home to nationally significant assets, including Naval Station Norfolk, the 3rd largest container port on the East Coast, the largest ship construction and repair industrial base in the U.S., and the only nuclear carrier capable port facility on the East Coast. With a benefit-to-cost ration of 4.2 to 1, it is estimated the project will create 1,100 immediate jobs and more than 54,000 sustainable jobs after construction, with a total of $16 billion generated in National Economic Development benefits # # #
09.20.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after reports stated that Republicans are hoping to rush to a vote on their Graham-Cassidy Trumpcare bill with only a scant budget assessment, before the CBO can outline the full consequences of the bill for working families. “I’m disappointed that Congressional Republicans and the administration have abandoned bipartisan efforts to bring greater stability to the Marketplaces for 2018. Rather than working collaboratively with Democrats to improve coverage and lower costs for hardworking Americans, Republicans have instead chosen to resurrect their ‘repeal and replace’ plan and continue to inject uncertainty into our health care system. “Just like the other failed versions of Trumpcare before it, this latest proposal would leave families paying more for worse coverage, strip guaranteed protections from individuals with pre-existing conditions, and impose a crushing age tax. Americans across the country have made clear that they do not want Trumpcare, and they do not want Congressional Republicans and the administration to pursue a highly partisan path. Just yesterday, a group of ten bipartisan governors made their plea for Congress to work on a bipartisan way to strengthen the Affordable Care Act. I urge my colleagues to stop wasting taxpayer dollars with their repeal efforts and work together with Democrats, like the American public has asked them to do.” # # #
09.16.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after health insurer Anthem announced they would continue offering insurance plans under the Affordable Care Act throughout Virginia: "Anthem's decision to stay in the Virginia Marketplace is welcome news for hardworking Virginians across the Commonwealth. I am grateful to Governor McAuliffe for his hard work to ensure that Virginians have coverage options. However, the Trump Administration continues to put access to health insurance at risk for millions of people, including individuals and families across the Commonwealth. Just this week, the administration cut federal funding for Virginia's Marketplace enrollment assistance navigator program in half - which will leave fewer Virginians with the help they need to enroll in coverage and result in others paying more than necessary, because fewer healthy people enroll. The administration should build on the Affordable Care Act's progress and encourage enrollment - not sabotage it." # # #
09.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, September 19, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott’s District Office staff will begin holding satellite office hours to assist constituents living in Norfolk, Chesapeake, Suffolk, Franklin, Portsmouth, and Isle of Wight/Smithfield at the following locations: Norfolk Tuesday, September 19, 2017 at 10:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. (noon) Campus Police Headquarters 700 Park Ave., Norfolk, VA 23504 Chesapeake Tuesday, September 19, 2017 at 2:30 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Greenbrier Library 1214 Volvo Parkway Chesapeake, VA 23320 Suffolk Thursday, September 21, 2017 at 10:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. (noon) East Suffolk Community Center 138 S 6th St, Suffolk, VA 23434 Franklin Thursday, September 21, 2017 at 2:30 p.m.—4:00 p.m. Franklin School Board Building 207 W 2nd Ave, Franklin, VA 23851 Portsmouth Tuesday, September 26, 2017 at 10:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. (noon) Social Services Building 1701 High Street, Portsmouth, VA 23704 Isle of Wight/Smithfield Thursday, September 28, 2017 at 10:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. (noon) Country Administration Building 17090 Monument Cir., Isle of Wight, VA 23397 Congressman Scott’s District Office is located in Newport News, at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607. The office is open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. For more information, please contact the District Office at (757) 380-1000 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov. # # #
09.15.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) introduced legislation to invest in and support direct care workers and the people they serve. H.R. 3778, the Direct Creation, Advancement, and Retention of Employment (CARE) Opportunity Act will increase funding to entities that provide training and advancement opportunities for direct care workers. “Direct care workers provide critical services to our nation’s seniors and individuals with disabilities,” said Ranking Member Scott. “As one of the fastest growing occupational sectors in our nation, we must make meaningful investments to ensure that this field is attractive and provides advancement opportunities for those dedicated to the profession. The Direct CARE Opportunity Act will support innovative strategies to recruit, retain, and support our nation’s direct care workers.” The Direct CARE Opportunity Act addresses the need for a well-trained, prepared, and empowered direct care workforce now and for the future. The bill: Provides funding to fifteen entities to invest in strategies that will create jobs and enhance the direct care workforce pipeline; Implements models and strategies to make the field of direct care more attractive, such as training, providing career pathways, or mentoring, allowing for local and regional innovation to address workforce shortages and needs in a high-demand field; Encourages retention and career advancement in the growing field of direct care; and Responds to the needs of a growing aging population and allows older Americans, people with disabilities, and others who require direct care services to remain in their communities, when possible. For the full text of H.R. 3778, the Direct CARE Opportunity Act, click here. For a fact sheet on H.R. 3778, the Direct CARE Opportunity Act, click here. # # #
09.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in remembrance of the 16th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks: “September 11th has defined a generation of Americans and has proven that the American spirit will never be extinguished. On this solemn anniversary, we honor and remember the nearly 3,000 people of all backgrounds who lost their lives in these terrible attacks and the courage of the passengers on United Airlines Flight 93 that prevented even more bloodshed. We will never forget the heroism of the first responders who ran into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon to try to save as many lives as possible. Today, we pay tribute to the Americans who did not cower in fear but instead stood united.” # # #
09.07.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, DC – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the House Judiciary Committee passed, on a party line vote, H.R. 620 the ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017, legislation that attacks the civil rights of Americans with disabilities. “The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is a bipartisan civil rights law that prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities and ensures access to places of employment, schools, as well as public buildings and services. H.R. 620 undermines the goals of the ADA to create a more inclusive society and provide equal participation for all members of the community by removing incentives to comply with ADA requirements, placing the compliance burden on individuals with disabilities. I am deeply disappointed to see the bill advance. ###
09.05.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions confirmed that President Trump is ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “I am deeply disappointed President Trump is ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. In 2012, we asked undocumented immigrants who were brought here at a young age, through no fault of their own, to step out of the shadows and undergo robust background checks in exchange for work authorization and temporary relief from deportation. We promised them an opportunity to legally contribute to their communities. “Since then, nearly 800,000 undocumented young people have been granted temporary permission to live, learn and work in this country. They have been able to fulfill their dreams of completing college, getting a job, buying a car and owning a home, thereby contributing to economic growth that benefits all Americans. In fact, even without access to federal financial aid, nearly one in three DACA recipients have pursued college and another 40,000 have earned at least a bachelor’s degree since the program’s inception. In Virginia alone, there are more than 1,300 undocumented college students who will be impacted by this decision. These students are future social workers, teachers, engineers, lawyers, doctors, small-business owners and more. They are integral to our communities and economies. “According to the Center for American Progress, DACA recipients stand poised to contribute more than $460 billion to the U.S. gross domestic product – approximately $711 million per year to Virginia alone – over the next decade. Despite powerful evidence of the program’s success, in six months, President Trump will withdraw our country’s promise to these young people who know no other country than the United States as ‘home’. This is in keeping with the Administration’s inhumane anti-immigration agenda. In the wake of today’s announcement, Congress must act now to protect DREAMers and immigrant families.” # # #
09.01.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Trump Administration announced enormous cuts to critical funding that supports outreach efforts to ensure people get coverage in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Marketplaces for the upcoming enrollment season: “This latest effort by the Trump Administration to weaken enrollment by significantly cutting funding for advertising and outreach efforts for the ACA is deeply troubling and will only cause chaos and uncertainty. Those who respond to advertising tend to be healthier and younger, therefore cutting back on advertising will create an insurance pool that is older and sicker and cause an increase in premiums for everybody trying to buy insurance. The President has frequently stated that he wants to let the ACA collapse. However, this Administration’s active measures to dismantle the law are drastically different from letting the law collapse – instead what we are seeing is active sabotage of the ACA which will only hurt our nation’s children, families, and working people. The American people have made it clear that they want Congress and the administration to move forward and build on the progress of the ACA. With this in mind, we must come together in a bipartisan way to improve and stabilize the Marketplaces and the law, and robust outreach is an essential part of this process.” # # #
09.01.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 156,000 jobs in August, with the unemployment rate at 4.4 percent. “Today’s jobs report shows that job growth under President Trump has slowed in comparison to the last six months of the Obama Administration. While some states are experiencing stagnant job growth and even job loss, the Trump Administration has still not offered a plan to increase wages and create jobs. “According to a recent analysis of the job reports, state employment data shows that five states — Kansas, Montana, New Mexico, Wyoming and New Hampshire — have actually lost jobs since January 2017. In addition, in seven more — West Virginia, Indiana, Illinois, South Dakota, Delaware, Idaho, and Louisiana — job growth has been unchanged and has fallen below the levels needed to keep up with population growth. For working people who are working harder than ever but still struggling to make ends meet, we must come together to strengthen our nation’s economy. “Congress returns to work in September and we have a new opportunity to focus on strengthening our economy and prioritizing working people and families. Democrats have put forth a better deal for working Americans that creates millions of jobs, raises incomes, and gives everyone the opportunity to achieve the education and skills to succeed in the 21st century. I will continue to work with my colleagues to make sure our economy puts families and working people first.” # # #
08.28.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of former Delegate Lacey Putney (I-Bedford County): “Lacey Putney gave more than five decades of selfless service to the citizens of the Commonwealth of Virginia. He was an icon in the General Assembly and in Virginia politics. I had the honor of serving with Delegate Putney during my service in the General Assembly. Lacey was a masterful legislator and his legislative accomplishments are many. However, his impact on Virginia’s colleges and universities and driving economic development in Bedford County will continue to improve the lives of Virginians for many years to come. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and countless friends and supporters.” # # #
08.22.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Trump’s address to the nation last night on his strategy in Afghanistan: “For almost 16 years, the United States has been engaged in armed conflict in Afghanistan. No American wants Afghanistan to again be a safe haven for radicalism and terrorism. Unfortunately, the President made no mention of specific troop increases or a strategy for ultimate victory or withdrawal. The President also failed to articulate a clear vision on how he intends to get regional actors more involved. Without an outline for any specific strategy for victory or withdrawal, the President only appears to be committing our nation to an open-ended conflict for the foreseeable future. “In the weeks ahead, it is incumbent on the President to provide the additional details necessary for Congress and the American people to determine whether or not his plan can lead to a stable Afghanistan. And it is the responsibility of Congress to authorize, or refuse to authorize, the continuation of this war with a new Authorization of Use of Military Force.” # # #
08.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Gerry Connolly, Bobby Scott, Don Beyer and Donald McEachin sent a letter to Virginia’s Commissioner of Insurance, requesting greater transparency for 2018 health insurance premium rates. “We are concerned that efforts in Congress to repeal the Affordable Care Act, coupled with the Trump Administration’s efforts to sabotage the law, will increase 2018 premiums for ACA-compliant plans in the Virginia Marketplace,” the members wrote. The members note that since President Trump took office he has launched a campaign of sabotage against the Affordable Care Act, including threatening to withhold Cost Sharing Reduction payments, refusing to enforce the individual mandate, and discontinuing much of the advertisement and outreach activities that were successfully used by the Obama administration to encourage ACA enrollment. “CSR payments keep insurance affordable for 7.1 million Americans and 218,241 Virginians. Withholding them, as the President has threatened to do, will be catastrophic for these Virginians and their families,” the members wrote. The actuaries at Oliver Wyman Health concluded that up to two-thirds of 2018 rate increases “will be attributable to the CSR and individual mandate uncertainty.” “Health insurers in Virginia and across the United States have warned that this campaign of sabotage will cause higher premiums and fewer choices,” they added. “We must be proactive in mitigating uncertainty in the market.” The members urged the Commissioner to consider two proposals that will protect Virginia consumers, including directing insurers to: Re-file their individual market plans with two sets of proposed rates—one that accounts for continued CSR payment, and another without CSRs; and Factor the increased cost due to nonpayment of CSRs into silver-tier marketplace plans to ensure that Virginia consumers receive premium tax credits that rise according to the cost of their health insurance. Concurrently, as planned in California[1], require issuers to offer a non-mirrored silver plan off the exchange so consumers ineligible for premium subsidies do not incur an increase in silver plan premiums due to CSR uncertainty. The full letter is available here and follows: August 21, 2017 Jacqueline K. Cunningham Commissioner of Insurance Virginia Bureau of Insurance P.O Box 1157 Richmond, VA 23218-1157 Dear Commissioner Cunningham: We write regarding ways in which the Bureau of Insurance can provide greater transparency for 2018 health insurance premiums and protect Virginia consumers from increased costs due to uncertainty in the insurance market created by the Trump Administration. We are concerned that efforts in Congress to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), coupled with the Trump Administration’s efforts to sabotage the law, will increase 2018 premiums for ACA-compliant plans in the Virginia Marketplace. Kaiser Family Foundation recently published a report finding that the mixed signals coming from the Trump Administration have disrupted the health insurance Marketplace and will likely be the driving force behind large premium increases for 2018. President Trump took office and immediately launched a campaign of sabotage against the ACA by signing an Executive Order directing Federal agencies to cease enforcement of the ACA. Since then, the Trump Administration has refused to commit to enforcing the individual mandate and discontinued much of the advertisement and outreach activities to encourage ACA enrollment. Most troublingly, the Trump Administration has refused to commit to paying Cost Sharing Reductions (CSR), which are required to be paid under the ACA. These payments keep insurance affordable for 7.1 million Americans and 218,241 Virginians.[2] Withholding them, as the President has threatened to do, will be catastrophic for these Virginians and their families. The actuaries at Oliver Wyman Health concluded that up to two-thirds of 2018 rate increases “will be attributable to the CSR and individual mandate uncertainty.”[3] Just this week, the Congressional Budget Office found that terminating CSR payments will increase premiums by 25% by 2020.[4] Additionally, Republicans in Congress have advanced ACA-repeal proposals that would leave more than 20 million fewer Americans with health coverage, reinstate abusive insurance practices, and raise the cost of health insurance. Despite the repeal effort failing in the Senate for the time being, the uncertainty that these efforts have created for consumers and insurers is undeniable. Health insurers in Virginia and across the United States have warned that this campaign of sabotage will cause higher premiums and fewer choices. In its rate filing CareFirst Blue Cross Blue Shield is requesting a 35% increase in Virginia citing the assumption that “the coverage mandate introduced by ACA will not be enforced in 2018.”[5] Optima stated in its rate filing, “The premium rates developed are based upon regulatory and legislative provisions in effect at the time of this filing, including, but not limited to, the funding of Cost-Sharing Reduction (CSR) payments and continuation and enforcement of the individual mandate. If these provisions materially change, then these rates may no longer be appropriate and will need to be withdrawn and refiled.”[6] We believe that we must be proactive in mitigating uncertainty in the market, and therefore respectfully offer our proposed mitigation strategies—which other state insurance commissioners have supported — including directing insurers to: 1. Re-file their individual market plans with two sets of proposed rates—one that accounts for continued CSR payment, and another without CSRs; and 2. Factor the increased cost due to nonpayment of CSRs into silver-tier marketplace plans to ensure that Virginia consumers receive premium tax credits that rise according to the cost of their health insurance. Concurrently, as planned in California[7], require issuers to offer a non-mirrored silver plan off the exchange so consumers ineligible for premium subsidies do not incur an increase in silver plan premiums due to CSR uncertainty. We commend the Governor and his administration for their leadership in efforts to provide quality, affordable healthcare to hardworking Virginia families—including efforts to expand Medicaid—and look forward to working together to redress market instability and other hurdles to ensuring health insurance options for all Virginians. Sincerely, [1] Covered California, Covered California’s Health Insurance Companies and Plan Rates for 2018, page 7 (August 2017), available at: https://www.coveredca.com/news/PDFs/CoveredCA_2018_Plans_and_Rates_8-1-2017.pdf [2] Kaiser Family Foundation, Total Marketplace Enrollment and Financial Assistance, (February 2017), available at: https://www.kff.org/health-reform/state-indicator/total-marketplace-enrollment-and-financial-assistance/?currentTimeframe=0&sortModel=%7B%22colId%22:%22Location%22,%22sort%22:%22asc%22%7D [3] Oliver Wyman Health, Analysis: Market Uncertainty Driving ACA Rate Increases, (June 14, 2017) available at: https://health.oliverwyman.com/transform-care/2017/06/analysis_market_unc.html [4] Congressional Budget Office, The Effects of Terminating Payments for Cost-Sharing Reductions, (August 2017) available at: https://www.cbo.gov/publication/53009?utm_source=feedblitz&utm_medium=FeedBlitzEmail&utm_content=812526&utm_campaign=Express_2017-08-15_15%3a00 [5] CareFirst Blue Cross Blue Shield, Part III Actuarial Memorandum. [6] Milliman, Inc., Part III Actuarial Memorandum, Optima Health Insurance Company, Individual Medical Rate Filing, Effective January 1, 2018, (April 28, 2017) available at: https://ratereview.healthcare.gov/files/1023591_I_OHP_PartIII_Memo_20170714.pdf [7] Covered California, Covered California’s Health Insurance Companies and Plan Rates for 2018, page 7 (August 2017), available at: https://www.coveredca.com/news/PDFs/CoveredCA_2018_Plans_and_Rates_8-1-2017.pdf
08.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Congressman John Conyers (D-MI), ranking member of the House Committee on Judiciary, Congressman Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), ranking member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), ranking member of the Senate Committee on Judiciary, sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos about a recent memo that showed intent of the Departments of Justice (DOJ) and Education (ED) to reexamine the process by which the federal government ensures racial diversity on college campuses. “Recently, an internal hiring posting from DOJ citing ‘investigations and possible litigation related to intentional race-based discrimination in college and university admissions’ caused public concerns as to whether DOJ and ED are launching a new effort to reexamine the values of racial diversity on campus,” the Members wrote. “This is the latest effort by this Administration to step away from enforcing the protections provided under the Civil Rights Act and instead promote policies that undermine civil rights protections and your Departments’ Civil Rights Offices. The Supreme Court has made it clear that racial diversity is a compelling state interest and that it is in our national interest that talented students from a variety of backgrounds get a close look and a fair chance at overcoming obstacles to higher education.” The Members also highlighted that this memo follows a disturbing pattern of the Trump Administration’s hostile view of the federal government’s role in protecting civil rights. “This action is especially suspect given this Administration’s lack of attention to civil rights issues in our education system thus far,” the letter continues. “For example, neither DOJ nor ED have publically addressed the spate of racially charged incidents on college campuses nor the rise in white supremacist recruiting efforts and incidents on college campuses which the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) describes as unprecedented. Such incidents include the stabbing of an African American student commissioned as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army by a fan of white supremacist websites, or bananas hanging from nooses labeled ‘Harambe bait.’” Full text of the letter can be found HERE and below: The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20202 Dear Attorney General Sessions and Secretary DeVos: We write to request information about how the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Department of Education (ED) intend to approach cases and matters involving systemic civil rights abuses and racial diversity in college and university admissions. Recently, an internal hiring posting from DOJ citing “investigations and possible litigation related to intentional race-based discrimination in college and university admissions” caused public concerns as to whether DOJ and ED are launching a new effort to reexamine the values of racial diversity on campus. This is the latest effort by this Administration to step away from enforcing the protections provided under the Civil Rights Act and instead promote policies that undermine civil rights protections and your Departments’ Civil Rights Offices. The Supreme Court has made it clear that racial diversity is a compelling state interest and that it is in our national interest that talented students from a variety of backgrounds get a close look and a fair chance at overcoming obstacles to higher education. Despite this, on August 1, 2017, the New York Times reported that DOJ’s Civil Rights Division is preparing to redirect resources into investigating and/or pursuing legal action against American colleges and universities over admissions policies that seek to provide students with racially diverse and inclusive learning environments. Following the publication of that report, and substantial public interest, a DOJ spokeswoman said, “The posting sought volunteers to investigate one administrative complaint filed by a coalition of 64 Asian-American associations in May 2015 that the prior Administration left unresolved.” In November 2014, Students for Fair Admissions filed a lawsuit against Harvard University seeking declaratory judgment for the use of racially and ethnically discriminatory policies in administering undergraduate admissions in violation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In May 2015, a coalition of groups also filed complaints with ED’s Office for Civil Rights and the DOJ’s Civil Rights Division. ED’s Office for Civil Rights dismissed the complaint on June 3, 2015 noting that the office “can dismiss a complaint when the same allegation, against the same party, seeking the same relief is pending in a court proceeding.” The complaint remains pending before the Civil Rights Division at DOJ. We have serious outstanding concerns about the Trump Administration’s intention regarding policies to promote racial diversity in university admissions and the scope of work your agencies may be undertaking on this issue. First, there is a discrepancy about the scope of the project. DOJ’s internal job posting asks for applications to assist with “investigations,” yet the statement from DOJ describes a single “investigation.” Merely acknowledging one investigation, however, does not rule out the possibility of a more expansive probe now or in the future. Nor does it explain why it would be taking up an investigation into this 2015 complaint at this time. Moreover, instead of being run out of the DOJ’s Educational Opportunities Section, which “is responsible for enforcing Title IV of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,” it appears that these efforts to reexamine admissions practices will be managed by Administration political appointees. The Washington Post reported that “the move came after career staffers who specialize in education issues refused to work on the project out of concerns it was contrary to the office’s long-running approach to civil rights in education opportunities. As a result, political leadership within the department decided to run the effort themselves.” Such a move suggests this is a political maneuver designed to circumvent DOJ operating procedures and career attorneys, and that DOJ may be considering launching an attack on racial diversity and inclusion in higher education. We also have a number of questions about ED’s role in setting Administration policy toward college admissions practices given the importance of racial diversity in higher education and its importance to our nation’s global economy. It is unclear to what extent, if any, ED has been involved in decisions about the Harvard University case or any broader effort to set Trump Administration policy regarding the importance of racial diversity on campus. Both Departments have worked together on issues of the use of race in admissions programs in the past. They have issued joint guidance explaining how educational institutions can lawfully pursue voluntary policies to achieve diversity or avoid racial isolation within the framework of Title IV. This guidance was based on Supreme Court precedent and described various ways schools could lawfully meet the goal of achieving a diverse student body. Any effort to limit universities’ ability to take students’ backgrounds, including their race, into account during the admissions process is an abrupt and extremely troubling shift in policy for both Departments. This action is especially suspect given this Administration’s lack of attention to civil rights issues in our education system thus far. For example, neither DOJ nor ED have publically addressed the spate of racially charged incidents on college campuses nor the rise in white supremacist recruiting efforts and incidents on college campuses which the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) describes as unprecedented. Such incidents include the stabbing of an African American student commissioned as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army by a fan of white supremacist websites, or bananas hanging from nooses labeled “Harambe bait.” Additionally, the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) has tracked approximately 250 incidents on more than 150 campuses of distribution of white supremacist flyers since spring of 2016, with nearly 200 of these incidents occurred after the November election. In order to understand how the Trump Administration plans to address these issues, we request a response to the following by September 1, 2017. A description of any new policy currently under consideration at your agencies related to racial diversity in admissions on college and university campuses. All internal job postings related to education, discrimination, or racial diversity from any division within the DOJ since January 2017. A description of any directive given to DOJ employees about how to respond to complaints or cases related to university admissions since January 2017. A description of any directive given to DOJ employees about how to respond to complaints or cases related to racial diversity in education. The current number of individuals employed by the Educational Opportunities Section at DOJ. Any communication between DOJ and any outside group about the Harvard University case or the topic of university admissions. Any communication between ED and any outside group about the Harvard University case or the topic of university admissions. A copy of any written agreement or arrangement to provide data from the Civil Rights Data Collection. If no written agreement exists, a description of that agreement. A description of how ED and DOJ are coordinating to set policy related to higher education issues and all communication between ED and DOJ about college and university admissions policies. Thank you for your cooperation with this matter. # # #
08.17.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, issued the following statement on President Trump’s signing of H.R. 3218, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017, also known as the “Forever” G.I. Bill, into law yesterday. The legislation makes improvements to the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill, which was originally sponsored by former Senator Jim Webb and Congressman Scott and signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2008. The Post 9/11 G.I. Bill provides our men and women in uniform the full cost of a four year public college or university and housing benefits while enrolled in school. Congressman Scott was an original cosponsor of the “Forever” G.I. Bill. “I am pleased that President Trump has signed the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act into law,” said Rep. Scott. “Nearly 10 years ago, Congress significantly expanded veterans educational benefits with the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill and the ‘Forever’ G.I. Bill is an important step forward in improving these benefits for our veterans. We know that education is society’s great equalizer and the best thing a veteran can do when they return home is take full advantage of the G.I. Bill. “The improvements made by the ‘Forever’ G.I. Bill guarantees our veterans a lifetime benefit, rather than expiring 15 years after a veteran’s last discharge. The bill also protects benefits when a school closes mid-semester, expands eligibility for guardsman, reservists, and Purple Heart recipients, improves scholarship programs for survivors and dependents, and encourages STEM education. These enhancements to the G.I. Bill make military service more attractive and give our troops returning home the tools they need to succeed and readjust to civilian life, while at the same time strengthening our economy in the face of increasing global competition.” # # #
08.15.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its assessment of the impact of terminating cost-sharing payments. "Today, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office confirmed that the Trump administration's reckless actions continue to jeopardize access to health coverage for millions of Americans across the country. For months, the administration has injected uncertainty into the market by threatening to withhold payments legally owed to insurers. These payments directly help consumers afford their insurance and act as rebates to lower costs for low and moderate income families. The CBO confirmed that withholding these payments would cause premiums to rise 20 percent by next year and add $194 billion to the federal deficit over the next ten years. We have already seen the consequences of the uncertainty created by the administration. Just last week, Anthem announced that it would no longer sell Marketplace plans in Virginia. The administration should not continue to attempt to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. Instead, it is time for Congress and the administration to work together to improve and strengthen the existing system, and the first step is to enforce the Affordable Care Act as the law of the land." # # #
08.14.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Days after the horrific violence at a “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, President Trump finally named the groups who perpetrated the violence: white supremacists and neo-Nazi sympathizers. Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in reaction to the President’s remarks: "While I welcome the President’s condemnation of overt racism and white nationalism in response to this weekend’s horrible events, I remind everyone that actions speak louder than words. It is equally important to support actions that actually enforce civil rights, strengthen voting rights, and expand opportunity for all. " # # #
08.12.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the violent clashes at the "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville, VA: "I am deeply concerned about the unfolding situation in Charlottesville where white nationalists have violently clashed with counter-protesters. While I respect their First Amendment right to assemble and freedom of speech, this sort of violence and hate speech has no credible role in our public discourse. These are the actions of a fringe element in our society newly emboldened and does not reflect the morality and values of our great nation. We must all commit ourselves to treating one another with dignity and respect, despite our disagreements. I commend Governor McAuliffe for declaring a state of emergency and I hope that this situation is resolved peacefully." # # #
08.12.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the announcement that Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield will leave the Virginia marketplace in 2018: "The Trump administration's reckless actions continue to jeopardize health coverage access for millions of Americans across the country. Just yesterday, Anthem announced they will no longer sell plans in Virginia's Marketplace citing 'continual changes and uncertainty in federal operations, rules and guidance'. Sadly, Anthem's exit is another example of this administration's refusal to enforce the ACA as the law of the land and commit to ensuring millions of Americans will have access to affordable healthcare. We cannot continue to threaten Americans' health coverage by exacerbating uncertainty in the market. It is time for Congress and the administration to work together to improve and strengthen the existing system." # # #
08.08.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will hold a legislative update town hall in Norfolk, Virginia on Monday, August 14, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. The town hall will provide an update on pending issues including the federal budget, health care, and legislation already enacted by Congress and the impact of these policies on Virginians and their families. This will be an opportunity for residents of the 3rd congressional district to provide comments and ask questions. Legislative Update Town Hall Monday, August 14, 2017 6:30 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Norview High School 6501 Chesapeake Blvd Norfolk, VA 23513 Constituents can RSVP for the town hall here. For more information about this town hall, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
08.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Trump’s new immigration policy announcement: “I am deeply concerned by President Trump’s support for the so-called Reforming American Immigration for Strong Employment (RAISE) Act,” said Rep. Scott. “This legislation seeks to implement immigration policies that are ill-advised and will negatively affect our country’s economy. Immigrants play a vital role in securing our nation’s future economic growth. As the U.S. workforce expands and baby boomers begin to retire, immigrants are a crucial part of filling those vacant jobs. I proudly represent a district that is home to roughly 30,000 hardworking immigrants, who contribute to the success and growth of Virginia’s economy. Additionally, cutting the refugee program in half during the worst refugee crisis in decades slams the door on people fleeing unimaginable violence. It is my hope that Congress will work together to pass a morally sound and comprehensive immigration reform bill that is reflective of our heritage as a nation of immigrants.” # # #
08.02.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Bobby Scott (VA-03) and John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), the ranking members of the House Committees on Education and the Workforce and the Judiciary, respectively, issued the following statement after reports surfaced that the Department of Justice plans to attack and undermine affirmative action programs in colleges and universities. “While we cannot comment on the veracity of this alleged memo, we are deeply concerned by news reports that the Department of Justice intends to challenge the application of affirmative action programs in colleges and universities. What is already clear is the Trump Administration’s public record of attacking civil rights protections on multiple fronts. “As ranking members, we led 86 Members of the House in an amicus brief in support of affirmative action programs in higher education. We were one of nearly 70 organizations to take the same position, including retired Chiefs of Staff of our nation’s Armed Services, leading Fortune 500 companies, academics, 19 state governors, the faith community and many others. The position that we took was ultimately affirmed by the Supreme Court – the consideration of race and ethnicity to achieve diversity in admissions is a constitutional and is a compelling state interest that can be achieved through narrowly tailored means. “Whether it is the Department of Justice’s decision to examine the use of consent decrees with state and local police departments, which are designed to reduce instances of police brutality and discriminatory treatment; Attorney General Session’s decision to return to the harsh application of mandatory minimum sentences which have been proven to be racially discriminatory and counterproductive to reducing crime; the White House’s so-called election integrity commission which purports to “solve” voter fraud while requesting the most personal data of the Nation’s 200 million registered voters; or efforts to weaken the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) – agencies charged with the enforcement of employment nondiscrimination laws, the Trump administration has not wasted any opportunity to roll back existing civil rights protections for underrepresented minorities. “Further, the Administration’s reactionary efforts were signaled in the White House’s proposed budget to which reduces or eliminated funding tied to the enforcement of federal civil rights laws. The Trump Administration’s budget undermines the constitutional promise of Brown v. Board of Education by cutting federal funding to support public schools that serve our nation’s poorest students. It proposes elimination of the environmental justice program, gutting the primary tool to examine and address the impact of environmental policies and decisions on communities of color, low-income and tribal communities. And proving the adage “any rights without remedies are no rights at all,” the President’s budget proposes eliminating federal funding for the Legal Services Corporation (LSC) that provides civil legal aid for low income Americans to help them have their day in court. “These actions, already on the record, provide a clear, yet unsettling picture of this Administration’s hostile view of the federal government’s role in protecting civil rights.” # # #
07.28.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Senate failed to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “As I have said many times before, if we are going to change the Affordable Care Act, we should improve it, not make it worse. In the middle of the night, Senate Republicans finally unveiled another disastrous version of Trumpcare and then voted on the legislation after having only seen the text two hours earlier. Unfortunately, this version of Trumpcare would leave 16 million fewer people without insurance and increase costs by 20 percent. This is not an improvement; that is why it was defeated. “The problem is not process or political ramifications. The problem is the fact that no version of Trumpcare improves the ACA. There are many good ideas that have been proposed – that is why we need hearings and briefings to find out which ideas could work to build on the ACA's progress. For years, Democrats have been willing to work in a bipartisan way and I hope we can do so going forward.” # # #
07.28.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Ranking Members of four House Committees with jurisdiction over health care expressed their willingness to work together with Republicans today to strengthen the Affordable Care Act (ACA). In a letter sent to the Chairmen of their respective committees, the four Democrats called on Republicans to set aside efforts to repeal the ACA and instead to focus on expanding access to health care and lowering the cost of coverage. The letter comes after the vote on Trumpcare failed in the Senate early this morning. The letter was signed by Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA), Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), and Budget Committee Ranking Member John Yarmuth (D-KY). “We write to express our willingness and interest in working together to strengthen our nation’s health care system,” wrote Pallone, Neal, Scott, and Yarmuth. “Democrats stand ready to work together if Republicans are ready to set aside their proposals to repeal the ACA, make devastating cuts to Medicaid, and give massive tax cuts for the wealthy and corporate interests. We stand ready and willing to work together in hopes of finding common ground for the good of the American people.” The four Democratic health leaders requested that public hearings be held under regular order. “Many House Democrats have been working on proposals that would directly lower out of pocket costs for families and improve health coverage,” the four Ranking Members continued. “We urge you to begin the process of holding hearings to consider some of these ideas, along with any Republican ideas that can accomplish our shared goals, in the hope that they can then be moved through regular order by our Committees.” Full text of the letter is available below: July 28, 2017 The Honorable Greg Walden Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Kevin Brady Chairman Committee on Ways and Means U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Virginia Foxx Chairwoman Committee on Education and the Workforce U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Diane Black Chairman Committee on the Budget U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Walden, Chairman Brady, Chairwoman Foxx, and Chairman Black, We write to express our willingness and interest in working together to strengthen our nation’s health care system. It is time to put partisanship aside and come together and work to lower health care costs for working Americans, promote stability in the individual market, and make further progress in expanding access to coverage. The American public overwhelmingly supports making improvements to the Affordable Care Act (ACA) rather than repealing it; last night’s vote in the Senate only underscored that building on the ACA’s progress should be our path forward. Democrats stand ready to work together if Republicans are ready to set aside their proposals to repeal the ACA, make devastating cuts to Medicaid, and give massive tax cuts for the wealthy and corporate interests. Many House Democrats have been working on proposals that would directly lower out of pocket costs for families and improve health coverage. We urge you to begin the process of holding hearings to consider some of these ideas, along with any Republican ideas that can accomplish our shared goals, in the hope that they can then be moved through regular order by our Committees. We stand ready and willing to work together in hopes of finding common ground for the good of the American people. Sincerely, /S/ Frank Pallone, Jr. Ranking Member Committee on Energy and Commerce /S/ Richard E. Neal Ranking Member Committee on Ways and Means /S/ Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Ranking Member Committee on Education and the Workforce /S/ John A. Yarmuth Ranking Member Committee on the Budget # # #
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s announcement on his personal twitter account that transgender individuals will no longer be permitted to serve in any capacity in the United States Armed Forces. “This morning, the country woke up to the news that President Trump unilaterally plans to bar the service of transgender persons in our nation’s military. This announcement places the estimated 15,000 transgender Americans who are currently serving our country at risk of being discharged. President Trump’s action undermines morale and further devalues the service and sacrifice of the more than 130,000 transgender veterans alive today. “I proudly represent a district that is home to tens of thousands of individuals who currently serve or who have served in our nation’s military. And just this past weekend, the Hampton Roads region was honored to have President Trump at Naval Station Norfolk to commission the new U.S.S. Gerald R. Ford, where he was surrounded by diverse servicemen and women who work together as a unit for the defense of our nation. “However, I hope the President realizes that our military did not get to reflect our nation's remarkable diversity by accident. Exactly 69 years ago today, President Harry S. Truman issued Executive Order 9981 to desegregate the military. Likewise, in 2010, Congress passed and President Barack Obama signed into law the repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ allowing gay, lesbian, and bisexual individuals to openly serve in our military. And in 2013, the Obama Administration moved to lift the ban prohibiting women from serving in combat. “We know that this expansion of opportunity to serve did not eliminate all of the challenges many of our service members face overnight. But what is clear is that the closing of opportunities for any person, who wants to serve our nation in uniform, on account of their race, gender, sexual orientation or gender identity is a giant step backwards for both the nation and our military. President Trump’s actions undermine the very bedrock of the principles of freedom that those who serve our nation in uniform defend.” # # #
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tomorrow, Thursday, July 27, 2017 at 10:00 a.m., Congressman Bobby Scott will testify before the House Judiciary Committee’s hearing on “The Need for the Balanced Budget Amendment.” In his testimony, Congressman Scott will discuss his concerns with the idea of adding a balanced budget amendment to the United States Constitution. WHO: Congressman Bobby Scott WHAT: Testify before the House Judiciary Committee WHEN: Thursday, July 27, 2017 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: 2141 Rayburn House Office Building # # #
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), the Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, hosted a policy briefing in coordination with the National League of Cities (NLC) on their recent report “The Future of Work in Cities.” The policy discussion highlighted strategies that can provide support to cities and the economic impacts of workforce development at the federal level. The briefing included testimony from Dr. Patricia P. Woodbury, Councilmember, Newport News, Virginia. A South Hampton native, Dr. Woodbury has a long history of supporting workforce development programs that increase the employability of citizens within Newport News. Her on-the-ground experience provided an in-depth analysis on the trends and real-world implications of workforce development. “Investing in our workforce is now more important than ever,” said Rep. Scott. “The technological innovations that make our day-to-day lives easier also present a challenge to maintaining job growth in our cities. Driverless cars and other innovations present the same threats to jobs that ATM’s posed to bank tellers and self-check-in kiosks posed to jobs at airports. When jobs disappear, problems appear: crime, drug use, and teen pregnancy in addition to loss of homes and an eroding tax base. When technology threatens to displace workers, we must invest in a workforce development system that can quickly respond and prepare workers for a changing labor market." # # #
07.20.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office released a new score of the Republicans’ bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “Yet again, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has released another report on Republicans’ ongoing attempts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act – each report just as devastating than the last. Today, the CBO found that the Senate’s latest Trumpcare bill would leave 22 million fewer Americans without insurance. While there have been many versions of the legislation, here is the common theme – each insures fewer people, offers less coverage, and raises the cost of health insurance. Democrats are imploring Republicans to stop their attacks on Americans’ health care and join Democrats in working together to actually improve health and financial security for all Americans.” # # #
07.18.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced plans to vote on a repeal of the Affordable Care Act without a replacement: “After multiple unsuccessful attempts at repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Republicans are promising to dismantle the progress of the last seven years by repealing the ACA—with no alternative. When Republicans say ‘repeal and replace,’ the only thing you can be sure of is the repeal part. As I said earlier this year, if they had a viable replacement, the American people would have seen it sometime in the past seven years. All of their proposed ‘solutions’ result in fewer people with insurance and everyone else paying more for less care. In light of their colossal failure, the chance of any meaningful replacement is not a real possibility. I'd remind my colleagues that the consequences of repeal are catastrophic. Earlier estimates showed that 32 million Americans could lose their insurance. Now is not the time to gamble with the health care of 32 million Americans. It is time to finally give up this ill-conceived repeal effort and work on polices that will actually help the American people and build on the ACA's progress.” # # #
07.14.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Senate released their latest version of Trumpcare. “Over the past few weeks, Senate Republicans have continued to scramble to repeal the Affordable Care Act and replace it with Trumpcare. During this time, they have done nothing to fix the underlying damage that Trumpcare will cause – the erosion of protections for Americans with pre-existing medical conditions and a crippling age tax on seniors. While a Congressional Budget Office assessment is necessary to determine the full impact of the legislation, the new version only tinkers around the edges and does nothing to actually improve health coverage and affordability for American families. In fact, the bill cuts billions from Medicaid, which provides funding for critical services in our nation’s public schools for students, especially for students with disabilities, and would cause millions to lose access to health insurance. Simply put, no matter what you think about the Affordable Care Act, the House bill, the original Senate bill, and this latest version of Trumpcare, all would increase costs, reduce the quality of your insurance, reduce the number of people insured, and endanger those with pre-existing conditions. Trumpcare moves us in the wrong direction and hurts America’s students, workers, and families.” # # #
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the support of leaders from the civil rights, social justice and faith communities, Congressman Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) and Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, today reintroduced legislation to amend the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA). The Do No Harm Act would clarify that no one can seek religious exemption from laws guaranteeing fundamental civil and legal rights. It comes in response to continued efforts across the country to cite religious belief as grounds to undermine Civil Rights Act protections, limit access to healthcare, and refuse service to minority populations. Specifically, the Do No Harm Act would limit the use of RFRA in cases involving discrimination, child labor and abuse, wages and collective bargaining, access to health care, public accommodations, and social services provided through government contract. “Inherent in our nation’s right to religious freedom is a promise that my belief cannot be used to infringe on yours or do you harm,” said Congressman Joe Kennedy III. “The Religious Freedom Restoration Act was intended to protect against such distortions of faith, not to justify them. Unfortunately in recent years, that legislation has been used as cover to erode civil rights protections, equal access to health care and child labor laws. In the face of mounting threats from an Administration that continues to back away from civil rights protections, the Do No Harm Act will restore the sacred balance between our right to religious freedom and our promise of equal protection under law.” “RFRA has increasingly been used as a means to undermine the core rights of others under the guise that those rights interfere with the sincerely held religious beliefs of some,” said Congressman Bobby Scott. “Civil rights are a compelling government interest and worthy of our strongest support under the law and should not be superseded in the name of religious liberty. Civil rights, labor laws, and access to health care should not be violated in the name of religious freedom under RFRA. The Do No Harm Act restores protections for these areas under the law to ensure that RFRA can no longer be used a means to weaken civil rights and other protections." In 1993, Congress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act in response to a Supreme Court case undermining the rights of religious minorities. But in recent years, the misapplication of RFRA has been used to deny health care coverage for employees, claim exemptions to civil rights law, and complicate justice in child labor and abuse cases. “Religious liberty is a foundational American value, enshrined in our Constitution and deserving of protection,” said Carmel Martin, Executive Vice President of Policy at the Center for American Progress. “But the Trump Administration has made clear that they intend to misuse the language of religious freedom to roll back LGBTQ equality and restrict reproductive rights – all while attacking true religious liberty with an unconstitutional Muslim Ban. The federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (or RFRA) was written to protect free exercise of religion from unnecessary government intrusion, and for some time it did. But efforts by conservatives to redefine religious liberty have been percolating in state legislatures and rising through the courts, recently culminating in misguided Supreme Court rulings that have distorted the balance of religious liberty and other freedoms. The Trump Administration has seized on these overly broad interpretations of the law, which Congress never intended, and has signaled they plan to exploit RFRA to allow employers, landlords, and pharmacists to impose their beliefs on others at the expense of marginalized people, including LGBTQ Americans, women, and minority religions. Congress must act to restore the law to its true purpose, and to prevent the Trump Administration from distorting it to violate our rights.” “We applaud Congressmen Bobby Scott and Joe Kennedy for introducing the Do No Harm Act,” said Vanita Gupta, president and CEO of The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. “Freedom of religion is a fundamental American value enshrined in our Constitution and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. But claims of religious freedom should not be used as a license to discriminate. The Do No Harm Act is simple – it continues to protect religious liberty, but also protects victims of discrimination. There can be no religious exemption from basic human dignity.” “The Do No Harm Act will protect the religious freedom of all Americans and we are proud to support it. Our country is strongest when we are all free to believe or not, as we see fit, and to practice our faith without hurting others,” said the Rev. Barry W. Lynn, executive director of Americans United for Separation of Church and State. “Although RFRA certainly provides important protections for religious exercise, some have used it in ways that harm and deny other people’s rights. RFRA, of course, was never intended to do that. Our laws should be a shield to protect religious freedom and not a sword to harm others.” “The Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) was enacted to address a series of troubling legal cases which together chiseled away the protections guaranteed by the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution to safeguard traditional Native Americans and other religious minorities in our country,” said Mr. Hilary O. Shelton, the Director of the NAACP Washington Bureau and the Senior Vice President for Policy and Advocacy. “In response, many groups from the full political spectrum came together to support RFRA and ensure that government action may only substantially burden a person’s exercise of religion if it is in the furtherance of a compelling government interest, and is the least restrictive means to achieve that interest. Sadly, from Indiana to North Carolina, and from Georgia to Mississippi, a number of misguided extremist legislators have tried to obfuscate the intent of the federal RFRA. The NAACP would like to congratulate, commend, and thank Congressmen Kennedy and Scott for introducing the Do No Harm Act, which makes clear that the American value of religious freedom is best when it also respects the rights of all Americans.” “Religious freedom does not give anyone the right to discriminate. Numerous cases have shown that RFRA as written can lead to unacceptable civil rights violations,” said Louise Melling, deputy legal director of the ACLU. “President Trump’s religious liberty executive order signed on May 4 lays the groundwork for RFRA to be further misused as a license to discriminate. It’s now more important than ever to pass the Do No Harm Act to prevent discrimination under the guise of religious liberty.” “Religious freedom is a core American value. However, religious freedom claims should never be used as a guise for unfair and unjust treatment that undercut other people's fundamental rights,” said David Stacy, Government Affairs Director of the Human Rights Campaign. “We commend Representatives Kennedy and Scott for introducing this critically important legislation that will preserve the core protections of the federal RFRA, while ensuring that it cannot be used to violate essential non-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans.” “The National Women’s Law Center supports the Do No Harm Act, which stands for the principle that religion should never be used to harm others,” said Gretchen Borchelt, Vice President for Reproductive Rights and Health at the National Women’s Law Center. “We’ve seen religion used to deny reproductive health care, provide women with fewer benefits and less pay, and fire individuals for their decisions about whether and how to start a family. That is not religious liberty; that is discrimination. We thank Representatives Kennedy and Scott for their leadership in making it clear that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act can’t be misused to undermine basic civil rights and liberties.” “Increasingly, religion is being used to justify discrimination against women and families, in health care and in the workplace,” said Debra L. Ness, President of the National Partnership for Women & Families. “We commend Representatives Joe Kennedy and Bobby Scott for introducing the Do No Harm Act and leading efforts to make clear that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act’s protections of the exercise of religion cannot be used to deny women access to reproductive health care or other services, or undermine civil rights protections.” The legislation has received support from the following advocacy and expert organizations: Abortion Care Network, Advocates for Youth, American Atheists, American Civil Liberties Union, American Humanist Association, American Psychological Association, Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Anti-Defamation League, Basic Rights Oregon, Bend the Arc Jewish Action, BiNet USA, Call To Action, Catholics for Choice, Center for American Progress, Center for Black Equity, Center for Inquiry, Center for Reproductive Rights, DignityUSA, Disciples Action Network, Disciples Center for Public Witness, Equal Partners in Faith, Equality California, Equality Federation, Family Equality Council, Feminist Majority, FORGE, Inc., Friends Committee on National Legislation, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD), GLSEN, Hindu American Foundation, Human Rights Campaign, Institute for Science and Human Values, Interfaith Alliance, Lambda Legal, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, Legal Voice, LGBT Technology Partnership & Institute, Medical Students for Choice, Movement Advancement Project, NAACP, NARAL Pro-Choice America, National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum (NAPAWF), National Association of Social Workers, National Black Justice Coalition, National Center for Lesbian Rights, National Center for Transgender Equality, National Council of Jewish Women, National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce, National LGBTQ Task Force Action Fund, National Partnership for Women and Families, National Women's Law Center, NEAT - National Equality Action Team, NMAC, Nursing Students for Sexual & Reproductive Health, Out & Equal Workplace Advocates, OutServe - Servicemembers Legal Defense Network (SLDN), Physicians for Reproductive Health, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), Pride at Work, Pro-Choice Resources, Religious Institute, Reproductive Health Access Project, Secular Coalition for America, Secular Policy Institute, Sexuality Information and Education Council of the U.S. (SIECUS), The Trevor Project, T’ruah: The Rabbinic Call for Human Rights, Unitarian Universalist Association, Whitman-Walker Health, and Women’s Alliance for Theology, Ethics, and Ritual (WATER) For a full list of quotes in support of the introduction of the Do No Harm Act from each endorsing organization, please click here. For full text of the Do No Harm Act, please click here. # # #
07.07.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added a total of 222,000 jobs in June, with the unemployment rate at 4.3 percent. “Today’s jobs report is encouraging and shows that the economic gains that were made in the aftermath of the Great Recession remain strong. While President Trump complained about similar economic data during last year’s campaign, I am pleased that he has now accepted that the efforts of his predecessor were successful. “With that said, I am concerned that Congressional Republicans continue to push an agenda that will undermine the gains made since the 2008 recession. Just last week, for example, the Majority advanced three anti-union bills that would sabotage workers’ ability to organize and collectively bargain for better wages and working conditions. In addition, Congressional Republicans still have not put forward any comprehensive jobs plan, or infrastructure bill – despite the President’s own desire to see a robust jobs and infrastructure plan pass Congress. “Democrats want to work with our Republican colleagues to make sure that we continue to grow our economy and promote economic security for working families. That is why Congressman Keith Ellison and I introduced the Raise the Wage Act, a bill that would gradually increase the minimum wage to $15 per hour. I have also introduced legislation that would invest in school infrastructure and create nearly 2 million jobs. Democrats on the Education and the Workforce Committee have also launched the Aim Higher initiative, which would ensure that all Americans have access to a meaningful degree that costs less money and leads to a good-paying job. Unfortunately, the Majority has not yet scheduled a single hearing on any of our proposals. I hope that based on today’s jobs report they will seriously consider our proposals and work with us to ensure that Congress and the President enact policies that continue to grow our economy and uplift working families.” # # #
06.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will hold a health care town hall in Suffolk, Virginia on Monday, July 10, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. The town hall will provide an overview of the Congressional Budget Office announcement that 22 million more Americans would lose their insurance under the Senate Republican health care bill. This will be an opportunity to learn how the Republican leadership’s plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act will affect Virginians and their families. Health Care Town Hall Monday, July 10, 2017 6:30 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. King’s Fork Middle School 350 Kings Fork Road Suffolk, VA 23434 For more information about this town hall, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
06.26.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office released an initial analysis of the Senate’s version of Trumpcare. “Analysis from the Congressional Budget Office again confirms that the Republicans’ efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act will be devastating for millions of Americans. The Senate Republicans’ changes to Trumpcare makes a markedly bad bill no better. Instead of 23 million Americans losing their insurance, as projected in the House-passed bill, 22 million Americans will lose their insurance under the Senate version. Both proposals, however, still gut critical consumer protections that Americans now enjoy and strip protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. With an age tax, cuts to subsidies, and tax breaks for millionaires, Trumpcare prioritizes the wealthiest Americans at the expense working families and older Americans.” # # #
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to review President Trump’s travel ban and to allow parts of the executive order to be enforced until the Court makes a final ruling: “I am disappointed that the Supreme Court has allowed parts of President Trump’s travel ban to move forward until they issue a final decision. While I am pleased that the Court preserved the ability of travelers from the countries listed in the travel ban to enter the United States if they have a credible claim of a bona fide relationship with a person or entity in the United States, I remain concerned that the President and his administration will continue to unnecessarily delay the resettlement of refugees fleeing violence. “Based on the President’s previous comments on this issue during the election and in the wake of lower court decisions delaying its implementation, I am also concerned about the President’s intent to implement this executive order in a non-discriminatory manner. By the time the Supreme Court hears arguments in this case, the Court and the American public will be able to determine if the Administration applied this travel ban in a discriminatory fashion.” # # #
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, June 15, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) received the 2017 Bill Emerson and Mickey Leland Hunger Leadership Award from the Congressional Hunger Center during their annual awards ceremony. The organization works to advance the issues of domestic and global hunger for U.S. policymakers. “I am honored to receive the 2017 Bill Emerson and Mickey Leland Hunger Leadership Award from the Congressional Hunger Center,” said Rep. Scott. “Although we have made great strides toward addressing hunger both here at home and abroad, our work is not yet done. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, it is estimated that over 790 million people worldwide, are suffering from chronic hunger. These startling statistics also include millions of our fellow Americans, many of whom are children. And the sobering reality of these numbers drives me and my colleagues in the Congressional Hunger Caucus to continue our work on this issue. “As Ranking Member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, we are tasked with making sure all children have an equal shot at success, so it is only fitting that child nutrition programs and the Women, Infants, and Children nutrition program fall within our Committee’s jurisdiction. I am committed to fighting for the well-being of our nation’s children and it is my hope that Congress will continue to work together to invest in programs that are working to address hunger in our country and around the globe.” # # #
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) received the National Visibility Award from the Secular Coalition of America in recognition of his leadership in protecting the First Amendment, religious liberty, and separation of church and state. “I am honored to receive the National Visibility Award from the Secular Coalition of America,” said Rep. Scott. “As a defender of the Constitution’s First Amendment and an Episcopalian, I can attest to the power of working with people of many faiths and secularists who understand how reason, critical thinking, and empathy has helped our nation face its adversities and achieve great things. I look forward to working with the Secular Coalition of America and others to ensure that the First Amendment and the rights of all are protected and defended.” # # #
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the shooting at a congressional baseball practice earlier this morning. Congressman Scott was not at the practice. “I was shocked and saddened to learn of this morning’s shooting at a Congressional baseball practice. My thoughts and prayers are with House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, my colleagues, their staff, their families, and the United States Capitol Police Officers who responded heroically to stop the shooter. I will continue to monitor developments of this horrific incident closely.” # # #
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on S. 1094, the V.A. Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act: “I strongly support accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs and believe Congress must do more to ensure that our veterans receive the best care possible. Unfortunately, similar to the many attempts before it, the V.A. Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act unfairly penalizes V.A. employees in a misguided attempt to reform the V.A. This bill lowers the burden of proof to terminate a worker for misconduct, prevents administrative Judges from adjusting or mitigating an agency’s proposed penalty on employees, and shortens the amount of time available for employees to defend themselves. “Congress should be working to modernize and improve services at the V.A. by filling its approximately 49,000 vacancies, dealing with a backlog of 470,000 claims appeals, streamlining construction programs, and improving IT infrastructure, not weakening due process protections for its employees.” # # #
06.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott issued the following statement to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark decision in Loving v. Virginia: “In 1959, Mildred and Richard Loving were charged with violating Virginia’s ban on interracial marriage. This injustice launched a courageous legal challenge that culminated in the Supreme Court ruling on this day, 50 years ago, that the United States would no longer allow race-based restrictions on the right to marry. The Loving Court unanimously stated that marriage is one of the ‘basic civil rights of man,’ confirming that America is a place of equality and freedom. “The Loving decision is as important today as it was in 1967. Judge Leon M. Bazile, the state judge who originally sentenced the Lovings for violating Virginia’s anti-miscegenation law, cited his sincerely held religious beliefs as justification for the Commonwealth’s ban on interracial marriages. Today, we must remember that religious liberty is a fundamental American value and we are free to believe or not—but we should not use a sincerely held religious belief or the 'conscience-based objections' of one person to cause harm to others. As a nation, we must also remember that this was the same line of reasoning used to justify slavery, segregation, and other forms of discrimination. “Unfortunately, on May 4th of this year, President Trump issued an executive order permitting individuals to use their 'conscience-based objections' to override civil rights protections. This sets a dangerous precedent that individuals can use their 'conscience-based objections' to undermine civil rights laws within the United States. To curb this dangerous precedent, I will join Congressman Joe Kennedy in reintroducing the Do No Harm Act, which provides that no one can seek religious exemption from laws guaranteeing fundamental civil and legal rights to others. “The Loving decision – which restored the full dignity and rights of Americans of different races who wanted to marry – is a reminder that protecting civil rights is a compelling government interest. Today, I ask my colleagues to join with me in remembering this historic case, and urge our nation to keep in mind the equality and freedom for which the Supreme Court’s decision stands. We are a better, stronger and fairer nation thanks to their jurisprudence and to Mildred and Richard Loving for standing up to demand that their rights be recognized and protected.” # # #
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on H.R. 10, the so-called Financial CHOICE Act of 2017, which dismantles key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that were enacted to protect consumers after the 2008 financial crisis: “I voted against the Financial CHOICE Act because it single-handedly rolls back key consumer protections and financial regulations established by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Without these protections, the risky and often predatory behavior of certain banks and other financial institutions a decade ago, that led to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, will again go largely unchecked by the federal government. “I strongly supported Wall Street Reform in 2010 because it created strong new consumer protections, ensured sensible regulation of our financial system, and helped safeguard our nation from another financial calamity. Despite today’s egregious vote to undermine these reforms, I will continue to fight for strong consumer protections and regulations that ensure a stable financial system and ultimately allow our financial institutions to thrive for the benefit of all Americans.” # # #
06.01.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement: “President Trump’s decision to remove the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement is a step in the wrong direction. By withdrawing from the agreement, the President is undermining the interests of countless communities and ecosystems harmed by climate change in the United States. Unfortunately, this latest action by the Trump Administration will only further hurt Virginians and our environment. In Hampton Roads, we have already seen the signs of a changing climate through extreme weather, recurrent flooding, and higher than average temperatures. These impacts are being felt particularly in Norfolk, which has been listed as the second most at risk city behind New Orleans for sea level rise in the United States. “President Trump’s embarrassing decision places the United States in the company of Syria and Nicaragua, the only two countries not participating in the agreement. Furthermore, it weakens the United States’ role as a global leader, strains our alliances abroad, and discourages investments in clean energy technologies here at home. The American people rely on their elected leaders to provide solutions to the challenges posed by climate change – not to ignore science and deny the threats. We have an obligation to reduce the impacts of climate change. That is why I will continue to fight for stronger environmental protections that will create a cleaner future for generations to come.” # # #
05.29.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in observance of Memorial Day: “Today, we honor all the fallen men and women who have worn the uniforms of the Armed Services of the United States, and we rededicate ourselves to promoting peace so that their sacrifices will not have been in vain. So, on this Memorial Day, as you gather with family and friends to kick off the beginning of summer, take a moment to remember those who have made the ultimate sacrifice in order to protect the freedoms we hold so dear.” # # #
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will hold a health care town hall in Hampton, Virginia on Tuesday, May 30, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. The town hall will provide an overview of the Congressional Budget Office announcement that 23 million more Americans would lose their insurance under the American Health Care Act (AHCA). It will also provide information on other health care initiatives at the federal level. This will be an opportunity to learn how the Republican leadership’s plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act will affect Virginians and their families. Health Care Town Hall Tuesday, May 30, 2017 6:30 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Aberdeen Elementary School 1424 Aberdeen Road Hampton, VA 23666 For more information about this town hall, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
05.24.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office announced that 23 million more Americans would be uninsured under Trumpcare, which passed the House of Representatives earlier this month. "Three weeks ago, Republicans rushed to vote on a health care bill without a score from the Congressional Budget Office. Today, the CBO reasserts what we already knew to be true – under Trumpcare, millions of Americans would lose coverage, millions more would see their health care costs rise, and others will see their insurance policies cover less. With an age tax, cuts to subsidies, and tax breaks for millionaires, Trumpcare prioritizes the wealthiest Americans at the expense of working families and older Americans. The CBO has again separated press releases and sound bites from reality and confirmed that Trumpcare hurts American families.” # # #
05.23.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON – Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the White House released its Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposal that cuts $9 billion from the Department of Education, slashes funding for the Department of Labor by 20 percent, and diminishes the Department of Health and Human Services’ ability to deliver early learning programs and health care for the American people. “A budget is a reflection of priorities and in this proposal, President Trump has prioritized tax cuts for the wealthy over children, students, working families and older Americans. This budget undermines public education by directing federal dollars to voucher schemes and cutting Title I funding for high-poverty school districts. The budget also makes it harder to pay for college, guts effective job training programs, puts the health and safety of workers at risk, and attacks the civil rights of every American. Working families deserve a budget that invests in their health, boosts wages, helps them balance work and family life, and levels the playing field for them and their children. Democrats will continue to press for a budget that supports public education, creates good-paying jobs, and puts more money in the pockets of hardworking people – while reducing the deficit in a balanced and responsible way.” # # #
05.23.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1809, the Juvenile Justice Reform Act of 2017 by voice vote. Introduced by Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Rep. Jason Lewis (R-MN) the bipartisan legislation reauthorizes and reforms the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA) to help state and local leaders better serve juvenile offenders and at-risk youth. “Today’s bipartisan work in the House brings us one step closer to dismantling the school-to-prison pipeline,” said Ranking Member Scott. “H.R. 1809, the Juvenile Justice Reform Act, includes necessary improvements to federal juvenile crime policy that are firmly grounded in evidence. The bill strengthens the basic protections for children in the juvenile systems in all states. It also ensures public dollars are invested in a continuum of evidence-based initiatives, and alternatives to incarceration and secure detention. We know this strategy produces positive results for at-risk youth that lead to reduced crime and long-term savings. This policy is based on the Youth PROMISE Act, legislation I first introduced in 2007, and I’m glad that we are able to pass the core parts of the Youth PROMISE Act today.” “The Juvenile Justice Reform Act gives kids across the US a second chance,” said Rep. Jason Lewis. “The reforms we make in the JJRA are focused on preventing crime, supporting rehabilitation, and getting kids to graduation and a good job. We need these reforms to keep kids from being in jail unnecessarily- and to get to at-risk youth before they can take a wrong turn. I’m proud that my colleagues unanimously supported this bipartisan bill, which will improve accountability for taxpayers. I’ll keep working to get this bill signed into law.” “The Juvenile Justice Reform Act of 2017 will help provide vulnerable youth an opportunity to make a change for the better. This bipartisan proposal renews our commitment as a country to help disadvantaged children turn their lives around and achieve success,” said Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC), chairwoman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Representative Lewis and Ranking Member Scott are to be commended for their leadership, and I urge our Senate colleagues to advance this important legislation without delay." BACKGROUND: Since 1974, the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act has coordinated federal resources aimed at improving state juvenile justice systems with a focus on education and rehabilitation. While many of these state juvenile justice programs have helped children develop the life skills they need to hold themselves accountable and achieve success, not all programs have seen the same results. To improve education and rehabilitation of at-risk youth and juvenile offenders, Ranking Member Scott and Rep. Lewis introduced the Juvenile Justice Reform Act of 2017. The bipartisan legislation includes reforms to: Provide states and local leaders greater flexibility to deliver services that meet the specific needs of delinquent youth in their communities. Promote opportunities for juvenile offenders to acquire skills necessary to grow into productive members of society. Help at-risk youth avoid the juvenile justice system by improving support for prevention services. Prioritize evidence-based strategies and long-term solutions for addressing juvenile delinquency. Improve accountability and oversight at all levels of the juvenile justice system. To read a fact sheet on the bill, click here. To read a section-by-section summary of the bill, click here. To read the bill, click here. # # #
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Tim Kaine and Mark Warner and U.S. Representative Bobby Scott will introduce the Building Up Infrastructure and Limiting Disasters through Resilience (BUILD Resilience) Act, a bill to establish a competitive grant program for resilient infrastructure investment. This legislation will bolster the ability of regions like Hampton Roads to implement projects and strategies to reduce regional vulnerability to threats like sea level rise and recurrent flooding. With a range from 1 ½ to 7 feet of sea level rise projected by the year 2100, the Hampton Roads region is the second largest population center at risk from sea level rise in the nation, behind only New Orleans. Analyses by the Congressional Budget Office and the Multihazard Mitigation Council of the National Institute of Building Sciences estimate that every $1 invested in resilient infrastructure upfront saves $3 to $4 in future losses on the back-end after a major disaster strikes. “With this bill, Senator Warner, Congressman Scott and I are striving to promote up-front investment in resilient infrastructure than can better withstand a disaster, rather than only funding the cleanup after a disaster strikes,” said Kaine. “Sea level rise is a major challenge for residents dealing with skyrocketing flood insurance premiums and flooding not only after a Hurricane Sandy or a Hurricane Matthew but from ordinary rainstorms. For Hampton Roads in particular, this is a direct federal responsibility given the presence of the largest concentration of naval power in the world. An ODU study estimates that the main Norfolk city road leading into Naval Station Norfolk could be inundated by the tides a few hours per day by mid-century. That makes this not only an infrastructure issue but a national security issue. I hope to work with the White House and Congress to advance a comprehensive infrastructure package that addresses this challenge.” “Walking around Norfolk, you can already see the very real effects of climate change as streets and buildings regularly flood at high tide. We have to help places like Hampton Roads proactively protect against the challenges posed by sea level rise,” said Warner. “This legislation will provide additional resources to encourage communities to prepare now for future storms and other extreme weather caused by climate change.” “Many communities have experienced an increase in extreme weather events, including storm surge, severe flooding, and tropical storms, all of which have severely affected our nation’s infrastructure.” said Scott. “Communities in Hampton Roads are particularly at risk of experiencing these extreme weather events combined with rising sea levels. The increasing frequency of these events emphasize the need for infrastructure investments that can guard against the impact of future natural disasters. In 2015, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development launched the National Disaster Resilience Competition, which allowed the City of Norfolk to secure funding toward innovative resilience projects. However, due to the number of applications received, funding for this one time competition was oversubscribed seven to one, highlighting the need for sustained federal funding for resiliency. By introducing the BUILD Resilience Act, Senator Kaine and I are fighting to ensure that more federal funds are available to support community resilience here in Hampton Roads and in across the nation.” The BUILD Resilience Act is modeled after the National Disaster Resilience Competition (NDRC) authorized in the 2013 Sandy emergency supplemental bill to help communities improve their ability to withstand and recover from future disasters. Through this competition, the Commonwealth of Virginia was awarded $120.5 million for innovative resilience projects in Norfolk, the third largest grant of the entire program behind New Orleans and New York City. The Cities of Newport News and Chesapeake also applied for NDRC grants but fell short due to limited available funding. The BUILD Resilience Act would address the need for greater investment by providing $1 billion/year over the next five years for infrastructure resilience. Kaine and Warner will introduce the bill in the Senate and Scott will introduce the same legislation in the House. # # #
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Rand Paul (R-KY), Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) reintroduced the Justice Safety Valve Act, S. 1127, in the U.S. Senate. Representative Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Representative Thomas Massie (R-KY) are reintroducing companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. Last week, Attorney General Jeff Sessions directed federal prosecutors to pursue the most serious charges and maximum sentences in their cases, returning to stricter enforcement of mandatory minimum sentences. The Justice Safety Valve Act would give federal judges the ability to impose sentences below mandatory minimums in appropriate cases based on mitigating factors. “Mandatory minimum sentences disproportionally affect minorities and low-income communities, while doing little to keep us safe and turning mistakes into tragedies. As this legislation demonstrates, Congress can come together in a bipartisan fashion to change these laws,” said Sen. Paul. “When we require that judges sentence offenders to years, sometimes decades, longer than is needed to keep our communities safe, it comes at extraordinary costs,” said Sen. Leahy. "An outgrowth of the failed War on Drugs, mandatory sentencing strips critical public safety resources away from law enforcement strategies that actually make our communities safer. It also comes with a human cost, particularly for communities of color, and results in a criminal justice system that is anything but ‘just.’ Our bipartisan approach offers a simple solution: Let judges judge.” "Attorney General Sessions' directive to all federal prosecutors to charge the most serious offenses, including mandatory minimums, ignores the fact that mandatory minimum sentences have been studied extensively and have been found to distort rational sentencing systems, discriminate against minorities, waste money, and often require a judge to impose sentences that violate common sense," said Rep. Scott. "To add insult to injury, studies have shown that mandatory minimum sentences fail to reduce crime. Our bill will give discretion back to federal judges, so that they can consider all the facts, issues, and circumstances before sentencing." Mandatory minimums force federal judges to issue indiscriminate punishments, regardless of involvement, criminal history, mental health, addiction, and other mitigating factors. The Justice Safety Valve Act would apply the current "safety valve" provision to all federal crimes, restoring proportionality, fairness, and rationality to federal sentencing by allowing federal judges to tailor sentences on a case-by-case basis. Such judicial discretion would help reduce the bloated federal prison population and tackle dangerous overcrowding while ensuring sentences fit the circumstances of the crime. This landmark bipartisan, bicameral legislation would also reduce correctional spending, which currently accounts for almost a third of the Department of Justice's annual budget. This would allow the Department to focus more on victim services, state and local law enforcement, staffing, investigation, and prosecution. You can read the Justice Safety Valve Act HERE. # # #
05.12.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ memorandum to all federal prosecutors establishing new policies for charging criminal offenses and seeking sentences when convictions are obtained: "Today, the Department of Justice announced the issuance of a memorandum from Attorney General Jeff Sessions to all federal prosecutors establishing new policies for charging and sentencing in criminal cases. "I am disappointed that Attorney General Sessions has taken the Department of Justice sentencing policies back in time by rescinding the fair-minded charging and sentencing policies instituted by former Attorney General Eric Holder. Attorney General Sessions' memorandum explicitly rescinds policies designed by former Attorney General Holder to 'ensure that our most severe mandatory minimum penalties are reserved for serious, high-level, or violent drug traffickers'. "Under former Attorney General Holder, the policies implemented at the Department of Justice represented a better approach. This process allowed each case to be reviewed based on its unique circumstances while acknowledging the inequities that result from one-size-fits-all mandatory minimums. Attorney General Sessions’ new guidance rehashes old discredited policies. Research has found that mandatory minimum sentences fail to reduce crime, waste money, discriminate against minorities and frequently require judges to impose bizarre sentences that violate common sense. "There is growing bipartisan consensus based on evidence and research that mandatory minimums, in which sentences in drug cases are based on quantity and not culpability, are ineffective, unjust, and waste the taxpayers dollars. We are suffering from a crisis of over incarceration, which harms public safety and is fiscally unsustainable. I call on the Attorney General to reinstate the previous guidance which has been shown to be both fair and effective.” # # #
05.11.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – On Monday, May 15, 2017 at 10:30 a.m., Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will kick off the beginning of Infrastructure Week 2017 by touring the Salters Creek watershed at Monitor-Merrimac Overlook Park in the southeast community of Newport News to highlight the need for critical infrastructure investments. “The American Society of Civil Engineers has given our nation’s infrastructure a grade of D+,” stated Rep. Scott. “Our failure to make the necessary investments in our infrastructure costs American families $3,400 each year in disposable income and will jeopardize 2.5 million jobs between now and 2025.” “Adding to our nation’s infrastructure problems is the fact that many communities in recent years have experienced extreme weather events, including storm surge, severe flooding, and tropical storms,” Scott continued. “Communities in Hampton Roads are especially at risk to these natural disasters, which are only compounded by sea level rise. This makes Hampton Roads’ infrastructure needs especially significant to guard against the impact of future natural catastrophes.” When he returns to Washington on May 16th, Congressman Scott will introduce the Building Up Infrastructure to Limit Disasters through Resilience Act or BUILD Resilience Act. The tour will highlight the Salters Creek water infrastructure project that would benefit from the BUILD Resilience Act. Modeled after the successful 2015 National Disaster Resilience Competition, the BUILD Resilience Act would authorize a competitive grant program at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to assist communities recovering from natural disasters and to enhance their infrastructure to reduce risks presented by future natural catastrophes. Improvements to the Salters Creek watershed in Newport News would have benefited from the “THRIVE: Resilience in Virginia” proposal that was not funded due to the limited amount of funding for the 2015 National Disaster Resilience Competition. “The BUILD Resilience Act would ensure that more federal funds are available to support critical infrastructure projects, such as Salters Creek, and to make sure Hampton Roads and other communities are able to make the necessary improvements to their infrastructure to guard against natural disasters and sea level rise,” Scott said. The tour will be open to media. Congressman Scott will hold a media availability immediately following the tour. Press interested in attending should RSVP to Gabrielle.Brown@mail.house.gov Tour of Salters Creek Watershed Monday, May 15, 2017 10:30 a.m. Monitor-Merrimac Overlook Park 16th Street and Walnut Avenue Newport News, Virginia 23607 # # #
05.11.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – On Friday, May 12, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott will tour the Foodbank of Southeastern Virginia in Norfolk, Virginia. During the tour, Congressman Scott will view the weekly food distribution for programs such as Helping Hands. Congressman Scott will also meet with staff to discuss the importance of child nutrition programs, including after-school meal programs. For millions of students, after-school and weekend meal programs fill the hunger gap that may exist for low-income students and these programs are essential to their healthy growth and development. This tour will be closed to the press. Congressman Scott will be available to the media following the completion of the tour. Foodbank of Southeastern Virginia Tour 800 Tidewater Drive, Norfolk, VA 23504 Friday, May 12, 2017 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Press interested in attending media avail following the event should RSVP to Gabrielle.Brown@mail.house.gov # # #
05.10.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey: “The President’s firing of FBI Director Comey is alarming; especially in light of the Bureau’s ongoing investigation of the Trump campaign’s alleged ties to Russia. The Department of Justice must immediately appoint a special prosecutor to ensure an independent and thorough investigation of these allegations. Additionally, Congress must establish a non-partisan commission to further investigate Russia’s interference with the 2016 presidential election. These actions will safeguard any investigation from political interference by either the President or Congress.” # # #
05.08.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after President Trump suggested financing for Historically Black Colleges and Universities may be unconstitutional: “The President issued a signing statement calling into question the constitutional status of federally-designated Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and the programs that serve them. While he has since issued another statement attempting to clarify his support for HBCUs, there has been no revision to clarify that HBCUs are in fact constitutional. HBCUs are on a solid legal footing, as the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) spelled out in their response to the President attached here. I hope the President revises his statement and leaves no doubt that he believes that HBCUs are constitutional.” UNCF’s statement can be found here and below: “Following the public release of President Trump’s signing statement, UNCF sought clarification from the White House and received informal assurance from White House officials that the paragraph is not intended to indicate any policy change toward HBCUs and that the Administration intends to implement the HBCU Capital Financing Program. Nonetheless, UNCF urges the White House to issue an official clarification of its policy to the HBCU community, as the HBCU Capital Financing program has provided tremendous value to HBCUs and the students they serve over the past 25 years. “The HBCU Capital Financing Program, administered by the U.S. Department of Education, provides low-interest loans to HBCUs to finance infrastructure improvements on their campuses. Specifically, the program has enabled more than 40 public and private HBCUs to repair, renovate, and construct classrooms, libraries, science laboratories, and dormitories, helping to ensure that HBCU students can learn in modern facilities with modern equipment and up-to-date technology that is essential in today’s economy. For example, using HBCU Capital Financing loans, Bethune-Cookman University in Florida renovated a student center and provided new student housing; Johnson C. Smith University in North Carolina built a new science and technology facility; and several HBCUs in Louisiana and Mississippi were able to rebuild their campuses after severe damage caused by major hurricanes. This federal loan program has become even more essential to HBCUs, considering recent research evidence that HBCUs pay more to secure capital financing in the private bond markets than non-HBCUs. “The HBCU Capital Financing Program is authorized under Title III, Part D of the Higher Education Act (HEA), which also authorizes federal grants to HBCUs for operating assistance and endowments under Title III, Parts B and C. The designation of institutions that are eligible for Title III federal assistance has been settled for over 50 years, since the enactment of the HEA in 1965. Eligible institutions must meet statutory criteria, not based on race, but rather on mission, accreditation status and year the institution was established. Today, 101 HBCUs qualify for this assistance, many of which have a racially diverse student enrollment, faculty and staff. For instance, Bluefield State College in West Virginia is designated as an HBCU, but according to NCES data, Bluefield enrolls a population that is 85 percent white and only nine percent African American. “The provision in President Trump’s signing statement regarding this critical HBCU program may simply be lawyers at the Office of Management and Budget being overly cautious and perhaps not fully understanding the legal basis for federal HBCU programs. However, these programs have been thoroughly vetted by the Congress and prior Administrations, and the new Administration must eliminate any doubt as to their Constitutionality. “UNCF looks forward to working with the White House and the U.S. Department of Education to continue to communicate the importance of this program and others that positively impact HBCUs and the students they have served for more than 150 years.” # # #
05.05.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added a total of 211,000 jobs in April, with the unemployment rate at 4.4 percent. “Today’s jobs report shows that President Trump continues to inherit a growing economy from President Obama. Unfortunately, President Trump's plans to significantly cut programs that support our nation's long-term economic prosperity will only jeopardize the economic gains we have made after the 2008 recession. And Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and replace it with a plan that will cause 24 million Americans to lose their health insurance will only exacerbate the economic harm that will be inflicted on working families. "I hope that the President and Congressional Republicans will instead work with Democrats on solutions to continue to build on this historic economic growth to ensure that every American can benefit from our shared prosperity." # # #
05.04.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Committee on the Judiciary Ranking Member John Conyers (MI-13) issued the following statement after President Trump signed an executive order on the National Day of Prayer, that allegedly promotes “religious liberty”: “Religious liberty is a fundamental American value. However, the executive order signed today by the Trump Administration would permit individuals to use their 'conscience-based objections' to override civil rights protections. The principle that individuals can use their 'conscience-based objections' to undermine generally applicable civil rights laws sets a dangerous precedent. “This executive order also takes the dangerous step of directing the IRS to relax its enforcement of the law. It would change the law and force the tax-paying public to subsidize churches who endorse political candidates and views. This executive order would erode the protective wall that separates the public’s financial support for the good work carried out by houses of worship from the partisan political activities. “Further, this executive order invites greater risk of accountability since the broad IRS exemption already provides for a very flexible definition of what constitutes a "church." Two years ago, satirist John Oliver started a fake church, Our Lady of Perpetual Exemption, to illustrate the already lax standards. After demonstrating his point, Mr. Oliver closed his "church" after one month and donated the thousands of dollars he had raised. “Simply put, on this Day of National Prayer, we must reaffirm the Constitution’s principles that protect religion from politics and politics from religion. Today’s actions also highlights why Congress must adopt the Do No Harm Act, legislation that would preserve the protections of the Civil Rights Act.” In the 114th Congress, Ranking Member Scott introduced the Do No Harm Act with Congressman Joe Kennedy—the bill will be reintroduced in the 115thCongress. # # #
05.03.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the passage (309-118) of fiscal year 2017 omnibus legislation, H.R. 244 – Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017: “Budgeting requires making tough choices, and a budget is a reflection of priorities. Today’s spending agreement prevents the government from shutting down and limits harmful efforts to balance the budget on the backs of students, working families, and vulnerable communities across the nation. “As legislators, we decide what our priorities are and how to best invest in our country. The spending agreement funds vital programs at the Department of Education, Health and Human Services, Department of Labor, Agriculture, and independent agencies, which support education, job training, and workplace safety and protections. The agreement also secures permanent health benefits for the more than 22,600 retired United Mine Workers of America coal miners and their families. “I am also pleased that the spending agreement provides funding for programs that directly impact Hampton Roads, Virginia. The legislation provides sufficient funding for cleanup and restoration of the Chesapeake Bay, sending a clear signal to the President that there will be little support for his efforts to cut these programs in the next fiscal year. Finally, the legislation provides critical funding to the Department of Defense, including a pay increase for our military and funding for shipbuilding and ship maintenance availabilities. This will provide some much-needed certainty in the availability of work for Hampton Roads’ ship repair and shipbuilding industries. “However, we must increase our investment in summer jobs, opportunities for disconnected youth, apprenticeships, and programs that expand access to in-demand jobs. We must secure robust funding to increase both access to and the quality of early learning and childcare programs. In addition, our investments in public schools should increase and funding should not be diverted to school voucher programs “Finally, we must not waver in our commitment to boost wages, help people better balance work and family life, and level the playing field by ending discrimination in the workplace. Committee Democrats remain committed to investing in students and families to restore balance to our nation’s economy so that it works for all families – not just the wealthy few.” # # #
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) delivered a speech on the House floor this morning honoring the retirement of his longtime Chief of Staff, Joni Ivey. Video of Congressman Scott’s speech is linked below. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to a remarkable woman who has dedicated the last 40 years of her life to serving the citizens of the Commonwealth of Virginia--my friend, closest adviser, and chief of staff, Joni Ivey. "Joni was born and raised in Newport News, Virginia. She grew up in Newsome Park and was one of seven children of Willie and Carnetta Ivey. She graduated from Carver High School in 1971, the last graduating class of the segregated high school that was closed when local schools were racially integrated. Joni went on to attend Christopher Newport University and graduated from Norfolk State University. "I first met Joni in 1976, when she was working on Reverend Henry Maxwell's unsuccessful campaign for the Newport News City Council. I was impressed with her work ethic, her dedication to her community, and her political acumen. I was so impressed that I asked her to serve on my first campaign for the House of Delegates in 1977. That started a 40-year friendship and working relationship that took us to the House of Delegates after that election to the Virginia Senate in 1983, and ultimately to the United States Congress in 1993. "Joni has served alongside me every step of the way and has been a selfless, behind-the-scenes public servant for the citizens of Virginia. Serving the public and helping those most in need has always driven her. Her passion in this regard has helped ground me and our staff to focus on what we can do every day we are fortunate enough to be in a position to make better the lives of those we serve. "Joni's commitment to this ideal is not just at work. Joni spends nearly every waking moment of her free time outside of the office helping others, either through her involvement in her church, Ivy Baptist Church in Newport News, or work with the local NAACP where she once served as branch president, by tutoring young people in Newport News, working with the local food bank, or through her service in The Links, Incorporated. Joni has always given back to her community. "Even with all that she does in her community, she always has time for her family. She is a proud aunt to her nieces and nephews, a dedicated daughter to her mother, and a caring sister to her siblings. "Over the last 40 years, she has also mentored hundreds of members of our staff and helped guide them in their careers. Thanks in part to her leadership with my office, a vast majority of our current and former permanent staff members got their start in our office as interns or fellows and grew into talented and instrumental staffers. Joni showed them how they could make a real difference working in government. Her dedication to our staff has helped make me a more effective legislator, and I am forever grateful for that. "Mr. Speaker, Joni Laverne Ivey retires from her service to the United States House of Representatives and to my office this week. This will be a hard-earned and well-deserved retirement, and I know that she will remain as active in Newport News and around Hampton Roads as she is now, but perhaps a little less restrained now that she no longer has to worry about me or our office. "I know Joni has never sought public recognition for her hard work, but on behalf of our entire current and former staff and the citizens of the Third Congressional District of Virginia, I thank her for her dedicated and selfless service to our community, our Commonwealth, and our Nation. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker.” # # #
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s Executive Order to expand off-shore drilling: “Nearly seven years to the day after the Deepwater Horizon disaster, I was disappointed to see President Trump sign an Executive Order to review the 2017-2022 Five Year Oil and Gas Leasing Program, protections put in place for sensitive offshore areas, and regulations put in place to ensure that disasters similar to Deepwater Horizon never take place. "The 2017-2022 Leasing Program was developed collaboratively with significant input from local leaders, businesses, the Department of Defense, environmental stakeholders, and many others. Following this collaborative process, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management determined that oil and gas exploration off the coast of Virginia was not consistent with the needs of the community or the requirements of the Department of Defense. “The President’s Executive Order also ordered the Secretary of Interior to review all areas permanently withdrawn from oil and gas leasing under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act of 1953, including the Norfolk and Baltimore Canyons off the Virginia coast. These unique habitats host a vast array of marine life and offer opportunities for research, conservation, and recreation. It is critical that we protect these areas, and it remains to be seen whether the President even has the authority to withdraw protections for these areas. “As the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster demonstrated, we must exercise extreme caution in offshore drilling. I have long believed that it is simply not worth the risk to Virginia’s fishery, tourism and recreational economy, to our region’s relationship with the Department of Defense, or to the health of our coastlines and the Chesapeake Bay to drill for oil that would yield nothing more than a few days-worth of national oil and gas supply.” # # #
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of Madam Annie B. Daniels: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my longtime friend and supporter Madam Annie B. Daniels. A treasured citizen of the Commonwealth of Virginia, Madam Daniels will be remembered for her entrepreneurial work and civic engagement. “Madam Daniels was perhaps most famous for her work as a beloved hair stylist and founder of the Madam Daniels School of Beauty and Culture, a fixture of the southeast community in Newport News. But outside of her success as a local entrepreneur, she was an important advocate for civil rights and social justice in Virginia, and had been recognized by the City of Newport News, the NAACP, Hampton University, the Urban League of Hampton Roads, and the Virginia General Assembly. “Madam Daniels played a vital role in the start of my career in public service and that of many other local community leaders. Since my first term in the House of Delegates and throughout my service in Congress, I often sought her advice and counsel. “Our community was privileged to have the benefit of knowing and learning from such a highly respected trailblazer like Madam Daniels. My condolences to the family and many friends of Madam Annie B. Daniels.” # # #
04.21.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – On Tuesday April 25, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will meet with the Elizabeth River Project to discuss the impact of President Trump’s proposed budget cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency’s Chesapeake Bay Program and other federal programs designed to protect and restore the Chesapeake Bay and encourage environmental literacy. Congressman Scott will take a river tour to see federally funded restoration efforts on the Eastern Branch of the Elizabeth River, including an oyster reef, NOAA funded Learning Barge field trips, and Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Housing and Urban Development funded projects of the Harbor Park and Chesterfield shorelines. Programs that fund these projects have been targeted for significant cuts in President Trump’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2018. If enacted, these cuts will jeopardize the work that has already been done to restore the Elizabeth River and other Chesapeake Bay tributaries. The tour will be open to the media. Congressman Scott will also be available to the media after the tour. River Tour with the Elizabeth River Project* Tuesday, April 25, 2017 9:30 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Harbor Park Ferry Landing – Aboard the Mariner IV 150 Park Avenue Norfolk, Virginia 23510 *Rain Location: Grandy Village Learning Center, 2971 Kimball Loop, Norfolk, Virginia 23504 # # #
04.14.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – On Monday, April 17, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will meet with representatives of Housing Authorities in Hampton Roads to discuss funding cuts for federal housing programs proposed in President Trump's Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposed. Following the meeting, Congressman Scott will tour Marshall Courts, a 349 unit Public Housing Complex. The complex is currently undergoing a multi-phased comprehensive renovation that is subject to massive cuts under President Trump’s proposed budget. A decrease in funding will significantly delay completing the renovation and will make it difficult to address other aging public housing complexes in the area. The meeting will be closed to the press, but there will be a media availability during and after the completion of the tour. Monday, April 17, 2017 10:00 a.m. Meeting with Housing Authority Directors 2600 Washington Avenue, Suite 1010 Newport News, VA 23607 11:45 a.m. Tour of Marshall Courts Public Housing Complex 741 34th Street Newport News, VA 23607 Press Q&A will be held immediately following the tour. # # #
04.13.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will hold a town hall in Chesapeake, Virginia on Tuesday, April 18, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. This will be an opportunity for constituents to learn more about President Trump’s proposed budget and its impact on Hampton Roads and Virginia, ongoing efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, and other recent legislative actions in Congress. Chesapeake Town Hall Tuesday, April 18, 2017 6:30 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Indian River Community Center 2250 Old Greenbrier Road Chesapeake, Virginia 23325 Click here to RSVP. For more information about this town hall, please contact Congressman Scott's District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
04.10.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, April 10, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will hold a Roundtable with Millennials in Newport News at 5:00 p.m. The roundtable will discuss issues impacting millennials, including financing a higher education, managing student loan debt, finding employment after graduating college, and accessing affordable health care. WHO: Congressman Bobby Scott Members of Brother To Brother, Sister To Sister WHAT: Roundtable with Millennials WHEN: TODAY, April 10, 2017, 5:00 p.m. WHERE: 2600 Washington Avenue First Floor Conference Room Newport News, Virginia STREAM: Livestream of the roundtable will be available on Congressman Scott’s Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/RepBobbyScott For more information about this event, please contact Congressman Scott's District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
04.07.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on last night’s U.S. missile strikes in response to the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad’s use of chemical weapons against Syrian civilians: “I am deeply disturbed by the Assad regime’s continued use of chemical weapons against innocent Syrian civilians. This and the many other crimes against humanity committed by the Assad regime must be addressed by the entire international community. “The missile strikes launched by President Trump last night appear to be a proportional and justified response to these latest atrocities. However, the President must present a comprehensive plan to Congress and the American people on how his Administration intends to address this situation, ensure that the United Nations and our allies in the Middle East will participate in this effort, and how these strikes fit into that strategy. If the President intends to commit our military to a sustained and prolonged military intervention in Syria, he must seek a new Authorization of Use of Military Force from Congress. This will allow Congress to exercise its constitutional prerogative to assess the current situation, review all the facts, debate the issue, and then vote on whether or not to authorize American military action. “Finally, I again call on the President to reconsider his Administration’s ongoing efforts to suspend the entry of refugees fleeing Syria. The United States has a moral obligation to step up and help innocent men, women and children fleeing unimaginable violence and terror. “It is my hope that the President will work with Congress in order to develop a comprehensive plan of action that will keep our nation safe, better engage our allies in this effort, address this humanitarian crisis, and ideally keep our men and women in uniform from another protracted military intervention in the Middle East.” # # #
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, April 5, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) joined Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), the Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Subcommittee on Social Security, in introducing the Social Security 2100 Act. The legislation would increase the payroll tax on those with higher incomes, cut taxes for Social Security recipients, provide a benefit increase for current and future beneficiaries, while strengthening Social Security’s solvency for future generations. “I am proud to be a cosponsor of the Social Security 2100 Act,” said Rep. Scott. “Social Security and Medicare make up the foundation of American retirement security. Americans have paid into the system for decades and, during that time, these programs have promised Americans the chance to retire with dignity after a lifetime of hard work. This legislation helps us keep our promise to safeguard Social Security for our seniors and people with disabilities. But more importantly, this legislation keeps the Social Security Trust Fund solvent for decades and ensures that our seniors will not live in poverty.” # # #
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced the beginning of the 24th Annual Third Congressional District High School Art Competition. The competition is open to all high school students (grades 9-12) residing in the Third Congressional District of Virginia. Entries are due by 5:00 PM, Wednesday, May 3, 2017. An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. This year acceptable entries may include, but are not limited to, paintings, drawings, and photography. The first place winner will receive a scholarship and travel to Washington, D.C. to attend a Congressional Reception in honor of all the winners from around the nation. The first place entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year, where it will be seen by hundreds of thousands of people who visit the Capitol. Congressman Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate and various other prizes at an upcoming reception in the Third Congressional District. All entries must be submitted by Wednesday, May 3, 2017. Students can submit their entries to Congressman Scott's District Office located at 2600 Washington Avenue, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607. If you have any questions regarding this year's art competition, please contact Congressman Scott's District Office at (757) 380-1000. The guidelines and other information about this year's competition can be accessed online at: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/artcontest. # # #
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, April 4, 2017, Representatives Bobby Scott (D-VA) Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), and David Joyce (R-OH) led a bipartisan letter urging President Trump not to eliminate investments in iconic bodies of water. The letter, signed by 31 other Members of Congress, urged the President to reconsider his budget proposal that would completely eliminate the Environmental Protection Agency’s Geographic Programs that provide cleanup funding for the Puget Sound, the Great Lakes, Chesapeake Bay, and other major bodies of water. The members wrote in the letter sent yesterday: “Collectively, the EPA’s Geographic Program funds have been used by state, local, and tribal governments to implement thousands of on-the-ground projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitats, enhance fish and shellfish populations, and combat invasive species. Although every region has shown significant improvement as the result of these investments, there is still a great deal of work to do.” “We know that you are strongly in favor of growing the economy, protecting clean water, and creating jobs. The federal funding provided through the Geographic Programs does just that,” the members added. Full text of the letter follows. The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We write to express our strong and unified support for the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Geographic Programs, including the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), Puget Sound, Chesapeake Bay Program, Long Island Sound, Gulf of Mexico, and others. The lakes, estuaries, and shorelines protected by these programs are truly national treasures. The Great Lakes are the largest freshwater system in the world, holding roughly 18 percent of the world's fresh water supply and 90 percent of the United States' fresh water supply. The Puget Sound and the Chesapeake Bay watersheds are the Nation’s two largest estuaries, encompassing more than 48 million acres of rivers, bays, beaches and shorelines that support some of the Nation’s most valuable fisheries. These iconic bodies of water are also crucial economic drivers that support millions of jobs and billions of dollars in economic impact across the country. In Washington State, the marine industry – which includes fishing fleets, ports, and seafood processors – generates $30 billion annually, and is directly tied to the health of the Puget Sound. Likewise, more than 1.5 million jobs and $62 billion in wages are directly tied to the Great Lakes. Collectively, the EPA’s Geographic Program funds have been used by state, local, and tribal governments to implement thousands of on-the-ground projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitats, enhance fish and shellfish populations, and combat invasive species. Although every region has shown significant improvement as the result of these investments, there is still a great deal of work to do. For example, in 2014 a toxic algal bloom in Lake Erie forced 400,000 residents in the Toledo area to go without home water service for three days. Similarly, in 2015 the Puget Sound experienced the largest toxic algae bloom ever recorded off the West Coast which closed shellfish and crab fisheries throughout the region. Likewise, the annual “dead zone” in the Chesapeake Bay, the result of algal blooms feeding off nutrient pollution, causes significant stress to the Bay’s ecosystem and strains the populations of commercial species such as the iconic blue crab. The economic impacts from these algal blooms reverberate throughout these regions. Grants from the EPA’s geographic programs have been critical to funding research and monitoring efforts to improve predictions of these blooms, but it is clear that much more work remains in order to protect the health of our citizens and our local economies. Similarly, in South Florida, the EPA’s geographic program funds have been critical to supporting efforts to monitor and reduce the impact of point- and nonpoint-source pollution on the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. These efforts are key to protecting indigenous populations of corals, shellfish, fish and wildlife, and recreational activities which are all critical economic drivers for the region. We know that you are strongly in favor of growing the economy, protecting clean water, and creating jobs. The federal funding provided through the Geographic Programs does just that. A peer-reviewed study of the Chesapeake cleanup plan demonstrated that the Chesapeake provides benefits of more than $107 billion annually to the region, which will grow by more than $22 billion annually once the cleanup plan is complete. Likewise, the GLRI has accomplished four times more clean-up and restoration work in the last six years than was undertaken over the previous 22 years. This progress has helped rejuvenate the hunting, fishing, and birding opportunities which support 217,000 tourism and recreation jobs throughout the region. Furthermore, in Washington State alone, every EPA dollar spent on Puget Sound recovery efforts has leveraged more than $24 in matching funds from other federal agencies and local partners, including the state, tribes, and non-profits. That’s an enormous return on investment. Given the sweeping economic impacts of the Geographic Programs, we ask that you continue to include robust support for these programs in your Fiscal Year 2018 budget request and beyond. The health of our communities and the strength of our economies depend on it. Sincerely, # # #
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, March 29, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) received the “Distinguished Statesmen in Education Advancement” award from the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation during the eighth annual Avoice Heritage Celebration. The event lauds the legacy of African-American legislators and acknowledges efforts made to preserve African-American legislative history. Congressman Scott, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, received the award in recognition of his commitment to advancing educational opportunity for African-American students and his commitment to addressing equality and equitable access to education. “I am honored to receive the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Distinguished Statesmen in Education Advancement award,” said Congressman Scott. “It is important for legislators across the country to continue to engage stakeholders, so that we can better protect the civil rights of our most vulnerable students. We cannot expect our children to achieve, when they are not given an equal opportunity to succeed. I thank the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation for this recognition, as I continue to work to advance the civil rights of all children and guarantee that every child has access to a quality education.” # # #
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s Executive Order that would dismantle the Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean Power Plan, undo key components of the Climate Action Plan, and make it more difficult for the Federal Government to prepare for the effects of climate change: “After submitting a budget that deeply cuts the Environmental Protection Agency and zeros out funding for the Chesapeake Bay Program, this latest action by the Trump Administration will further harm Virginians and our environment. In Hampton Roads, we have already seen the signs of changing climate through extreme weather, recurrent flooding, and higher than average temperatures. President Trump’s anti-environment executive order will make it more difficult for our community to respond to these challenges and mitigate the effects of climate change. Guidelines that required federal planning to account for rising seas and the effects of carbon emissions and regulations that reduce emissions from new and existing coal fired power plants are among the many rules that would be curtailed by this Executive Order. “We have an obligation to reduce the impacts of climate change. That is why I supported the Clean Power Plan to reduce carbon emissions, the Climate Action Plan and other efforts to ensure that climate change is taken into account in federal planning. “The American people want their elected leaders to respond to the challenges posed by climate change and to ensure that the United States is a world leader in this global effort. However, I fear that today’s Executive Order will set our nation back years in preparing to deal with this threat head on.” # # #
03.24.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after House GOP Leadership postponed consideration of H.R. 1628 – Trumpcare: “Today is a victory for health care security for millions of families. The bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act was a bad deal for the American people, and even those who oppose the Affordable Care Act recognized the serious flaws with the Republican plan. By every measure, the Republican bill made things worse – by increasing the number of uninsured, forcing almost everyone else to pay more for less, while giving a huge tax cut to the wealthy.” RANKING MEMBER BOBBY SCOTT’S FULL FLOOR REMARKS: “As we talk about the Affordable Care Act, I think it is important to remind ourselves of the situation before it the law was passed. Costs were going through the roof, people with pre-existing conditions could not get insurance, women were paying more than men, and every year millions of people were losing their insurance. “We passed the Affordable Care Act and since then, the costs have continued to go up at the lowest rate in 50 years. Those with pre-existing conditions can get insurance at the standard rate, women are no longer paying more than men, and instead of millions of people losing insurance every year, 20 million more people now have insurance. “The full name of the Affordable Care Act is the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. So today: Your coverage can’t be canceled if your insurance company decides that it’s paid too much; Preventive services, such as cancer screenings, are free, with no co-pays or deductibles; We are closing the donut hole; and Those under 26 can stay on a parent’s policy. “We also funded community health centers; we made investments in education so we can produce more doctors, nurses, and other professionals. Through all that, the Medicare trust fund is more solvent than it was before. “Still the law is not perfect, but if we are going to make a change, we ought to improve the law, not make it worse. Incredibly, this bill makes things worse. And, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has separated promises and press releases from reality: 24 million fewer people will be covered, and most people will pay more and get less. My Republican colleagues call this ‘choice’ and ‘the freedom to be uninsured.’ “All of these consequences will occur, if the proposal actually works. A number of states have done what this bill tries to do: cover people with pre-existing conditions without universal coverage. All of those attempts failed. “So the question we must ask is, ‘Who will be better off under this bill passes?’ Certainly not people who will be subject to the bill’s age tax. Certainly not veterans who will lose benefits. Certainly not senior citizens in nursing homes and people with disabilities who will suffer due to drastic cuts to Medicaid. Even the solvency of the Medicare trust fund will be worse. However, millionaires will get tax cuts. “Mr. Speaker, we have heard a lot of complaints and shortcomings about the Affordable Care Act, but if we’re going to make a change, we should improve the law. Unfortunately, this bill makes things worse – 24 million families and working people will lose their insurance and almost everyone else will pay more and get less. This bill should be rejected.” # # #
03.16.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the White House released an outline of its Fiscal Year 2018 budget priorities, known as the “skinny budget.” “This budget proposal is yet another broken promise from the Administration to the American people. Cutting $54 billion from programs that help protect and support working families to learn and earn is no way to grow the national economy or put people back to work. Working families deserve a budget that invests in their health and futures, boosts wages, helps them balance work and family life, and levels the playing field for them and their children to succeed. President Trump’s budget proposal eliminates and reduces vital programs for students, teachers, and workers that will endanger public education, make college less affordable, and reduce the availability of workforce training. Committee Democrats will continue to press for a budget that supports public education in preparing all students for success from birth to college and career, creates good-paying jobs, and puts more money in the pockets of hardworking people – while reducing the deficit in a balanced and responsible way.” # # #
03.13.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office announced that 24 million more Americans would be uninsured under the Republicans’ Pay More For Less bill. "The Congressional Budget Office has confirmed what we already knew - that millions of Americans would lose access to affordable health insurance under the Republican plan. This proposal was put together without considering the fundamental principles of arithmetic. By skewing the tax credits toward higher income families, it only shifts costs onto those living paycheck to paycheck. If certain people pay less, then the rest necessarily pay more. It is a zero sum game. Further, the Republican plan is fiscally irresponsible and gives a huge tax break to the wealthiest Americans. Lastly, the proposal purports to cover those with pre-existing conditions without requiring that everyone maintains health coverage. This approach has failed in numerous states that have tried it. Instead of re-trying failed health policies that result in millions paying more for less, we should build on the progress of the Affordable Care Act and not go backward." # # #
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Monday, March 13, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will meet with hospital administrators, doctors, and nurses to discuss federal health care policy and the American Healthcare Act, which is the House Republican proposal to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. Each meeting is closed to the press, but there will be a media availability following each event at approximately 11:15 am and 3:15 pm. Monday, March 13 ,2017 10:00 a.m. Chesapeake Regional HealthCare Lifestyle Health & Fitness Center 736 N Battlefield Blvd, Chesapeake, VA 23320 Press Q&A will be held immediately following the meeting at 11:15 am 2:00 p.m. Southeastern Virginia Health System East End Physicians Community Health Center 1033 28th Street, Newport News, VA 23607 Press Q&A will be held immediately following the meeting at 3:15 pm # # #
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, received the 2017 Congressional Voice for Children Award at the National PTA Legislative Conference. The award honors outstanding leadership and commitment to improving education and advancing issues impacting children’s health and well-being. Every year, the National PTA Legislative Conference brings together PTA leaders and advocates from across the country to explore the association’s public policy priorities and actively advocate to make every child’s potential a reality. “I am honored to receive the Congressional Voice for Children Award from National PTA,” said Congressman Scott. “PTA members in Virginia and across the nation work every day to ensure that every child has access to a safe learning environment and a great public school. I look forward to our continued partnership to ensure that Congress hears the voices of parents, teachers and communities in support of public education.” In his role as Ranking Member of the Education and Workforce Committee, Congressman Scott was one of the key architects of the bipartisan Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), the long-awaited reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). Congressman Scott is also leading efforts in Congress to improve juvenile justice policies by sponsoring the Youth PROMISE Act and cosponsoring the Supporting Youth Opportunity and Preventing Delinquency Act, a bill to reauthorize the Juvenile Justice Delinquency Prevention Act. He also has advocated for strong school nutrition standards, and he led the opposition against a partisan child nutrition reauthorization bill that would have rolled back these standards. # # #
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) submitted the following testimony to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development highlighting the need to fund certain programs that will directly impact the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia. “Good morning, and thank you Chairman Simpson, Ranking Member Kaptur, and Members of the Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development for allowing me this time to discuss some of the priorities I believe should be reflected in the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2018. “The 3rd District of Virginia, which I represent, lies at the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay on the banks of the James, Nansemond, and Elizabeth Rivers, presenting both challenges and opportunities. For two centuries, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has worked to keep America’s waterways and ports open to trade, while working with communities to ensure that they are able to live with the water in their community. “As you know, the Army Corps of Engineers allows for the much needed construction and maintenance of projects to help ensure that commerce continues to move smoothly through our ports and across our waterways, and that our communities are better able to live with and manage water. My district is home to the Port of Virginia, one of the largest and busiest ports on the eastern seaboard. With 95 percent of our nation’s trade moving by water, funding for the Army Corps is absolutely essential to maintaining current channel depth and ensuring that the Port of Virginia and other ports are able to serve large post-Panamax ships as they look to call to port on the East Coast. “Mr. Chairman, Congress must give the Army Corps the resources necessary to develop and maintain modern seaports. To do so, I ask that the Subcommittee provide $2.9 billion in Fiscal Year 2018 to the Navigation Program to support coastal and inland waterway projects. This slight increase in what the House proposed for Fiscal Year 2017 would allow for the Corps to study, construct, and maintain important navigation projects in order to allow the United States to maintain a modern seaport system for the modern global economy. “Specifically, I request the Subcommittee dedicate $1.615 billion to Coastal Navigation, with $1.3 billion for Coastal Navigation Operations and Maintenance, $250 million for Coastal Navigation Construction, and $50 million for the Donor and Energy Transfer Ports Program. “Funding at these levels will allow the Corps to better maintain federal navigation channels, and to construct important navigation projects like the Craney Island Eastward Expansion at the Port of Virginia. This project is an innovative example of making use of dredged material that will, once the site is filled, become a new terminal built by and for the Port of Virginia. With a robust Navigation Program, these are the sorts of projects we will be able to undertake. “However, the Corps also funds smaller projects across the country and in Virginia’s 3rd Congressional District, which are equally important to ensuring safe transport across waterways. In Chesapeake, Virginia, the Deep Creek Bridge Project will replace a functionally obsolete bridge constructed in 1934 spanning the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and is aimed at reducing daily bottlenecks. While this may seem like a small project, these sorts of projects, and this project in particular is regionally important and will help communities thrive. “It is also critically important to the communities I represent that sufficient funding be appropriated for the Army Corps Civil/Investigations account for Flood Risk Management. Ensuring that the Corps is able to in a timely fashion complete Flood Risk Management feasibility studies allows towns, cities, counties, and states across the nation the ability to adequately plan their communities and prepare for the possibility of rising waters. Cities of the Hampton Roads region of Virginia, and the City of Norfolk in particular, have continually experienced recurrent flooding. Norfolk is specifically at risk from flooding due to high tides, nor’easters, and hurricanes, and has been ranked second at risk to these types of threats behind only New Orleans. As the home of Naval Station Norfolk and numerous other federal and military facilities, this recurrent flooding also poses a severe national security risk. “Extreme weather events will always be a concern, and this funding is absolutely essential to complete flood risk management studies and give communities like those in Hampton Roads the ability to plan proactively to mitigate future risks. “Mr. Chairman, thank you again for allowing me the chance to testify here today. I look forward to working with you to ensure adequate funding for these programs.” # # #
03.06.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after Republicans finally released their proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “The Republican bill to repeal the ACA is fundamentally flawed, because it purports to cover pre-existing conditions without an individual mandate. In states that have tried this, the markets have gone into total chaos. Furthermore, the tax credits proposed are likely to be insufficient for low-income working families, leaving millions worse off than they are today. When CBO ultimately scores this legislation, it will likely find that costs will go up and the number of people covered will go down." # # #
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s visit to Newport News Shipbuilding: “I always welcome the opportunity for the President of the United States to visit my district and the world’s best shipbuilders in Newport News. President Trump will see firsthand how dedicated these men and women are to their trade and to making sure that our Navy’s aircraft carriers and submarines are the most advanced in the world. “I welcome the President’s call for increased shipbuilding, but I remain very concerned about how he intends to pay for it. So far, all I’ve heard is that he intends to cut taxes, raise defense spending, and propose draconian cuts to non-defense discretionary spending. That means deep cuts to programs that support education, rebuild our infrastructure, ensure clean air and water, and protect workplace safety and public health. I hope that in the next days and weeks the President and his administration will provide more concrete details on his proposals.” # # #
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s first address to a Joint Session of Congress: “President Trump’s plans to cut taxes and increase defense spending violate fundamental principles of arithmetic. While his proposal for increased defense spending and eliminating the sequester for the Department of Defense would certainly benefit parts of the Hampton Roads economy, the draconian spending cuts required to offset these increases would negatively impact thousands of hard working Virginia families and disrupt other areas of our region’s economy. And his tax plan would largely benefit the wealthiest Americans and explode our deficit. “Furthermore, the President’s continued call to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act only jeopardizes health care for millions of Americans. Tonight, the President again promised that he wants to expand choice, increase access, and lower costs. Unfortunately, to this date, the President and Congressional Republicans have not proposed any legislation that would protect the 20 million Americans who gained insurance coverage through the ACA or the estimated 129 million Americans with pre-existing conditions who now enjoy critical consumer protections. “I had hoped that in his first address to a joint session of Congress the President would have provided more concrete details about his vision for our country. Instead we heard more empty rhetoric with very little specifics.” # # #
02.22.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the White House announced that it will repeal the Obama Administration’s Title IX guidance protecting the rights of transgender students. “The impact of the Trump Administration’s repeal of the Title IX guidance leaves LGBTQ students in at least 31 states vulnerable to bullying and discrimination. A student’s right to equal education should not be impeded by an unsafe learning environment. “Last May, the Obama Administration’s Department of Education issued guidance to clarify that transgender students are protected under Title IX. That law, passed in 1972, prohibits disparate treatment, disparate impact, and retaliation based on sex in education. The guidance was issued after states like North Carolina passed laws to restrict bathroom access of students and personnel in educational facilities whose gender identify differed from what was assigned at birth. “The majority of the American people support laws prohibiting unlawful discrimination against LGBTQ Americans. It is time for Congress to pass a law that makes clear that one’s LGBTQ status should not be subject to discrimination at school or at work.” # # #
02.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) will hold a town hall on the Affordable Care Act in Franklin, Virginia on Saturday, February 25, 2017 at 2:00 p.m. The town hall will provide an overview of the Affordable Care Act and other health care initiatives at the federal level. This will be an opportunity for constituents to ask questions and receive information regarding repeal efforts and the impact this will have on their health care coverage. Franklin Affordable Care Act Town Hall Saturday, February 25, 2017 2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Paul D. Camp Community College Regional Workforce Development Center 100 North College Drive Franklin, VA 23851 For more information about this town hall, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. To RSVP, please click here. # # #
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) received the Congressional Champion of Youth Award from Boys and Girls Clubs of America. Congressman Scott was honored for his extraordinary support of Boys and Girls Clubs and his ongoing dedication to the youth of our nation. “As a strong supporter of Boys and Girls Clubs, I am honored to receive the Congressional Champion of Youth Award,” said Rep. Scott. “Boys and Girls Clubs provide a safe haven for our youth and encourage them to make good life decisions. In my district alone, Boys and Girls Clubs serve thousands of young people across Hampton Roads. Through active engagement in our communities, we can help effect change, one child at a time. That is what Boys and Girls Clubs do every day and their work serves as model for the policies I continue to advocate for in Congress. I look forward to continuing to support their efforts to make a positive impact in the lives of our children.” # # #
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives A. Donald McEachin (VA-04), Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Grace Meng (NY-06) issued the following joint statement today on the recent shooting death of Jiansheng Chen, a Chesapeake, VA. Late last month, Mr.Chen was fatally shot by a neighborhood security guard while playing Pokemon Go. Police are presently investigating the incident. “We are deeply saddened over the death of Jiansheng Chen. We are also concerned about the manner and circumstances in which he lost his life. Many questions remain and need to be answered, and we call on local authorities to conduct their investigation thoroughly and expeditiously. We must know how a game of Pokémon Go turned into a fatal shooting. “It is our hope that Congress will act in a bipartisan manner to ensure law enforcement personnel receive high quality, evidence-based training in non-lethal de-escalation tactics. We must continue to work together to emphasize the need for reasonable and effective policies that reflect our nation’s moral obligation to keep our communities safe. “At this difficult time, we send our thoughts and prayers to the Chen family, and we eagerly await further information from law enforcement about this tragic incident.” # # #
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Rob Wittman (R-01), Bobby Scott (D-03), Gerry Connolly (D-11), Don Beyer (D-08), and Scott Taylor (R-02) today reintroduced legislation to grant federal recognition to six Virginia Indian tribes. The bill, the Thomasina E. Jordan Indian Tribes of Virginia Federal Recognition Act of 2017. The legislation would grant federal recognition to the Chickahominy, the Eastern Chickahominy, the Upper Mattaponi, the Rappahannock, the Monacan, and the Nansemond tribes. These tribes have received official recognition from the Commonwealth of Virginia but have faced barriers preventing them from receiving federal recognition because of gaps in official records. Specifically, the Virginia tribes lack formal treaties with the U.S. Government because they made peace with England well before the establishment of the United States. The Racial Integrity Act of 1924 also led to a “paper genocide,” which destroyed birth records, marriage certificates, and land titles of Virginia’s tribes. Federal recognition would grant Virginia’s tribes legal standing and status in relationships with the U.S. government. This status would enable the tribes to pursue repatriation of historical and cultural artifacts, comment on federal agency actions that could affect their future, and gain access to a number of federal programs that serve the other 566 federally recognized tribes. “The history of these tribes is intertwined with the birth of our nation, and their federal recognition status is long overdue,” said Congressman Wittman. “I’m proud to work with the Virginia tribes to ensure that they are granted the recognition that they have been denied for far too long.” “Despite their critical role in our nation’s history, Virginia’s tribes are still waiting for federal recognition,” said Congressman Scott. “I commend my colleagues in the Virginia congressional delegation for introducing this legislation and I look forward to working with them to ensure the rightful status of Virginia’s tribes.” “We should do all that is within our reach to address the injustices of history in a way that has a positive and appreciable impact on Native American tribes. Granting Federal recognition of Virginia tribes is one way in which we can honor the role native Americans played in the history of our Commonwealth,” Congressman Connolly said. “It is a privilege to right this wrong and I am pleased to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort to correct a long-standing discrimination.” “Virginia’s tribes are a critical thread of our cultural cloth who have been denied proper recognition for far too long,” said Congressman Beyer. “I’m pleased to support the bill to grant these tribes the federal recognition to which they’re entitled.” “These tribes are an important part of Virginia history and it is past time to support their recognition by the federal government,” said Congressman Taylor. "We are asking Congress to help us make history for the Indian people of Virginia, a history that honors our ancestors who were there at the beginning of this great country," said Chief Steve Adkins of the Chickahominy tribe. # # #
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, following President Donald Trump’s Executive Order banning entry from 7 Muslim-majority countries, Congressman Bobby Scott joined Democratic Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Don Beyer (D-VA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Joe Kennedy III (D-MA), and Brad Schneider (D-IL) demanded that the Administration comply with the federal court orders staying the EO and vowed to fight to overturn it. “President Trump’s unconstitutional and unconscionable Executive Order to shut out people from several Muslim nations is ill-conceived, discriminatory, and counter-productive. It has already led to chaos at our nation’s airports, to condemnation abroad, and has struck fear among immigrant communities throughout the country. As Members of Congress representing diverse populations around the nation, we each visited an airport, participated in demonstrations, and attended community meetings this weekend to demand justice, to provide comfort to our constituents, and to work with government agents and officials to set free those who have been unlawfully and unfairly detained. “Thanks to the hard work of many dedicated lawyers and advocacy organizations, several federal judges have issued important rulings to protect individuals who arrive at our shores, but compliance with these Orders has been haphazard, at best. We have heard reports of, and in some cases seen first-hand, attempts to deport detainees, and continued detentions of lawful permanent residents. We are also concerned that some individuals have been denied access to their attorneys, and we have even heard rumors of individuals being asked to sign documents waiving their own rights. Although many of the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials we interacted with tried to be helpful and professional, it was clear that they had received very little guidance, and that the Executive Order itself is confusing and poorly drafted. We call on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to immediately provide clear guidance to CBP agents that strictly follows the judges’ rulings." # # #
01.29.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s Executive Order stopping immigration from seven predominately Muslim countries, suspending all refugee resettlement for 120 days, and barring all Syrian refugees indefinitely: “President Trump’s immigration executive order runs afoul of American values and our constitution by essentially creating a religious test for entry into the United States and denying due process to green card holders who have been unable to reenter the country. Furthermore, by slamming the door shut to refugees fleeing unimaginable violence overrunning Syria and Iraq, the President has seriously damaged the moral credibility of the United States and only bolstered anti-American sentiment that is a key recruitment tool for terrorist organizations, such as ISIS. “On its face, the President’s executive order as it pertains to refugees is a solution in search of a problem. In contrast to refugees entering Europe, refugees who are resettled in the United States go through a rigorous, multi-agency, multi-step vetting process that can take 18 to 24 months, during which time the refugee seeking resettlement is required to remain in a refugee camp. The overwhelming majority of those who make it through the process are women and children, survivors of violence and torture, and those with severe medical conditions. If the President is concerned with the current process, he should work with Congress to identify problems and make any needed improvements. “Finally, I am very proud of the thousands of Americans who swiftly took action by organizing protests against this executive order at major points of entry and that legal organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union, immediately filed challenges to this order. These efforts send a clear message that the President’s actions are contrary to American values. “The President should listen to the American people and immediately rescind this executive order. If he fails to do so, Congress must take appropriate action to address the order’s constitutional problems and openly debate and vote on whether or not our nation should be a beacon of hope to the world.” # # #
01.21.2017	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement upon learning of the passing of former Newport News Assistant Planning Director, Vice Mayor and City Councilman Charles “Chuck” Allen: "I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my friend Chuck Allen. I've known Chuck for many years dating back to our childhood in the Southeast Community of Newport News. Throughout his life, Chuck was a dedicated public servant and a tireless advocate for the City of Newport News and all of its citizens. He was well respected by his colleagues and was an effective advocate for issues impacting Newport News. A couple of the accomplishments that Chuck helped to make possible were the building of Heritage High School and the restoration of the Downing Gross Cultural Arts Center in the South District. My thoughts and prayers are with Sallie, the Allen family and the many people positively impacted by his work.” # # #
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, spoke on the House Floor today against the Republican budget resolution, which would begin the process of repealing the Affordable Care Act. Below is a transcript of his remarks as delivered: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this budget resolution and its intent to compromise the health insurance for all Americans. “Republicans continue to pursue the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, root and branch, despite the fact that there is no credible plan to deal with the chaos that this repeal will create. 30 million Americans will lose their insurance with the vast majority of those people in working families. There is no plan to protect the other Americans who have enjoyed improved consumer protections and benefits. “And although the rates have gone up, they’ve gone up at HALF the rate that they had been going up before Obamacare. And most of those in the marketplace don’t even have to pay those increased prices because of increased tax credits. “And when Republicans talk about repeal and replace, the only thing that is guaranteed is the repeal part. Republicans have shown little interest in producing an alternative. We’ve heard lots of complaints but we have not seen a plan that will make things any better. “Remember when Medicare was created, most of the Republicans in Congress voted ‘no.’ Republicans in the House have voted numerous times – over 60 times – to repeal some or all of the Affordable Care Act without proposing a credible alternative. And now we have some vague ideas but no plan to deal with the total chaos that will be created if Obamacare is repealed.” Impact of ACA Repeal for Virginia: More Virginians will be uninsured Nearly 400,000 individuals who have gained coverage could lose it. 22,000 kids who have gained coverage are at risk of having coverage rolled back. 59,000 young adults who were able to stay on a parent’s health insurance plan thanks to the ACA now stand to lose coverage. Virginia will see a decline in federal funds and jobs Virginia would lose over 50,000 jobs in 2019. Gross state product would fall by $1.5 trillion between 2019 and 2023. # # #
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on S. 84, a bill to provide for an exception to a limitation against appointment of persons as Secretary of Defense within seven years of relief from active duty as a regular commissioned officer of the Armed Forces. Specifically, the legislation would allow Ret. Gen. James Mattis to serve as Secretary of Defense if confirmed by the United States Senate. “General Mattis has a distinguished military record and is certainly qualified to serve as Secretary of Defense. However, I voted against the waiver to allow General Mattis to serve as Secretary of Defense if confirmed by the Senate for several reasons. “Civilian control of our military has been a fundamental principal of our constitutional republic. Unfortunately, President-elect Trump’s transition staff cancelled General Mattis’ testimony before the House Armed Services Committee. This denied the committee of jurisdiction the opportunity to hear directly from him on the many issues that arise with the unique and rare situation of a recently retired active duty military officer leading the Department of Defense. “Additionally, the waiver considered before the House today was overly broad and not specific to General Mattis. If General Mattis failed to be confirmed by the Senate and President-elect Trump nominated another recently retired active duty military officer who would have otherwise required a waiver, this broad waiver would cover that subsequent nominee with no review by the House or Senate as to whether a waiver should be granted. Congress should not abdicate its constitutional authority in such a manner, especially in circumstances that may jeopardize civilian control of our military.” # # #
01.06.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) issued the final rule updating the levels of permissible beryllium exposure to workers. The nearly 70-year-old old standard for workers exposed to beryllium has failed to protect workers from contracting chronic beryllium disease and cancer. “OSHA’s beryllium rule, which took 18 years to develop, reduces permissible exposure levels by 90 percent, and is estimated to prevent 900 premature deaths due to the ravages of chronic beryllium disease and cancer over the next 10 years,” said Ranking Member Scott. OSHA’s proposal issued in August 2015, was limited to workers in “general industry.” The final standard released today, will also cover workers in construction and shipyard workplaces. This update accounts for the fact that shipyard workers can encounter airborne beryllium from abrasive blasting with coal slag, as well as from welding rods and non-sparking tools made with beryllium. “I also applaud OSHA for listening to the pleas of shipyard workers and the Steelworkers Union at the Newport News Shipyard by expanding the rule to cover shipyards,” Scott continued. “The protective health standard was also supported by the Newport News Shipyard and Shipbuilders Council of America, demonstrating their concern for improved workplace safety. The previous beryllium standard was obsolete the day it was issued back in 1948, and data gathered by the Navy and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health demonstrated that shipyard workers need improved protections due to the risks from abrasive blasting with beryllium-containing coal slag. I am pleased that, throughout this process, I was able elevate the concerns of shipyard workers to ensure they are protected in OSHA’s final standard.” Today, tens of thousands workers are potentially exposed to beryllium on the job. OSHA’s updated rule will cut allowable worker exposure levels, and improve early detection of beryllium-related health effects through medical monitoring. OSHA first began work to update its beryllium standard in 1976, and renewed its present efforts in 1999. OSHA estimates the net economic benefit of this rule is $487 million per year due to fewer premature deaths and reduced incidence of chronic beryllium disease and cancer. Read Ranking Member Scott’s Comment Letter to OSHA on the Rule Read Ranking Member Scott’s Letter to OMB on the Rule # # #
01.06.2017	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added a total of 156,000 jobs in December, with the unemployment rate at 4.7 percent. “When President Obama took office eight years ago, 3.6 million jobs had already been lost due to the recession. Today’s December 2016 jobs report demonstrates that our economy is undoubtedly stronger, and since early 2010, the economy has added a total of 15.8 million private sector jobs. This progress is largely due to the actions taken by the Obama Administration to bring our economy out of recession. I commend the Obama Administration for all it has done to level the playing field for our nation’s working people and those struggling to find work. “President-elect Trump promised during his campaign that ‘under a Trump presidency, the American worker will finally have a president who will protect them and fight for them.’ However, the Republican-controlled Congress now appears poised to take many actions that will harm America’s working families, including efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Repealing the ACA would strip millions of hardworking Americans of their health insurance and increase the deficit by billions of dollars. Consumer protections such as free preventive care would also vanish. America’s working families deserve better. Perhaps President-elect Trump could focus on extending overtime protections to millions of Americans – as we urged him to do last month – instead of taking away health coverage from families. In the coming months and years, our commitment to strengthening America’s working families remains our top priority and I hope my Republican colleagues will make this their priority as well.” # # #
12.28.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – On Monday, January 2, 2017, Congressman Bobby Scott will be closing his Richmond District Office due to redistricting. As a result of court-ordered redistricting, the boundaries of the Third Congressional District of Virginia have changed. Effective on January 3, 2017, Congressman Scott will no longer represent the following localities in the United States Congress: the cities of Petersburg and Richmond, and the counties of Charles City, Henrico, Prince George and Surry. At the start of his new term on January 3, 2017, Congressman Scott will represent the following localities in the new Third Congressional District: the county of Isle of Wight, all of the cities of Franklin, Newport News, Portsmouth and parts of Chesapeake, Hampton, Norfolk, and Suffolk. “It has been a privilege to represent the citizens in these communities,” said Rep. Scott. “During my time in Congress, I have built long lasting relationships that played a vital role in my ability to effectively serve my constituents in Congress. I look forward to working with their new representatives on issues important to our Commonwealth in the 115th Congress.” The Richmond and Newport News offices will be available to assist constituents during this transition. If you live in one of the impacted localities and have a current case with the office, please call 757-380-1000 immediately to advise the office to either return all of your documents or give the office permission to forward your case to your new Member of Congress. # # #
12.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, December 7, 2016, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) received the “Restoring the Balance” award from the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL), a bipartisan national organization committed to improving the quality and effectiveness of state legislatures. Congressman Scott, the Ranking Member of House Committee on Education and the Workforce, received the award in recognition of his leadership in negotiating and advocating for the passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), which reauthorized the Elementary and Secondary Education Act and replaced the No Child Left Behind Act. This prestigious award also highlights Congressman Scott’s efforts to ensure that the Department of Education’s regulations adhere to the intent of Congress. “I am honored to receive the ‘Restoring the Balance’ award and grateful for the National Conference of State Legislatures’ support,” said Congressman Scott. “When I began negotiating the Every Student Succeeds Act, my goal was to protect the civil rights legacy of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. In the coming years, it will be important for state legislators across the country to continue their hard work of engaging stakeholders and protecting the civil rights of our most vulnerable students.” # # #
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on H.R. 2028, the Further Continuing and Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 2017: “I am disappointed that House and Senate Republicans could not advance a more responsible bill to fund the federal government. Continuing Resolutions are inherently bad policy and hinder the work of the federal government. Considering the uncertainty that surrounds the incoming administration, I think it is more responsible for this Congress to enact a yearlong omnibus appropriations bill for the remainder of fiscal year 2017. “With that said, the bill considered in the House today is woefully inadequate. First, the legislation fails to protect health care and pension benefits for coal miners and their families. This bill simply kicks the can down the road by extending their health care benefits for a mere four months. The bill also fails to include the bipartisan Coal Health Care and Pensions Protection Act that is paid for and would fully extend coal miner health benefits and shore up their pension fund. Failure to include this legislation breaks a promise to these hard working men and women, and jeopardizes benefits for approximately 7,600 families in Virginia. “Secondly, while the bill does address funding issues for the Ohio Replacement Program, it unfortunately does not include adequate funding for the Carrier Replacement Program. The entire Virginia congressional delegation raised this issue with House and Senate appropriators earlier this month. Without necessary funding for this program, advanced procurement for the next Ford-class aircraft carrier may be unnecessarily delayed, potentially resulting in added construction costs and likely another temporary but costly reduction in the Navy’s aircraft carrier force. “We have plenty of time left in this session of Congress to responsibly address these issues and others. We should do so before returning home tomorrow.” # # #
12.07.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Members Bobby Scott (D-VA), Sandy Levin (D-MI), and Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) of the House Committees on Education and the Workforce, Ways and Means, and Energy and Commerce respectively, made the following joint statement after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued an order to delay the consideration of House v. Burwell: “This decision to delay the consideration of House v. Burwell until after Inauguration Day puts millions of Americans at risk of losing their health insurance coverage next year. Republicans have relentlessly attempted to repeal and undermine the Affordable Care Act since the law was enacted. If the incoming Trump Administration decides not to defend the legality of the ACA’s cost-sharing subsidies in court, the lower court ruling stands; and we would see the undermining of the insurance market as a whole – both the coverage of those American families who rely on the financial assistance, as well as those who purchase coverage on their own. President-elect Trump promised to stand up for working Americans, but this action would make people worse off, not better, and he hasn’t even taken office yet. Instead of rallying behind partisan attacks without proposing a real replacement to strengthen the law, we urge the incoming Trump Administration and Republican-led Congress to stand on the side of America’s families, students, and working people.” # # #
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) delivered the following remarks on the House floor in support of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. Congressman Scott, as Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, was appointed to the conference committee in July and successfully advocated for the removal of several harmful workplace provisions that were eliminated from the final bill text. “Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017. “I have the honor of representing Hampton Roads, Virginia, the heart of our nation’s shipbuilding industrial base. So I want to underscore my support for the shipbuilding and ship maintenance provisions in the bill, including the language urging the Secretary of the Navy to speed up the procurement schedule for aircraft carriers to ensure that our carrier fleet is not again reduced to 10 carriers. These provisions will not only significantly benefit my region, but will be critical to our nation’s security. I want to particularly commend my colleague from Virginia, the chair of the Seapower Subcommittee, Mr. Forbes, and the ranking member of that Subcommittee, Mr. Courtney, for their hard work on the shipbuilding aspects of the bill. “As the Ranking Member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, I was pleased to see that the final conference report eliminated three matters of grave concern that would have adversely affected working conditions for shipyard workers and employees of government contractors. “The first provision eliminated from the bill would have severely undermined the workers’ compensation benefits that many shipyard workers’ now receive under the Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act. “The second problematic provision would have authorized taxpayer-funded employment discrimination by religious organizations. “And, a third provision would have significantly diminished the application of the Executive Order on Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces. This order will now remain in effect and will help level the playing field so that those contractors who willfully and repeatedly violate workplace safety, labor, and civil rights laws will not gain competitive advantages over those law-abiding contractors who faithfully comply with employment laws. “In closing, Mr. Speaker, I want to recognize the exceptional work made by the Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee, Mr. Smith, with the cooperation of the chair of the committee, Mr. Thornberry, to produce a bill that addresses the defense needs of our nation, but also ensures that workers are treated fairly.” # # # Conference Committee Related Letters Led by Congressman Scott: Letter Expressing Opposition to Section 1094 of the House NDAA Which Authorized Government-Funded Discrimination Letter to President Obama Opposing Section 1094 of the House NDAA Letter Expressing Opposition to the Narrow Applicability of the Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces EO in the House NDAA Letter Opposing Stripping Workers of Protections under the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act Bill to Codify the Maritime Advisory Committee for Occupational Safety Scott Statement at Opening of FY17 NDAA Conference Committee, July 13, 2016
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Bobby Scott (VA-03), Randy Forbes (VA-04), Rob Wittman (VA-01) and Scott Rigell (VA-02) issued the following joint statement applauding today’s announcement by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) that it has awarded a $95.6 million contract to W.M. Jordan Co. of Newport News to construct the Measurement Systems Laboratory (MSL) at NASA Langley Research Center: “Today’s announcement by the General Services Administration is great news for NASA Langley and science research in Hampton Roads,” said Rep.Scott. “This project, part of NASA Langley’s 20-year revitalization plan, will expand NASA Langley’s research capabilities while saving millions of dollars in annual maintenance. As NASA Langley celebrates its 100th Anniversary next year, we look forward to continuing to work with NASA, the Virginia aerospace community, and our colleagues in Congress to ensure that NASA Langley is able to continue to implement its 20-year plan and remains an integral part of accomplishing NASA’s missions.” Rep J. Randy Forbes (VA-04) said “NASA is doing cutting-edge work and much of it is happening right here in Virginia. This contract award is part of what will enable NASA to make exciting new breakthroughs and reach new horizons – and is a sign of the bright days ahead for NASA Langley. I am proud of the bipartisan support from the Hampton Roads congressional delegation to support and advance the critical research being done there every day.” “NASA Langley is such an incredible Virginia and national asset. Construction of the MSL is a key component of NASA Langley Research Center’s long-term revitalization plan, setting course for 21st Century space and aeronautics innovation,” said Rep. Rob Wittman (VA-01) "NASA Langley has always meant a lot to me and my family," Rep.Rigell said. "I am proud that, through the bipartisan work of the delegation and others, the Research Center will be able to continue to inspire many people with the construction of the MSL, which is crucial to a path forward to innovation." # # #
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott will hold a health care town hall in Newport News on Monday, December 12, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. Congressman Scott will be joined by a representative from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and Ashley Richard and Jamila Allen, both Navigators at ENROLL Virginia!, a nonpartisan, community-based organization dedicated to assisting Virginians with enrolling in health insurance offered by the Affordable Care Act Marketplace. The town hall will provide an overview of the Affordable Care Act, the Marketplace enrollment process, and other health care initiatives at the federal level. Open Enrollment for 2017 began on November 1, 2016. December 15, 2016 is the enrollment deadline for coverage to take effect on January 1, 2017. January 31, 2017 is the final enrollment deadline for coverage to take effect on March 1, 2017. Following this date, enrollment and changes to plans can occur only if you qualify for a Special Enrollment Period. Constituents will also have the opportunity to ask questions and share their concerns. This event is free and open to the public. Newport News Healthcare Town Hall Monday, December 12, 2016 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.Downing-Gross Cultural Arts Center 2410 Wickham Ave Newport News, VA 23607 For more information about this town hall, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
11.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) joined 169 of his Democratic colleagues in signing a letter to President-elect Trump requesting he rescind his appointment of Steve Bannon as White House Chief Strategist. The full text of the letter to the President-elect is below. A PDF version can be accessed here. Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. Sincerely, David N. Cicilline (RI-1) Alma Adams (NC-12) Pete Aguilar (CA-31) Karen Bass (CA-37) Joyce Beatty (OH-3) Xavier Becerra (CA-34) Ami Bera (CA-7) Donald Beyer (VA-8) Sanford Bishop (GA-2) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) Madeleine Bordallo (Guam) Brendan Boyle (PA-13) Robert Brady (PA-1) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) G.K. Butterfield (NC-1) Michael Capuano (MA-7) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John Carney (DE-At large) Andre Carson (IN-7) Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Judy Chu (CA-27) Katherine Clark (MA-5) Yvette Clarke (NY-9) William Lacy Clay (MO-1) Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5) James Clyburn (SC-6) Steve Cohen (TN-9) Gerald Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers (MI-13) Jim Cooper (TN-5) Joe Courtney (CT-2) Joseph Crowley (NY-14) Elijah Cummings (MD-7) Danny Davis (IL-7) Susan Davis (CA-53) Peter DeFazio (OR-4) Diana DeGette (CO-1) John Delaney (MD-6) Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) Suzan DelBene (WA-1) Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) Ted Deutch (FL-21) Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Michael Doyle (PA-14) Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) Donna Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Eliot Engel (NY-16) Anna Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) Dwight Evans (PA-2) Sam Farr (CA-20) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL-22) Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Ruben Gallego (AZ-7) John Garamendi (CA-3) Gwen Graham (FL-2) Al Green (TX-9) Gene Green (TX-29) Raul Grijalva (AZ-3) Luis Gutierrez (IL-4) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1) Alcee Hastings (FL-20) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) James Himes (CT-4) Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15) Michael Honda (CA-17) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Steve Israel (NY-3) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Hank Johnson (GA-4) Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) William Keating (MA-9) Robin Kelly (IL-2) Joseph Kennedy (MA-4) Dan Kildee (MI-5) Derek Kilmer (WA-6) Ron Kind (WI-3) Ann Marie Kuster (NH-2) James Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John Larson (CT-1) Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander Levin (MI-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Ted Lieu (CA-33) Dave Loebsack (IA-2) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Lujan (NM-3) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Stephen Lynch (MA-8) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Doris Matsui (CA-6) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McDermott (WA-7) James McGovern (MA-2) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Gregory Meeks (NY-5) Grace Meng (NY-6) Gwen Moore (WI-4) Seth Moulton (MA-6) Patrick Murphy (FL-18) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace Napolitano (CA-32) Richard Neal (MA-1) Richard Nolan (MN-8) Donald Norcross (NJ-1) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) Beto O'Rourke (TX-16) Frank Pallone (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell (NJ-9) Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Scott Peters (CA-52) Chellie Pingree (ME-1) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-2) David Price (NC-4) Mike Quigley (IL-5) Kathleen Rice (NY-4) Cedric Richmond (LA-2) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Raul Ruiz (CA-36) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Linda Sanchez (CA-38) John Sarbanes (MD-3) Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) Adam Schiff (CA-28) Kurt Schrader (OR-5) Bobby Scott (VA-3) Jose Serrano (NY-15) Terri Sewell (AL-7) Albio Sires (NJ-8) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-9) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Bennie Thompson (MS-2) Mike Thompson (CA-5) Dina Titus (NV-1) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Norma Torres (CA-35) Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc Veasey (TX-33) Nydia Velazquez (NY-7) Timothy Walz (MN-1) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) Peter Welch (VT-At large) Frederica Wilson (FL-24) John Yarmuth (KY-3) # # #
11.04.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added a total of 161,000 jobs in October, with the unemployment rate falling to 4.9 percent. “The October jobs report shows that our economy added 161,000 jobs. The longest streak of total job growth on record continued and U.S. businesses have now added 15.5 million jobs since early 2010. Just last week, the Bureau of Economic Analysis reported that the economy grew at an annual rate of 2.9 percent in the third quarter of 2016, with strong export growth and continued strength in consumer spending. While we celebrate this progress, we also remain committed to making meaningful investments in our nation’s families and in our economy to ensure that our growing prosperity is broadly shared. “The U.S. Census Bureau recently reported that from 2014-2015, the typical household income grew 5.2 percent, the fastest annual growth on record. This means families had more money in their paychecks to put toward rent, child care costs, college tuition, and care for aging loved ones. The report also showed that the percentage of Americans with incomes below the poverty line fell from 14.8 percent to 13.5 percent, the largest one-year drop since 1968. And, the uninsured rate fell sharply in 2015—the fifth straight year the uninsured rate has fallen since the Affordable Care Act’s enactment. “There is no doubt we have made great economic strides under the Obama Administration, but we must build on this progress. There is more work to do to ensure that we build an economy that works for every family in America. That’s why Committee Democrats continue to fight for the Working Families Agenda so we can boost wages, help people better balance work and family life, and level the playing field by ending discrimination in the workplace. I have confidence that when Congress returns after the election, we can continue working with our colleagues across the aisle to strengthen the economic recovery, and build on the progress we have already made.” # # #
10.24.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the recommendations of the Center for a New American Security that the President and Congress should cancel the Ford-class aircraft carrier program and other programs at the Department of Defense: “Our national security depends on a modern and technologically advanced military. While there have been issues related to the construction of the USS Gerald R. Ford, the Navy and its primary shipbuilder for the Ford-class have already taken steps to reduce costs and address these issues for the next two aircraft carriers. Cancelling the Ford-class program would have severe consequences for national security and harm efforts to replenish and replace the fleet in the coming decades. “With regard to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program, I have been very concerned with the cost and production issues with this new aircraft. While efforts have been made to shift the burden of cost overruns from the government to the contractor, the issues that have plagued the F-35 program are a case study for the need to improve and reform the Defense Department’s acquisition system. I do not believe, however, it would be wise to outright cancel the program, but Congress must make sure that our limited national security resources are being used effectively, efficiently and responsibly. “As Congress and the President consider our national security priorities, we can fully afford to modernize and improve our military but only if we are honest with the American people about the budget choices we need to make in order to do so.” # # #
10.20.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – On October 18, 2016, the Social Security Administration announced that Social Security beneficiaries would only receive a 0.3 percent cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) in 2017. Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), a member of the House Democratic Caucus’ Seniors Task Force, issued the following statement on the Social Security Administration’s announcement of the 2017 COLA: “This week’s announcement by the Social Security Administration of a paltry 0.3 percent COLA for our seniors confirms yet again that Congress must act to reform the COLA formula so that future COLAs better account for price increases in consumer goods more utilized by our seniors. “That is why I have long supported legislation, such as the Social Security 2100 Act, that would require the Social Security Administration to use the Consumer Price Index for the Elderly or CPI-E when calculating the annual COLA rather than the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers or CPI-W. The CPI-E formula better accounts for seniors’ spending patterns in the economy, which differs considerably from the general population. Research shows that seniors tend to spend significantly higher portion of their income on health care, which is growing at a much faster rate than other spending categories. The CPI-E formula would better weigh these cost increases. “For over 80 years, Social Security has been giving seniors and their families peace of mind and economic stability. I am committed to expanding and enhancing Social Security benefits, while also extending the solvency of the Social Security trust fund by reforming how Social Security taxes are paid. In 2017, Social Security taxes will only apply to an individual’s first $127,200 and any additional wages above that threshold are not subject to Social Security taxes. If we eliminate the wage threshold altogether or gradually phase it out, we can both increase benefits and extend Social Security’s solvency. “I hope more of my colleagues in Congress will join me and others to work to improve and enhance Social Security rather than continue to focus on efforts that would cut benefits and increase the retirement age. Addressing this issue must be a top priority when Congress returns in November.” # # #
10.11.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, October 14, 2016, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce will join officials from the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) to tour the Buchanan Mine #1 in Buchanan County, Virginia. On Saturday, October 15, 2016, Congressman Scott will also host a roundtable to discuss reforms to the black lung benefits program with miners, medical professionals and legal representatives in Wise, Virginia. Friday, October 14, 2016 - 2:00 p.m. Tour of Buchanan Mine #1 Buchanan County, Virginia Saturday, October 15, 2016 - 9:00 a.m. Roundtable with Coal Miners on Reforms to the Black Lung Benefits Act The Inn at Wise 110 E Main Street Wise, Virginia BACKGROUND: In the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Scott serves as the Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, which has oversight of federal worker health and safety programs, including mine safety, the Black Lung Benefits Act, and the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, as well as pensions and employer-provided health care. Congressman Scott has sponsored the Robert C. Byrd Mine Safety Protection Act (H.R. 1926), which would provide the Mine Safety and Health Administration with tools it needs to better protect miners, including subpoena authority to conduct investigations and inspections. He is also the lead cosponsor of the Black Lung Benefits Improvements Act (H.R. 3625), which would ensure coal companies and their lawyers share all medical evidence with claimants and provide additional legal resources to miners with eligible claims. Congressman Scott is also a cosponsor of the Coal Healthcare and Pensions Protection Act (H.R. 2403), a bipartisan bill that would transfer excess funds from the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund to cover shortfalls in the UMWA health care and coal miner pension funds. # # #
10.07.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added a total of 156,000 jobs in September with the unemployment rate at 5 percent. The economy has added a total of 15.3 million private sector jobs since early 2010. “While we have experienced great economic gains over the last seven years, today’s jobs report shows that our work here in Congress is far from over. There are families and individuals struggling to find work, and those who are working still lack basic workplace support and protections. “To address these challenges, I introduced the Working Families Agenda, a set of responsible legislative proposals to boost wages, help workers balance work and family life, and level the playing field by ending discrimination in the workplace. In addition to the Working Families Agenda, I recently introduced H.R. 6117, the Opening Doors for Youth Act of 2016—legislation to address the challenges faced by youth, ages 16-24, who are disconnected from both school and work. This legislation will put young people to work and support community efforts to keep youth connected to school and training. “During the month of September, the Committee on Education and the Workforce worked constructively to improve opportunities for our nation’s youth. The House passed one bill to strengthen career and technical education programs and another to reauthorize the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act for the first time in over a decade. The JJDPA reauthorization contains provisions from the Youth PROMISE Act which make comprehensive, evidence-based investments in communities to address chronic gang membership and crime. “We should prioritize the needs of families and working people by coming together to work on the Working Families Agenda and Opening Doors for Youth Act of 2016. If we continue our bipartisan cooperation, I am confident that we will be able to pass these much-needed proposals that will strengthen our economy and our communities." # # #
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5963, the Supporting Youth Opportunity and Preventing Delinquency Act. The legislation, sponsored by Representatives Bobby Scott (D-VA-03) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26), reauthorizes for the first time since 2002 the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA) of 1974 to help states and local communities better serve at-risk youth and juvenile offenders. The legislation also includes language based on Congressman Scott’s Youth PROMISE Act (H.R. 2197) that restructures JJDPA’s Local Delinquency Prevention Grants to encourage communities to plan and implement evidence-based prevention and intervention programs specifically designed to reduce juvenile delinquency and gang involvement. Specifically, Title III of H.R. 5963 includes Youth Promise Incentive Grants to enable local communities to address the unmet needs of youth who are involved in, or are at risk of involvement in, juvenile delinquency or gang activity, through a continuum of delinquency prevention programs for juveniles who have had contact with the juvenile justice system or who are likely to have contact with the juvenile justice system. “I am very pleased that the House has passed the Supporting Youth Opportunity and Preventing Delinquency Act that Congressman Curbelo and I introduced,” said Rep. Scott. “I commend Chairman John Kline, Representatives Susan Davis, Buddy Carter, Frederica Wilson and others for working with us to pass this long overdue reauthorization of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act. This bill shows that Congress can move away from the tough on crime slogans and soundbites that have dominated crime policy for too long, and instead focus our efforts on evidence-based policies that will move at-risk children from a cradle-to-prison pipeline onto a cradle-to-college and -career pipeline. “Our bill will incentivize evidence-based prevention and intervention initiatives at the federal level to reduce juvenile crime and delinquency and save taxpayers money,” continued Rep Scott. “The legislation also includes language modeled after my Youth PROMISE Act that will provide resources to empower local communities to develop comprehensive evidence-based prevention and intervention programs to reduce youth gang involvement and keep at-risk children on the right path. I hope that the United States Senate will act on this bipartisan legislation before the end of this session.” # # #
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, issued the following statement in response to the Senate Finance Committee favorably reporting S.1714, the Miners Protection Act. The legislation would protect the pensions of coal miners and prevent the termination of retiree medical benefits for those miners whose companies filed for bankruptcy since 2012. Without Congressional action, the hard earned benefits of thousands of retirees in Virginia would be jeopardized. Congressman Scott is a cosponsor of H.R. 2403, The Coal Healthcare and Pensions Protection Act of 2015 – the House companion of this legislation. “The Senate has taken an important first step in fulfilling the federal government’s longstanding commitment to protect the retiree medical and pension benefits that miners have earned through their hard and dangerous work,” stated Rep. Scott. “This is the right and fair thing to do, considering the federal government’s history and commitment to the UMWA-represented coal miners, dating back to the presidency of Harry S. Truman. Critics of the legislation believe that it is too expensive while claiming they are ‘friends of coal.’ It is time for these same legislators to also show they are ‘friends of coal miners.’ I am committed to working on a bipartisan basis to see that we enact this legislation before the end of this session of Congress to provide long overdue certainty to miners and their families.” # # #
09.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, September 14, 2016, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott received the Silent Warrior Award from the Augustus F. Hawkins Foundation. Established by the Honorable Augustus Freeman Hawkins during his service in the U.S. House of Representatives, the Foundation was created to develop highly trained workers through robust educational support. Congressman Hawkins, a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus, was known in Congress as the “Silent Warrior” for his determination to tackle social issues and secure equal educational opportunities for all. Congressman Scott received the Silent Warrior Award for his work on behalf of the nation’s students and working families as the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “I am honored to be recognized by the Augustus F. Hawkins Foundation for my work on issues that impact the lives of students and working families,” said Rep. Scott. “I share his vision for America and in this Congress, I fight to protect and promote the right to equal educational opportunities for all students. As one of the four principal authors of the Every Student Succeeds Act, I worked to make sure that we honored the civil rights legacy of the original Elementary and Secondary Education Act to ensure that every child has access to a quality education. As Congress looks ahead to reauthorizing the Higher Education Act, I am committed to expanding Gus Hawkins’ vision by ensuring that access to both a quality education and an affordable education remains a top priority.” # # #
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) received the Leaders of Democracy Award from The Memorial Foundation, the builders of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial. Following the dedication of the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial by President Obama, The Memorial Foundation was created to ensure that all visitors understand the four major tenets of Dr. King’s national memorial – democracy, justice, hope and love. Congressman Scott received the award in recognition of his consistent efforts to display leadership amongst his peers and within the community. “I am honored to receive the Leader of Democracy Award from The Memorial Foundation for my work in Congress,” said Rep. Scott. “The Memorial Foundation has been committed to preserving the work and legacy of the great Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and continues to leverage the memorial’s role as a beacon of inspiration for future generations of Americans. It is an honor to be recognized by the Foundation as a legislator who is working to continue Dr. King’s legacy.” # # #
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement on his No vote on H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016: “Once again, Republicans have put forward a bill that fails to address the systemic issues the VA is facing, such as the disability appeals claim backlog and doctor, specialist, and nurse staffing shortages. Instead, this bill makes it easier to fire rank-and-file VA employees, who under current law can already be fired for cause. Due process protections for civil service employees began well over a century ago to protect employees from arbitrary and political firings. I voted no on H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016, because it strips VA employees of these due process protections." # # #
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — As students return to school this month, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) wants to remind interested students about the 2016 Congressional App Challenge competition, which is open to students living in or attending school in Virginia’s 3rd Congressional District. The Congressional App Challenge is a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications. The Challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) education and encourage students to engage in these fields. This nationwide event allows high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or "app," for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. The Congressional App Challenge has also teamed up with Amazon Web Services, Inc. (AWS), a leading cloud computing services company. The winners will split a $50,000 AWS credit that can be used for AWS cloud computing services (with parental permission). This donation will provide students with access to the renowned tech platform and increase their ability to pursue their coding education. “Today, Virginia has 18,000 unfilled jobs in the technology and cybersecurity field alone,” stated Rep. Scott. “We must take a 21st century approach that requires investments in the next generation of leaders and innovators. As the Ranking Member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, I understand that it is essential for our students to develop the necessary skills and interest in STEM fields. The Congressional App Challenge is a great opportunity for students interested in these fields to showcase their talents by competing in this national event.” The 2016 Congressional App Challenge is now accepting submissions and will continue taking submissions through November 2, 2016. Students of all experience levels are encouraged to compete. Students interested in entering the competition should visit the following website: https://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/. Students and teachers can also contact Congressman Scott’s Washington Office at 202-225-8351 if they have questions about this year’s challenge. # # #
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the 15th anniversary of the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks: “Fifteen years ago on September 11, 2001, the United States endured four coordinated terrorist attacks that forever changed our nation and the world. In the immediate aftermath of these attacks, Americans did not cower in fear, but stood united. “On this solemn anniversary, we honor and remember the nearly 3,000 people of all colors and creeds who perished in these attacks. We honor and remember the courageous and selfless efforts of the passengers of United 93 that prevented even more bloodshed. We pay tribute to the heroism of the first responders who ran into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon to try to save as many lives as possible. And we honor the many Americans who enlisted in our Armed Forces to defend our nation and prevent future terrorist attacks, as well as the sacrifices of their families. “September 11th has defined a generation of Americans and has proven that the American spirit will never be extinguished.” # # #
09.09.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Democrat and Republican members of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce today introduced the H.R. 5963 Supporting Youth Opportunity and Preventing Delinquency Act. Sponsored by Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) and Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), the legislation reauthorizes and reforms the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act to help state and local leaders better serve at-risk youth and juvenile offenders. “Many children are born into circumstances out of their control and believe the only path forward is one of crime or delinquency,” Rep. Curbelo said. “The purpose of this legislation is to help those children understand there is a better path forward and success is within their reach. These bipartisan reforms will deliver state and local leaders the tools they need to help the most vulnerable kids in their communities put the past behind them and work toward a brighter future. I want to thank Ranking Member Scott for all he has done to move this issue forward and for working together to deliver these bipartisan reforms.” “The JJDPA has been due to be reauthorized for nearly ten years. In that time, many states have had successes implementing evidence-based and trauma-informed practices to improve the delivery of delinquency prevention services to youth,” said Ranking Member Scott. “At the federal level, we must continue to incentivize a focus on evidence-based prevention and intervention initiatives which reduce delinquency and save money. Making sure we get juveniles in the system or at risk of delinquency off the wrong track and back in school on the way to college or a career is one of the most common sense, cost-effective actions we can take to improve our communities. I’m pleased that we were able to work together and find common ground to advance national juvenile justice policy.” “All children deserve the opportunity to achieve a lifetime of success—even when they make mistakes or the odds are stacked against them,” Chairman John Kline (R-MN) said. “This bipartisan bill includes positive reforms that will help state and community leaders keep at-risk youth out of the juvenile justice system and provide juvenile offenders the second chance they need to turn their lives around. I commend Congressman Curbelo and Ranking Member Scott for their leadership in delivering these positive solutions and working to help put more children on the right path.” “The costs associated with incarceration and the overcrowding of prisons demonstrate the need for investments in preventing crimes,” said Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA). “A reauthorization of the JJDPA, which is long overdue, will help ensure these proven programs maintain their effectiveness." BACKGROUND: Since 1974, the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act has coordinated federal resources aimed at improving state juvenile justice systems with a focus on education and rehabilitation. While many of these state juvenile justice programs have been able to help children develop the life skills they need to hold themselves accountable and achieve success, not all programs have seen the same results. To help state and local leaders explore and implement better ways to improve prevention and rehabilitation support for at-risk youth and juvenile offenders, Rep. Curbelo and Ranking Member Scott—along with Chairman Kline and Reps. Susan Davis (D-CA), Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA), and Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL) —introduced the Supporting Youth Opportunity and Preventing Delinquency Act. The bipartisan legislation includes reforms to: Provide states and local leaders flexibility to deliver services that meet the specific needs of delinquent youth in their communities. Promote opportunities for juvenile offenders to acquire skills necessary to grow into productive members of society. Help at-risk youth avoid the juvenile justice system by supporting prevention services. Prioritize evidence-based strategies with proven track records and long-term solutions for addressing juvenile delinquency. Improve accountability and oversight at all levels of the juvenile justice system. To read a fact sheet on the bill, click here. To read a more detailed bill summary, click here. To read the bill, click here. # # #
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), the Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, joined United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) President Cecil Roberts, and thousands of retired coal miners and their families, including hundreds from Southwest Virginia, for a rally to push Congress to pass the Coal Healthcare and Pensions Protection Act (H.R. 2403/S. 1714). The legislation would ensure that UMWA retirees who lose health care benefits following the bankruptcy or insolvency of his or her employer are eligible for an existing benefit plan established by the Coal Act that provides health benefits to retired or disabled benefits. Some retirees of companies that went bankrupt recently will lose their promised health benefits at the end of the year. The legislation would also shore up the UMWA 1974 Pension Plan, which as a result of the 2008-2009 financial crisis and bankruptcy courts allowing companies to withdraw from the plan, is projected to become insolvent within the next decade – jeopardizing the hard earned retirement benefits of thousands of retirees in Virginia. Congressman Scott is a cosponsor of the legislation. The proposal has also been included in President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2016 and Fiscal Year 2017 budget requests. “Congress cannot delay action on the Coal Healthcare and Pensions Protection Act any further,” stated Congressman Scott. “These men and women have earned these benefits and we cannot hang them out to dry by our inaction. My colleagues who call themselves ‘friends of coal’ also need to be ‘friends of coal miners’ and join this bipartisan coalition of members of Congress and bring this bill up for a vote immediately.” # # #
09.02.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring’s request that the U.S. Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division open a pattern-or-practice investigation of the Hampton Roads Regional Jail: “I commend Attorney General Herring for requesting a federal pattern-or-practice investigation of the Hampton Roads Regional Jail. The circumstances surrounding the death of Jamycheal Mitchell last year and the recent death of Henry Clay Stewart raise serious questions and concerns about this facility. These investigations can determine whether or not the constitutional rights of the incarcerated, as well as federal law, have been violated. “Data on deaths that occur in jails, prisons, or in the process of arrest must also be collected to identify patterns and problems so that local, state and federal officials can assess what steps need to be taken to reduce incidences of avoidable deaths. That is why I sponsored the Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2013, which was signed into law by President Obama in December 2014. I am working closely with the Department of Justice to ensure that the law is fully implemented so that this data can be collected and evaluated. “The recent deaths at Hampton Roads Regional Jail are an unfortunate reminder of the need for this data.” # # #
09.02.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement to workers today in recognition of Labor Day, which is Monday, September 5th: “Labor Day is a time to recognize the incredible achievements of hardworking Americans. It is also a time to acknowledge that far too many people are working harder than ever, but still struggling to make ends meet. America has made significant strides toward economic recovery, with 77 consecutive months of uninterrupted private sector job growth. But too many working people are still going without the basics – decent housing, reliable child care, and time off work to recover from illness or care for a loved one. “It does not have to be this way. Ensuring that all Americans have the opportunity to make a decent life for themselves and their families is the central challenge of our time. Whether we rise to meet that challenge will define us for generations to come. That is why, together with 118 members of the House Democratic Caucus, I have championed a Working Families Agenda to boost wages, help workers balance work and family, and level the playing field so that all Americans have a fair shot. “This Labor Day, as we gather in backyards, parks and beaches all across America to celebrate with family and friends, let’s recommit ourselves to raising our voices in Congress and all across the country for change—because when American workers do better, we all do better.” # # #
09.02.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 151,000 jobs during the month of August: “Today’s job report shows that 151,000 jobs were added to the economy and unemployment stands at 4.9 percent. This report represents the 77th consecutive month of private sector job growth, continuing the longest streak on record previously set in April 2000 at 51 months. Today also marks the 42nd anniversary of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). ERISA set a number of standards for pension and health benefit plans in private industry, ensuring workers receive the protections they deserve. And although we see continued economic growth with today’s jobs report, we know that too many Americans continue to struggle to adequately save for their retirement. The Department of Labor recently completed a multi-year effort to modernize and strengthen ERISA for those saving and planning for retirement. This was an important step and now Congress should build on those efforts to ensure that workers – many who have worked their entire lives – can live in dignity in retirement. As we observe the anniversary of ERISA, we should renew our commitment to protecting the retirement benefits and savings of American workers.” # # #
08.24.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Members Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Elijah Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Labor and the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council today announced final regulations and guidance implementing the Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces Executive Order. “We commend the Department of Labor and the Obama Administration’s diligent and deliberative process in developing the final Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces rule. This rule will ensure that hardworking Americans are treated fairly on the job and that they come home safely at the end of the day. It will help to guarantee that businesses awarded federal contracts are in compliance with basic worker protection laws and that law-abiding contractors compete on a level playing field. “When reviewing the history of labor violations, the final rule does not apply to minor or technical violations; rather, responsibility determinations will be based on those violations which are ‘serious,’ ‘willful,’ ‘repeated,’ or ‘pervasive.’ Moreover, contractors with a history of serious violations will be given a chance to reform their practices rather than being disqualified. And equally important, the final rule prohibits federal contractors from requiring arbitration of Title VII and tort claims regarding sexual harassment and assault. This standard will help to remedy the use of compulsory arbitration as a tactic to deny workers their day in court. “Doing business with the federal government is a privilege, not a right. Likewise, law-abiding, responsible contractors should not be forced to compete with contractors who save money in a race to the bottom by violating federal civil rights, labor and workplace safety laws. The overhaul of the process for ensuring that federal agencies consider prospective federal contractors’ compliance with labor laws is an important step toward protecting hardworking Americans and leveling the playing field for law-abiding contractors.” Smith, Scott, Cummings Oppose NDAA Amendment to Reward Pervasive Violators of Employment, Non-Discrimination, and Safety Laws with New Government Contracts Scott and Cummings Push for Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces # # #
08.22.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of George E. Curry: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of George E. Curry. As a prominent, award-winning journalist, George was an influential voice on civil rights and race relations in newspapers all across the country. He was well respected for his role in diversifying the newsroom and served as an inspiration to young African-American journalist throughout his tenure. George possessed the ability to meticulously document and analyze the stories of African-Americans in order to present a complete picture of America. “His reporting in Emerge magazine was critical in bringing awareness to the unconscionable incarceration of Kemba Smith, which assisted in my and others efforts in successfully petitioning President Clinton to commute her sentence. George was a prime example of how the power of the press can be used for the greater good. My thoughts and prayers are with the Curry family and the many people positively impacted by his work.” # # #
08.15.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of former Virginia NAACP executive director and radio talk show host Jack Gravely: “It was with profound sadness that I learned of the passing of my good friend Jack Gravely. Jack devoted his life to trying to make Richmond and the entire Commonwealth of Virginia a better place to live and raise a family. I first met Jack while serving as the Newport News branch president of the NAACP while he was the head of the Virginia chapter of the NAACP. As a civil rights activist, Jack was a natural choice to lead the Virginia chapter. And during my early years in the Virginia House of Delegates, I was able to see firsthand what a forceful voice he was on civil rights issues. Jack would go on to serve as an adviser to National NAACP President Benjamin L. Hooks. His years of dedication to the NAACP and his ability to bring people together brought him back to the Virginia chapter last year as its interim executive director. “Many will remember Jack for his savvy political analysis and sometimes heated back and forth with politicians and other community leaders on his award winning radio talk show. Despite a hiatus in the mid-2000s, Jack’s booming voice has been a staple of local Richmond talk radio. He used his radio program to highlight and discuss at length issues that often went unnoticed or unreported by other media outlets. “I will greatly miss Jack’s counsel and talking politics and public policy with him. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, and all those that tuned their radios to the Jack Gravely Show.” # # #
08.05.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the economy added 255,000 jobs during the month of July. “Today’s job report shows that the economy added 255,000 jobs while unemployment holds steady at 4.9 percent. Under President Obama and his Administration, we have experienced consistent economic gains, and this progress serves as a great foundation to continue the work needed to support working people across the nation. By building on this progress, we will make it possible for all families to achieve economic stability and share in the progress we have made. “Currently, Congress is in the middle of its longest summer recess since the 1960s, and there are many issues Congress and the Committee on Education and the Workforce need to address. When we return, we must focus on passing the Working Families Agenda to boost wages, help working people balance work and family, and level the playing field by eliminating discrimination. We must pass comprehensive legislation to address the Zika crisis and the water crisis in Flint, Michigan. The Committee must also work in a bipartisan way to reauthorize the Higher Education Act so that we do not fall behind in preparing students to thrive in the 21st century workforce. “Before my Committee colleagues and I left for recess, we unanimously passed bipartisan legislation to strengthen career and technical education to provide students and job seekers with the knowledge, skills and experience necessary to succeed in today’s competitive job market. I am optimistic that when we return, we can continue in that spirit of bipartisanship to better ensure that hardworking Americans and their families have the opportunity to prosper.” # # #
07.23.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on yesterday’s decision by the Supreme Court of Virginia in Howell v. McAuliffe striking down Governor Terry McAuliffe’s April 2016 executive order restoring the voting rights of more than 200,000 formerly incarcerated individuals: “Yesterday’s decision by the Supreme Court of Virginia is very disappointing. Virginia is one of the few states in the Union that still permanently disenfranchises formerly incarcerated individuals who have already paid their debt to society. The history behind the reasoning for this provision of Virginia law is striking and appalling. Those who championed this provision during the height of the Jim Crow era were clear in their intent. Carter Glass at the 1902 Virginia constitutional convention stated that this provision of our constitution was to ‘eliminate the darkey as a political factor in this State in less than five years, so that in no single county of the Commonwealth will there be the least concern felt for the complete supremacy of the white race in the affairs of government.’ “Governor McAuliffe should be applauded for his administration’s tireless efforts to remove this vestige of Jim Crow from our Commonwealth. While yesterday’s decision is an unfortunate set back, I am pleased that the Governor is already working to restore the rights of the more than 10,000 individuals who have registered to vote since the April 22, 2016 order in accordance with the court’s decision. But Virginia is long overdue in joining the majority of the nation in how we treat the civil rights of the formerly incarcerated. It is time for leaders in the Virginia General Assembly to immediately work to remove this abhorrent provision from our Commonwealth’s constitution.” # # #
07.17.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) released the following statement on the shooting that killed three police officers and wounded several others in Baton Rouge, Louisiana: “Cowardly acts like today’s attack in Baton Rouge have no place in our society and those responsible must be brought to justice. Violence against the men and women who have sworn to serve and protect our communities will not bring about the reforms that so many Americans and those in the law enforcement community wish to achieve. We must join together to end the division and tension that leads to this type of violence. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the fallen officers and the entire Baton Rouge police department.” # # #
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House and Senate convened the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act conference committee. Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, was appointed a conferee for the education and labor provisions contained in the House and Senate versions of the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. Below is Congressman Scott’s opening statement as prepared for delivery from today’s conference meeting: “Thank you Chairmen Thornberry and McCain, and Ranking Members Smith and Reed. I appreciate the opportunity to outline the views of the Education and the Workforce Committee Democrats. “But before I begin discussing my committee’s priorities, I must briefly mention my strong support for the House version’s shipbuilding and ship maintenance provisions. I have the honor of representing Hampton Roads, Virginia, the heart of our nation’s shipbuilding industrial base. The House bill’s procurement of additional ships, directing the Navy to construct aircraft carriers every four years as opposed to every five years, and additional funding for ship repair and maintenance programs will not only significantly benefit my region, but will be critical for our nation’s security. I’d like to commend Congressman Forbes and Congressman Courtney for their efforts in this area of the House bill and I hope the conference committee will maintain these provisions. “As the Ranking Member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, let me begin by voicing my support for Section 1098E, the House provision to improve workplace safety in the shipbuilding sector by codifying the Maritime Safety and Health Advisory Committee in the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. This provision has the support of Defense shipyard contractors and the unions representing maritime trade workers. “However, I must express my reservations with the provision to redefine “recreational vessels” in Section 3512 of the House bill. This provision is intended to exempt workers repairing vessels over 65 feet in length from the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act. There have been no committee hearings regarding this provision. Unfortunately, it will shift workers into state workers’ compensation programs, which provide lower levels of benefits. “Regarding the education provisions in this bill, I understand that there is an agreement to include both House and Senate amendments to Impact Aid. Our Committee Democrats support that agreement. But I share the concerns of my Senate counterparts on the HELP Committee regarding Section 578 of the Senate bill which would impose new federal background check requirements, but only for those employees working in Department of Defense (DoD) schools and school districts in receipt of Impact Aid funding. This provision would subject Impact Aid school districts to a federal standard not imposed on districts receiving other federal education funds. Additionally, the Department of Defense is currently moving forward with a rule to address background checks for its schools, so Education and the Workforce Committee Democrats are not in favor of maintaining this section in the final conference report. “Finally, I would like to call the attention of conferees to two workplace provisions that should be removed in whole. “Several have already mentioned Section 1094 of the House bill, which has the misleading label, ‘Protections Relating to Civil Rights and Disabilities.’ This section would allow contractors that are religious organizations to circumvent workplace non-discrimination provisions under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Americans with Disabilities Act. This provision authorizes private religious employers to discriminate in hiring using federal funds. This provision is not in the Senate bill and has no place in the final Defense conference report. “Also, House Section 1095 and Senate Section 829-I would eliminate or diminish the application of the ‘Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces’ Executive Order to defense contractors. The executive order requires companies to disclose whether they have engaged in repeated, willful or pervasive violations of any of the 14 long-standing labor laws, including the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act, and non-discrimination laws. The executive order aims to ensure that companies entrusted with taxpayers’ dollars provide fair, safe, and equitable workplaces and ensures that those who repeatedly violate those laws do not get a competitive advantage over those contractors who are in compliance. This executive order enjoys support from a broad range of organizations, from the Easter Seals and Paralyzed Veterans of America to the Mechanical Contractors Association and the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. “I look forward to working with the conferees to resolve these issues. Thank you.” # # #
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on last night’s shooting of police officers during a peaceful protest in Dallas: "Less than a month after the mass shooting of club goers in Orlando, the Nation has witnessed yet another mass shooting. This time the targeted victims were police officers, who put their lives on the line each and every day. Last night’s shooting is especially tragic in that this ruthless, coordinated attack occurred as Dallas police officers were seen interacting collegially with peaceful protesters – the type of interaction we strive to see between law enforcement and the communities they are sworn to protect. “These senseless and inexplicable acts of violence are a painful reminder that we all must work harder on efforts to build trust between law enforcement and our communities. We are all someone's parent, child, and neighbor, and we must strive to see and respect the humanity in each other. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the fallen officers.” # # #
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the fatal shooting of Alton Sterling by officers of the Baton Rouge, Louisiana Police Department: “The recent police shooting of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge, Louisiana is deeply troubling and is another sad reminder of the need for stronger oversight of law enforcement practices. The video of this tragic incident raises serious concerns about the tactics used by law enforcement and highlights the need for improved evidence-based police training. “We have learned from history how useful data collection can be. The Death in Custody Reporting Act requires States to report quarterly to the Attorney General information regarding the death of any person in the process of arrest and or in custody. That is why it is imperative that the Department of Justice fully implement 2014’s reauthorization of the Death in Custody Reporting Act to ensure law enforcement agencies are providing this information. “We know our justice system is long overdue for reform. The SAFE Justice Act, introduced by Representative Jim Sensenbrenner with my strong support, would adopt a broad-based approach to enact comprehensive, evidence-based reforms, including providing funding for police training. Passage of the SAFE Justice Act, along with the implementation of the Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2013, would allow policymakers to enact initiatives that would reduce incidences of avoidable deaths in our criminal justice system.” # # #
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Tim Kaine and Mark Warner, and Representative Bobby Scott applauded unanimous House passage of a bipartisan bill that would recognize the resilience and contributions of African Americans to the United States since 1619. Kaine and Warner introduced the Senate version and Scott the House version of the 400 Years of African American History Commission Act in February. The bill would establish a commission to plan programs and activities across the country in 2019 to highlight the arrival and influence of Africans in America. Today’s House-passed bill was introduced by Virginia Representative Bobby Scott, and cosponsored by Representatives Scott Rigell, Don Beyer, Gerry Connolly, Barbara Comstock, Rob Wittman, and Randy Forbes, as well as members of the Congressional Black Caucus, including Chairman G.K Butterfield and Congressman John Lewis. The commission would be charged with recognizing and the resilience and contribution of African Americans since 1619, as well as acknowledging the painful impact that slavery and laws that enforced racial discrimination have had on our nation’s history. Similar commissions have been established to recognize English & Hispanic heritage, including the 400th anniversary of the founding of Jamestown, Virginia and the 450th anniversary of the founding of St. Augustine, Florida. Kaine testified in support of this bill in front of the a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee this month. “This bill is so connected to our country’s history and heritage, and we are excited that it is one step closer to final passage,” Sen. Kaine said. “Every dimension of American life, across generations, has been influenced by African Americans. We need to tell that story – in its tragedy and triumph- as we approach the 400th anniversary of the arrival of the first Africans at Point Comfort, Virginia. We will continue to work to advance this bill in the Senate in the coming months.” “I applaud my colleagues in the House for passing this bill,” said Rep. Scott. “The history of Virginia and our nation cannot be fully understood or appreciated without knowing about the first Africans who arrived at Point Comfort, Virginia in 1619. The commission established by this bill will be charged with the important task of planning, developing and implementing a series of programs and activities throughout 2019 that fully tells the story of African Americans, their contributions to the fabric of our nation, and their resilience over the last 400 years.” “We cannot move forward as a country unless we recognize the injustices that occurred in our past,” said Sen. Warner. “The creation of this commission is an opportunity to institutionalize the contributions made by African Americans in our country, and a monument to their resilience in the face of adversity. It is my hope that this legislation paves the way for future efforts to honor the important role African Americans have played in our history, and highlight ways we can work together to forge a path towards a better future.” “Understanding our 400 years of African-American history is crucial to understanding our national story: what we got right, what we got horribly wrong, and what we still have to accomplish,” said Rep. Beyer. “This bill will help us grapple with that history, and I thank my friends Bobby Scott and Tim Kaine and my other Virginia colleagues for putting it forward.” “As a student of history, I can’t help but look to the lessons of the past when contemplating the future. In addition to being reminded of the ramifications of slavery in our nation, I can recall state constitutional provisions that led to segregation policies which extended into my childhood, when I attended segregated schools in the first and second grades. Additionally, one of my favorite teachers, my sixth grade teacher Mrs. Spurlock, had previously taught in the segregated system. I appreciate this bill’s efforts to highlight the immeasurable influence of African Americans such as Mrs. Spurlock, and am honored to support the legislation,” said Rep. Griffith. “I am pleased the House passed this bipartisan, bicameral bill,” said Rep. Rigell. “The ‘400 Years of African-American History Commission’ will help our nation to properly reflect upon the significant contributions African-Americans have made to our country, and the struggles they have endured during our history. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to pass this important bill and send it to the President’s desk for signature immediately.” “I am pleased the House passed this legislation to create a commission that will tell the important story of the significant contributions made by African-Americans to our Commonwealth and the country. We cannot tell the whole story of America without including the first African-Americans who arrived to the shores of Virginia in 1619 to Point Comfort. I look forward to the work this commission will do in educating our entire community and hope the U.S. Senate will pass this quickly,” said Rep. Comstock. "This bipartisan legislation honors 400 years of African American contributions here in the U.S.,” said Rep. Wittman. “The men and women who first arrived in Point Comfort, Virginia in 1619 faced adversity of every kind and at every turn, and their perseverance carried them as they shaped our national heritage. Theirs are stories that deserve to be told, and the commission that this legislation will create provides necessary tools to make sure that future generations can benefit from learning about their vigilance. I want to thank my Virginia colleagues in both the House and Senate for their hard work on this bill, and I look forward to their continued support." “2019 will mark 400 years since the first documented arrival of Africans by way of Point Comfort, Virginia. It’s time for our nation to commemorate the contributions and resilience African Americans have made throughout history. I am pleased to have been a part of the introduction of H.R. 4539, which, when passed, will establish a commission to highlight the influence and contributions African Americans have made in our country since 1619. It will also recognize the painful impact of slavery 400 years ago, as well as the racial discrimination and oppression that continues today. I congratulate Congressmen Bobby Scott and Don Beyer on House passage of H.R. 4539. I also thank U.S. Senators Tim Kaine and Mark Warner for sponsoring the Senate companion, and Hilary Shelton, Director of the NAACP Washington Bureau, for supporting this Act,” said Rep. Butterfield. The bill is supported by the National NAACP, National Urban League and the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. The full text of the legislation can be found here. # # #
06.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine, along with Representative Bobby Scott, announced that the City of Newport News will receive $500,000 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grant program. The funding supports revitalization efforts in local communities. “We are pleased that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has chosen the City of Newport News for this competitive grant award,” the Senators said. “Today’s funding will help transform local neighborhoods into stronger and more prosperous communities.” “Today’s announcement from the Department of Housing and Urban Development is great news for the citizens of Newport News,” said Rep. Scott. “These funds will ensure access to safe, affordable housing and help revitalize an historic neighborhood in southeast Newport News.” Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grants support the development of comprehensive neighborhood revitalization plans which focused on directing resources to address three core goals: Housing, People and Neighborhoods. To achieve these core goals, communities must develop and implement a comprehensive neighborhood revitalization strategy, or Transformation Plan. The Transformation Plan will become the guiding document for the revitalization of the public and/or assisted housing units while simultaneously directing the transformation of the surrounding neighborhood and positive outcomes for families. # # #
06.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in McDonnell v. United States: “The interpretation of the law advanced by the government would have potentially swept in every elected official in the country for exercising routine political courtesies on behalf of constituents who have contributed to a campaign or provided a legal gift. The Supreme Court’s ruling today thankfully provides clarity on what constitutes an official act under the federal bribery statute. “Today’s decision should also encourage Virginia and other states to consider additional reforms to gift rules. While the law at the time did not have clearly established limits, the magnitude of the personal gifts received by the McDonnells were clearly inappropriate and violated ethical norms. Elected officials owe it to the public to maintain the highest level of ethical conduct in office even if the law may not always require them to do so.” ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a historic move to demand legislative action from Congress, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) joined House Democrats’ 26-hour sit-in on the House Floor to protest Speaker Ryan and House Republicans’ refusal to allow a vote on bipartisan legislation to address gun violence. Last night during the sit-in, House Republicans abruptly adjourned the House of Representatives until July 5th without bringing gun violence prevention legislation to the Floor for a vote. “House Republicans cut and run in the middle of the night, brazenly denying the American people a vote on bipartisan gun violence prevention legislation that can help save American lives,” said Rep. Scott. “But even as Republicans tried to shut down the Floor and shut out our voices, this unprecedented sit-in led by Congressman John Lewis sent a clear message to the American people – it’s not going to be business as usual in the House of Representatives anymore. There are several bipartisan proposals currently pending that the House could take up immediately. It is time for House Republicans to do their job and call a vote on these measures.” House Democrats sat-in for 26 hours on the House Floor to demand that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow an immediate vote on bipartisan gun violence prevention legislation to help keep guns out of dangerous hands, with two bills: The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background check system; The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. House Republicans have blocked consideration of the bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ legislation 14 times. # # #
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the wake of the horrific act of hate and terror in Orlando last week, the deadliest mass shooting in American history, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), a vice chair of the House Democratic Caucus’ Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, today joined House Democrats’ sit-in on the House Floor to demand that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow a vote on bipartisan legislation to address gun violence. “I was proud to join my colleague and civil rights leader John Lewis today as he led an unprecedented sit-in on the House Floor to demand a vote on gun violence prevention legislation,” stated Rep. Scott. “Our message is clear – it’s not going to be business as usual in the House of Representatives. We’re committed to continue this effort until the People’s House does its job. And we know what we need to do. There are several bipartisan proposals currently pending that the House could take up immediately. It is time for House Republicans to do their job and call a vote on these measures.” House Democrats are calling on Speaker Ryan and House Republicans to allow an immediate vote on bipartisan gun violence prevention legislation to help keep guns out of dangerous hands, with two bills: The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background checks system; The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. House Republicans have voted 13 times to block consideration of the bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ legislation. # # #
06.12.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03), a vice chair of the House Democratic Caucus’ Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and a member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus, issued the following statement on last night’s mass shooting in Orlando, Florida: “My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the victims, as well as with the entire LGBT community. While details continue to emerge, last night’s shooting is particularly insidious in that it occurred at a prominent gay night club when Americans across the country were gathering to celebrate LGBT Pride Month and the remarkable diversity of our nation. “These tragedies are far too common and we cannot continue to sit idly by as these incidences continue to happen. Congress must review every available proposal to determine what we can do to reduce all forms of gun violence. Americans are understandably frustrated at our inability to come together to address this problem in a meaningful way. I will continue to fight for evidence-based policy proposals to address this issue. I just hope that the leadership in Congress will finally agree that enough is enough. Meaningful action is long overdue.” # # #
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today on his “Yes” vote on H.R. 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act, or PROMESA: “Today, the Puerto Rican government is struggling to meet its obligations and provide critical services to residents, with funding for schools, hospitals, and infrastructure being neglected and Puerto Ricans facing increasing austerity and economic hardship. It is the responsibility of Congress to ensure that Puerto Rico is able to refinance its obligations, provide for its residents, and recover from this economic catastrophe. “It is disappointing, however, that the Majority refused to address Puerto Rico’s critical needs without attacking our nation’s minimum wage laws, weakening overtime rules, and limiting protections for Puerto Rico’s public employees and retirees.” # # #
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch requesting an update on the implementation of the Death in Custody Reporting Act, which requires states and federal law enforcement agencies to report to the Department of Justice information regarding the death of any person in the process of arrest or who is otherwise in law enforcement custody, including jails, prisons and juvenile facilities. Congressman Scott sponsored the legislation in 2013 and it was signed into law by the President on December 18, 2014. The text of Congressman Scott’s letter to the Attorney General is below. A PDF version of the letter can be downloaded here. June 9, 2016 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General of the United States U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: I respectfully request an update on the implementation of the Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2013 (Pub. L. No. 113-242). As you know, the law reauthorized the Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2000, which was enacted to require states to report quarterly to the Attorney General information regarding the death of any person in the process of arrest or who is otherwise in law enforcement custody, including jails, prisons and juvenile facilities. The Department and the Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics provided me and other interested Members of Congress with an informative update on April 28, 2015. Since the law requires the Department to submit to Congress its first study and report of the information collected under the Act no later than two years after the date of enactment, I would like another update on the status of that report. Accurate information on deaths of individuals detained, under arrest, or in the process of being arrested by law enforcement is critical in assessing what additional steps the federal government, as well as local and state governments, may need to take to reduce incidences of avoidable deaths in our criminal justice system. It is thus imperative that the Department enforce and implement the law as it is written to ensure that this data is accurately and timely collected. I am particularly interested in getting this report in light of recent law enforcement related deaths in the City of Norfolk, Virginia, which is in my congressional district. According to local media reports, the Norfolk Police Department has been involved in 13 police-related deaths since 2010 – five of those occurring this year. I look forward to your response and the opportunity to receive an update from the Department. Very truly yours, /S/ ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTT Member of Congress # # #
06.03.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that during the month of May, the economy added 38,000 jobs and the unemployment rate dropped to 4.7 percent: “Today’s job report represents the 75th consecutive month of private sector job growth. This extends the longest streak of job growth on record, which was previously set in April 2000 at 51 months. However, considering the drop off from previous months, May’s numbers are concerning and more must be done to ensure that this historic economic growth reaches every community in America. “Towards that goal, this past month the Department of Labor put forth its final rule to update overtime protections for workers –ensuring workers are paid a fair day’s pay for a hard day’s work. This proposal will directly benefit millions of workers by increasing wages and guaranteeing that workers get much-deserved compensation for every hour they spend on the job. “Next week we will address the new overtime rule at a Committee hearing, and I stand ready to join with other Committee Democrats in highlighting the many ways this updated rule will benefit our nation’s working families. The overtime rule will give millions of hardworking Americans the overtime pay they have earned, and this boost in wages will also aide our nation’s continued economic recovery.” # # #
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Roll Call No. 216): “The House version of the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act contained many provisions that I strongly support, especially those pertaining to shipbuilding and ship maintenance, as well as the proposed pay increase for our men and women in uniform. “Unfortunately, the bill also includes several troubling provisions that ultimately required me to vote No. As drafted, the bill uses an accounting gimmick that would transfer approximately $18 billion from the Overseas Contingency Operations account to fund base Department of Defense accounts. The Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee has pointed out that this will shortchange our men and women in the field, degrade military readiness, and require Congress to enact a supplemental funding request for U.S. operations in Afghanistan by April 30, 2017. This accounting gimmick also breaks last year’s bipartisan budget agreement, setting up an unnecessary fiscal fight in the months ahead. “The legislation also includes restrictions on the President’s efforts to close Guantanamo Bay. Allowing the detention facility at Guantanamo to remain open only further undermines our nation’s national security goals and allows terrorists overseas to use the facility as a leading propaganda tool to recruit. And not to mention the fact that the facility depletes military resources that could be better utilized elsewhere in the Department of Defense. “The bill also adds a new mandatory minimum in the Uniform Code of Military Justice for certain sex-related offenses committed by members of the Armed Forces. While a two year sentence may be appropriate for most individuals convicted of committing such abhorrent acts, it should be left to the discretion of the sentencing judge to determine the exact sentence based on all the relevant facts and circumstances of each individual case. The research and evidence over the last few decades has clearly demonstrated that mandatory minimums are ineffective deterrents, waste the taxpayers' money, force judges to impose irrational sentences, and discriminate against minorities. This provision only adds another mandatory minimum to the countless others currently contained in the federal code. If we expect to do anything about this problem, the first step has to be to stop passing new mandatory minimums. “Most troubling, the bill includes two harmful provisions that hurt American workers. One provision would have the effect of permitting employment discrimination by religious organizations in all types of procurement using federal dollars. This provision turns the Civil Rights Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) on its head. And another provision blocks implementation of the President’s executive order on Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces, which is designed to ensure that federal contractors are abiding by federal labor laws, including protections against wage theft, workplace safety rules, and the right of workers to unionize. “The National Defense Authorization Act is usually the most significant bipartisan legislation to pass Congress each year. That is why it is unfortunate that House Republicans ignored this long standing custom by including these unnecessarily controversial provisions. It is my hope that as the process moves forward with the Senate, we can come together and resolve these differences to ensure that our military is well equipped to confront the many challenges we face around the world.” # # #
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Joined by leaders from the civil rights, social justice and faith communities, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and Congressman Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) today introduced legislation to amend the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA). The Do No Harm Act would clarify that no one can seek religious exemption from laws guaranteeing fundamental civil and legal rights. It comes in response to continued efforts across the country to cite religious belief as grounds to undermine Civil Rights Act protections, limit access to healthcare, and refuse service to minority populations. Specifically, the Do No Harm Act would limit the use of RFRA in cases involving discrimination, child labor and abuse, wages and collective bargaining, access to health care, public accommodations, and social services provided through government contract. “When Congress passed RFRA in 1993, the goal was to protect religious freedom for minority groups by requiring the government to demonstrate a compelling interest and to use a policy that was the least restrictive means,” said Congressman Bobby Scott. “Since then, the law has been misconstrued as allowing the sincerely-held religious beliefs of one person to trump the civil rights of others. Civil rights are a compelling government interest, and we cannot allow so-called ‘religious freedom,’ ‘religious liberty’ or ‘faith-based initiatives’ to invalidate the very laws designed to correct the generations of injustices inflicted on minorities. The Do No Harm Act restores the original intent of RFRA.” “The right of Americans to freely and fully express our faith is sacred in this country,” said Congressman Joe Kennedy III. “But in order to guarantee that liberty for every citizen, our system must ensure that my religious freedom does not infringe on yours or do you harm. While not its original intent, theReligious Freedom Restoration Act has become a vehicle for those seeking to impose their beliefs on others or claim that the tenants of their faith justify discrimination. The Do No Harm Act will restore the balance between our right to religious freedom and our promise of equal protection under law.” In 1993, Congress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act in response to a Supreme Court case undermining the rights of religious minorities. But in recent years, the misapplication of RFRA has been used to deny health care coverage for employees, claim exemptions to civil rights law, and complicate justice in child labor and abuse cases. “Religious liberty is a core American value, enshrined in our Constitution and deserving of protection,” said Carmel Martin, Executive Vice President of Policy at the Center for American Progress. “When passed in 1993, the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (or RFRA) offered a necessary corrective to the 1990 Smith decision that had stripped away the constitutionally-protected right to free exercise of religion. However, recent lawsuits and federal court decisions, such as the Supreme Court’s 2014 Hobby Lobby v. Burwell decision, have created an overly broad interpretation of the law and have allowed RFRA to be used in ways that actually restrict religious liberty by imposing beliefs on others and occasioning meaningful harm to third parties. Congress should act to ensure that RFRA is not inappropriately used to violate the rights of others.” “Religious freedom is one of the founding principles of this nation, and the Do No Harm Act would ensure that this principle isn’t twisted into a license to discriminate,” said Wade Henderson, President & CEO of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. “As states across the country attempt to codify discrimination into law, it’s especially important that the federal government once again declare that there can be no religious exemption from basic human dignity.” “Americans United has always fought for the fundamental American value of religious freedom,” said Rev. Barry W. Lynn, Executive Director of Americans United for Separation of Church and State. “In 1993, we joined conservatives and progressives to support the passage of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act because we believed it would protect real religious liberty, especially for those of minority faiths. We are troubled, however, that over the years, RFRA has been misconstrued and exploited to justify discrimination and to deny others their rights. That is why today we support the Do No Harm Act because it preserves RFRA’s power to protect religious liberty but also clarifies that RFRA may not be used to harm others.” “From Indiana to North Carolina; from Georgia to Mississippi, a number of right wing extremist legislators have tried to obfuscate the intent of the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), which was enacted in 1993 to address a series of legal cases which together chiseled away the protections guaranteed by the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution to safeguard traditional Native Americans and other religious minorities in our country,” saidMr. Hilary O. Shelton, Director of the NAACP Washington Bureau and the Senior Vice President for Policy and Advocacy. “Indeed, the implementation of these new laws protect only the bigoted biases of those who wish to discriminate against people in the name of their so-called “religious beliefs” who simply want to do business fairly and justly, or use public facilities. The NAACP stands solidly with Congressman Kennedy and Congressman Scott and others in calling for immediate action on this important legislation.” “Religious freedom gives us the right to our beliefs, but not to harm others,” said Louise Melling, Deputy Legal Director of the American Civil Liberties Union. “The Do No Harm Act would place much needed limitations on RFRA, so that it can be used as a shield for religious exercise but no longer as a sword. With the Do No Harm Act, RFRA could no longer be invoked to justify discrimination, denial of health care, or other harms. We at the ACLU are proud to stand in support of this legislation.” “Religious freedom is a core American value. However, religious freedom claims should never be used as a guise for unfair and unjust treatment that undercut other people's fundamental rights,” said David Stacy, Government Affairs Director of the Human Rights Campaign. “We commend Representatives Kennedy and Scott for introducing this critically important legislation that will preserve the core protections of the federal RFRA, while ensuring that it cannot be used to violate essential non-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans.” “The National Women’s Law Center did not support the Religious Freedom Restoration Act because of concerns about how it could be misused and result in harm to women,” said Gretchen Borchelt, Vice President of Reproductive Rights and Health at the National Women’s Law Center. “Unfortunately, that fear has become a reality. The Supreme Court’s Hobby Lobby decision permitted bosses to deny women critical birth control coverage, and efforts to use RFRA as a justification to discriminate have gained new life since that decision. There have been attempts to use RFRA to challenge laws that protect women, LGBTQ individuals, and students from discrimination; protect employees by allowing them to unionize; promote public health by requiring vaccinations; and require pharmacies to fill lawful prescriptions. That is why the National Women’s Law Center supports the Do No Harm Act. The Do No Harm Act ensures that RFRA cannot be used to undermine basic civil rights and liberties, and stands for the principle that religion should never be used to discriminate or to harm others.” “Increasingly, religion is being used to justify discrimination against women and families, in health care and in the workplace,” said Debra L. Ness, President of the National Partnership for Women & Families. “We commend Representatives Joe Kennedy and Bobby Scott for introducing the Do No Harm Act and leading efforts to make clear that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act’s protections of the exercise of religion cannot be used to deny women access to reproductive health care or other services, or undermine civil rights protections.” "I am delighted to offer my strong support for the Do No Harm Act," said Congressman David N. Cicilline (RI-1), Co-Chair of the Equality Caucus. "No religious tradition has as a central tenet or core belief that you should deny services to someone because of their gender identity or sexual orientation. The Do No Harm Act makes clear that religion can never be used as a legal justification for discrimination against LGBT individuals." The House of Representative LGBT Equality Caucus has endorsed the Do No Harm Act. The legislation has received support from the following advocacy and expert organizations: AFL-CIO, American Civil Liberties Union, Anti-Defamation League, Americans United for the Separation of Church and State, Bend the Arc, Catholics for Choice, Center for American Progress, Center for Reproductive Rights, Congressional Equality Caucus, Disciples Justice Action Network, Equal Partners in Faith, Equality Federation, Family Equality Council, Friends Committee on National Legislation, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders, Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network, Guttmacher Institute, Hindu American Foundation, Human Rights Campaign, In Our Own Voice: National Black Women’s Reproductive Justice Agenda, Interfaith Alliance, Lambda Legal, Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, Leadership Conference for Civil and Human Rights, NAACP, NARAL, National Abortion Federation, National Center for Lesbian Rights, National Center for Transgender Equality, National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health, National LGBTQ Task Force, National Partnership for Women and Families, National Women’s Law Center, Parents and Families of Lesbians and Gays, Planned Parenthood, Reproductive Health Technologies Project, Services and Advocacy for GLBT Elders, Sexuality Information and Education Council of the US, Trevor Project, and Unitarian Universalist Association. For a full list of quotes from each supporting organization, please click here. For full text of the Do No Harm Act please click here. # # #
05.17.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Committee on the Judiciary Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13) unveiled the findings of a new report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on actions needed to reduce racial and socioeconomic segregation, and address disparities in K-12 public schools. Ranking Members Scott and Conyers, along with retired Congressman and former Ranking Member George Miller, first requested this report in May 2014. Sixty-two years ago, the Supreme Court struck down lawful school segregation in the Brown v. Board of Education decision, stating that “it is doubtful that any child may reasonable be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of an education” The decision also affirmed that education was a right that “must be made available to all on equal terms.” GAO gathered data for this report from the Department of Education and confirmed that increasing segregation along the lines of race and poverty continue to be a driver for inequities in education. Despite Brown’s affirmation that “separate educational facilities are inherently unequal,” our system of public education remains largely separate and largely unequal. “Sixty-two years later, here we are in 2016 facing an overwhelming failure to fulfil the promise of Brown in realizing equality in educational opportunity for all students,” said Rep. Bobby Scott. “In May of 2014, I, along with Ranking Member Conyers and former Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member George Miller, requested that the GAO examine racial and socioeconomic isolation in K-12 public schools, and the resulting impact on educational equity. The report resulting from this inquiry confirms a growing and persistent body of research. The GAO report confirms that our nation’s schools are, in fact, largely segregated by race and class. What’s more troubling, is that segregation in public K12 schools isn’t getting better; it's getting worse, and getting worse quickly, with more than 20 million students of color now attending racially and socioeconomically isolated public schools. This report is a national call to action, and I intend to ensure Congress is part of the solution.” “This GAO report confirms what has long been feared and proves that current barriers against educational equality are eerily similar to those fought during the civil rights movement,” said Rep. John Conyers. “There simply can be no excuse for allowing educational apartheid in the 21st century. Congress and the federal government, as well as state and local agencies, must ensure all children receive access to equal education at all publicly funded schools.” “Equal educational opportunity is too critical to our nation’s future to allow persistent disparities adversely affecting minority groups to continue,” stated Thomas A. Saenz, President and General Counsel of MALDEF (Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund). “Unjustified and significant educational disparities must be challengeable by private individuals; the Department of Education simply cannot provide the consistent and broad enforcement necessary for such a pivotal concern.” Nearly a half-century of research shows that segregation negatively impacts student outcomes and exacerbates unequal opportunity experienced later in life. GAO data from the Department of Education confirmed that race and poverty continue to be driver for inequities in education and that housing segregation patterns contribute to school segregation. “This report shines a light on worsening educational inequities that cannot be divorced from our nation's legacy of racial discrimination that has perpetuated racial and socioeconomic isolation,” said NAACP President and Director Counsel Sherrilyn Ifill. “It is our imperative on the 62nd anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in Brown v. Board of Education to ask, ‘How will we act to address current disparities like resource inequities and discriminatory discipline practices?’ We must ensure that interventions address the intersectional nature of racial discrimination in areas like housing and economics that impact educational opportunities and outcomes.” “The findings of GAO confirm what we know to be true: that the promise of Brown remains a promise that has gone largely unfulfilled,” said National Urban League President and CEO Marc H. Morial. “In too many communities, students of color are now more segregated with less access to equitable educational opportunities than in decades prior. Collectively, we can and must do better. This is why the National Urban League and our network of local leaders remains dedicated to partnering with state and school district leaders to seize on the opportunity presented by the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA); to turn the ship and reverse the trend of racial and socioeconomic isolation in public K-12 education. I look forward to continued collaboration with Congress to ensure that government at all levels is acting to right this egregious wrong and bring us closer to fulfilling Brown’s promise.” Democrats introduced legislation to empower parents and communities to address – through robust enforcement – racial inequities in public education. Education and the Workforce Committee Democrats are also calling upon Chairman John Kline to convene a series of hearings to examine the obligation of states and school districts to fulfil the promise of Brown and opportunity presented by the Every Student Succeeds Act to take meaningful and deliberate action, supported by the Federal government, to reduce racial and socioeconomic isolation in public K-12 schools. FACT SHEET: K-12 Education: Better Use of Information Could Help Agencies Identify Disparities and Address Racial Discrimination REPORT: K-12 Education: Better Use of Information Could Help Agencies Identify Disparities and Address Racial Discrimination FACT SHEET: The Equity and Inclusion Enforcement Act (EIEA) # # #
05.17.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), ranking member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), ranking member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee released the following statements after the Department of Labor announced its final overtime rule. The new rule would raise the salary threshold to $47,476, expanding overtime eligibility to 4.2 million workers and boosting wages for workers by $12 billion over the next 10 years. The rule will also give overworked Americans back precious time with their families by incentivizing employers to hire additional workers or give part-timers more hours that they want and need. Employers will no longer be able to force low-paid employees to work those extra hours for free. Murray and Scott have been the leading voices in Congress encouraging the Obama Administration to update overtime protections. “Over the last 40 years, wages for millions of working people have barely grown despite rising productivity,” said Scott. “While worker productivity rose by 72 percent from 1973 to 2014, wages adjusted for inflation only increased by a meager nine percent. Today, the Department of Labor has taken a critical step forward by giving Americans a long overdue raise. Raising the salary threshold will make millions of hardworking people eligible for overtime pay when they work more than 40 hours in a week, and will strengthen overtime protections for millions more. I applaud the Department's efforts to enforce the traditional 40-hour work week, but we still have more work to do to help working families. I will continue to fight for an agenda that boosts wages, helps working people better balance work and family, and levels the playing field through better enforcement of anti-discrimination policies.” “In this country, hard work should pay off, and when workers put in extra hours on the job, they should be paid fairly for it,” said Murray. “But far too many Americans have been working longer and longer hours without being fairly compensated, as businesses take advantage of weak, inadequate and outdated overtime rules. These updated worker protections will make a meaningful difference in the lives of millions of workers and their families across the country and in my home state of Washington. Strengthening basic worker protections like this will help our economy grow from the middle out, not the top down and will help ensure our economy works for everyone, not just the wealthiest few.” FACT SHEET: Growing Middle Class Paychecks and Helping Working Families Get Ahead By Expanding Overtime Pay # # #
05.06.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement upon learning of the passing of former Virginia state senator and state delegate Johnny Joannou: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my friend and former colleague in the Virginia General Assembly, Johnny Joannou. I served with Johnny in both the House of Delegates and the Senate of Virginia. He was well-known for being a talented lawyer and for his independence. Johnny was always willing to work with both sides of the aisle and he fought hard to achieve results for his constituents, regardless of the political consequences. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Chris and all of his friends and supporters during this difficult time." # # #
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Scott Rigell (VA-02), Bobby Scott (VA-03), Rob Wittman (VA-01), and Randy Forbes (VA-04) asked IRS Commissioner John Koskinen to assist American families affected by contaminated Chinese drywall. Contaminated drywall has significantly impacted more than 3,700 homes across the country. In 2013, President Obama signed into law the Drywall Safety Act of 2012, legislation that was introduced by Rigell and quickly passed through Congress thanks to strong bipartisan cooperation across Virginia’s Congressional delegation. The legislation set chemical standards for domestic and imported drywall, established remediation guidelines for disposal of all drywall, and expressed a sense of Congress that China must be held accountable for the damage this product has already caused across America. However, many contaminated drywall victims continue to face significant financial hardship.The joint letter states: “The damage has been devastating to many homeowners affected by the drywall. On top of mortgage payments, many residents have been forced to pay for rental homes due to the physical damage it has caused. Further, the damage has forced some homes below market value, leaving homeowners with no choice but to walk away from their mortgages. Many families are in financial ruin because of Chinese drywall. … We respectfully ask your agency to conduct a review to see if there are any services the IRS can provide, including tax deductions, to help those who unknowingly had the drywall in their homes.” The full text of the letter is available here or below. -- April 26, 2016 The Honorable John Koskinen Commissioner Internal Revenue Service 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20224-001 Dear Commissioner Koskinen: The purpose of this letter is to discuss an important issue affecting many of our constituents. We respectfully request that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) help the victims of Chinese drywall. As you may know, contaminated drywall has significantly affected more than 3,700 homes across the country. The drywall was manufactured in China and imported to the United States to be used in U.S. home construction from approximately 2004-2009. It contains toxic and semi-toxic substances which release harmful gasses into homes. These gasses have been linked to adverse health conditions and have damaged the plumbing and electrical systems of many homes, making them “unlivable.” The financial damage has also been devastating to many homeowners affected by the drywall. On top of mortgage payments, many residents have been forced to pay for rental homes due to the physical damage it has caused. Further, the damage has forced some homes below market value, leaving homeowners with no choice but to walk away from their mortgages. Many families are in financial ruin because of the Chinese drywall. Fortunately, Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the Drywall Safety Act of 2012, which was an excellent first step in assisting the victims. This measure set chemical standards for domestic and imported drywall, established remediation guidelines for disposal of all drywall, and expressed a sense of Congress that China must be held accountable for the damage this product has already caused across America. However, despite this effort, our constituents are still being significantly affected financially by the drywall. It is for these reasons that we respectfully ask your agency to conduct a review to see if there are any services the IRS can provide, including tax deductions, to help those who have unfortunately had the drywall in their homes. Thank you for your time and attention to our request. Sincerely, ______________________________ Scott Rigell Member of Congress ______________________________ Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Member of Congress ______________________________ Robert J. Wittman Member of Congress ______________________________ J. Randy Forbes Member of Congress ###
04.06.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) released the final “conflict of interest” rule to protect workers’ retirement savings and ensure they receive investment advice that’s in their best interest. “I strongly support the Department of Labor’s ‘conflict of interest’ rule, which finally closes gaping loopholes in a critical retirement savings regulation that dates back to 1975. When workers seek out personalized financial advice on how to invest their retirement nest egg, they are making one of the biggest financial decisions of their lives. These workers and their families often place their full trust and confidence in their financial advisor. “Many financial advisors do right by their retirement clients, but others do not. These unscrupulous professionals can get away with providing ‘conflicted advice’ and putting their financial interests ahead of their retirement clients’ just by burying boilerplate disclaimers in the fine print. That’s wrong, and that’s precisely what the Department seeks to end in this final rule. “In the weeks and months ahead, I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues as this new rule is put into place to ensure retirees receive advice that is in their best interest.” Fact Sheet: Final Rule to Protect Retirement Savings # # #
04.04.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement upon learning of the passing of State Senator John Miller: “I was saddened to learn of the passing of State Senator John Miller. I first knew John during his time as a broadcaster and I welcomed him as he transitioned to public office. John was a dedicated public servant who led efforts in the General Assembly to reform SOL testing and combat sea level rise. He was willing to work with both sides of the aisle to achieve results for our Commonwealth. I grew to appreciate his counsel as we worked on behalf of our mutual constituents. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Sharron, his daughter Jenny and his son John, and his countless friends and supporters.” # # #
04.01.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that during the month of March, the economy added 215,000 jobs: “Today’s job report represents the 73rd consecutive month of private sector job growth with unemployment steady at 5 percent. This extends the longest streak of job growth on record, which was previously set in April 2000 at 51 months. This is welcome news, however more work must be done to support the economic recovery and strengthen working families. “Yesterday we saw that the state of California passed a proposal to raise its minimum wage to $15 per hour – thanks to workers that rallied for fairer wages. But they are not alone. Workers in cities and states all across the country are calling on lawmakers to give them the long overdue raise they need to be able to support their families. “This month will mark the one-year anniversary of Democrats introducing the Raise the Wage Act – a bill that would give a raise to 35 million working people. The legislation would increase the minimum wage to $12 per hour by 2020, index the federal minimum wage to the median wage, and gradually eliminate the subminimum tipped wage. This legislation is just one way that we can boost wages and bring more financial assurance to working families across the nation. “Bigger paychecks not only help families make ends meet, they also help expand economic opportunity and build an economy that works for all Americans. Our nation’s working families need proposals that would boost wages, help them balance work and family, and level the playing field by eliminating discrimination. It is up to all of us here in Congress to make sure that they get a fair deal.” # # #
03.31.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the shooting at the Richmond Greyhound station: "I was saddened to learn of the senseless and tragic shooting at the Greyhound bus station in Richmond today. This inexplicable act of violence is a painful reminder of the fact that our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line each and every day to protect our communities. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of the Virginia State Trooper killed in the line of duty." # # #
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the Department of the Interior and Bureau of Ocean Energy Management’s proposed plan to protect the southern Atlantic coast from offshore drilling: “I applaud the Department of Interior and the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management for carefully considering whether or not to allow oil and gas development off the southern Atlantic Coast. This revised proposal for the nation’s oil and gas leasing program appropriately responded to input from local leaders, businesses, the Department of Defense, environmental stakeholders, and many others. “The Commonwealth of Virginia is fortunate to have many unique natural resources and, thankfully, this updated proposal will ensure that our coastline is protected for future generations. As we move ahead from this decision, I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to continue to strengthen our economy and move our nation toward a cleaner energy future. I know Hampton Roads and our Commonwealth will play a critical role in those efforts.” # # #
03.09.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced the beginning of the annual Third Congressional District High School Art Competition. The competition is open to all high school students (grades 9-12) residing in the Third Congressional District of Virginia. Entries are due Friday, April 22, 2016. An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Acceptable entries may include, but are not limited to, paintings, drawings, and photography. The first place winner will receive a scholarship and travel to Washington, D.C. to attend a Congressional Reception in honor of all the winners from around the nation. The first place entry from each congressional district will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year, where it will be seen by hundreds of thousands of people who visit the Capitol. Congressman Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate and various other prizes at two receptions in Hampton Roads and Richmond. Reception dates will be announced in the coming weeks.All entries must be submitted by Friday, April 22, 2016. Students can submit their entries to either of Congressman Scott's District Offices in Newport News and Richmond. The Newport News District Office is located at 2600 Washington Avenue, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607. The Richmond District Office is located at 400 N 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, Virginia 23219. If you have any questions regarding this year's art competition, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. The guidelines and other information about this year's competition can be accessed online at: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/artcontest and https://www.house.gov/content/educate/art_competition/. # # #
03.04.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today after the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that during the month of February, the economy added 242,000 jobs: “Today’s job report represents the 72nd consecutive month of private sector job growth with unemployment remaining steady at 4.9 percent. Our economy is steadily growing and more Americans are finding opportunities. However, more work must be done to strengthen our economy and grow working people’s paychecks. “That is why House Democrats put forward a responsible proposal to raise the minimum wage, and why we strongly support the Administration’s proposed rule to make five million more Americans eligible for overtime pay. But for these measures to be effective, we need to ensure that the extra pay makes it into workers’ pockets. “Many working people are completely unaware that they are being cheated out of their hard-earned wages. This injustice occurs because employers are under no state or federal requirement to produce a pay stub itemizing wages and deductions. To help remedy this all-too-common problem, I introduced the Pay Stub Disclosure Act to ensure that workers have the tools necessary to fight back against wage theft. “Our nation’s working families need proposals that would boost wages, help them balance work and family, and level the playing field by eliminating discrimination. It is up to all of us here in Congress to make sure that working families get a fair deal.” # # #
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), House Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA) and House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice Ranking Member Steve Cohen (D-TN) issued a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch asking the Department of Justice (DOJ) to follow-up on a request to instruct the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) to review and reconsider an opinion issued on June 29, 2007. The opinion has been interpreted to permit federally funded faith-based organizations to use the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) to override statutory employment nondiscrimination laws. The 2007 opinion, based on flawed analysis, found that RFRA was “reasonably construed” to permit World Vision, a religiously-affiliated federal grant recipient, to refuse to hire non-coreligionists for jobs that were funded by taxpayer money even though the statute governing the grant explicitly prohibited such religious hiring discrimination. In the letter, the Members express that they are “…deeply concerned that the OLC opinion is being cited with increasing frequency to protect discriminatory employment practices in cases beyond the specific grant at issue in the opinion.” The letter continues, “while the OLC opinion specified that its conclusion was ‘limited to the issuance of this grant to World Vision,’ it has since been used to justify hiring discrimination practices in other Justice Department programs such as the Violence Against Women Act, and in programs run by other federal agencies.” “Although the OLC opinion is now more than eight and half years old, it remains problematic because it continues to be cited to justify blanket exemptions to nondiscrimination provisions in federally-funded programs,” said the lawmakers. A full copy of the letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch is available here. Video of the November 17, 2015 Oversight of the United Department of Justice full committee hearing is available here. # # #
02.13.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the death of Supreme Court Associate Justice Antonin Scalia: "Justice Scalia was a giant on the Court and in American jurisprudence. His love for the law was always evident in the expressive and often colorful opinions he drafted over the last three decades. I offer my condolences to his wife Maureen, his children, the entire Scalia family and his colleagues on the Supreme Court during their time of bereavement." # # #
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Tim Kaine and Mark Warner, Congressmen Bobby Scott, Don Beyer, G. K. Butterfield, Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, and Hilary Shelton, Director of the NAACP Washington Bureau introduced the 400 Years of African American History Act (S. 2548/H.R. 4539) – legislation that would establish a commission to plan programs and activities in 2019 across the country to recognize the arrival and influence of Africans in America. Similar commissions have been established to recognize English & Hispanic heritage, including the 400th anniversary of the founding of Jamestown, Virginia and the 450th anniversary of the founding of St. Augustine, Florida. This commission would be charged with recognizing and highlighting the resilience and contribution of African Americans since 1619, as well as acknowledging the painful impact that slavery and laws that enforced racial discrimination have had on our nation’s history. “I’ve been lucky to be a part of federal commissions that have been formed to study and celebrate English and Hispanic history. Well, if English lives matter, if Latino lives matter, then African American lives matter and they’ve mattered every day since the landing of those ’20 and odd’ African Americans at Point Comfort, Virginia,” Kaine said. “The story has a lot of pain to it, but it’s a story that has to be told to commemorate that we as a nation – had it not been for 400 years of African American history – would be absolutely unrecognizable. What we hope to do with this bill is engage in something we should do to tell the story in a different way than it may have been told 50 to 100 years ago.” “Confronting the sins of our nation’s past is the only sure way to move towards a brighter future. We have to be committed to telling our entire history – the good and the bad,” said Warner. “This commission will recognize the immeasurable contributions African Americans have made to our country. But it will also recognize the phenomenal resilience of African Americans, not only in the face of slavery 400 years ago but in the face of racial discrimination in the years that followed.” “The history of Virginia and our nation cannot be fully understood or appreciated without knowing about the first Africans who arrived at Point Comfort, Virginia in 1619,” said Scott. “The commission established by this bill will be charged with the important task of planning, developing and implementing a series of programs and activities throughout 2019 that fully tells the story of African Americans, their contributions to the fabric of our nation, and their resilience over the last 400 years.” “2019 will mark 400 years since the first documented arrival of Africans arrived in America by way of Point Comfort, Virginia, in an event that would change the course of our country forever,” said Butterfield, chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. “It was a defining moment in what would become one of the darkest points in the history of our country. We take note of this moment in time, which left a permanent mark on an entire race, by introducing the 400 Years of African American History Act – to establish a commission to plan programs and activities in 2019 across the country to recognize the arrival and influence of Africans in America and highlight the resilience and contributions African Americans have had on our country since 1619. It’s an opportunity to further acknowledge the painful impact that slavery had in America, and further address the racial discrimination and oppression that continues today.” “Virginia has made remarkable progress in the 400 years since giving birth to the slave trade’s atrocities in the United States. I am proud to join a bipartisan group from the Commonwealth of Virginia to introduce this commission honoring African American contributions to our history,” said Beyer. “In celebrating their achievements, I hope this gives us moments to reflect on where we still must find ways to march toward racial equality.” “The commission established by this legislation will play a key role in recognizing, understanding, and celebrating the resilience and contributions of African Americans in the history of our nation,” said Hilary Shelton, Director, NAACP Washington Bureau & Senior Vice President for Policy and Advocacy. “It will also offer an important opportunity for discussion on a number of issues, including the ever-growing influence of people of African descent in the daily lives of all Americans. The NAACP would like to thank Senator Kaine and Congressman Scott, as well as all of the co-sponsors of this important legislation, for their efforts, vision, and their foresight.” This legislation is also co-sponsored by Virginia Congressmen Randy Forbes and Scott Rigell, as well as members of the Congressional Black Caucus, including Congressman John Lewis, and supported by the NAACP and the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. The full text of the legislation can be found here. # # #
02.09.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) released the following statement today in response to President Barack Obama’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2017: “President Obama’s FY 2017 budget makes the necessary investments that will continue our economic recovery by ensuring all America’s students, families and workers share in the gains we have made over the last seven years. “Building on the success of the Every Student Succeeds Act, the President’s budget includes a proposal to provide high-quality universal pre-K, new funding to help more than 1 million youth enter the workforce and gain valuable work experience year-round, and proposals to provide two years of free college and year-round Pell Grants. It also makes investments to reduce child hunger during the summer and provides funding for juvenile justice and delinquency prevention programs to support vulnerable youth in communities across the country. “The President’s budget also supports working families by expanding access to job-based retirement savings opportunities by encouraging more employers to offer retirement plans and making it easier for workers to participate in those plans. It also will ensure that more families can balance work and family through state-based paid leave policies. “Democrats on the Education and the Workforce Committee are committed to investing in students and the economic security of working families nationwide. That is why I am pleased that the President’s budget calls on Congress to enact proposals that will truly increase opportunity for all. While I am disappointed that Republican leaders have denied the OMB Director Donovan the opportunity to present the President’s budget before the Budget Committee, I am committed to advancing many of the important investments outlined in this budget.” # # #
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Tim Kaine and Mark Warner, along with Governor Terry McAuliffe, U.S. Representatives Bobby Scott, Randy Forbes, Rob Wittman, Gerry Connolly, Robert Hurt, Dave Brat, Don Beyer and Scott Rigell released the following statement welcoming the groundbreaking of a Foreign Affairs Security Training Center (FASTC) at Fort Pickett in Blackstone, Virginia. “After years of unnecessary delays and hurdles, the brave men and women who serve in our embassies around the world – many of whom call Virginia home – will finally have a dedicated facility to receive the best possible security training before they embark on assignments in high threat countries across the globe. We are especially proud that such an important facility will be located in Virginia. As four different federal agency evaluations and an independent cost-benefit analysis made clear, only Fort Pickett meets every requirement for a consolidated Foreign Affairs Security Training Center making it by far the best site – both from a strategic and cost perspective. We are pleased that groundbreaking is finally underway in Nottoway County.” For months, members of the Virginia delegation have fought back against attempts to derail the construction of a FASTC at Fort Pickett. According to an independent cost-benefit-analysis released in December and a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report released last September, Fort Pickett is the only site that meets four requirements deemed critical in the selection of a diplomatic security training center, including: 1) consolidation of training venues; 2) proximity to Washington, D.C.; 3) exclusive use of the facility for State Department diplomatic security training; 4) use of the facility 24 hours/7 days a week to allow for nighttime training missions. In addition to meeting these four critical training criteria, the independent analysis found Fort Pickett to be the lowest-risk, most cost-efficient option - by approximately $90 million - when compared to the next closest alternative. # # #
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott of the Committee on Education and the Workforce made the following remarks on the House floor this evening during a Special Order hour on the Flint, Michigan water crisis: “Thank you, Congresswoman Watson Coleman, for your leadership and coordinating this Special Order. And thank you to the Michigan Representatives who've been working so hard to try to respond to this tragedy. “There will be a lot of investigations designed to find out what happened, whose fault it was, whether or not any crimes were committed and how to prevent this from happening in the future. But there's one thing we know and that is that children have been poisoned by lead exposure. As the ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, we've begun the process to determine how to appropriately respond because we know that lead poisoning creates severe challenges to the public school system. Children are entitled to equal educational opportunity, and that goes back to the Brown v. Board of Education case, where the Court found 'it is doubtful that any child may be reasonably be expected to succeed in life without an education' and that right – and that opportunity – is 'a right which must be made available to all on equal terms.' “Now, local, state and federal governments have all failed our children, allowing them to be poisoned by lead exposure, and we owe it to our children to mitigate to the extent possible the adverse effects of lead poisoning so they can achieve an equal educational opportunity. Research already shows that the adverse effects of lead exposure are great, due to decreased academic attainment, increased need for special education, higher likelihood of behavioral challenges and can result to significant loss in earnings, tax revenues and additional burdens to the criminal justice system and great stress on our hospital systems. “The opportunity for a strong start to a successful life will be stunted for Flint's children if they are not given the necessary resources, including early intervention and access to high-quality early learning programs such as Head Start to help them overcome the life-long effects of exposure to lead. Now, we have an obligation to provide these resources and provide them as soon as possible while they can be most effective. Current funding, however, only allows 20 percent of Flint children who are eligible for Head Start to actually attend Head Start. The children who are able to participate in Head Start can receive early screening services for developmental disabilities; families can receive counseling and assistance in accessing services. Head Start can provide the Flint families affected by the disaster with early intervention services that they desperately need, but in order to do so, all eligible for Head Start, not just the 20 percent presently participating, need to be able to access Head Start. “We need to come up with the money to make that possible. Make no mistake – we should not expect the fix to this crisis to be easy or cheap. The impact of lead exposure on young children is long lasting and our response must have a long-term approach. We must have all the tools available to us, starting with prenatal care and screenings for pregnant moms, early intervention to identify special education needs, Title I funding from ESEA, after-school programs, even investment in college access efforts. “Our children's futures have been compromised by bad governmental decisions, but we know how to mitigate that damage and the response has to be more than just the infrastructure improvements and repairs to finally provide clean water. We need a comprehensive response, and members of the Committee on Education and the Work force will be working to formulate the appropriate response to the educational challenges. Other committees will work to the responses within their jurisdictions. But one thing is certain – it is imperative that these resources be provided now without delay. Thank you and I yield back.” # # #
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Bob Casey (D-PA) and Congressmen Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Bobby Scott (D-VA) urged the Obama Administration to strongly support agricultural conservation programs to ensure a clean Chesapeake Bay in its FY 2017 budget. To increase the economic benefits from the lands and waters throughout the Bay’s watershed, states are working to achieve the Chesapeake Bay Clean Water Blueprint, but progress is in jeopardy if programs are not sufficiently funded. “Great progress has been made in the last six years… Unfortunately, recent program reviews conducted by the Chesapeake Bay Program reveal that in particular geographies, we are not on track to meet the goals of the Blueprint,” the Members wrote in a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan. “All that has been accomplished, and all that stands to be accomplished, will be threatened if our rural areas cannot receive the support and assistance they need at this critical time.” The full letter to Director Donovan is below: Dear Director Donovan: We write concerning the ongoing efforts to clean up the Chesapeake Bay. We appreciate the Obama Administration’s commitment to working with our states and communities and the entire watershed to achieve a healthy Bay by 2025. As you know, Executive Order 13508 on Chesapeake Bay Restoration and Protection states, “[t]he Chesapeake Bay is a national treasure constituting the largest estuary in the United States and one of the largest and most biologically productive estuaries in the world.” An important element of this initiative is the Chesapeake Bay Clean Water Blueprint, as the Chesapeake Bay TMDL has come to be called, which when implemented will increase the economic benefits from these lands and waters throughout the Chesapeake Bay region by $22 Billion per year, to $129 Billion. This Blueprint was developed with federal leadership through the Chesapeake Bay Program in collaboration with Bay watershed states in 2010, and it was independently ratified by all Bay watershed states. Great progress has been made in the last six years. We commend the commitment and hard work of state and local governments throughout the region. The federal government has also been a critical partner, and we particularly want to highlight the contributions made by the Department of Agriculture through the conservation programs. Unfortunately, recent program reviews conducted by the Chesapeake Bay Program reveal that in particular geographies, we are not on track to meet the goals of the Blueprint. Specifically, much of the outstanding work involves helping farmers and rural communities in Pennsylvania take the steps needed to reduce harmful agricultural pollution of the Bay. This can be done without harming the farm economy, but at this time leadership from the Federal government is critical. We are writing to encourage you to include strong supports for the USDA conservation programs in the fiscal year 2017 budget. Farmers in the watershed, and particularly in the Susquehanna River Basin, need assistance to achieve the nitrogen goals required for the health of the Bay. Significantly, this action is consistent not only with the Executive Order, but also with the Administration’s policies for adapting to climate change and enhancing soil health. The practices that need to be implemented on agricultural lands under the Blueprint in Pennsylvania and throughout the watershed are the same practices that will help soils become more resilient to extreme weather events and ultimately become more productive, while requiring less fertilizer and reducing nutrient and sediment pollution to rivers and streams and the Bay. The goals of the Executive Order and Blueprint can be achieved, and the Chesapeake Bay can be a shining example of how protection of our natural resources and economic development can both be served. Yet all that has been accomplished, and all that stands to be accomplished, will be threatened if our rural areas cannot receive the support and assistance they need at this critical time. We urge your attention to this matter. # # #
01.27.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Obama Administration announced that the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget will invest $12 billion over ten years to reduce child hunger during the summer through a permanent Summer Electronic Benefits Transfer for Children (Summer EBT) program to provide supplemental food benefits during the summer months for all families with children eligible for free and reduced price school meals. Full committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott and committee and House Democrats have sought to expand innovative feeding programs that help kids stay healthy year-round as well as increase access to school meals. “The proposal to make permanent and expand the summer EBT program nationwide ensures that an effective option for reducing hunger is available to those in need throughout the country,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03). “Feeding programs, such as the summer EBT pilot program, have benefited millions of children, keeping them healthy and preparing them to return to school ready to learn in the fall. Millions more stand to benefit from the program's expansion. It is my hope that the Congress can work together to pass both a budget and a reauthorization of child nutrition programs that makes needed investments in federal programs targeting food insecurity to support our ongoing efforts to eliminate childhood hunger.” The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) – which administers that nation’s school meals and nutrition programs – also announced a new initiative to increase access to school meals for low-income children through a project that will allow interested State agencies that administer the National School Lunch Program (NSLP) to use Medicaid data to certify students for free and reduced priced lunches. “Child hunger is not a game. I see its effects in the 11th Congressional District every day,” said Rep. Marcia Fudge, Ranking Member of the Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Subcommittee. “In 2015, Ohio ranked sixth in the nation for food insecurity and surpassed the national average for hungry households. Hunger makes it harder for students to learn, places additional burdens on struggling families, and contributes to poor health in our communities. I commend President Obama for taking steps to support and strengthen some of our nation’s most important anti-hunger, anti-poverty programs. We must do all we can to combat food insecurity and give our children a healthy start in life.” In 2014, nearly one in seven American households experienced food insecurity, meaning that one or more household members did not have a consistent source of adequate nutritious food. Moreover, 40 percent of all food-insecure households—and nearly 6 percent of US households overall—were considered to have very low food security. This means that, in nearly seven million households, at least one person in the household missed meals and experienced disruptions in food intake due to insufficient resources for food. Committee Democrats support strengthening and improving federal feeding programs to ensure that all American children have the food they need to grow, learn, and succeed. # # #
01.14.2016	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on today’s announcement by Congressman Scott Rigell (VA-02) that he will retire at the end of the 114th Congress: “In both the private and public sector, Scott Rigell has dedicated his life to serving the Hampton Roads community. In his short time in Congress, he has developed a well-deserved reputation as a pragmatic leader on addressing our nation’s fiscal issues and reforming how Congress operates. “I have personally enjoyed working with him on issues critical to Hampton Roads, including protecting our region’s military assets and supporting our shipbuilders. Scott and I have also been working together to fix our nation’s broken criminal justice system and I appreciate his strong support and advocacy for the SAFE Justice Act, which I introduced with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner last year. “While today’s announcement is a loss for the House of Representatives and the Commonwealth, I look forward to being able to continue to work with Scott to advance Virginia’s priorities in Congress for the remainder of his term. I wish Scott, his wife Teri, and his children and grandchildren all my best as he transitions back to private life.” # # #
01.13.2016	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, introduced H.R. 4376 the Pay Stub Transparency Act – legislation to protect American workers from the rampant problem of wage theft. “Wage theft is all too common, especially among low-wage workers,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott. “Given the prevalence of this problem, we must work to ensure that hardworking Americans have the tools necessary to fight back against the injustice of wage theft. This legislation would do just that.” In 2012, victims of wage theft recovered $933 million in stolen wages through complaints filed with federal, state, or local agencies or through private litigation, according to the Economic Policy Institute. But this staggering figure represents only a fraction of the total amount of stolen wages every year, which is estimated to be as much as $50 billion nationally. The Pay Stub Transparency Act will: Provide a uniform federal pay stub requirement, which will be much easier for employers that operate in multiple states to comply with than the current patchwork of varying state laws; Require employers to provide information to employees who are not exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act’s minimum wage and overtime requirements, with their paychecks that explain how their wages are calculated, including whether they were paid overtime; Give employees the right to inspect their employers’ pay records; Provide a private right of action and financial remedy to employees whose rights to a pay stub or records inspection are violated; Codify the legal presumption that if an employer fails to keep records of an employee’s pay, the employee’s own credible evidence and testimony about his or her pay is presumed to be true. A study commissioned by the Department of Labor in 2014 estimated that there were over 600,000 weekly minimum wage violations in California and New York, representing 3.5 and 6.5 percent of covered, non-exempt jobs in those states respectively. These violations added up to $28.7 million in weekly lost income for California’s workers and $20.1 million in weekly lost income for New York’s workers. On top of that, employers’ routine failure to provide pay stubs makes it extremely difficult to identify and prosecute these egregious wage violations. Despite laws in a majority of states requiring that employers provide some form of pay stubs to their workers, many workers never receive them. In California, Illinois, and New York, employers are required to provide pay stubs. Yet the groundbreaking study from 2009 – Broken Laws, Unprotected Workers – found that 57 percent of workers surveyed did not receive them in the previous workweek. There is no federal law that requires employers to provide pay stubs. The Pay Stub Transparency Act will help to remedy this practice that leave workers vulnerable to wage theft. # # #
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “Under this President’s leadership, our nation has rebounded from the worst economic recession since the Great Depression. We just recorded the 70th month of consecutive job growth – the longest streak on record. We ended ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ saved the American auto industry, reformed Wall Street, and passed significant health care reform that has made access to affordable health care a reality for millions of Americans. These are just a few of the many great things that have been accomplished over the last seven years. “Tonight, the President focused on the future and charged Congress and the next president to go even further. I am optimistic that by heeding the President’s call and by working together we can accomplish even more great things on behalf of the American people.” # # #
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement on the decision of a three-judge panel in Richmond adopting a new congressional map for Virginia: “I am pleased that the court has imposed a new congressional map that fixes the unconstitutional racial gerrymander of Virginia’s third congressional district. This new map is consistent with what State Senator Mamie Locke proposed in 2011 and what I originally recommended in 1991 while serving in the Senate of Virginia.” # # #
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the circumstances surrounding the occupation of a federal building by a militia in eastern Oregon: “According to press accounts, the case of Oregon ranchers Dwight and Steven Hammond and the lengthy federal prison sentence they received has, in part, motivated a group to aggressively confront the federal government. While I hope that their occupation ceases immediately and ends peacefully, their actions, ironically, highlight the injustice inflicted by mandatory minimum sentencing laws. “In 2012, the Hammonds were convicted under federal arson laws, which carry a five-year mandatory minimum sentence of incarceration. The trial judge, opting to ignore the mandatory sentencing provision, stated that the five-year mandatory minimum ‘would not meet any idea I have of justice, proportionality’ and ‘it would be a sentence which would shock the conscience to me.’ “The federal government subsequently appealed the shorter sentences, requesting that the full five-year mandatory minimum sentences be imposed. The appellate court agreed, remanded the case with orders to the lower court to impose the mandatory five-year sentences on both Dwight and Steven Hammond, and directed them to report to prison, which they did yesterday. “Instead of considering the underlying facts, circumstances and characteristics of the offense and the offender, as the judge in the Hammond’s case did over a two-week trial and sentencing hearing, the law requires the judge to rubber stamp the five-year mandatory sentence without any case-specific consideration. “Research has shown time and time again that mandatory minimum sentencing wastes money, disrupts rational sentencing systems, discriminates against minorities, and far too often requires judges to impose sentences that violate rationality, proportionality, justice and commonsense. These sentences are, therefore, inherently problematic. “The Hammonds join Weldon Angelos, Marissa Alexander, Mandy Martinson, Genarlo Wilson, Marcus Dixon and countless other individuals who were denied the opportunity for a judge to exercise appropriate judgment in imposing a rational sentence. Mandatory minimum sentences must be eliminated to allow judges the opportunity to sentence offenders based on the facts and circumstances of the case, and the offender’s role and criminal record. But the first step in ending mandatory minimum sentences is to stop Congress and state legislatures from passing new ones or expanding existing ones.” In Congress, Congressman Scott has championed the elimination of mandatory minimum sentencing. He has sponsored or cosponsored several bills that would either severely limit the length and/or applicability of these sentences or allow judges to decline to impose them when warranted. These bills include: H.R. 2944, the SAFE Justice Act; H.R. 706, the Justice Safety Valve Act; H.R. 920, the Smarter Sentencing Act; H.R. 1252, the Fair Sentencing Clarification Act; H.R. 1255, the Fairness in Cocaine Sentencing Act; and H.R. 1254, the Recidivism Clarification Act. He was also the House sponsor of the Fair Sentencing Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in 2010 and was the first meaningful reduction in a mandatory minimum sentence in a generation. # # #
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03), a vice chair of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Taskforce, released the following statement on President Obama’s executive actions on gun violence prevention. Congressman Scott and other members of the task force met with the President yesterday afternoon to discuss these proposals and attended the announcement at the White House today. “I commend the President for taking action to help reduce and prevent gun violence in light of the current congressional leadership’s refusal to responsibly address this epidemic. These executive actions will ensure stronger enforcement of current laws, will reduce the number of lives lost to gun violence and will make our communities safer. “The President’s executive actions will narrow the gun show loophole by strengthening enforcement of licensing requirements for gun dealers and overhauling the background check system to make it more effective and efficient. Dealers will also be required to notify law enforcement if their guns are lost or stolen in transit. These actions will also leverage the buying power of the federal government to encourage research and investments in gun safety technology. The President’s plan will also help increase access to mental health treatment to ensure that people who need help do not fall through the cracks of the mental health system. “While modest and within the President’s executive authority, these executive actions will go a long way in keeping guns out of the hands of people who never should have been able to purchase one in the first place. I am also pleased that these actions encompass some of the recommendations of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. However, as he stated today, the President is limited by his executive authority on what he alone can do to address this epidemic. Long-term reform can only be achieved through congressional action and I hope that the leadership in Congress will follow the President’s lead and act to address this critical issue.” More information about the President’s executive actions can be found here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2016/01/04/fact-sheet-new-executive-actions-reduce-gun-violence-and-make-our. # # #
01.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tomorrow, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) will join other members of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force for a meeting with the President at the White House to discuss the Administration’s plans to reduce gun violence. Congressman Scott, a vice chair of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, issued the following statement ahead of Monday afternoon’s meeting with the President: “Washington has a moral obligation to do something to address our nation’s gun violence epidemic. With the current leadership in Congress paralyzed to even consider bipartisan, evidence-based legislation to curb gun violence and close loopholes in the law, I am interested in learning more about the President’s proposed executive actions to address this issue and offering my own suggestions. “The most effective way to address this epidemic is through comprehensive, evidence-based policy proposals that will help keep our communities safe from gun violence. The House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, of which I serve as a vice chair, has put forward several proposals that would go a long way in achieving these goals. These proposals include reinstating and strengthening the assault weapons ban, reducing the size of magazines, implementing universal background checks, cracking down on illegal-gun trafficking and straw-purchasing, improving our mental-health system, and implementing comprehensive, community based violence prevention and intervention programs. “I expect the President’s proposals will include some of these ideas, but long-term reform to address this epidemic can only be achieved through congressional action. I commend the President for leading on this issue and I look forward to learning more about his proposals.” # # #
12.18.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on House passage of H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which fully funds the federal government through September 30, 2016, provides a two year implementation delay of the excise tax on high-cost employer sponsored health insurance plans, makes important investments in students and does not hinder the Department of Labor’s ability to enforce rules that protect workers. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 316-113 (Roll Call No.705). “Despite recent gains in our economy, too many working families are still struggling to make ends meet. With today’s vote, the House has taken a significant step forward to help workers, students and families. The investments made in this bill are necessary to ensure our nation’s economic health and competitiveness. “The bill provides substantial support for job training and apprenticeship programs, which are proven pathways to a sustainable career. I am pleased that some of the most egregious policy riders that were in early versions of the bill were ultimately removed. These provisions would have allowed interference with employee organizing, unsafe workplaces, unscrupulous retirement savings advice, discrimination and wage theft. “This appropriations bill also includes significant increases in federal education programs, especially for those benefiting low-income students. These additional funds will help close resource and opportunity gaps at every level of our education system and will help make sure a high-quality education is within reach of every American child. “While this bill provides adequate funding increases for programs that support students and workers, Congress must still rebalance its priorities to better ensure that hardworking American families have the opportunity to prosper. I am confident that by working together, we can increase investments in measures to boost wages, help workers to better balance work and family life, and level the playing field to create opportunity for all in the future.” # # # FY2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act Fact SheetCommittee on Education and the Workforce Democrats 2015 enacted level: $156.8 billion 2016 Committee mark: $153.1 billion 2016 Omnibus: $162.1 billion Department of Labor $1.6 billion for worker protection agencies – including Wage and Hour, OSHA, MSHA, OFCCP – at the Department of Labor which is $3 million more than the 2015 enacted level and $39 million more than the House bill. $2.7 billion for WIOA Job Training Formula Grant program, which is $86 million more than the 2015 enacted level and the House bill. $90 million to expand opportunities relating to apprenticeship programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act. Independent Labor Agencies $274 million for the National Labor Relations Board to carry out its functions, which is $74 million more than the 2015 enacted level and the House bill. $364 million for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which is the same as the FY 2015 enacted level. Department of Education $14.9 billion for Title I Grants to Local Educational Agencies, which is $500 million more than the 2015 enacted level and the House bill. $11.9 billion for Special Education state grants (IDEA), which is $415 million more than the 2015 enacted level and $87 million less than the House bill. $1.3 billion for Impact Aid, which is $17 million more than the 2015 enacted level and $7 million more than the House bill. $2.3 billion for Improving Teacher Quality State Grants, which is the same as the 2015 enacted level and $668 million more than the House bill. $1.17 billion for 21st Century Community Learning Centers, which is $15 million more than the FY 2015 enacted level. $120 million for Investing in Innovation, which is the same as the FY 2015 enacted level. $190 million for Striving Readers, which is $30 million more than the FY 2015 enacted level. $153 million for Math and Science Partnerships, which is the same as the FY 2015 enacted level. $450 million for School Improvement Grants, which received $506 million in 2015. $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, which is the same as the FY 2015 enacted level. $22.5 billion for Pell Grants, which is the same as the 2015 enacted level and $370 million more than the House bill. When combined with mandatory funding, these discretionary funds will enable the maximum grant to increase to an estimated $5,915, an increase of $140 in the 2016-2017 school year. $570 million for Aid for Institutional Development, which is $40 million more than the 2015 enacted level and $26 million more than the House bill. Health and Human Services $2.8 billion for Child Care and Development Block Grants, which is $326 million more than the FY 2015 enacted level and the House bill. $9.2 billion for Head Start, which is $570 million more than the FY 2015 enacted level and $378 million more than the House bill. $635 million for Early Head Start-Child Care Partnerships, which is $135 million more than the FY 2015 enacted level. $835 million for Seniors’ Nutrition programs, which is $20 million more than the FY 2015 enacted level and $14 million more than the House bill. Juvenile Justice $270.2 million for Juvenile Justice, which is $18.7 million more than the FY 2015 level and $83.7 million above the House bill. $17.5 million for delinquency prevention which includes funding for Tribal Youth Program, girls in the juvenile justice system, and gang and youth violence education, prevention and intervention, and related activities. Child Nutrition & WIC $23 million for the Summer Electronic Benefit Transfer for Children program, which is $11 million more than the House bill and $7 million more than the FY 2015 enacted level. Participation is not limited to certain communities as it was last year. $6.35 billion for Special Supplemental Nutrition for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), which is consistent with the current estimate of need; $60 million is specifically targeted to breastfeeding support, the same as the FY 2015 enacted level. The Omnibus does not include harmful policy provisions from the House bill, which would have: Blocked funding for a “fiduciary responsibility” rule – a rule designed to ensure that financial advisers provide advice in the best interests of their clients, rather than advice that is lucrative for the adviser. Blocked the NLRB’s Election rule, Joint Employer standard, and its ability to rule on the proper size of collective bargaining units. Blocked the OSHA crystalline silica rule Blocked the Department of Education’s Gainful Employment, Credit Hour, State Authorization and Teacher Preparation rules and the College Ratings System. The Omnibus includes policy provisions that will: Delay the High Cost Plan Excise Tax – often referred to as the “Cadillac tax” – for two years for an effective date of 2020. Disallow $2.6 million in funding for an Office of Labor Compliance to implement the Fair Pay and Safe Workplaces Executive Order, but does not prevent the rule or guidance from being finalized. Require a study of MSHA’s respirable coal dust rule by the National Academy of Sciences, and requires MSHA to report to Congress when mine operator’s compliance with its new rule falls below 95 percent. Require OSHA to publicize new interpretative guidance regarding the applicability of its Process Safety Management rule to retailers. Require the Department of Labor to accept private wage surveys in the H-2B program. Block the Department of Labor from enforcing the three-fourths guarantee and corresponding employment requirements and from conducting audits in the H-2B program. Exempt seasonal contractors offering recreational services or recreational equipment rental on federal land from receiving the minimum wage of $10.10 established by Executive Order 13658. Restrict the Department of Agriculture’s implementation of target two sodium levels in child nutrition programs until scientific research confirms the need for further reductions. Allow for states to set up a process to grant waivers from the whole grain requirement in school meals.
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (Roll Call No. 703): “This tax extenders bill permanently extends enhancements to the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), the Child Tax Credit (CTC) and the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC), which will help millions of working families stay out of poverty, help them offset the cost of childcare, and help them send their children to college. While I strongly support these and some of the business provisions, I voted against the bill because it is not paid for at this time but ultimately its cost of approximately $622 billion over the next decade will, of course, have to be paid for. “Unfortunately, many of the people that will benefit from the provisions in the bill will be the first ones hurt when Congress pays for it. We witnessed this scenario soon after we passed the fiscal cliff deal in January 2013, which permanently extended most of the Bush-era tax cuts at a cost of $3.9 trillion. Within weeks of that vote, the House voted to increase student loan interest rates and to cut spending to the supplemental nutrition assistance program, seniors programs, education and many other vital functions of government. Congress even contemplated proposals to cut Social Security and increase the retirement age for Medicare. At the same time, we were unable to rationally deal with sequestration, which further cut spending to programs that help working families and continues to negatively disrupt the federal budget process.” “How we address the budget and the deficit is a matter of priorities. Congress must consider the cost of tax cuts in the context of other budget decisions and priorities. For example, proposals to offer two years of free community college or tuition free and debt free college, which range in cost from $60 billion to $750 billion, have been summarily dismissed as being too expensive. Yet it one fell swoop, we pass $622 billion in tax cuts.” # # #
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Senate today joined the House of Representatives in passing bipartisan legislation that honors the late Phyllis Galanti’s service to America’s military men and women and their families by naming the outdoor arboretum at Richmond’s McGuire VA Medical Center The Phyllis Galanti Memorial Arboretum. The legislation, sponsored by Sens. Mark R. Warner, Tim Kaine (both D-VA) and John McCain (R-AZ) in the Senate, along with Reps. Dave Brat (R-VA-7), Bobby Scott (D-VA-3) and Sam Johnson (R-TX-3) in the House, now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Mrs. Galanti, of Richmond, who passed away in April 2014 at the age of 73, became a national advocate for the estimated 600 American POWs when her husband, Lt. Cmdr. Paul Galanti, was shot down over North Vietnam on June 17, 1966. During her husband’s 2,432 day incarceration in a Vietnamese POW camp, Phyllis Galanti advocated for humane treatment and release of American POWs, serving as national chairman of the National League of Families and Friends of POWs and MIAs in Southeastern Asia. The legislation honors Phyllis Galanti by naming an existing outdoor arboretum at the McGuire VA Medical Center in her honor. The arboretum will feature gardens, walkways and benches in her honor, including the addition of appropriate signage. “Phyllis Galanti’s story is a tremendous testament to what is possible through unselfish service to others. We were pleased to work together to permanently honor Phyllis Galanti in a way that will allow us to continue to share her story of perseverance and patriotism for years to come,” the Virginia members said. “Designating such a beautiful space in her name - one that will be enjoyed by generations of servicemembers and their families to come - is a fitting tribute to her decades of service to Virginia and our country. Her role in fighting on behalf of all of our POWs and MIAs reminds us that our military families also sacrifice for our country.” The text of the legislation is available here​. # # #
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representatives Mark Sanford (R-SC) and Bobby Scott (D-VA) joined together in sending a letter signed by 31 members of the House to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM). It requested a halt to the permitting and review process for potential seismic testing in the Atlantic Ocean. Specifically, the letter asks the BOEM to prepare a new environmental review of proposed testing that takes into account the full extent of the impacts  ranging from economic to ecological  caused by seismic airgun testing. “The current basis for issuing seismic testing permits is incomplete,” said Rep. Sanford. “It does not take into account the long-term effects that seismic testing will have on marine life or the impact on the economy due to industrialization of the coast. Accordingly, we don’t think testing that could profoundly affect our coastal communities should be allowed to proceed based on an insufficient study.Over 85 cities and counties along the Atlantic coast have spoken out against seismic testing or offshore drilling, but current protocols don’t allow them access to the testing data to determine whether the risks of seismic testing outweigh the potential benefits from offshore drilling.” “Congressman Sanford and I share a similar goal in sending this letter – ensuring that our coastal economies and our environment are not harmed by the impacts of seismic air gun testing, stated Rep. Scott. "I hope that the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management will prepare a new study to fully account for the risks that seismic testing presents, and I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Sanford on making sure that this is the case.” Full text of the letter below: December 10, 2015 The Honorable Abigail Ross Hopper Director Bureau of Ocean Energy Management 1849 C Street NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Director Hopper: We are writing regarding seismic airgun surveying in the Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). We request that the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management immediately retract the Record of Decision (ROD) for the environmental review of proposed geological and geophysical activities (G&G) for the Atlantic OCS. We ask you to prepare a new Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) based on the many studies that show harm to fisheries and marine mammals due to human-produced noise, including seismic airgun testing. We have several concerns about the G&G activities proposed for the Atlantic off our shores. The seismic information gathered by the companies will be proprietary, and any information gathered in the Atlantic about offshore energy resources will not be available to states, the public, or other companies. Therefore, states will not gain information from seismic airgun testing that would enable them to make a cost-benefit analysis as to whether the risks posed by offshore drilling would outweigh any benefits derived from offshore energy extraction. Seismic airgun exploration is an enormously disruptive activity in the ocean. A significant body of peer-reviewed science demonstrates that seismic airgun testing results in massive displacement of fish, causes catch rates of some commercial fish to plummet, and disrupts vital feeding and breeding behaviors in endangered whales. Also, since seismic companies will not be sharing information, seismic airgun testing will be repeated over and over again in the same areas by each company that seeks information about offshore energy resources, unnecessarily exposing fish and marine animals to repeated rounds of seismic testing. Opposition to seismic airgun testing is widespread and growing. Close to 90 towns, cities, and counties along the Atlantic coast have passed resolutions opposing seismic testing and/or offshore oil drilling. The Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic Fishery Management Councils have taken formal positions in opposition. Responding in May 2014 to the final Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement, the Mid-Atlantic Council wrote, “It is clear that G&G activities can have substantial impacts on marine ecosystems, yet the final PEIS provides insufficient information about how the proposed G&G activities may affect fish, marine mammals, benthic communities, and ecosystem structure and function.” In March 2015, a group of 75 scientists, including some of the world’s leading experts in marine biology, called on the administration to reverse its decision to permit seismic surveys in the Atlantic, citing “significant, long-lasting, and widespread impacts” on the region’s fish and marine mammal populations should it proceed. The PEIS failed to analyze these recognized large-scale impacts of seismic surveys on fish and marine mammals, and to develop alternatives that sufficiently protect wildlife and our coastal economies. Finally, we note with deep concern that seismic airgun testing is the first step in the process of offshore oil drilling. Along the Atlantic coast, nearly 1.4 million jobs and more than $95 billion in GDP rely on healthy ocean ecosystems, mainly through fishing, tourism, and recreation. Seismic testing and oil drilling will put the coastal economy and way of life at risk, due to industrialization of the coast, daily impacts and regular spills from oil drilling activities, and possible catastrophic accidents like the Deepwater Horizon disaster. The authorizations required by federal law are essential to assessing, minimizing, and preventing this cost, but BOEM’s environmental review of proposed G&G activities fails to account for the true and complete range of impacts. Yet the permitting process continues to move forward, most recently with the announcement by the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) that four applications from seismic companies seeking permission to cause harm to marine mammals are now complete and under review by that agency. We call on you to withdraw the Record of Decision immediately and prepare a new environmental review (PEIS) of proposed geological and geophysical activities for the Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic OCS planning areas. Until such a document and a new ROD are issued, BOEM should not issue individual permits for this activity. Sincerely, Rep. Mark Sanford Rep. Bobby Scott Rep. Donald S. Beyer, Jr. Rep. John Carney Rep. Matt Cartwright Rep. Kathy Castor Rep. David Cicilline Rep. Curt Clawson Rep. Gerald Connolly Rep. John Delaney Rep. Ron DeSantis Rep. Theodore Deutch Rep. Donna Edwards Rep. Lois Frankel Rep. Alan Grayson Rep. Alcee Hastings Rep. Walter Jones Rep. Bill Keating Rep. James Langevin Rep. Frank LoBiondo Rep. Seth Moulton Rep. Patrick Murphy Rep. Donald Norcross Rep. Frank Pallone Rep. Bill Pascrell Rep. Donald Payne Rep. Bill Posey Rep. David Price Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Christopher Smith Rep. Chris Van Hollen # # #
12.09.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the 85-12 passage of S.1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act – a bill to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and replace No Child Left Behind: “I commend Senator Alexander, Senator Murray, Chairman Kline and our respective staff for their earnest and diligent work to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and replace No Child Left Behind. The Every Student Succeeds Act brings our education system into the 21st century and will make a positive difference in the lives of our nation’s students by giving every student an equal chance to succeed. “Today we have a bill that is truly worthy of the President’s signature. A good bill that is better than current law, and better than what’s happening in many states under waivers. We were able to work together to advance student-centered policy solutions that both fulfill the ESEA's civil rights legacy and move public education forward.” # # # FACT SHEET – S. 1177, EVERY STUDENT SUCCEEDS ACT The Every Student Succeeds Act of 2015 affirms the principles of Brown v. Board of Education, which held that ‘it is doubtful that any child may reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of an education,’ and ‘that such an opportunity is a right which must be made available to all on equal terms.’ It also honors the intent of the original Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) by building on past reauthorizations of the law while addressing the key challenges presented by the most recent authorization of ESEA, No Child Left Behind. The Every Student Succeeds Act: Puts in place assessment, accountability, and improvement systems that will close achievement gaps with evidence-based strategies that meet the unique needs of students and schools. Requires states to set high standards for all children, including by capping participation of students with disabilities in alternate assessments. Requires meaningful state and local action in every school where students – or any subgroup of students – aren’t learning. It requires that any action taken to support school improvement is driven by student outcomes – and that poverty can't be used as an excuse for not stepping up to better serve students. Supports teachers and school leaders with resources and professional development opportunities that will prepare today’s learners for tomorrow’s workforce. Provides dedicated funding to improve student access to critical support and community services, a well-rounded curriculum, and improved technology in our nation’s most disadvantaged schools. Helps states and school districts reduce the overuse of exclusionary discipline practices by allowing funding to be used for Youth PROMISE plans. Drives federal dollars to the schools and communities that need them the most. It requires transparent reporting of data to ensure schools are responsible for not only the achievement of all their students, but also for the equitable allocation of resources to support student learning. States and districts will be required, for the first time, to address resource inequities in school improvement. Recognizes the importance of early learning – a priority in both red and blue states alike – by authorizing a program to assist with coordination of state and federal programs to ensure our nation’s most vulnerable students aren’t starting kindergarten behind their peers. Ensures the federal government maintains authority to implement the law and to hold bad actors accountable for not complying with federal law. The bill text can be found here. A section by section summary of the bill can be found here.
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the Air National Guard chose Joint Base Langley-Eustis (JBLE) for an Air Force Cyber Operations Squadron. Virginia’s bipartisan delegation, including Sens. Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine (both D-VA) and U.S Reps. Scott Rigell (R-VA-2), Bobby Scott (D-VA-3), Gerry Connolly (D-VA-11), Rob Wittman (R-VA-1), and Randy Forbes (R-VA-4), has advocated to locate the cyber facility at JBLE since December 2014. “We were very pleased to hear that the Air National Guard chose Joint Base Langley-Eustis for an Air Force Cyber Operations Squadron,” the Virginia delegation said. “Cybersecurity is one of the greatest challenges we face as a nation, and this mission will play a critical role in responding to threats and protecting the integrity of our networks and cyber systems. This decision is a testament to Virginia’s strong record in cyber capabilities, including top defense and technology companies, research institutions, and a highly skilled workforce. We are proud to host this critical mission.” In the months leading up to the decision, the Virginia delegation sent two bipartisan letters to the Air National Guard advocating for Virginia as a location for the cyber squadron. Virginia is home to 9 higher-education institutions recognized by NSA and DoD as centers of academic excellence. As the members wrote in a April 29 letter: “Virginia and Hampton Roads are home to the top defense and technology companies in the country – many of which are already supporting the cyber mission for national security.” The decision to build this capability is in keeping with a DOD-wide focus on enhancing cybersecurity, one of America's most important national security concerns. This new mission brings private sector experience together with public service by leveraging the civilian experiences of the people who make up its units. # # #
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California: “My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims and the survivors of yesterday’s horrific mass shooting in California. While information about the shooters and their motive is still not entirely clear, Congress has a moral obligation to do something to address our nation’s gun violence epidemic. “These tragedies have become far too common in our country and Congress must review every available proposal to determine what steps can be taken to reduce future incidences of gun violence. Obviously one single approach to ending gun violence will not be effective. What is needed is a comprehensive, evidence-based set of policy proposals that will help keep our communities safe from gun violence. The House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, of which I serve as a vice chair, has put forward several proposals that would go a long way in achieving these goals. These proposals include reinstating and strengthening the assault weapons ban, reducing the size of magazines, implementing universal background checks, cracking down on illegal-gun trafficking and straw-purchasing, improving our mental-health system, and implementing comprehensive, community based violence prevention and intervention programs. Action on these items should be our top priority.” # # #
12.02.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the 359-64 passage of S.1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act – a bill to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and replace No Child Left Behind: “Today’s bipartisan vote to reauthorize the ESEA affirms the principles of Brown v. Board of Education, which held that ‘it is doubtful that any child may reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of an education,’ and ‘that such an opportunity is a right which must be made available to all on equal terms.’ “Fifty years ago, Congress originally passed ESEA to help make that right a reality, and throughout this process, Democrats ensured that the Every Student Succeeds Act truly honored the civil rights legacy of the law. “Today’s vote is also an embodiment of what we can achieve here in Washington – a workable compromise that does not force either side to desert its core beliefs. This agreement ensures that when achievement gaps are found, meaningful action will be taken to intervene and support the needs of students. It ensures that funds will continue to be directed to communities most in need and it give teachers and schools the resources they need to support all students. “The Every Student Succeeds Act brings our education system into the 21st century, and will make a positive difference in the lives of our nation’s students by giving every student an equal chance to succeed. I look forward to the vote by the Senate that will send President Obama a bill that is indeed worthy of his signature.” # # # FACT SHEET – S. 1177, EVERY STUDENT SUCCEEDS ACT The Every Student Succeeds Act of 2015 lives up to the promises of Brown v. Board of Education and the intent of the original Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) by building on past reauthorizations of the law while addressing the key challenges presented by the most recent authorization of ESEA, No Child Left Behind. The Every Student Succeeds Act: Puts in place assessment, accountability, and improvement systems that will close achievement gaps with evidence-based strategies that meet the unique needs of students and schools. Requires states to set high standards for all children, including by capping participation of students with disabilities in alternate assessments. Requires meaningful state and local action in every school where students – or any subgroup of students – aren’t learning. It requires that any action taken to support school improvement is driven by student outcomes – and that poverty can't be used as an excuse for not stepping up to better serve students. Supports teachers and school leaders with resources and professional development opportunities that will prepare today’s learners for tomorrow’s workforce. Provides dedicated funding to improve student access to critical support and community services, a well-rounded curriculum, and improved technology in our nation’s most disadvantaged schools. Helps states and school districts reduce the overuse of exclusionary discipline practices by allowing funding to be used for Youth PROMISE plans. Drives federal dollars to the schools and communities that need them the most. It requires transparent reporting of data to ensure schools are responsible for not only the achievement of all their students, but also for the equitable allocation of resources to support student learning. States and districts will be required, for the first time, to address resource inequities in school improvement. Recognizes the importance of early learning – a priority in both red and blue states alike – by authorizing a program to assist with coordination of state and federal programs to ensure our nation’s most vulnerable students aren’t starting kindergarten behind their peers. Ensures the federal government maintains authority to implement the law and to hold bad actors accountable for not complying with federal law. The bill text can be found here. A section by section summary of the bill can be found here.
11.24.2015	RICHMOND, VA – Tomorrow, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) and Congressman Dave Brat (VA-7) will join other volunteers at the Central Virginia Food Bank to help accept, sort, and pack food donations for the holiday season. WHO: Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-3) Congressman Dave Brat (VA-7) WHAT: Volunteer Event at the Central Virginia Food Bank WHERE: FeedMore’s Central Virginia Food Bank 1415 Rhoadmiller Street Richmond, VA 23220 WHEN: Wednesday, November 25, 2015 11:00 a.m. # # #
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his opposition to H.R. 4038, the American SAFE Act of 2015, which would effectively stop the admission of properly vetted Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States: “Our nation continues to stand with the people of France in the wake of last week’s horrific terrorist attacks in Paris, and we must be vigilant in ensuring that a similar attack does not happen on our shores. Unfortunately, the bill considered in the House of Representatives today preys on the fear of the American people and would unjustly shut out the most vulnerable Syrians and Iraqis fleeing from the unimaginable violence overrunning their countries. “In contrast to the refugees entering Europe, refugees who are resettled in the United States go through a rigorous, multi-agency, multi-step vetting process that can take 18 to 24 months, during which time the refugee seeking resettlement is required to remain in a refugee camp. The overwhelming majority of those that make it through the process are women and children, survivors of violence and torture, and those with severe medical conditions. I am not convinced that the current vetting process is insufficient, but if improvements need to be made, Congress should first hold hearings and thoroughly review the process before bringing a bill to the floor merely because it is politically advantageous. “There is also inconclusive evidence that the attackers in Paris were refugees. The authenticity of a Syrian passport found near the body of one of the suicide bombers is disputed, and the evidence gathered so far indicates that all the identified attackers were French and Belgian nationals. As for refugees in the United States, of the two million refugees welcomed into our country since 1990, including hundreds of thousands from the Middle East, not one has committed an act of terrorism on American soil. “So denying refuge to women and children, survivors of violence and torture, and those with severe medical conditions by adding untenable requirements to an already rigorous vetting process, as H.R. 4038 would do, we would be doing nothing to address the threat posed by ISIL and would likely only be playing into their hands. This is an international humanitarian crisis and the United States has a moral obligation to step up and help, as we have done time and time again.” # # #
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama named Dr. Katherine G. Johnson of Hampton, Virginia, a longtime employee at the NASA Langley Research Center, a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The Presidential Medal of Freedom is one of our Nation’s highest civilian honors, and is presented to individuals who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or the national interests to the United States, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors. The award will be formally presented at the White House on November 24, 2015. “I am extremely pleased that President Obama has named Dr. Katherine Goble Johnson a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, one of nation’s highest civilian honors. “It was apparent from early on that Dr. Johnson was driven to succeed and after overcoming adversity and institutional racism to graduate from high school at 14 and from West Virginia State University at 18. Following further studies in mathematics and physics, she found a career in education. “However, once she relocated to Hampton Roads, Dr. Johnson began a long and storied career at the NASA Langley Research Center. When hired in 1953, like almost all women at NASA, Dr. Johnson was asked to only perform technical calculations and women of African American heritage were typically assigned to all black ‘computer pools.’ Within weeks of her entry into the ranks of NASA, Dr. Johnson was asked to temporarily assist in the Spacecraft Dynamics Branch in the Flight Dynamics and Control Division. She never returned to her computer pool and went on to work on the Apollo Program, the Space Shuttle Program, and many other projects at NASA. “Throughout the course of her career, Dr. Johnson has been the recipient of numerous awards prior to her being named a Presidential Medal of Freedom recipient, including the NASA Lunar Orbiter Achievement Award, the NASA Apollo Team Group Achievement Award, three NASA Special Achievement Awards, an honorary Doctorate of Laws from the State University of New York, honorary Doctor of Science degrees from Capitol College and Old Dominion University, and was honored by the National Technical Association as Mathematician of the Year in 1997. “Dr. Johnson has also been listed on the Department of Energy’s ‘Black Contributor’s to Science and Energy Technology’ and in Time Life’s series entitled ‘African Americans-Voices in Triumph and Leadership,’ and has maintained an active presence in the Hampton Roads community as President of the Lambda Omega Chapter of the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, and as a Trustee and Elder at Carver Memorial Presbyterian Church in Newport News, Virginia, where she continues to be a dedicated member. “Given the long list of accomplishments during her career, receiving the Presidential Medal of Freedom is an appropriate and well-earned recognition of Dr. Katherine Goble Johnson’s service to the United States, to science and human space exploration, to her community, and to the Commonwealth of Virginia. I know I speak for everyone back home in Hampton Roads when I say that we are extremely proud.” Release from the President: https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2015/11/16/president-obama-names-recipients-presidential-medal-freedom. # # #
11.11.2015	RICHMOND, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in commemoration of Veterans Day: “Veterans Day is a time to honor our men and women who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces, to demonstrate our appreciation for the sacrifices our veterans have made, and to promote peace so that their sacrifices will not have been in vain. “And while we spend this day saluting their service, we must recommit ourselves to ensure that when our veterans return home, they are cared for and are able to successfully transition back into civilian life. We can do this by making sure that the Department of Veterans Affairs is held accountable and has the necessary resources to recruit and hire the best doctors, specialists and nurses to meet increased demand. We must also redouble efforts to assist veterans in accessing employment opportunities through workforce training, expanding work opportunity tax credits for employers who hire veterans, and encouraging veterans to fully utilize their educational benefits to build upon the skills they learned in the military. “So today, we focus our thoughts and prayers on the men and women who continue to stand ready to put their lives on the line for our great nation. We owe them and their families a tremendous debt of gratitude for their sacrifices." Congressman Scott served in the Massachusetts Army National Guard and the U.S. Army Reserve from 1970 to 1976. He was the House sponsor of Senator Jim Webb’s Post-9/11 G.I. Bill, which was signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2008. # # #
11.06.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, issued the following statement today celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Higher Education Act, which was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson on November 8, 1965: “Fifty years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Higher Education Act (HEA) into law. HEA was a key component of the ‘Great Society’, and its goal was and is to provide a pathway to the middle class for millions of families around the country by making college affordable and accessible to everyone, not just the elite. “As President Johnson said as he signed HEA into law, ‘[This] means that a high school senior, anywhere in this great land of ours, can apply to any college or any university in any of the 50 states and not be turned away because his family is poor.’ “In this effort, the legislation created grants for low-income students and federally guaranteed loans. Through eight reauthorizations, it provided Pell grants, Campus Based Aid programs (Perkins, Federal Work Study, and the Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant), TRIO, GEAR UP, and so many other programs which have helped to increase access to an affordable college education for students and families. Through investments in HBCUs, HSIs, and other MSIs, the Higher Education Act has significantly improved postsecondary opportunities for low-income, first generation, and minority students. “The Higher Education Act was signed into law to strengthen the educational resources of our colleges and universities and to provide financial assistance for students in post-secondary and higher education. We know individuals with higher levels of education are less likely to be unemployed, receive public assistance, work in unskilled jobs with little upward mobility, and become involved in the criminal justice system. An education past the high school level – whether community college, a four year college, vocational training or a trade or apprentice program – is important not only for earnings, but also for landing a good job that can support a worker and their family. “We must build upon the successes of the Higher Education Act and work towards a meaningful reauthorization that will allow more students to afford and achieve a quality higher education, without over-burdening them with debt after graduation. As we mark this anniversary of the Higher Education Act, I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to pass a reauthorization that will be a strong investment in education and help keep America’s workforce and economy strong for future generations.” # # #
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Virginia’s congressional delegation is urging President Obama to support funding to expand the Port of Virginia. In a bipartisan letter signed by U.S. Sens. Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine (both D-VA) and U.S. Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Randy Forbes (R-VA), Rob Wittman (R-VA), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Robert Hurt (R-VA), Scott Rigell (R-VA), Dave Brat (R-VA), Don Beyer (D-VA) and Barbara Comstock (R-VA), the members urged the Administration to support funds for a project to expand the current dredge fill facility at Craney Island in Hampton Roads and allow for a marine terminal on site that will nearly double the cargo capacity of the Port. “We write to share our strong support for the Craney Island Eastward Expansion, a partnership of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Virginia Port Authority. As bipartisan members of the Senate and House from Virginia, this is our top civil works funding priority. This project has national implications for commerce throughout the eastern half of the country,” the members wrote. “We request civil works funding in the FY17 President’s Budget and consideration for this project in the FY16 work plan pending approval of the FY16 Energy & Water appropriations bill. This project could execute up to $50 million in funds if approved over these fiscal years.” The Port of Virginia is a gateway for international commerce and is one of fifteen U.S. strategic ports that support the mobilization and readiness of our national defense. The harbor at the Port is the deepest on the East Coast and the only eastern port with Congressional authorization to dredge to 55 feet – a critical consideration in an era when container ships are larger and heavier than ever before. “As ship sizes and cargo volumes increase, east coast ports need additional capacity to meet the nation’s cargo demands. This project supports your stated international trade policies by incurring some $16 billion of benefits through developing critical domestic infrastructure, increasing port capacity, improving navigation, creating jobs, and reducing transportation costs for American businesses,” the members continued. “The Port of Virginia’s location within a day’s drive of two-thirds of the U.S. population makes it a vital piece of the nation’s multi-modal commercial and transportation system. We believe the Craney Island Eastward Expansion has clear benefits for the nation and is worthy of federal support.” According to an economic impact study conducted by the Mason School of Business at the College of William & Mary, 374,000 Virginia jobs are linked to activity across the Port’s six terminals, generating $17.5 billion in annual compensation and $1.4 billion in state and local taxes. Nearly 30 international shipping lines offer direct, dedicated service to and from Virginia, with connections to 200+ countries around the world. In an average week, more than 40 international container, breakbulk and roll-on/roll-off vessels are serviced at the Port. The full text of the letter is below. A PDF of the signed letter is available here. November 4, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to share our strong support for the Craney Island Eastward Expansion, a partnership of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Virginia Port Authority. As bipartisan members of the Senate and House from Virginia, this is our top civil works funding priority. This project has national implications for commerce throughout the eastern half of the country. We request civil works funding in the FY17 President’s Budget and consideration for this project in the FY16 work plan pending approval of the FY16 Energy & Water appropriations bill. This project could execute up to $50 million in funds if approved over these fiscal years. This project will expand the current dredge fill facility at Craney Island in Hampton Roads, Virginia and allow for a marine terminal on site that will nearly double the cargo capacity of the Port of Virginia. Virginia is currently the sole east coast port authorized to dredge 55-foot channels with 57-foot sea lane approach, deep enough to accept post-Panamax cargo vessels, which are projected to account for 62% of container ship capacity by 2030. In anticipation of this increased capacity, the Port of Virginia received a $15 million federal TIGER grant in FY14 for a direct interstate highway connection from the main Norfolk marine terminal, which will move more cargo more quickly. The new Craney Island marine terminal will also move this cargo to our nation’s rail network via the recently opened Heartland Rail Corridor from Hampton Roads, Virginia, to the Midwest, further underscoring how the benefits of this project to transportation and commerce will be felt far beyond Virginia’s borders. This project was authorized in WRDA 2007 at a 50% federal cost-share and has an active Project Partnership Agreement between the Army Corps and the Commonwealth of Virginia. While we understand that civil works funds are limited, we also understand that a Limited Reevaluation Report (LRR) is under review within OMB and the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) that shows a strong case for a federal interest in the project greater than the 4% federal contribution that OMB has previously considered sufficient. Even if 4% were sufficient, which is inconsistent with Congressional intent, project costs have now grown due to inflation and the lack of any funding in the President’s budget since FY12 means the federal share has not even met this 4%. To date, more than $100 million has been invested in the project, which is more than 10% complete, to which the federal contribution has only been $33 million from FY10, FY11, and FY12. Advancing this project will not only incur future economic benefits but will buttress the existing investment. FY16 work plan funding and FY17 support in the President’s budget would allow the first dredge fill cell of the expansion project to be completed on schedule in 2019. This would allow for the continued disposal of dredged materials from Norfolk Harbor at a lower cost for the federal government than at the Norfolk Ocean Disposal Site. In addition, the most recent dike design refinements further increase the future available volume, which will deliver additional long-term dredged material transportation and disposal savings ($95.7 million) over the original 2006 estimate. Furthermore, with $100 million invested and the project more than 10% done, it is important that we do not further delay the project’s progress given that extreme weather events, such as Superstorm Sandy in 2012, are a risk every year to damage the project and set back the timetable for completion. As ship sizes and cargo volumes increase, east coast ports need additional capacity to meet the nation’s cargo demands. This project supports your stated international trade policies by incurring some $16 billion of benefits through developing critical domestic infrastructure, increasing port capacity, improving navigation, creating jobs, and reducing transportation costs for American businesses. The Port of Virginia’s location within a day’s drive of two-thirds of the U.S. population makes it a vital piece of the nation’s multi-modal commercial and transportation system. We believe the Craney Island Eastward Expansion has clear benefits for the nation and is worthy of federal support. We again request funding for this project in the FY16 work plan and in your FY17 budget request. We appreciate your considering these requests, and we look forward to discussing this matter with you further. Thank you very much for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, MARK R. WARNER United States Senator TIM KAINE United States Senator BOB GOODLATTE Member of Congress ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTT Member of Congress J. RANDY FORBES Member of Congress ROBERT J. WITTMAN Member of Congress GERRY CONNOLLY Member of Congress ROBERT HURT Member of Congress SCOTT RIGELL Member of Congress DAVE BRAT Member of Congress DONALD S. BEYER, JR. Member of Congress BARBARA COMSTOCK Member of Congress ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Representatives Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) and Randy Forbes (VA-04) offered an amendment to H.R. 22, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act, urging the U.S. Department of Transportation to utilize modeling and simulation technology to ensure that federally funded transportation projects will increase transportation capacity and safety, alleviate congestion, reduce travel time and environmental impact, and are as cost effective as practicable. The Scott-Forbes Amendment passed by voice vote. “Modeling and simulation technology has almost limitless beneficial purposes and the Department of Transportation should utilize it whenever possible to better plan and analyze federally funded transportation projects,” stated Congressman Bobby Scott. “This technology can precisely mimic real world factors and variables, allowing transportation planners the ability to see the impact of road and transit projects at the click of a mouse and long before shovels are in the ground. We have limited federal resources for transportation projects and it is critical that we know that federal dollars are being used wisely to fund projects that will actually increase capacity and safety, alleviate congestion, reduce travel time and environmental impact, and are cost effective.” “As Chairman of the Modeling and Simulation Caucus, I have witnessed firsthand the powerful advances our country has made in modeling and simulation technology,” said Congressman Randy Forbes. “That is why it is crucial we incorporate modeling and simulation as a fundamental component in the Department of Transportation’s process of reviewing and vetting some of our nation’s most critical transportation and infrastructure projects. By incorporating modeling and simulation, we have the opportunity to move forward with a system that furthers our efforts to maximize transportation dollars, cut down on congestion, improve safety, and grow our economy.” # # #
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 266 to 167 (Roll call No. 579). “I support this budget agreement because it provides two years of sequester relief, prevents a 50 percent increase in Medicare Part B premiums, avoids deep cuts to Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, and extends the debt limit through early 2017. “While this is a positive step forward that will allow us to finish work on funding the federal government for the remainder of fiscal year 2016, I am concerned that we continue to kick the can down the road on cancelling sequestration outright. The need for these biennial budget agreements was a predictable consequence of Congress’ inability to grasp fundamental principles of arithmetic when we decided to permanently extend $3.9 trillion in tax cuts at the beginning of 2013 instead of first dealing with the $1.2 trillion sequester. Unless we decide to consider revenue enhancements, I worry that we will continue to have a budget crisis every year.” # # #
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Obama’s veto of the conference report to H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016: “While I support a strong national defense and our men and women in uniform, I believe the President was right in vetoing this year’s National Defense Authorization Act and I will vote to sustain his veto. “The bill in its current form shields the Department of Defense from sequestration by moving billions of Defense Department funding into the Overseas Contingency Operations Account, which is exempted from sequestration. Democrats and Republicans all agree that sequestration is bad policy and must be addressed, but using accounting gimmicks to protect only the Defense side of the budget ledger, while still allowing sequestration to arbitrarily cut education, transportation, health care and every other vital function of government is irresponsible and irrational. “Congress must find the political will to work together to cancel sequestration outright, but doing so will actually require us to make some tough choices. We failed to do that in early 2013 when we passed the so-called fiscal cliff deal that added $3.9 trillion to the deficit by permanently extending most of the Bush-era tax cuts. But that bill did nothing to address sequestration. "Considering that this year’s NDAA failed to secure enough votes in the House to override a veto, we should now put politics aside and come together to find a path forward to address sequestration responsibly and give our men and women in uniform the certainty they deserve." # # #
10.02.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan announced that he will be stepping down from his post in December. “Just this morning, I joined Secretary Duncan at an area elementary school to announce a $237 million federal investment in high quality, early learning for three and four-year-olds in 18 states. This work is at the heart of why Arne has made an outstanding public servant and Education Secretary – his focus on evidence-based solutions to our country’s most pressing education challenges. “As secretary, Arne has prioritized K-12 education, pushed for a renewed ESEA that is worthy of the President’s signature, found new ways to make college more affordable and campuses safer, advocated for more fair and balanced school discipline policies, and has focused on ways to dismantle the school-to-prison pipeline. I’ve been happy to count him as a partner in this work, as I introduced the Youth P.R.O.M.I.S.E. Act and the Youth Justice Act earlier this year. Arne has been an outspoken advocate for closing the achievement gaps that persist in too many of our schools, and a stalwart champion for the students and families the system often leaves behind. I deeply appreciate his service and friendship, and I wish him all the best in his future endeavors. “The effective leadership that has been the hallmark of Arne’s tenure as Secretary is not leaving the Department. I look forward to continued partnership in the fight to opening doors for all of America’s children with Deputy Secretary John King as he assumes this new role. Dr. King has spent his career dedicated to expanding educational opportunity for historically underserved students. As a former teacher, a school leader and a leader of school systems, Dr. King knows firsthand the direct impact the programs and policies of the Department have on families.” # # #
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on passage of H.R. 719, the Continuing Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which will fund the federal government through December 11, 2015: “While today’s vote avoids another government shutdown, we will be at the brink of another shutdown in December if House Republicans continue to push a partisan agenda. The last time Republicans shutdown the government, it cost the U.S. economy $24 billion and had significant negative impacts on the Commonwealth. Tens of thousands of federal employees throughout Virginia and in my district were furloughed. Our nation’s credit rating was put at risk, and critical investments in education, transportation, defense and medical research were unnecessarily delayed. “I hope that my Republican colleagues will work with Democrats on finding a path forward to address sequestration, fund the government for the remainder of fiscal year 2016, raise the debt ceiling, reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, and pass a long-term transportation bill.” # # #
09.25.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after Speaker John Boehner announced that he is resigning from Congress at the end of October: “I commend Speaker Boehner for his leadership and service to our country. During his chairmanship of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Speaker Boehner proved that by coming together in a bipartisan way, we can find solutions to the nation’s most pressing issues. I’m hopeful that the Speaker’s announcement today and the resulting dynamics within the Majority do not impede the Committee’s ability to continue his legacy.” # # #
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Tim Kaine and Mark Warner, along with U.S. Representatives Bobby Scott, Randy Forbes, Rob Wittman, Gerry Connolly, Robert Hurt, Dave Brat, and Don Beyer released the following statement on the release of a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report that makes clear Fort Pickett, Virginia is the best location for a Foreign Affairs Security Training Center (FASTC). “After years of study, the Department of State and the General Services Administration determined in 2011 that Fort Pickett was the best site for security training for American embassy personnel and began to plan the facility. The Accountability Review Board convened after the 2012 attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi also recommended moving ahead with an enhanced embassy security training facility. Congressional pressure to consider an alternate site in Glynco, Georgia slowed the project and forced a year-long reassessment of the project by the Office of Management and Budget from February 2013 through April 2014. After OMB also concluded that Fort Pickett was the best site, Congress forced the Government Accountability Office to conduct an additional study, further delaying the process by nearly a year. “Today, the GAO released the results of that study, concluding that the Fort Pickett site meets all four requirements for a new facility, while the Georgia site meets none. The GAO finds that the cost of sending embassy personnel to Fort Pickett over 10 years will be $43 million to $121 million less than sending them to the Georgia site. The report also makes clear that cost estimates for the Fort Pickett site are more comprehensive, well documented, accurate and credible than those being used to try and sell the Georgia site. “Now, over the course of more than a decade, after four evaluations by four agencies and the Benghazi Review Panel, some in Congress are devising new strategies to require another study and delay the project further. Three years after the Benghazi attack, what is it about embassy security that Congress doesn't understand? “It is time to move forward with the Fort Pickett project. The land has been acquired. The environmental studies are complete. The construction contract has been let. More unnecessary delay dishonors the many brave Americans supporting our diplomatic mission overseas who risk their lives every day.” For months, members of the Virginia delegation have fought back against attempts to derail the construction of a FASTC at Fort Pickett. According to the GAO report released today, in addition to making financial sense, Fort Pickett meets four requirements deemed critical in the selection of a diplomatic security training site, including: 1) consolidation of training venues; 2) proximity to Washington, D.C; 3) exclusive use of the facility for State Department diplomatic security training; 4) use of the facility 24 hours/7 days a week to allow for nighttime training missions. # # #
09.16.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the Workplace Action for a Growing Economy (WAGE) Act, legislation to strengthen protections for workers who want to raise wages and improve workplace conditions. The WAGE Act would amend the National Labor Relations Act to help ensure workers are able to have a voice in the workplace and would crack down on employers who break the law when workers exercise their basic right to collective action. In a press conference announcing the legislation, Scott and Murray were joined by AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka and Ross Eisenbrey, Vice President of the Economic Policy Institute. “This legislation is critical to workers, their families and our nation’s economy,” said Congressman Scott. “For too long, employers have used illegal tactics to fight back against union organizing drives – tactics like threatening workers and firing them for union activity. They have gotten away with it because the National Labor Relations Act – the law protecting workers’ right to organize – leaves workers with little or no recourse. The WAGE Act changes that.” “Too often, as workers are underpaid, overworked, and treated unfairly on the job, some companies are doing everything they can to prevent them from having a voice in the workplace,” said Senator Murray. “The WAGE Act would strengthen protections for all workers and it would finally crack down on employers who break the law when workers exercise their basic right to collective action. I am going to be fighting for this legislation to help make sure our country, our government, and our workplaces work for all families, not just the biggest corporations or the wealthiest few.” “The WAGE Act is a critical first step in addressing both a changing economy and labor laws that have failed to keep up with a changing workplace,” said Richard Trumka, President of the AFL-CIO. “The economy is a set of rules that for too long have been rigged against working people. The WAGE Act is about changing these rules – for all working people, whether they’re in a union or not. It’s a bold first step and a key thread to the larger fabric of the raising wages agenda.” “Today, you pay a bigger fine for fishing out of season than you do for illegally firing employees, an act that can put terrible stress on them and their families, ruin their health, and wreck their financial security,” said Ross Eisenbrey, Vice President of the Economic Policy Institute. “If wages and working conditions are going to improve, it has to be safe for employees to make demands.” FACT SHEET: The Workplace Action for a Growing Economy (WAGE) Act Real, long-term economic growth comes from the middle out, not the top down, and our government, economy, and workplaces should work for all families, not just the wealthiest few. Collective bargaining rights and unions have been key drivers in economic security, and for decades, unions have helped millions of families climb into the middle class. But over the past few decades, workers’ wages have stagnated, and many families struggle to make ends meet. At the same time, too many employers take advantage of weak worker protections to prevent them from advocating for improvements in their workplace. The penalties that are supposed to protect workers do little to deter employers from breaking the law. The Workplace Action for a Growing Economy (WAGE) Act would amend the National Labor Relations Act to strengthen protections for workers who want to organize and promote change through forming a union or other collective action. The WAGE Act would provide stronger protections for all workers, whether they are part of a union or not, who want to talk with their coworkers about equal pay, advocate for safety improvements, or increase wages. The WAGE Act removes perverse incentives for employers to break the law by increasing remedies for workers and would impose new penalties on employers who act illegally. When workers can exercise basic worker rights without interference from their employers, it will expand economic security and help ensure the economy grows from the middle out, not the top down. The WAGE Act would strengthen protections for workers and better protect workers’ fundamental right to join together with their co-workers and advocate for change by: Tripling the backpay that employers must pay to workers who are fired or retaliated against by their employers, regardless of immigration status. Providing workers with a private right of action to bring suit to recover monetary damages and attorneys’ fees in federal district court, just as they can under civil rights laws. Providing for federal court injunctions to immediately return fired workers to their jobs. Ensuring employers will be jointly responsible for violations affecting workers supplied by another employer. The WAGE Act would put an end to the perverse incentives for employers to interfere with workers’ rights by: Establishing civil penalties up to $50,000 for employers who commit unfair labor practices and doubled penalties for repeat violations. This would bring the NLRA in line with other workplace laws. Giving the National Labor Relations Board authority to impose penalties on officers and directors of employer violators. Allowing the Board to issue a bargaining order upon finding that an employer prevented a free and fair election, provided that a majority of employees signed authorization cards within the previous 12 months. Setting a 30-day time limit for employers to challenge an NLRB decision, after which the NLRB decision becomes final and binding unless a court directs otherwise. The NLRB could then go directly to district court to enforce its orders. This legislation would ensure workers know their rights in the workplace by: Requiring employers to inform workers of their rights under the NLRA by posting a notice developed by the NLRB and informing workers of their rights at the time of hiring. # # #
09.16.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Members of Congress, led by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Representative Bobby Scott (D-VA) introduced the Pell Grant Restoration Act of 2015. Scott and Boxer were joined by Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Chris Murphy (D-CT) and Representatives Maxine Waters (CA-43) and Janice Hahn (CA-44). With Corinthian Colleges, Inc. filing for bankruptcy amid widespread charges of fraud, this Act is more crucial than ever for protecting and supporting our nation’s students. Currently, the Higher Education Act does not reset the clock on a student’s eligibility for Pell Grants, and students may not have enough Pell Grant eligibility left to complete a program at another school. The Pell Restoration Act will restore Pell Grant eligibility for students who attended an institution of higher education that closed due to certain violations. Pell Grants serve as an option for students seeking to cover higher education expenses such as, tuition and fees, books, room and board. United States Secretary Arne Duncan praised the introduction of the bill: "Students who are defrauded by an unethical college or who lose their academic credits when a school closes are entitled to student loan relief, but under current law they cannot restore their eligibility for Pell grants,” said Secretary Duncan. As a result, they may not be able to afford to start over somewhere. I commend Congressman Bobby Scott and Senator Barbara Boxer in their leadership on this issue.” “We must crack down on the predatory practices of unscrupulous for-profit colleges that hurt students and put taxpayers at risk,” Senator Boxer said. “We must also ensure that students are not penalized for the deceptive behavior of these bad actors. The Pell Restoration Act will give students a chance to start over by restoring their access to critical financial aid.” “For too long, some educational institutions have engaged in activities that leave students financially and academically vulnerable,” said Rep. Bobby Scott. “The time that students invest in their studies can never be replaced, but the Pell Restoration Act gives students a renewed opportunity to continue their education without the burden of lost aid. The pursuit of a post-secondary education should not be a risky proposition for students and families.” “In spite of the warning signs, the federal government did not step in soon enough to prevent Pell Grant funding from being wasted on the failed Corinthian Colleges system,” said Sen. Durbin. “It is only fair that the students who were misled into failing programs have their Pell Grant eligibility restored. We shouldn’t be punishing students for the bad actions of for-profit college CEOs.” "When students are cheated by for-profit, predatory colleges, they shouldn't lose any of their eligibility for Pell Grants," Sen. Warren said. "These colleges have already taken time and hope from people who are struggling to get an education. This legislation would ensure that students can hit the reset button on their Pell Grant eligibility so that they can have the chance to go back to school.” "It is time for Congress to step up on behalf of students who were not only misled by for profit colleges about the value of their education and job placement rates, but were also stranded in debt with worthless degrees,” said Rep. Waters. Most of these students are low-income minorities and veterans who are deliberately targeted through predatory marketing and recruitment practices for their financial aid. This legislation will ensure that these students can restore some of what these colleges have stripped from them. It will guarantee that they have a new opportunity to receive a quality education that can lead to a fulfilling career and a productive life” “Forgiving the debt of students defrauded by for-profit colleges and restoring their eligibility for Pell Grants not only is fair but also smart policy, providing an opportunity for motivated, capable students to pursue the higher education they deserve,” said Rep. Janice Hahn. “I was happy to work on this issue last Congress and with the plight of Corinthian students making Pell Grant restoration all the more important, I am proud to have worked with Congressman Scott on this important bill.” “This spring, 1,700 college students in Hawaii found themselves scrambling for answers and alternatives in the aftermath of the shutdown of Corinthian Colleges, Inc.” said Sen. Hirono. “The U.S. Department of Education is now in the process of helping these victims, but we need to do more. The closing of Corinthian College was out of students’ control, and those enrolled should have another opportunity to utilize all federal financial aid sources to complete their eudcation. The Pell Restoration Act would restore Pell Grant eligibility for students whose education has been derailed through no fault of their own, and will allow them to continue their studies at another college. We need to protect these students and ensure they can fulfill their goal of earning a college degree affordably.” “Corinthian College, Inc., wasted hundreds of millions in taxpayer dollars and left thousands of students in debt without any degrees to show for it,” said Sen. Murphy. While we absolutely need to hold abusive colleges and their executives accountable and create stronger protections to prevent any similar misconduct in the future, restoring access to Pell Grants for wronged students will help ensure that students receive the aid they need to continue their education.” A fact sheet on the Pell Restoration Act of 2015 can be found here. Bill text of the Pell Restoration Act of 2015 can be found here. The Pell Grant Restoration Act of 2015 has 45 House cosponsors: Rubén Hinojosa, Janice Hahn, Maxine Waters, Susan A. Davis, Raúl M. Grijalva, Joe Courtney, Marcia L. Fudge, Jared Polis, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan, Frederica S. Wilson, Suzanne Bonamici, Mark Pocan, Mark Takano, Hakeem S. Jeffries, Katherine M. Clark, Alma S. Adams, Mark DeSaulnier, Karen Bass, Earl Blumenauer, G.K. Butterfield, Michael E. Capuano, Tony Cárdenas, Kathy Castor, Judy Chu, David N. Cicilline, Wm. Lacy Clay, Peter A. DeFazio, Keith Ellison, Chaka Fattah, Lois Frankel, Ruben Gallego, Luis V. Gutiérrez, Denny Heck, Marcy Kaptur, Robin L. Kelly, James R. Langevin, Jim McDermott, Gwen Moore, Patrick Murphy, Pedro R. Pierluisi, Charles B. Rangel, Cedric L. Richmond, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Tim Ryan, Bennie G. Thompson The Pell Grant Restoration Act of 2015 has 4 Senate cosponsors: Dick Durbin (D-IL), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Chris Murphy (D-CT) The Pell Grant Restoration Act of 2015 is supported by: AFL-CIO, Air Force Sergeants Association, American Federation of Teachers, Association of the United States Navy, Center for Law and Social Policy, Consumer Action, Consumer Union, The Education Trust, Equal Justice Works, Housing and Economic Rights Advocates, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, National Association for College Admission Counseling, National Association of Consumer Advocates, National Education Association, National Women Veterans, Public Counsel, Service Employees International Union, Student Debt Crisis, The Institute for College Access and Success, United States Public Interest Research Groups, Veterans for Common Sense, Veterans Education Success, VetJobs.com, Inc., VetsFirst, Young Invincibles. # # #
09.14.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) made the following statement on President Obama’s plan for an earlier, easier process for students to assess their eligibility for federal financial aid. Ranking Member Scott joined President Obama and Secretary Duncan in Iowa for the announcement today: “The President’s announced changes to the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) will significantly improve access to an affordable college education for many students and families. Starting October 1, 2016, students will have the opportunity to fill out their FAFSA forms three months earlier and include income tax information from two years prior. Through these reforms, more students will be able to qualify for federal financial aid and receive an earlier, more accurate picture of what they can afford. This is a good step forward for students and their families as they plan their college careers.” # # # THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 13, 2015 FACT SHEET: The President’s Plan for Early Financial Aid: Improving College Choice and Helping More Americans Pay for College A higher education is one of the most important investments Americans can make in their future. To help students and families make that investment, the Obama Administration has taken steps to make it easier than ever before to apply for and access federal grants and loans. Since taking office, President Obama has significantly simplified the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, known as the FAFSA®. The Administration has revamped the online form for all families so they can skip questions that are not relevant to them. In addition, over 6 million students and parents took advantage of the ability to electronically retrieve their income information from the IRS when completing their 2014-2015 FAFSA, an innovation that improves both speed and accuracy. Today, students and families on average fill out the FAFSA in about 20 minutes, only one third of the time it took seven years ago. Even with these improvements, an estimated 2 million students who are enrolled in college and would be eligible for a Pell Grant never applied for aid, and an unknown number failed to enroll in college because they did not know that aid is available. And these improvements have been limited by two factors: (1) the application start date of the FAFSA form, which is made available on January 1st for each upcoming school year, and (2) the timing of tax filing, which means that the tax retrieval tool is only available to FAFSA applicants who have already filed their taxes. Tomorrow in Des Moines, the President will announce a new initiative to allow students and families to apply for financial aid earlier – starting in October as the college application process gets underway – rather than in January. In addition, students filling out the FAFSA will be able to electronically retrieve tax information filed for an earlier year, rather than waiting until tax season to complete their applications. Learning about aid eligibility options much earlier in the college application and decision process will allow students and families to determine the true cost of attending college – taking available financial aid into account – and make more informed decisions. Together with the new College Scorecard – which is redesigned with direct input from students, families, and their advisers to provide the clearest, most accessible, and most reliable national data on cost, graduation, debt, and post-college earnings – students will have more information to choose the right college than ever before. The President will also announce complementary efforts to make sure students see the full benefits of the earlier FAFSA timeline to improve their access to college and help them make better college choices. Colleges and universities and scholarship organizations have already committed to align their aid timelines with the earlier FAFSA, and nonprofits and advisers have committed to raise awareness about the FAFSA changes and to help reach 100 percent FAFSA completion. Finally, the President will renew his call on Congress to pass legislation to simplify FAFSA even further by eliminating up 30 questions that are disproportionately burdensome and have little impact on aid eligibility. Earlier, Easier Process for Federal Financial Aid: Beginning on October 1, 2016, students can apply for financial aid a few months after they and their parents file their 2015 tax returns with reliable information retrieved electronically from the IRS, rather than waiting until the next year’s tax season to finalize their FAFSAs and to learn about their financial aid. Giving students and families the ability to submit their FAFSAs earlier and to use earlier income data, commonly referred to as “prior-prior” year, will have several important benefits: · Earlier information: Students and families will get a reliable understanding of their aid eligibility as early as the fall – the same time many high school students are searching for, applying to, and even selecting colleges. · Simpler applications: More students and families will be able to complete their FAFSAs using information retrieved electronically directly from the IRS a few months after they and their parents file their 2015 tax returns, reducing the number of applicants who need to estimate income or taxes paid, only to correct their application later. · More students receiving Pell Grants and other aid: Over the next several years, the simpler FAFSA filing process could encourage hundreds of thousands of additional students to apply for and claim the aid they are eligible for – and enroll in college. · Reduced burden on colleges: In recent years, colleges and universities have spent as many as 3 million total hours each year verifying FAFSA information, including income and other tax return data. These colleges and universities will be able to avoid much of the burden of verifying tax return information when students apply using data retrieved directly from the IRS. New Efforts from Colleges, Scholarships, Advisers, & Non-Profits: Many groups have important roles to play to ensure that the earlier availability of the FAFSA facilitates access to higher education and informed college choice. A number of colleges and universities, scholarship programs, and counseling associations also announced plans that will help more students and families benefit from the easier, earlier FAFSA application timeline, including: · Aligning College Financial Aid Processes: The National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators (NASFAA), whose member institutions serve 90 percent of undergraduates, expects hundreds of colleges and universities to adjust their financial aid processes to align with prior-prior year before the 2017-18 academic year. The entire University of California system has already committed to moving up their financial aid advising and awarding calendars, as have Anne Arundel Community College, Loyola University, Michigan State University, Oregon State University, Stonehill College, the University of Illinois-Urbana Champaign and the University of Texas-San Antonio. · Aligning Private Scholarship Deadlines: Scholarship America will encourage 1,200 scholarship and educational assistance providers – which gave 125,000 students a total of $236 million in 2014 – to align their application cycles with the earlier FAFSA application cycle. Scholarship America will also encourage all of its 532 Dollars for Scholars affiliates – which distributed $18.5 million to 24,800 students in last year – to shift to earlier scholarship application periods and host events across the country to help students complete their FAFSAs. · 100% FAFSA Completion: The National College Access Network’s 400 college success programs, which serve over 2 million students, is committing to using the extra time created by early FAFSA filing for its counselors to reach 100 percent FAFSA completion among program participants. Earlier FAFSA availability will allow these programs to reallocate more than 500,000 hours of advising time to helping students better match with colleges that can best support them through to completion. · Integration with the College Application Campaign: The American College Application Campaign, pioneered by the American Council on Education, is a 50-state initiative that encourages low-income and first generation students to apply for college, will highlight the early opportunity to apply for student aid as part of its outreach efforts. Calling on Congress to Simplify the FAFSA: Many of the most time-consuming questions on the FAFSA cannot be completed with IRS data because they require information that is not reported on tax returns. To answer those burdensome questions, students would have to collect information about assets, untaxed and other unusual forms of income from multiple sources – much of which financial aid eligible students lack. Because these questions are required by law, President Obama has renewed his call for Congress to further simplify the FAFSA by removing questions regarding savings, investments, and net worth, and eliminating, questions related to untaxed income and exclusions from income that are not reported to the IRS. In all, up to 30 burdensome and unnecessarily complex questions would be eliminated, shortening the FAFSA application substantially, and making it easier for students and families to access critical resources to pay for college. Tomorrow’s announcement is part of the President’s continued effort to make college more affordable. The President has doubled investments in college scholarships by expanding Pell Grant and the American Opportunity Tax Credit programs; made student loans more affordable by cutting interest rates and allowing student borrowers to cap student loan payments at 10 percent of income; and called for two years of free community college for responsible students. With tomorrow’s announcement, more students can access the aid that can support them through college completion, and onwards to other personal and career goals. The content at these links will be updated at 7:00AM ET, September 14, 2015 to reflect this announcement: · Students and families interested in learning more should visit StudentAid.gov/fafsa-changes · Educators, counselors and college access professionals can learn more at FinancialAidToolkit.ed.gov/fafsa-changes # # #
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 3461, to APPROVE the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, signed at Vienna on July 14, 2015, relating to the nuclear program of Iran. Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) voted YES on H.R. 3461 (Roll Call No. 493). The House also considered H.R. 3460, a bill to suspend until January 21, 2017, the President’s authority to waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions pursuant to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. Congressman Scott voted NO on H.R. 3460 (Roll Call No. 494). Congressman Scott issued the following statement on today’s votes relating to the Iran nuclear agreement: “During the debate this week on the Iran nuclear agreement, House Republicans have offered no rational alternative to the current deal. The chances of getting a better agreement are negligible. Our international negotiating partners have said as much and they have also indicated that international sanctions will fall apart if Congress blocks the President from implementing our obligations under the agreement. And without international sanctions, U.S. sanctions alone will be ineffective to prevent the release of Iranian funds because most of those funds are actually held in foreign banks. “So if Congress blocks this agreement, we will not have a better deal, Iran will get sanctions relief, its nuclear program can continue without the restrictions and inspections required under this agreement, and the United States will lose international support for any future efforts to rein in Iran’s nuclear program. “This debate should not have been on what could have or should have been in the agreement, but where the United States and our allies would be with no agreement at all. However imperfect this agreement may be, the fact remains that this agreement gives the United States and our allies a much better chance to keep Iran from developing a nuclear weapon than no agreement at all.” # # # Last week, Congressman Scott released a detailed statement outlining his position on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, which can be accessed here: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/iran.
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Bobby Scott (D-VA) will host a briefing tomorrow with prosecutors, police and public safety professionals on why prison and sentencing reform will make our communities safer. Details below. WHO: Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Chairman, Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security & Investigations, House Judiciary CommitteeRep. Bobby Scott (D-VA)Van Jones, President & Co-Founder, #cut50Tim Heaphy, former U.S. Attorney for the Western District of VirginiaBernie Kerik, former NYPD Police CommissionerDionne Wilson, victims’ rights advocate and survivor outreach coordinator for Californians for Safety and JusticeMark Holden, General Counsel & Senior Vice President, Koch Industries WHAT: Briefing with prosecutors, police and public safety professionals on why the SAFE Justice Act and its prison and sentencing reforms will make our communities safer. WHERE: Member’s Room Jefferson Building, Library of Congress 1st Street SE & Independence Avenue SE, Washington, D.C. Please enter via the carriage entrance on 1st Street SE (directly across from the Capitol Building). Visitors may also access the Jefferson Building via the Capitol Visitor Center. WHEN: Thursday, September 10, 2015 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. H.R. 2944, the Safe, Accountable, Fair, and Effective (SAFE) Justice Act was introduced earlier this summer by Representatives Sensenbrenner and Scott. The SAFE Justice Act takes a broad-based approach to improving the federal sentencing and corrections system, from front-end sentencing reform to back-end release policies. It is also the first bill that addresses the federal supervision system – ensuring that probation does a better job stopping the revolving door at federal prisons. The legislation, which is inspired by the successes of states across the country, will reduce recidivism, concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals, increase the use of evidence-based alternatives to incarceration, curtail over-criminalization, reduce crime, and save money. In the months since its introduction, the SAFE Justice Act has garnered 40 bipartisan cosponsors, evenly split between Democrats and Republicans. The bill has also attracted endorsements from groups across the political spectrum, including the NAACP, the American Civil Liberties Union, Right on Crime, Koch Industries, Freedom Works, the American Legislative Exchange Council, the Police Foundation, the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives and Families Against Mandatory Minimums. For more information about the SAFE Justice Act, please visit: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/safejusticeact. # # #
09.07.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Marking Labor Day 2015, Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott made the following statement to American workers: “Labor Day is a time to reflect and celebrate the contributions of America’s workers. Our nation’s workers make our economy and our communities stronger, and we know that when workers do well, our economy thrives. “Our economy has now experienced 66 straight months of job growth – the longest streak on record. This means that Americans who are looking for work are finding more opportunities to help them get back on their feet. But the reality is, too many families are working harder than ever but still struggling to make ends meet. “As we spend this Labor Day with family and friends, Americans must continue to demand that Congress recommit to standing up for workers in the fight for fair wages, decent working conditions and a voice in the workplace. By coming together to actually advance issues that benefit America’s workforce, Congress can both strengthen our middle class and grow our nation’s economy. American workers and their families deserve nothing less.” # # #
09.04.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today after the release of the monthly jobs report by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The BLS announced that during the month of August, 140,000 private sector jobs were added to the economy, and the unemployment rate dropped from 5.3 percent to 5.1 percent: "The jobs report released today shows that our economy continues to recover from the worst financial crisis in a generation. The private sector added 140,000 jobs in August. That means 66 straight months of job growth, the longest streak on record. This is excellent news, but there is still more work to do to rebuild our economy. For example, we must enact the Raise the Wage Act, which will increase the minimum wage and put more money in the pockets of hardworking Americans. That legislation will help us continue down the road of economic recovery." # # #
09.03.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement announcing his support for the P5+1 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, commonly referred to as the Iran nuclear agreement: “This month, Congress will be voting on a resolution of disapproval of the Iran nuclear agreement, which, if enacted, would deny the President the authority to waive certain sanctions against Iran. After careful deliberation, I have decided to support the Iran nuclear agreement and will vote against a resolution of disapproval. “This agreement took years of careful negotiations between Iran, the United States, Russia, China, the United Kingdom, France and Germany. It has been heralded as an unprecedented, landmark agreement for nuclear non-proliferation and was immediately endorsed by a unanimous vote of the United Nations Security Council. “Opponents of the agreement have suggested that if Congress blocks it, we will be able to go back to the negotiation table to get a better deal. This idea has been summarily dismissed by our negotiating partners. British Ambassador Peter Westmacott has called such a scenario ‘far-fetched.’ Philipp Ackermann, Germany’s Deputy Chief of Mission to the United States, has said the ‘option of getting back to the negotiating table is close to zero,’ and ‘it would be a nightmare for every European country if this is rejected.’ “Furthermore, in the unlikely event that we are able to go back and negotiate a new agreement, it would be doubtful that a new agreement would be materially different from the agreement before us now and could even be worse. Considering the position of our international partners, it could take months to bring them back to the negotiating table. During that time, Iran would have the opportunity to ramp up its efforts to develop a nuclear weapon, which would put it in an even stronger position to re-negotiate a more favorable deal for itself. “If the deal is blocked, opponents have also suggested that international sanctions will continue. However, that notion has also been rejected by our international partners. British Ambassador Westmacott has said that sanctions have already reached ‘the high-water mark’ and are likely to erode if this agreement fails. German Ambassador Peter Wittig has likewise stated ‘if diplomacy fails, then the sanctions regime might unravel.’ And Foreign Policy magazine reported that the Russians have also indicated international sanctions are likely to fall apart if Congress blocks the agreement. “Without international sanctions, U.S. sanctions alone will be ineffective to prevent the release of Iranian funds because most of those funds are actually held in foreign banks. We will not be able to coerce our international partners to re-impose sanctions if Congress blocks this agreement. China, for example, holds trillions of dollars in U.S. securities, so the idea that we can intimidate their banks is dubious. “So if Congress blocks this agreement, we will not have a better deal, Iran will get sanctions relief, and its nuclear program can continue without the restrictions and inspections required under this agreement. “Insofar as a better deal is not a realistic possibility, I have spent the last several weeks attending classified briefings, reviewing reports from nuclear and non-proliferation experts, and reading the agreement myself. During that time, I have focused not on what should have or could have been in this agreement, but rather on how the agreement compares to where we would be with no agreement at all. “Without this agreement, Iran will be only weeks or a few months away from having enough enriched uranium to build a nuclear weapon. The inspections regime that was in effect before these negotiations began will return, denying the international community effective access into Iran’s nuclear sites and the opportunity to uncover clandestine weapons activities. These ineffective inspections allowed Iran to develop more advanced nuclear technologies, build and install thousands of new centrifuges, and enrich uranium to levels near weapons-grade – putting it at the threshold of having a nuclear weapon. “And without this agreement, the only viable alternative to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon will be military action – without the support of the international community. However, even military action has its limitations. Without effective inspections, which the agreement would provide, we will not have the best intelligence on what sites to target. And any benefit of targeted military action would be short lived. Unless we invade and occupy Iran indefinitely, it is likely that military action would only increase Iran’s resolve to defy the international community and develop a nuclear weapon. Furthermore, there is no evidence that our nation has the political will to unilaterally begin another prolonged war in the Middle East without international support. “So where does that leave us if Congress blocks this agreement? It is unlikely that any of the P5+1 nations will return to the negotiating table any time soon, and if negotiations did begin, those nations would not take our diplomats seriously, because they would reasonably believe that any new deal would be just as likely to be rejected by Congress as this one. International sanctions against Iran will fall apart. Iran will be on a faster track towards developing a nuclear weapon. And the United States loses any moral authority we had to advance diplomatic solutions to confront future challenges elsewhere in the world. “Compared to the consequences of no agreement, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action does offer a better strategy to prevent Iran from being able to develop a nuclear weapon during the term of the agreement and beyond. “The agreement establishes long-term and verifiable restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program and enhances the International Atomic Energy Agency’s ability to monitor and independently verify Iran’s compliance. Under the agreement, Iran must alter its Arak heavy water reactor facility, so that no weapons-grade plutonium can be produced. Iran will be required to reduce its stockpiles of low-enriched uranium. Iran will also be limited in the number and type of centrifuges it can use to enrich uranium and must refrain from enriching uranium beyond a certain point for at least 15 years. The agreement also severely restricts Iran’s ability to conduct research and development on more advanced nuclear technologies. “To ensure compliance by Iran, the agreement puts in place a strong monitoring and inspections program that covers every aspect of the supply chain from mining and milling to conversion and enrichment to fuel manufacturing, maintaining nuclear reactors, and handling spent fuel to allow international inspectors the ability to catch any suspicious activity. “Critics of the agreement’s inspections provisions contend that Iran will have an opportunity to conceal its weapons activities. There is, however, a clear consensus amongst nuclear physicists and non-proliferation experts that this agreement includes sufficiently robust technical inspection and verification provisions to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon and to make it extremely difficult for Iran to hide unauthorized activities. “If the agreement is unsuccessful, the agreement preserves international sanctions by providing mechanisms for them to ‘snap back’ into place should Iran substantially violate the agreement. And keep in mind that sanctions are more likely to actually snap back with this agreement than without it. “Finally, if the agreement fails to achieve its goals, we will still have all the options currently available if the agreement is rejected, including military action, but with the important difference that we would have the support of the international community. “A nuclear-armed Iran would be detrimental to the security of our allies in the region, and negotiators set out to reach an agreement that would prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon over the next decade or longer. After careful deliberation, I am convinced that we are much more likely to achieve that goal with this agreement than we would with no agreement at all.” # # #
08.19.2015	RICHMOND, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Louis Stokes of Ohio: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Louis Stokes. As the first African-American member of Congress from the state of Ohio and as a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus, Lou Stokes was a trailblazer in public service. He was well respected for his three decades of service in Congress, especially for his work towards quality health care for all. My thoughts and prayers are with the Stokes family and the many people positively impacted by Congressman Stokes’ work.” # # #
08.18.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott announced that he will be given a tour of the Newport News City Jail by Sheriff G. Morgan on Tuesday, August 18, 2015 at 1:00 pm. The Newport News jail tour will highlight the need for improvements and investments into the facility which currently provides assistance to inmates with substance abuse and mental health issues. Newport News City Jail Tuesday, August 18, 2015 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. 2501 Washington Ave Newport News, VA 23607 There is a growing awareness surrounding the over-incarceration problem and the need for investments in re-entry programs. In June, Rep. Bobby Scott and Rep. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) introduced the bipartisan SAFE Justice Act. If passed, the SAFE Justice Act would provide funding for programs like re-entry initiatives that build partnerships with local agencies to find housing and employment opportunities for recently released offenders. This bill would lower the risk for recidivism while improving public safety and saving money. This tour is open to the media. Any media interested in attending should contact Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 for additional information. # # #
08.07.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott will be hosting town hall meetings in Charles City County on Monday, August 17, 2015 and Surry County on Tuesday, August 18, 2015. Congressman Scott will provide a brief update on issues before Congress and then answer questions and listen to comments from constituents. This event is free and open to the public. Charles City Town Hall Monday, August 17, 2015 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. County Administration Building 10900 Courthouse Road Charles City, Virginia 23030 Surry Town Hall Tuesday, August 18, 2015 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Surry County Community Center 205 Enos Farm Drive Surry, Virginia 23883 If you need additional information regarding this event, please contact Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
08.07.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 215,000 jobs during the month of July, while the unemployment rate held steady at 5.3 percent: “Today’s jobs report shows that our economy is still improving, growing and heading in the right direction. With the sixty-fifth consecutive month of private sector job growth, and the unemployment rate holding at 5.3 percent, our nation continues to recover from the 2008 economic recession. Americans are finding more opportunities to get back to work, and put more money into their pockets. “While this is excellent news, our efforts to rebuild our economy are not complete until every person who wants a job is able to find a stable one. Here in Congress, we must work to ensure that families are able to earn a living wage and are able to take paid time off to care for loved ones. I remain committed to shepherding legislation that would strengthen our nation’s middle class and help hardworking families get ahead in a time of relentless economic and technological change.” # # #
08.06.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott announced that he will host Criminal Justice Reform forums in Richmond on Monday, August 10th and in Norfolk on Tuesday, August 11th. Congressman Scott will be joined by law enforcement officials, judges, and other criminal justice experts. These events are free and open to the public. Richmond Criminal Justice Reform Forum Monday, August 10, 2015 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. First Baptist Church Imani Center 1506 Hull Street, Richmond, VA 23224 Norfolk Criminal Justice Reform Forum Tuesday, August 11, 2015 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. The Murray Center 455 E Brambleton Avenue, Norfolk, VA 23510 In addition to hearing from experts in the criminal justice field, Congressman Scott will also discuss H.R. 2944, the Safe, Accountable, Fair, and Effective (SAFE) Justice Act, legislation that he introduced earlier this summer with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI). The SAFE Justice Act takes a broad-based approach to improving the federal sentencing and corrections system, from front-end sentencing reform to back-end release policies. It is also the first bill that addresses the federal supervision system – ensuring that probation does a better job stopping the revolving door at federal prisons. The legislation, which is inspired by the successes of states across the country, will reduce recidivism, concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals, increase the use of evidence-based alternatives to incarceration, curtail over-criminalization, reduce crime, and save money. In the weeks since its introduction, the SAFE Justice Act has garnered 40 bipartisan cosponsors, evenly split between Democrats and Republicans. The bill has also attracted endorsements from groups across the political spectrum, including the NAACP, the American Civil Liberties Union, Right on Crime, Koch Industries, Freedom Works, the American Legislative Exchange Council, the Police Foundation, and Families Against Mandatory Minimums. House Speaker John Boehner has also recently expressed his support for the legislation indicating that he would like to see the full House of Representatives consider it in the fall. For more information about the SAFE Justice Act, please visit: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/safejusticeact. # # #
08.06.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott released the following statement on the 50th anniversary of President Lyndon B. Johnson signing into law the Voting Rights Act of 1965: "The Voting Rights Act was one of the most consequential pieces of legislation of the Civil Rights Movement. The right to vote is the very foundation of our democracy. The Supreme Court noted in their 1964 decision in Wesberry v. Sanders that ‘no right is more precious in a free country than that of having a voice in the election of those who make the laws under which, as good citizens, we must live. Other rights, even the most basic, are illusory if the right to vote is undermined.’ “For the last 50 years, the Voting Rights Act has helped to guarantee that no one’s right to vote is undermined. The law has been instrumental in increasing voter participation, allowing minority communities to elect candidates of their choice, and increasing the number of African Americans and other minorities in elected positions at the local, state and federal levels of government. “Unfortunately, as we mark this anniversary, we must recognize that Congress must act to restore core protections of the Voting Rights Act that helped ensure increased minority voter influence throughout the nation. In 2013, the Supreme Court in Shelby County v. Holder undermined key provisions of the law, jeopardizing its effectiveness in protecting voters. “It is my hope that in honor of the Act's 50th anniversary, Congress will work together to restore these key provisions of the Voting Rights Act in order to protect all voters, especially those in states with a history of discrimination." # # #
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after his “NO” vote on the passage of H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act of 2015, in the House of Representatives: “I strongly support accountability at the Veterans Administration (V.A.), and believe that it is critically important that our veterans receive adequate care. However the so-called accountability measures in H.R. 1994 will do little to address the systemic issues plaguing the V.A., such as staffing shortages that result in exorbitant wait times and adverse health complications for veterans. “While there is no question that there is a need for significant reform at the V.A., we do our veterans a disservice by focusing on temporary problems and short term fixes instead of looking at the real problems facing the agency. Because this bill does not address the underlying issues at the V.A. and has significant implications for the civil service system, I voted no on H.R. 1994.” # # # Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott represents the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia, which includes all or parts of the Cities of Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Petersburg, Portsmouth, and Richmond and the Counties of Charles City, Henrico, Prince George, and Surry. In Congress, he serves as the Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after his “NO” vote on the passage of H.R. 3236, the Surface Transportation & Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act, in the House of Representatives: “Dressing up a short term extension of the Highway Trust Fund with an important V.A. bill does not overcome the importance of enacting a long term, six-year transportation reauthorization that provides the certainty states and local governments need to plan transportation projects. “While it is important that the V.A.’s doors remain open, it is irresponsible for our nation’s veterans to be used as leverage to pass yet another short term transportation bill. “We will never achieve a six-year transportation reauthorization as long as short term extensions continue to pass Congress. Without a long term reauthorization, states and local governments will never get the necessary certainty that a long term extension would provide. Therefore, I voted no.” # # # Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott represents the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia, which includes all or parts of the Cities of Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Petersburg, Portsmouth, and Richmond and the Counties of Charles City, Henrico, Prince George, and Surry. In Congress, he serves as the Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
07.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the Iran Deal: "I am currently in the process of reviewing the Iran deal. In my review I will consider not what could or should have been in the deal, but how the deal compares to the alternative of no deal at all. It is important to remember that this agreement is not just with Iran, but with the United Kingdom, France, Russia, China, Germany and other industrialized nations to ensure that if Iran violates any aspect of the agreement, economic sanctions can snap back into place. It is important to note that if there is no deal, there is no right for the international community to inspect any of the nuclear sites in Iran, and the only alternative to ensure Iran does not acquire a nuclear weapon is war. And even war is not a meaningful strategy unless we intend to occupy Iran indefinitely. “After a thorough review of the details of the agreement, I will make a statement on my vote on approval or disapproval of the deal.” # # #
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after his ‘NO’ vote on passage of H.R. 3038, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, in the House of Representatives: “With the most recent of a series of short-term extension of the Highway Trust Fund set to expire at the end of the month, we need legislation which provides for a long term investment in our infrastructure to create jobs, rebuild America, and ensure that states and local governments have the certainty they need to plan critical projects. “Unfortunately, the bill passed in the House today is yet another six month extension. So long as short term extensions continue to pass Congress, we will never get the needed certainty that a long term extension would afford. Accordingly, I voted ‘no.’” # # # Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott represents the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia, which includes all or parts of the Cities of Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Petersburg, Portsmouth, and Richmond and the Counties of Charles City, Henrico, Prince George, and Surry. In Congress, he serves as the Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges: “Today’s decision should not be a surprise. When the Court declined to grant cert in Bostic v. Rainey, which overturned Virginia’s same-sex marriage ban, it became clear that the Supreme Court was following a long history of consistent jurisprudence on marriage, beginning with its 1967 decision in Loving v. Virginia. The Loving Court unanimously stated marriage is one of the ‘basic civil rights of man.’ And today’s decision ensures that this basic right is now available to all same-sex couples no matter where they reside in our nation." # # #
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Two years after beginning an intensive, comprehensive review of the federal criminal justice system as the leaders of the Over-Criminalization Task Force, Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Bobby Scott (D-VA) today introduced bipartisan, state-tested legislation aimed at safely reining in the size and associated costs of the federal criminal code and prison system. The Safe, Accountable, Fair, and Effective (SAFE) Justice Act of 2015 (H.R. 2944) takes a broad-based approach to improving the federal sentencing and corrections system, from front-end sentencing reform to back-end release policies. It is also the first bill that addresses the federal supervision system – ensuring that probation does a better job stopping the revolving door at federal prisons. The legislation, which is inspired by the successes of states across the country, will reduce recidivism, concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals, increase the use of evidence-based alternatives to incarceration, curtail over-criminalization, reduce crime, and save money. “We cannot allow our criminal justice system to remain on its current trajectory,” said Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI). “It’s not only fiscally unsustainable, but morally irresponsible. The states have been outperforming Congress on criminal justice reform for years, so today’s introduction of the SAFE Justice Act is a major step forward in implementing effective, meaningful reform on the federal level that will enact fairness in sentencing, reduce the taxpayer burden, and ensure the increased safety and prosperity of communities across the country.” Similar to the successful reform packages enacted in many states, the SAFE Justice Act aligns the federal prison system with the science about what works to reform criminal behavior. It reflects the growing consensus among researchers that, for many offenders, tacking more months and years onto long prison terms is a high-cost, low-return approach to public safety. It also looks to the growing number of practices in correctional supervision that are shown to reduce recidivism. “Our criminal justice system is long overdue for reform,” stated Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA) “Chairman Sensenbrenner and I have been working tirelessly for months to find common ground and bipartisan solutions to this problem. The SAFE Justice Act implements the successful, evidence-based reforms from the states and restores accountability, fairness and rationality to our federal criminal justice system. Most importantly, it utilizes an evidence-based approach to reduce over-criminalization and over-incarceration and reinvests the savings into community based prevention and early-intervention programs to improve public safety.” In the past 10 years, the federal imprisonment rate has jumped by 15 percent while the states’ rate has declined 4 percent. The drop in the states’ imprisonment rate, which occurred alongside sustained reductions in crime, can be attributed in large part to the more than two dozen states that have enacted comprehensive, evidence-based corrections reforms. “I congratulate Mr. Sensenbrenner and Mr. Scott for their determined and careful work,” stated Rep. Raúl Labrador (R-ID), a member of the House Judiciary Committee. “This bill accelerates momentum building across the political spectrum for criminal justice reforms that protect the public, while offering smart alternatives to punishment.” “I am proud to co-sponsor the SAFE Justice Act and I commend my colleagues, Mr. Scott and Mr. Sensenbrenner, for their commitment to reaching a bipartisan solution to reform our criminal justice system,” stated Rep. Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), a member of the House Judiciary Committee. “So often, minorities and youth are casualties of a harsh institution that imposes incarceration and impedes rehabilitation. This bill is a comprehensive overhaul that will focus on crime and violence prevention on the front end while making strategic investments in young people rather than simply treating all young people with a one size fits all criminal justice approach.” “The SAFE Justice Act will finally spark an important discussion that should have happened long ago,” stated Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL). “Improving our criminal justice system will not only save money for the American taxpayer, but it will also reduce recidivism and restrain an ever-expanding federal government. I commend Representatives Sensenbrenner and Scott for introducing this bipartisan, comprehensive bill.” “The criminal justice system is consistently failing the American people. We incarcerate far too many of our citizens for far too long, spending too much on punishments without rehabilitation and leaving the public less safe,” stated Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-LA). “The systemic problems with our justice system call for broad, comprehensive reform. The SAFE Act will take that step, addressing a wide range of issue to ensure that our justice system uses incarceration for violent and dangerous criminals. Giving individuals who have made mistakes the opportunity to better themselves and walk the right path is not only the right thing to do it will also save millions of tax payer dollars. I am proud to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort to create a more efficient judicial system that will actually keep us safer.” “Over-criminalization is an example of a larger issue for my constituents in Utah: That government has gotten too big and too intrusive,” stated Rep. Mia Love (R-UT). “The Federal Government should follow Utah’s example when it comes to implementing smarter policies to reduce crime, such as finding alternatives to incarceration whenever possible. I am pleased to cosponsor the SAFE Justice Act.” “This is a historic bill. It is the result of years of efforts to identify, compile, and bring to the national level the best, evidence-based practices in criminal justice reform. Through the SAFE Justice Act, we can finally tackle massive, necessary changes to our criminal justice system in a bipartisan way,” stated Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD). “Importantly, we can also reinvest savings into efforts that rebuild the relationship between the public and the police, and make sure law enforcement officers have what they need to do their jobs. I know the SAFE Justice Act will mean great strides for the future of communities like Baltimore, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure it passes.” “I have personally witnessed the good work of mental health courts and the veterans treatment courts. These programs, along with some of the other reforms in this bill, have already been implemented in my home state of Georgia, and we have already started to reap the benefits,” stated Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA). “The SAFE Justice Act would keep violent offenders behind bars where they belong, but also provides a path to a people-centered approach for those who have just lost their way.” “Reducing crime and advancing meaningful criminal justice reform are not mutually exclusive goals,” stated Rep. Scott Rigell (R-VA), who noted that similar reforms enacted in 32 states across America have reduced rates of crime and imprisonment in those states and have returned millions of dollars for reinvestment in programs designed to improve public safety. “The SAFE Justice Act makes evidence-driven reforms that will reduce recidivism, over-criminalization, and over-incarceration without diminishing the integrity of our federal criminal justice system. I commend my colleagues, Mr. Scott and Mr. Sensenbrenner, for their commitment to improving public safety and saving taxpayer dollars.” The SAFE Justice Act will: Reduce recidivism by – incentivizing completion of evidence-based prison programming and activities through expanded earned time credits; implementing swift, certain, and proportionate sanctions for violations of supervision; and offering credits for compliance with the conditions of supervision. Concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals by – focusing mandatory minimum sentences on leaders and supervisors of drug trafficking organizations; modestly expanding the drug trafficking safety valve (an exception to mandatory minimums) for offenders who provide substantial assistance to the government; and creating release valves for lower-risk geriatric and terminally-ill offenders.​ Increase use of evidence-based sentencing alternatives by – encouraging greater use of probation and problem-solving courts for appropriate offenders; and creating a performance-incentive funding program to better align the interests of the Bureau of Prisons and federal judicial districts. Curtailing overcriminalization by – requiring regulatory criminal offenses to be compiled and published for the public; ensuring fiscal impact statements are attached to all future sentencing and corrections proposals; and charging the Department of Justice, the Bureau of Prisons, and the Administrative Office of the Courts with collecting key outcome performance measures. Reduces crime by – investing in evidence-based crime prevention initiatives; and increasing funding for community based policing and public safety initiatives. Additional information about the SAFE Justice Act: Bill Text Section-by-Section Two-Page Summary # # #
06.25.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the top Democrats from the House Education and the Workforce, Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means committees issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold a core tenet of the Affordable Care Act in King v. Burwell. Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) are the lead Democrats on the committees with jurisdiction over the Affordable Care Act: “Today, the Supreme Court of the United States reaffirmed that the American people, no matter where they live in this country, still have the right to access quality, affordable health insurance. Legal experts had always considered the case attacking the Affordable Care Act to be legally frivolous. “We are thankful that today the Supreme Court made it clear that the Affordable Care Act includes tax credits for eligible Americans, including those purchasing coverage in the federal Marketplace. We look forward to continuing to work in Congress, with the Administration and other stakeholders, to ensure robust implementation of the law going forward.” # # #
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, June 25th, Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Bobby Scott (D-VA) will announce the introduction of the Safe, Accountable, Fair, and Effective (SAFE) Justice Act of 2015. Representatives Sensenbrenner and Scott led the House Judiciary Committee’s Over-criminalization Task Force during the 113th Congress. The task force was charged with assessing the entire federal criminal justice system and making recommendations for improvements. Over the course of 18 months, the task force held ten hearings and heard testimony from numerous stakeholders, including experts in the federal, academic, and nonprofit sectors. Based on the work of the task force, the SAFE Justice Act will take a broad-based approach to improving the federal sentencing and corrections system, from front-end sentencing reform to back-end release policies. It will also be the first bill that addresses the federal supervision system – ensuring that probation does a better job stopping the revolving door at federal prisons. The legislation, which is inspired by the successes of states across the country, will reduce recidivism, concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals, increase the use of evidence-based alternatives to incarceration, curtail overcriminalization, reduce crime, and save money. WHO: Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) Other Original Co-Sponsors and Supporters WHAT: Press Conference to announce introduction of the SAFE Justice Act WHERE: 2237 Rayburn House Office Building WHEN: Thursday, June 25, 2015 at 2:15 p.m. # # #
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement: “I commend the Governor for his decision today to order the removal of the Confederate Battle Flag from specialty Virginia license plates. The flag’s contemporary use has always been controversial; particularly in light of the fact that many Southern states opted to display the flag in some form or another in direct protest of racial integration in the 1950s. “Finally, with the Supreme Court’s recent decision in Walker v. Texas Division, Sons of Confederate Veterans, Inc. that license plate designs constitute government speech, the Governor’s action is on firm legal ground. Again, I commend the Governor for taking this action and leading on this issue.” # # #
06.18.2015	As orginially released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. — House Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) issued the following statement on stand-alone legislation to grant the President Trade Promotion Authority, commonly known as Fast Track: “As I did last week, I again opposed Trade Promotion Authority because it lacks sufficient safeguards to ensure that labor standards, environmental standards, and consumer protections are respected in partner countries and here at home. I remain concerned that the Trans-Pacific Partnership — the multi-nation trade deal currently being negotiated by the President and the impetus for today’s vote — is not the best course of action for our economy and America’s middle class.” To read Ranking Member Scott’s statement on last week’s trade package votes, please click here. # # #
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — House Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) issued the following statement on today’s trade votes: “While I am a strong supporter of Trade Adjustment Assistance that provides needed support to workers who have had their jobs shipped overseas, I was unable to vote for today’s TAA title of the Trade Act. When taken into context, this TAA authorization fell woefully short in our duty to support American workers. It lacked adequate funding, left out a large sector of the economy, and is tied directly to Congress granting the President Trade Promotion Authority. "Separately, I voted against the Trade Promotion Authority title of the Trade Act, because it lacks sufficient safeguards to ensure that labor standards, environmental standards, and consumer protections are respected in partner countries and here at home. Past trade agreements have provided empirical evidence showing that our economy suffers through job loss and downward pressure on wages, underscoring what’s wrong with the Trans-Pacific Partnership. When measuring income inequality across the globe, after accounting for taxes and transfers, the United States ranks second worst in income inequality across developed countries. Entering into another large-scale trade deal at a time when income disparities in the United States are the worst since the 1920s is not the best course of action for our nation.” # # #
06.11.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) today announced the introduction of H.R. 2728, the Youth Justice Act of 2015. The legislation would reauthorize the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA) of 1974, which has not been reauthorized by Congress in over a decade. The bill reinforces federal safeguards for state juvenile justice systems, by renewing education, safety, and prevention standards for our nation’s youth. The legislation is based on S. 2999, a bipartisan bill that was introduced on December 11, 2014 by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Chuck Grassley (R-IA). Joining Ranking Member Scott as original co-sponsors of the bill are Reps. Karen Bass (CA-37), Cedric Richmond (LA-02), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), and Tony Cardenas (CA-29) who have all championed youth justice reforms in Congress. JJDPA was last reauthorized in the Committee on Education and the Workforce in 2002. “We have seen the positive results some states have had from investing in alternatives to incarceration and secure detention,” said Rep. Scott. “We have documented the power evidence-based policies have in both reducing crime and saving money, and we have realized the role that trauma plays in the lives of our disengaged youth and what it takes to get them back on the right track. The Youth Justice Act builds on the strong framework of our colleagues in the Senate, and takes suggestions from our nation’s leading juvenile justice advocates on how we can make our system even safer and more responsive to our youth.” Today, girls are the fastest-growing segment of the juvenile justice population, and status offenses still remain the primary reason that girls enter the juvenile justice system. Congresswoman Karen Bass, the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, emphasized how the Youth Justice Act is necessary to address the special needs of girls in the juvenile justice system. “I want to thank Congressman Bobby Scott not just for introducing this legislation, but for your years of leadership to juvenile justice and for championing this issue for years,” said Rep. Bass. “We need to look at why the system is punishing girls more harshly for ‘crimes’ like truancy, running away, curfew violations, incorrigibility or underage drinking. We must stop handing out harsh sentences for small offenses.” Congressman Cedric Richmond, an advocate for prison and sentencing reform and member of the Committee on Homeland Security, explained the need to fully fund a JJDPA reauthorization to successfully implement evidence-based programs to support juvenile rehabilitation across the country. “We know that supporting programs that keep our children out of jail is one of the best investments we can make,” added Rep. Richmond, who represents a large portion of the City of New Orleans. “That is why it is so important that we reauthorize the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act, the programs contained in the Youth Justice Act are critical to getting funding for state juvenile justice systems. By keeping more children in school and out of jail, we can reduce the amount we spend on incarceration and make the country safer.” In 2011, youth of color under the age of 21 represented 45 percent of the youth in the United States, but accounted for 71 percent of youth held in detention nationwide, and 66 percent of youth committed to juvenile facilities upon a determination of delinquency. The Youth Justice Act requires states to take concrete steps to address Disproportionate Minority Contact (DMC) at every point of contact juveniles have with the system. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a senior member of the Committee on the Judiciary, talked about the impact outdated laws have on families and communities. “I believe in comprehensive reform to address all aspects of the criminal and juvenile justice system,” said Rep. Jackson Lee. “Today, we know that more and more young children are being arrested, incarcerated, and detained in lengthy out-of-home placements. In some states, such as Maryland, a child as young as 7-years-old is subject to being charged and prosecuted by the Juvenile Court System. The excessive and traumatic removal of children from their schools and the community is unacceptable and causing irreparable damage to young people.” Congressman Tony Cárdenas, founder of the Crime Prevention and Youth Development Caucus, underscored the importance of early intervention for at-risk youth through H.R. 2728. “This legislation represents the best possible investment America can make in our future,” said Cárdenas. “The young people of today are going to build the future of our nation. We cannot afford to let any of them fall by the wayside because of a broken system. The Youth Justice Act will allow us to focus on keeping kids out of that system, while we protect and invest in those already affected, with hopes that they can be rehabilitated and can contribute to the growth of our nation.” For more information on the Youth Justice Act’s four mandates, click here. For additional information on the impact of juvenile justice laws across the country, click here. To read the text of the bill, click here. # # #
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine, along with U.S. Representatives Bobby Scott, Randy Forbes, Rob Wittman, Gerry Connolly, Robert Hurt, Dave Brat, and Don Beyer urged the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations to oppose language in the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill that that would jeopardize funding for a Foreign Affairs Security Training Center (FASTC) at Fort Pickett. The delegation believes the proposed language is a form of protest against the selection of Fort Pickett over other possible sites and part of a broader attempt to derail the process. “Continued attempts by some members of Congress to allege malfeasance with the selection of Fort Pickett only serves to further delay this project and inserts a level of risk to our State Department personnel that is unacceptable,” the members wrote. “We are extremely troubled that these efforts continue —even in the wake of an Office of Management and Budget due diligence review in 2014 that concluded Fort Pickett was the best venue for State to satisfy its training mandate in the most effective manner possible.” “The tragedy of this entire situation is that, since the requirement for this facility was identified over six years ago, four Americans serving in Benghazi were killed,” the letter continues. “And despite the 2012 Accountability Review Board recommendation to improve and consolidate high-threat training programs and facilities in the wake of the Benghazi attack, U.S. facilities have been attacked in Tunisia, Turkey, and Afghanistan and we have evacuated our Embassy personnel in Libya and Yemen. Yet, instead of accelerating the construction of a facility at Fort Pickett that, according to Assistant Secretary of State Gregory Starr is “the most effective solution” to better protect our foreign affairs personnel, we are wasting more time and putting Americans in danger.” Full text of the letter: Dear Chairman Rogers and Chairwoman Granger: We are writing to express our deep concern over proposed language in the FY 2016 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill that would prohibit funding for a Foreign Affairs Security Training Center (FASTC) until such a Center is specifically authorized by an Act of Congress. Further, the language states that if FASTC is not authorized before September 30, 2016, funds currently available to support its construction may be used at other existing training facilities. It is time for the debate on FASTC to end. The world is getting more dangerous, not less, for U.S. personnel abroad. As you both know, the search for a dedicated location to train our personnel assigned to high-threat posts has gone on for over six years – since 2009. In this time, the State Department conducted a thorough and transparent process, considering more than 70 sites to find the ideal location for FASTC. This included working under strict requirements to find a site located in close proximity to the other federal agencies and units that work side-by-side with State Department personnel at our Embassies and posts overseas. The most critical of these is the Marine Corps Embassy Security Group in Quantico, Virginia. Fort Pickett was ultimately selected in the highly competitive process that also included review of the FLETC facilities in Glynco, Georgia as a potential option. Continued attempts by some members of Congress to allege malfeasance with the selection of Fort Pickett only serves to further delay this project and inserts a level of risk to our State Department personnel that is unacceptable. We are extremely troubled that these efforts continue —even in the wake of an Office of Management and Budget due diligence review in 2014 that concluded Fort Pickett was the best venue for State to satisfy its training mandate in the most effective manner possible. When it comes to protecting the men and women serving our country abroad, it is imperative that we make a holistic assessment of U.S. national security and mission needs. In addition to cost, several factors must be weighed and balanced. For FASTC, these include distance, organizational synergies, capacity, agency partnership, and operational capacity. These factors are what led the Administration to repeatedly reaffirm that Fort Pickett is best suited to fulfill all of these requirements. For example, other sites fall short of the hard-skills training needed to equip our diplomatic security agents to withstand another Benghazi styled attack. These deficiencies include the inability to facilitate high-speed driving training for heavy, armored vehicles, advanced explosives IED countermeasure training, and joint-training exercises with Department of Defense elements. As such, the President’s FY 2016 budget request of $99 million for FASTC was requested specifically for Fort Pickett. The tragedy of this entire situation is that, since the requirement for this facility was identified over six years ago, four Americans serving in Benghazi were killed. And despite the 2012 Accountability Review Board recommendation to improve and consolidate high-threat training programs and facilities in the wake of the Benghazi attack, U.S. facilities have been attacked in Tunisia, Turkey, and Afghanistan and we have evacuated our Embassy personnel in Libya and Yemen. Yet, instead of accelerating the construction of a facility at Fort Pickett that, according to Assistant Secretary of State Gregory Starr is “the most effective solution” to better protect our foreign affairs personnel, we are wasting more time and putting Americans in danger. We strongly encourage you to oppose language in the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriation bill that would prevent us from moving as quickly as possible to ensure that these brave Americans serving our country receive the training they need. # # #
06.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Sens. Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine (both D-VA) along with U.S. Reps. Bobby Scott (D-VA-3), Randy Forbes (R-VA-4), and Rob Wittman (R-VA-1) applauded the U.S. Navy for signing a more than $4 billion contract to award the construction of the USS John F. Kennedy (CVN-79) to Newport News Shipbuilding. “Today’s announcement marks an important step forward in designing and building the second in this new Ford class of aircraft carriers,” said Sen. Warner. “This contract will allow Newport News Shipbuilding to plan for the future and provides stability and predictability for its workers, the world’s best shipbuilders.” “I’m thrilled the Navy has officially awarded Newport News Shipbuilding a contract to begin construction on the USS John F. Kennedy,” said Sen. Kaine, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Construction and overhaul of our aircraft carrier fleet is increasingly critical in today’s complex threat environment. This is a terrific boost for our shipbuilders in Hampton Roads and a reminder of Virginia’s long-standing leadership in the industry.” “Our region’s shipbuilders have always constructed the finest ships in the world and I know they are ready to rise to the challenge again to build the John F. Kennedy,” said Rep. Scott. “Today’s decision by the Navy is great news for the Hampton Roads region and our national security.” “The USS John F. Kennedy will serve this nation well into the 21st century, providing the most advanced power projection capabilities in the history of warfare. As the United States faces challenges from the Persian Gulf to the South China Sea, our aircraft carriers will provide a flexible, scalable response to any national security challenge that is simply without parallel,” said Rep. Forbes. “With an almost 10% savings over the original ship in its class, the Kennedy also demonstrates the importance of a stable acquisition process that provides value to taxpayers and meets our national security needs.” “Our aircraft carrier fleet is central to U.S. defense and diplomatic policy,” said Rep. Wittman. “A robust fleet of carriers makes possible Ronald Reagan’s timeless adage of ‘peace through strength.’ This contract announcement for CVN-79 capitalizes on industrial base efficiencies and underscores the United States’ commitment to naval strength by moving forward with the Ford Class carrier in a timely manner.” Today’s announcement follows strong efforts by the bipartisan delegation to maintain the 11-carrier fleet. After learning that the Pentagon did not include funding for the USS George Washington (CVN 73) refueling and overhaul in the President’s FY2015 budget, the Senators and House members worked together to successfully urge the administration and Congress to fully fund the aircraft carrier. # # #
06.05.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the U.S. District Court in Richmond again ruling in Page v. Virginia State Board of Elections that the 2012 congressional redistricting plan implemented by the Commonwealth of Virginia as it pertains to the 3rd Congressional District was unconstitutional and that the Virginia General Assembly must draw new boundaries by September 1, 2015: “Today’s decision by the U.S. District Court is consistent with the Supreme Court’s recent decision in Alabama Legislative Black Caucus v. Alabama. While I was not involved in this lawsuit, I was a proponent of the redistricting plan sponsored by State Senator Mamie Locke in 2011, which made all congressional districts in the Commonwealth more compact and contiguous. I hope and expect the General Assembly will more equitably and appropriately balance the influence of all Virginia’s voters, as mandated by this decision, when they redraw the third congressional district and adjacent congressional districts by the September 1st deadline." # # #
06.05.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. — House Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) released the following statement today after the release of the monthly jobs report by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The BLS announced that during the month of May, 280,000 jobs were created – the strongest month this year. The private sector has now added 12.6 million jobs over 63 straight months of job growth, extending the longest streak on record. “Today’s employment report shows that our economy continues to recover from the worse downturn since the Great Depression. The U.S. economy added 280,000 new jobs in the month of May. While this job growth is a great improvement, we know that there are people who have lost their jobs still trying to find work, and hardworking Americans are still struggling to make ends meet. When job growth is strong, some people who had given up looking for a job return to the labor market and seek employment. That can result in an uptick in the unemployment rate. By committing to legislation that would raise the minimum wage and create and secure jobs, we can help families get back on their feet.” # # #
05.26.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement upon learning of the passing of Franklin P. “Frank” Hall, a former member and minority leader of the Virginia House of Delegates: “I was saddened to learn of the passing of Frank Hall. I always valued his guidance and counsel both during my service in the General Assembly and in Congress. He was the consummate public servant who dedicated his life and career in service to his fellow Virginians. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Phoebe, his children and grandchildren, and his countless friends and supporters.” # # #
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on S. 178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015: “Human trafficking is abhorrent and a form of modern-day slavery. And as a co-chair of the Congressional Human Trafficking Caucus, I am committed to ensuring that we end this illegal trade and provide the necessary support for survivors. “S. 178 incorporates numerous bi-partisan human trafficking bills that I strongly support and will significantly help curtail this illegal trade and provide additional support for survivors. Unfortunately, the bill includes a provision that unnecessarily expands mandatory minimum sentencing. “Mandatory minimum sentences have been studied extensively and have been found to distort rational sentencing systems, discriminate against minorities, waste money, and often require a judge to impose sentences that violate common sense. To add insult to injury, studies have shown that mandatory minimum sentences fail to reduce crime. “Under section 118 of this bill, the advertising of sex trafficking will result in a mandatory penalty of 10 or 15 years, depending on the circumstances of the crime. There is no doubt that many of these individuals prosecuted under this provision of the bill should receive long prison sentences, but in some cases a mandatory sentence of 10 or 15 years may not be justified. “This is particularly troublesome when you consider the possible scope of defendants who could be prosecuted under this provision of the bill. Notably, the prohibition on advertising does not only apply to the sex trafficker who places the ad, or the employee who accepted the ad, but also includes those who benefit financially from the ad. “That category would include all of the employees of the ad company, including the receptionist or the computer guy, everybody whose paycheck indirectly comes from the payment for the ad, and an employee who may have seen the ads or read in the paper that the company publishes some questionable ads but decided to look the other way. They should be held responsible for their complicity and many of their actions may warrant a sentence of 15 years or even more, but certainly not all of them. The judge should have the discretion to consider all the facts and the culpability of the particular defendant. Instead, this provision of the bill unnecessarily takes that discretion away, and requires the judge to impose a 10 or 15 year sentence regardless of whether that sentence makes any sense or not. “Mandatory minimum sentences didn't get into the criminal code all at once but one at a time, each one part of an otherwise good bill. If we expect to get rid of mandatory minimums, we have to first stop passing new ones like this. “This bill contains a new mandatory minimum that someday will require a judge to impose a sentence that violates common sense. Therefore, I voted No.” # # #
05.18.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Committee on Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), issued the following statement on 50th Anniversary of the Head Start program, which has granted millions of children access to high quality preschool: “Fifty years ago today, President Lyndon B. Johnson announced from the White House Rose Garden that enrollment would begin for an early childhood education program called “Project Head Start” as part of his Great Society and War on Poverty programs. “For the last half century, Head Start has been more than just an education program. It has helped generations of disadvantaged families and young children break through class barriers in school and life through a holistic approach that includes high quality preschool and critical support services, including family engagement, health services and good nutrition. “Studies have found the children in Head Start have better language, literacy and math skills, better teacher-child interactions, stronger social-emotional skills, and greater access to health and dental care than their peers. Investments in high-quality early learning programs like Head Start generate economic returns of $8 for every $1 spent, by reducing the teen pregnancy rate, high school dropout rate, the likelihood of incarceration, and more. “We know that Head Start works. As we mark the occasion of 50 years of one of the most successful early intervention programs, let us recommit ourselves to ensuring that all of our disadvantaged children have access to quality early education programs.” # # #
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016: “I support a strong national defense and our men and women in uniform, but I could not support this year’s National Defense Authorization Act in its current form. “The bill shields the Department of Defense from sequestration by moving billions of Defense Department funding into the Overseas Contingency Operations Account, which is exempted from sequestration. Democrats and Republicans all agree that sequestration is bad policy and must be addressed, but using accounting gimmicks to protect only the Defense side of the budget ledger while still allowing sequestration to arbitrarily cut education, transportation, health care and every other vital function of government is irresponsible and irrational. “Congress must find the political will to work together to outright cancel sequestration, but doing so will actually require us to make some tough choices. We failed to do that two and a half years ago when we passed the so-called fiscal cliff deal that added $3.9 trillion to the deficit and did nothing to address sequestration. But by refusing to work with Democrats on a path forward to address sequestration responsibly, House Republicans are setting up another unnecessary fiscal crisis. “This is unfortunate considering that the annual defense policy bill is usually a very bipartisan effort. I worked with Representatives Randy Forbes, Scott Rigell, Rob Wittman, Joe Courtney, Susan Davis, Derek Kilmer, Jackie Walorski, Mike Conaway, and Duncan Hunter to defeat an amendment on the floor that would have reduced the statutory requirement that our Navy maintain 11 aircraft carriers. If this amendment had succeeded, it would have unnecessarily burdened our Navy and military personnel by increasing the length of deployments and increasing the stress on our ships and the amount of maintenance they require. There was also a successful bipartisan effort to defeat an amendment that would have hindered the Navy’s ability to recapitalize the nation’s sea-based strategic deterrent fleet. The underlying bill also ensured a robust shipbuilding program for the next fiscal year, which always bodes well for the Hampton Roads economy. “I hope that as the legislative process continues, we can work together on a truly bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act.” # # #
05.08.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) released the following statement today after the release of the monthly jobs report by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The BLS announced that during the month of April, 223,000 jobs were created and the unemployment rate dipped to 5.4 percent – the lowest since May 2008. To date, the economy has now had a record 62 consecutive months of private sector job growth. “The jobs report released today proves that our job market is steadily growing and more Americans are being put back to work. By adding 223,000 jobs, we are successfully approaching our prerecession levels and we cannot afford to go back. Under President Obama’s leadership, the private sector has added 12.3 million jobs over 62 consecutive months, and the unemployment rate has decreased greatly since its 10 percent peak. “While this is excellent news, it is clear that more must be done to boost paychecks and bring more financial assurance to hardworking families across the country. One way we can do this by raising the minimum wage. Bigger paychecks for working families not only help them make ends meet, it also increases consumer demand and grows our economy. We can’t build a strong economy on the backs of impoverished workers -- America deserves a raise. I am committed to ensuring that living wages are within reach for every hardworking American.” # # #
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC), Congressman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) and Congressman Tony Cárdenas (D-CA) introduced the Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention, Support, and Education (“Youth PROMISE”) Act (H.R. 2197). The Youth PROMISE Act will provide resources to communities to engage in comprehensive, evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies to decrease violence, gang crime, illegal drug activity and other crime. Under the Youth PROMISE Act, communities facing the greatest youth gang and crime challenges will each form a local council of representatives from law enforcement, court services, schools, social service organizations, health and mental health providers, the business community, and other public and private community-based organizations, including faith-based organizations. The council will develop a comprehensive plan for implementing evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies for young people who are at-risk of becoming involved, or who are already involved, in gangs, or the criminal justice system to redirect them toward productive and law-abiding alternatives. "The United States has the highest average incarceration rate of any nation in the world, and the cost of corrections in this country has risen to over $68 billion a year," said Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA). "All the credible research and evidence shows that a continuum of evidence-based prevention and intervention programs for at-risk youth will greatly reduce crime and save much more than they cost. In this time of budgetary constraint, the Youth PROMISE Act is a wise investment. Ultimately, the Youth PROMISE Act will prevent crime while also saving lives, saving communities and saving money." “In addressing the very serious issue of youth crime, we know that local communities know best,”said Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC). “The Youth Promise Act will empower these communities and help them create plans to prevent youth crime and incarceration that will save taxpayers in the long run.” “As a former federal prosecutor, who saw the immense human toll and suffering at the backend of crime, I am convinced we must be committed to stopping crime before it happens,” Congressman Trey Gowdy (R-SC). “Under the Youth PROMISE Act, communities can develop effective, integrated prevention and intervention programs tailored to their specific community needs. I applaud Rep. Bobby Scott’s work on this legislation to help us minimize the number of people and families victimized by crime and violence, improve services for at-risk youth, and save taxpayer dollars.” “In the past several months, Americans have seen the damage that can be done when we simply forget our children, abandoning them to an antiquated punishment system,” Congressman Tony Cárdenas (D-CA). “Instead of a nation that thinks of children as problems to be shoved into a cell, we must become a nation that treasures our future generations, learns what can be done to help them and uses this understanding to keep them out of jail, and on a track to build our economy. I applaud the Youth PROMISE Act, because I believe it accomplishes those goals.” The Youth PROMISE Act has the support of over 250 national, state, and local government, professional, civil rights, education and religious organizations, including the National Association of Counties, the National Conference of Mayors, the Children's Defense Fund, the National Juvenile Justice Network, Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, the National Education Association, the NAACP, the American Bar Association, the Coalition for Juvenile Justice, and the Campaign for Youth Justice, to name a few. # # #
04.30.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the Raise the Wage Act, legislation that would increase the minimum wage to $12 by 2020. The Raise the Wage Act would also index the federal minimum wage to the median wage, and gradually eliminate the subminimum tipped wage. The legislation would raise wages for nearly 38 million American workers. “Raising the minimum wage to $12 by 2020 will give hardworking, underpaid workers a pay raise that has been long overdue,” said Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA). “Bigger paychecks for working families not only help them make ends meet, it also increases consumer demand and grows our economy. No one working full-time should live in poverty, and we can’t build a strong economy on the backs of impoverished workers. America deserves a raise.” “No one who works hard in a full-time job should have to live in poverty. We owe it to workers across the country to make sure our minimum wage is set to a level that works for them and their families.” said Senator Patty Murray (D-WA). “Raising the minimum wage to $12 by 2020 is a key component to helping more families make ends meet, expanding economic security, and growing our economy from the middle out, not the top down.” Read the bill text of the Raise the Wage Act. Read more about the Raise the Wage Act. The Raise the Wage Act has 160 House cosponsors: Nancy Pelosi, Steny H. Hoyer, James E. Clyburn, Xavier Becerra, Joseph Crowley, Ben Ray Luján, Steve Israel, Rosa L. DeLauro, Donna F. Edwards, Karen Bass, Chris Van Hollen, Robert A. Brady, Corrine Brown, John Conyers, Jr., Elijah E. Cummings, Peter A. DeFazio, Eliot L. Engel, Raúl M. Grijalva, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Sander M. Levin, Nita M. Lowey, Frank Pallone, Jr., Linda T. Sánchez, Adam B. Schiff, Louise McIntosh Slaughter, Adam Smith, Bennie G. Thompson, Nydia M. Velázquez, Maxine Waters, Rubén Hinojosa, Susan A. Davis, Joe Courtney, Marcia L. Fudge, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan, Frederica S. Wilson, Suzanne Bonamici, Mark Pocan, Mark Takano, Hakeem S. Jeffries, Katherine M. Clark, Alma S. Adams, Mark DeSaulnier, Pete Aguilar, Joyce Beatty, Ami Bera, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Earl Blumenauer, Brendan F. Boyle, Julia Brownley, Cheri Bustos, G.K. Butterfield, Lois Capps, Michael E. Capuano, Tony Cárdenas, André Carson, Matt Cartwright, Kathy Castor, Joaquin Castro, Judy Chu, David N. Cicilline, Yvette D. Clarke, Wm. Lacy Clay, Emanuel Cleaver, Steve Cohen, Danny K. Davis, Diana DeGette, John K. Delaney, Suzan K. DelBene, Theodore E. Deutch, Debbie Dingell, Lloyd Doggett, Tammy Duckworth, Keith Ellison, Anna G. Eshoo, Elizabeth H. Esty, Sam Farr, Chaka Fattah, Lois Frankel, Tulsi Gabbard, Ruben Gallego, John Garamendi, Alan Grayson, Al Green, Gene Green, Luis V. Gutiérrez, Janice Hahn, Alcee L. Hastings, Denny Heck, James A. Himes, Michael M. Honda, Jared Huffman, Sheila Jackson Lee, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Marcy Kaptur, William R. Keating, Joseph P. Kennedy III, Daniel T. Kildee, Derek Kilmer, Ron Kind, Ann M. Kuster, James R. Langevin, Rick Larsen, John B. Larson, Brenda L. Lawrence, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, David Loebsack, Zoe Lofgren, Alan S. Lowenthal, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Carolyn B. Maloney, Sean Patrick Maloney, Doris O. Matsui, Betty McCollum, Jim McDermott , James P. McGovern, Jerry McNerney, Gregory W. Meeks, Grace Meng, Gwen Moore, Seth Moulton, Patrick Murphy, Jerrold Nadler, Richard E. Neal, Richard M. Nolan, Donald Norcross, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Bill Pascrell, Jr., Donald M. Payne, Jr., Chellie Pingree, Stacey E. Plaskett, David E. Price, Charles B. Rangel, Kathleen M. Rice, Cedric L. Richmond, Lucille Roybal-Allard , Raul Ruiz, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Bobby L. Rush, Loretta Sanchez, John P. Sarbanes, Janice D. Schakowsky, José E. Serrano, Terri A. Sewell, Brad Sherman, Jackie Speier, Eric Swalwell, Mark Takai, Mike Thompson, Paul Tonko, Norma J. Torres, Niki Tsongas, Juan Vargas, Marc A. Veasey, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Peter Welch, John A. Yarmuth, Albio Sires, and Bill Foster. The Raise the Wage Act has 32 Senate cosponsors: Dick Durbin (D-IL), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Ed Markey (D-MA), Bob Casey (D-PA), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Gary Peters (D-MI), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Harry Reid (D-NV), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Al Franken (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Tom Udall (D-NM), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN). # # #
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) met with William Sabol, Ph.D., Director of the Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS), on the measures that BJS is taking to implement the reauthorization of the Death in Custody Reporting Act, which was signed into law by President Obama on December 18, 2014. The Death in Custody Reporting Act requires federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to report deaths of individuals that occur in their custody or during the course of an arrest. It is the only post-Ferguson federal legislation to be enacted by Congress to date. Congressman Scott issued the following statement in response to yesterday’s briefing with Director Sabol and other officials from the Department of Justice: “I appreciate Director Sabol and the Department of Justice for providing me and other Members of Congress, as well as staff, an update on the implementation of the reauthorization of the Death in Custody Reporting Act. In light of several recent deaths that have attracted significant media attention as well as justifiable public outcry, it is clear that the federal government needs to exercise greater oversight of federal, state and local law enforcement personnel to ensure that they are protecting and serving all of our citizens. Ensuring the availability of accurate data will help policymakers and law enforcement agencies pinpoint areas of concern and make informed decisions on how to best address problems. “To aid in that measure, the Bureau of Justice Statistics is examining and improving how this data is collected from local, state, and federal agencies. Although a significant majority of law enforcement agencies are currently reporting, some have opted out and others have provided incomplete or inaccurate data. Director Sabol has assured me that his agency is taking steps to improve the existing methodology and address discrepancies in reporting. Specifically, by periodically auditing the data they receive against multiple independent sources, such as census data, information collected and published by private organizations on police encounters, as well as media and direct citizen reports, BJS will be better able to ensure that the information is both complete and accurate. “Without accurate data, it is nearly impossible for BJS to identify variables that lead to an unnecessary and unacceptable risk of individuals dying in custody or during an arrest. By examining data trends and patterns, the Justice Department and law enforcement agencies will be able to determine what reforms may be necessary to reduce incidences of avoidable deaths in our criminal justice system. “Again, I appreciate the Director for providing a very timely update and I look forward to meeting with him again in the next several months to discuss initial data that has been collected under the updated law.” # # #
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on H.R. 1105, the “Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015”: “Budgeting responsibly often requires making tough choices but that is not what the Republican Majority has done today. Current law exempts $5.4 million in assets for individuals and $10.9 million in assets for couples from the federal estate tax. As if the current law wasn’t generous enough, the Republican Majority has made the choice to repeal the estate tax entirely and add $269 billion to the deficit over the next decade in order to give 0.2% of the wealthiest deceased Americans a tax break. “Unfortunately, today’s vote is consistent with the bad choices the Republican Majority made last month in their budget – $187 billion in cuts to transportation, $89 billion in cuts to the Pell Grant, $19 billion in cuts to Veterans’ programs, $125 billion in cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, and $913 billion in cuts to Medicaid. I think a vast majority of Americans would agree that the revenue that will be lost as a result of repealing the estate tax would be better used to curtail some of the deep spending cuts included in the Republican budget. Alternatively, if $269 billion were spent on an effective jobs program, we could create almost as many jobs as there are people officially unemployed today. We didn’t make that choice.” # # #
04.16.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) released the following statement today on the passage of the Every Child Achieves Act by the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: “Today's unanimous passage of the Every Child Achieves Act by the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions should serve as an example of bipartisanship for the House of Representatives to follow. “While today represents another step in a long deliberative process to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, a bill worthy of the President's signature will only be achieved when both Democrats and Republicans in both chambers are engaged in finding a bipartisan solution to the real challenges that students, families, teachers, and communities face across this country. “I remain concerned that the Every Child Achieves Act lacks necessary protections to ensure states and school districts meet the needs of all students. Reauthorization of the ESEA must fulfill the intent and promise embodied in this cornerstone civil rights law for 50 years—to ensure equal educational opportunity for our nation's most vulnerable students: students who are low-income, minority students, students with disabilities, and students who do not speak English. “I remain committed to working with my colleagues in both chambers to make needed improvements as the process continues.” # # #
04.07.2015	As originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Education and the Workforce Committee Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) released the following statement today after Senators Lamar Alexander and Patty Murray released details on their agreement on the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act “I commend Senators Alexander and Murray for their efforts to bring forward a bipartisan Elementary and Secondary Education reauthorization bill in the Senate. While we recognize this as an important step in the process, there is still work to do to ensure that the needs of our most vulnerable students are met. Students, teachers, parents, and communities deserve a bill that fulfills ESEA’s original civil rights promise – ensuring that all students, regardless of where they live – have access to high quality public education that prepares them for college and the workplace. I hope we can restart the stalled process in the House to produce a bill for a bicameral bipartisan conference that protects the core principles of ESEA: ensuring meaningful accountability for all students, targeting federal resources to where they are most needed, and providing effective solutions to the real challenges our students and teachers face.” # # #
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) applauded the release of a new Council of State Governments (CSG) Justice Center brief analyzing data from states that have employed a Justice Reinvestment approach. The brief, “Examining the Changing Racial Composition of Three States’ Prison Populations,” examined data from Georgia, Connecticut, and North Carolina and found subsequent drops in prison admissions and prison populations, which were especially pronounced among minority populations. The Justice Reinvestment Initiative provides federal grants to allow states to conduct comprehensive, data-driven analyses of their criminal justice systems and adopt smart, evidence-based policies designed to reduce corrections spending and increase public safety. Since the establishment of the Justice Reinvestment Initiative in 2010, 24 states have deployed the justice reinvestment approach to pursue policies that have slowed overall prison population growth, reduced crime and recidivism, and saved taxpayers money. As a result of the Justice Reinvestment Initiative, states are projected to save more than $4.6 billion and be able to invest hundreds of millions of those savings into prevention, early intervention, and effective supervision and treatment programs to make communities safer. “When it comes to crime policy, for far too long policymakers have chosen to ignore the evidence and have instead played politics by enacting simple minded slogans and soundbites that have done nothing to reduce crime,” stated Rep. Scott. “This new brief further confirms that the smart on crime approach works, but despite the encouraging evidence that Justice Reinvestment is working, more must be done. Congress must continue to help states better manage their prison populations through investing in comprehensive, evidence-based solutions that we know work. By managing prison populations more cost-effectively, federal and state governments can better promote public safety, deterrence, and rehabilitation while saving billions of dollars and strengthening our communities.” “In addition to maintaining and enhancing investments in programs that work, Congress must come together to pass comprehensive criminal justice reform,” Scott continued. “This is increasingly becoming one of the most bipartisan issues in an often deeply divided Congress. Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives, are coming together to find comprehensive solutions to fix the problem and this new brief only further bolsters that cause. I look forward to working with key stakeholders and my colleagues in Congress on bipartisan, comprehensive, evidence-based solutions to reform our broken criminal justice system.” The Council of State Governments Justice Center Brief can be accessed here: https://csgjusticecenter.org/jr/publications/examining-the-changing-racial-composition-of-three-states-prison-populations/. # # #
03.21.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott will join Celebrate Healthcare and other community leaders tomorrow at the Peninsula Soul Food Restaurant in Hampton, Virginia to celebrate the 5th anniversary of President Obama signing the Affordable Care Act into law. Since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act, approximately 16.4 million uninsured individuals have received coverage since the law’s provisions took effect in 2010. As of the end of the second open enrollment period, nearly 11.7 million individuals have selected a Marketplace plan or were reenrolled in coverage for 2015. And since 2010, about 5.7 million young adults have gained coverage as a direct result of the Affordable Care Act. Congressman Scott will discuss these and the many other successes of the Affordable Care Act tomorrow in Hampton. Full details: WHO: Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03)Ranking Member, House Committee on Education and the Workforce WHAT: 5th Anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, Hosted by Celebrate Healthcare WHERE: Peninsula Soul Food Restaurant (formerly Captain George’s Seafood Restaurant)2710 West Mercury Blvd.Hampton, Virginia 23666 WHEN: Sunday, March 22, 2015 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. This event is free and open to the public. # # #
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), a member of the U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, U.S. Senator Cory Booker (D-N.J.), U.S. Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-Mass.), and U.S. Congressman Danny K. Davis (D-Ill.) were joined by original cosponsors U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and U.S. Congressman Bobby Scott (D-Va.) in introducing the Supportive School Climate Act of 2015, legislation that would address the so-called school-to-prison pipeline by reducing suspensions, expulsions, and other overly harsh school disciplinary actions to improve youth outcomes. The bill would give every student – especially those who face abuse, neglect, or other forms of trauma – ample opportunity to form positive and trusting relationships with adults in a school environment that is supportive of their complex needs, and would encourage the use of evidence-based strategies that promote positive behavior. Too often, students are suspended, expelled, and arrested for minor offenses that in the past may have simply led to a visit to the principal’s office. These zero-tolerance policies have disproportionately targeted poor and minority students, particularly those with a history of abuse and neglect, or students with disabilities, and have been proven to further stigmatize children, enlarge achievement gaps, and increase rates of school drop-outs and recidivism. “The facts show that when we force students out of school, we’re not only sending them back to an environment far less conducive to learning, but are setting them up for failure in the long run,” said Murphy. “The system needs to change. Instead of using ineffective and unnecessarily harsh methods to change a child’s behavior, we should be developing support services for schools and educators to help our youth achieve better outcomes. The Supportive School Climate Act will give our schools the resources they need to ensure that positive school climate measures are seen as a critical part of school policy – rather than just an afterthought – and will get these kids back in the classroom and on the road to success.” “We must provide pathways for our youth to succeed and do everything possible to break the cycle of discipline and disenfranchisement,” said Booker. “This bill represents a step forward in the effort to dismantle the school-to-prison pipeline and it is vital that we empower schools to promote polices that are fair and compassionate. The future of our country rests on our capacity to believe in the potential and promise of all of our young people.” “Severe school policies often cut off our most vulnerable students’ path to success,” said Clark. “The Supportive School Climate Act proactively invests in behavioral health resources for students and teachers, forms local community partnerships, develops trauma informed supports, and gives vulnerable students the resources they need to graduate and pursue college or work.” Davis said, “The school-to-prison pipeline is a profound, pernicious problem in our country that undermines educational opportunities for certain students. The Supportive School Climate Act helps schools adopt evidenced-based disciplinary systems shown to improve school climate, academic performance, and attendance as well as reduce discipline referrals, suspensions, and expulsions. These programs promote positive learning environments so that teachers can teach and students can learn.” “The Supportive School Climate Act will provide much needed investments in proven practices to reduce school discipline rates across the country,” said Scott. “Data shows that positive school climates and behavioral interventions can make the difference necessary in the lives of students at risk of dropping out and becoming involved in the juvenile justice system. Passage of this bill will ensure that we are keeping our students engaged in school and on track to college and the workforce.” The Supportive School Climate Act would allow states to use federal education funds for positive behavioral interventions and support, as long as interested states also work to address the following: Ensure that school discipline policies align with civil rights laws and are applied equally to all students; Provide technical assistance to state and local education professionals, including training on trauma-informed approaches; Coordinate efforts with local education agencies, maximize reintegration of students involved with the criminal and juvenile justice systems; Strengthen current law that governs coordination between school systems and correctional facilities, ensuring that once kids are incarcerated, they have a meaningful opportunity to turn their lives around when released; Establish systems for sustained family and community engagement; and, Provide transparent reporting on aggregated and disaggregated data of incidences of suspensions, expulsions, disciplinary transfers and referrals, seclusion, restraint, and school based arrests at the state and local level. The following organizations support the Supportive School Climate Act of 2015: The Center for Civil Rights Remedies at UCLA’s Civil Rights Project, the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, Dignity in Schools Campaign, the National School Climate Center, the National Association of School Psychologists, Futures Without Violence, the National Center for Special Education in Charter Schools, the Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates, the National Center for Learning Disabilities, First Focus, Public Advocacy for Kids, Opportunity Action, and the Alliance for Excellence in Education. # # #
03.13.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement on the passing of former Virginia Beach Mayor Meyera Oberndorf: “I was saddened to learn of the passing of Meyera Oberndorf. She served the City of Virginia Beach for the better part of three decades, including 20 years as its Mayor. During her tenure, she was an extremely effective advocate and unifying force for the city. I will greatly miss her friendship and her counsel on issues impacting the Hampton Roads region. My thoughts and prayers are with the Oberndorf family, the citizens of Virginia Beach, and her many longtime friends and supporters.” # # #
03.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Virginia Congressional delegation announced that the U.S. Navy will position its newest carrier, the Gerald Ford, at Naval Station Norfolk for the next several years given its unique capabilities and capacity. This will provide an additional aircraft carrier to the region until 2018 when the USS Lincoln returns to its home port. In addition the Navy has decided to reverse an earlier decision and will maintain Little Creek as a deep water amphibious port and homeport four amphibious ships at Little Creek through 2020. The delegation worked with the Navy to fund critical infrastructure upgrades for Little Creek, including a $30 million electrical grid upgrade in 2012. “This is tremendously good news for Virginians and for the Navy. Not only will this create thousands of jobs in the region, but Virginia is home to the world’s best shipbuilders and contractors. Aircraft carriers are vital to projecting the country’s strength, and there is no better place to homeport the Gerald Ford than Norfolk,” Sen. Mark Warner said. “I want to commend the delegation, the Navy, and local leaders for this strong partnership that has resulted in securing funds for critical upgrades. I am especially pleased with the decision to maintain Little Creek as an amphibious port. These two important commitments demonstrate the Navy’s confidence in Virginia’s world class ports.” “Combined with our successful effort last year to restore funding for the refueling and overhaul of the USS George Washington, the Navy’s decision to homeport the USS Gerald Ford in Norfolk is welcome news for Hampton Roads,” said Sen. Tim Kaine, whose advocacy in the Senate Armed Services committee was key to maintaining the Navy’s 11 operational aircraft carrier fleet. “The temporary addition of another carrier will bring thousands of new sailors and their families to the region and our shipyards and shipbuilding industry will benefit greatly from the opportunity to take on more projects in support of our nation’s Naval forces.” “The Navy’s decision to position the USS Gerald R. Ford at Naval Station Norfolk is great news for Hampton Roads,” said Rep. Bobby Scott. “The Ford will be the pride of the fleet, largely in part due to the talented work of Virginia’s shipbuilders. Our region’s local, state and congressional leadership has worked together on maintaining a strong Navy presence in Hampton Roads and this decision, as well as the decision to maintain Little Creek as a deep water port, is a testament to that collaborative work.” “This decision by the Navy leverages the unique capabilities of Norfolk, Little Creek, and the Hampton Roads region. I am pleased that Little Creek will be maintained as an amphibious port, and that the USS Gerald R. Ford will be positioned in the region until 2018,” said Rep. Rob Wittman. “The Navy’s decision to position the USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78), our nation’s most advanced carrier and the first in its class, in Norfolk is welcomed news. Hampton Roads, which is home to more men and women in uniform than any other region in the country, undeniably leads in defending our nation, and remains the best place for any command to call home,” said Rep. Scott Rigell, who noted that the move will spur economic growth and stimulate short and long-term job creation. “I welcome the Marines and Sailors who will relocate to our region as a result of today’s announcement.” “We are very glad to learn that the Navy’s newest aircraft carrier USS Gerald R. Ford will be home ported in Norfolk, home of the U.S. Navy. The maintenance of all amphibious assault ships at Little Creek is welcome news,” said Norfolk Mayor Paul D. Fraim. “The long-standing defense policy of stationing five nuclear aircraft carriers in the Atlantic at Norfolk is also confirmed. We owe a great debt of gratitude to our congressional delegation, especially Senator Mark Warner for his effort in this regard. All and all a signature day for Norfolk and the Navy.” “Naval forces in this region have had a significant role in every major conflict since the American Revolutionary, and I am delighted that Virginia Beach and Coastal Virginia are gaining new military assets,” said Virginia Beach Mayor William D. Sessoms, Jr. “We've forged a great relationship over our history with the U.S. Navy – one of mutual support and respect. As mayor, I will continue to work to ensure that our military presence continues to prosper and grow.” This news comes as the result of years of efforts to invest in these important facilities. In October 2011, the Virginia delegation wrote a letter to Secretary of the Navy Raymond Mabus, urging him to use emergency powers to fix the Little Creek electrical grid. The following month, Secretary Mabus agreed to use emergency military construction authority to accelerate the upgrade at Little Creek. Those efforts and a strong partnership with Virginia port advocates resulted in extensive repairs to Little Creek’s electrical grid and increased energy infrastructure for the ship piers. # # #
03.10.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced the beginning of the 22nd Annual Third Congressional District High School Art Competition. The competition is open to all high school students (grades 9-12) residing in the Third Congressional District of Virginia. Entries are due Wednesday, April 22, 2015. An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. This year acceptable entries may include, but are not limited to, paintings, drawings, and photography. The first place winner will receive a scholarship and travel to Washington, D.C. to attend a Congressional Reception in honor of all the winners from around the nation. The first place entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year, where it will be seen by hundreds of thousands of people who visit the Capitol. Representative Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate and various other prizes at two upcoming receptions in the Third Congressional District. All entries must be submitted by Wednesday, April 22, 2015. Students can submit their entries to either of Congressman Scott's District Offices in Newport News and Richmond. The Newport News District Office is located at 2600 Washington Avenue, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607. The Richmond District Office is located at 400 N 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, Virginia 23219. If you have any questions regarding this year's art competition, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. The guidelines and other information about this year's competition can be accessed online at: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/artcontest. # # #
03.07.2015	SELMA, AL – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott joined President Obama, Congressman John Lewis, and other Members of Congress at the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Bloody Sunday. On March 7, 1965, a group of brave civil rights marchers marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge on their way to Montgomery to demand that African American citizens be given their constitutional right to vote. At the bridge, the marchers were attacked by Alabama State troopers, with billy clubs, cattle prods, and tear gas. Many of the marchers were injured, some of them severely. “50 years ago, demonstrators marching in support of voting rights were ruthlessly beaten here in Selma,” stated Rep. Scott. “The cause these brave men and women marched for would not be deterred by senseless acts of violence. They returned weeks later to continue what they started. Their noble efforts led to the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, one of the most consequential pieces of legislation to come out of the Civil Rights Movement. While we honor the sacrifices these Americans made 50 years ago, we must recommit ourselves to ensure that no one's right to vote is infringed.” # # #
03.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) and Congressman Trey Gowdy (SC-04) introduced H.R. 1251, the Federal Defender Ex-Officio Act in the House of Representatives. This bill would add a non-voting Federal Defender representative to the U.S. Sentencing Commission. Currently, the Department of Justice (DOJ) has two non-voting representatives, but the Federal Defenders lack even one, despite the sizable number of defendants in federal criminal proceedings represented by Federal Public Defender organizations. In 2012, federal prosecutors filed cases against 94,121 defendants. In that same period, Federal Defender organizations opened 86,142 criminal representations—not including appeals, revocation proceedings, and motions to reduce sentence. Rep. Scott: "Our federal sentencing commission is among a tiny—and shrinking—minority of sentencing commissions that do not have a representative from the public defender system or the defense bar. The majority of state sentencing commissions have a public defender representative to provide them with advice and input at crucial stages of the decision-making process. From an evidence-based and justice reinvestment perspective, the addition of a non-voting Federal Defender representative is the right thing to do.” Rep. Gowdy: “This legislation improves transparency and accountability in sentencing policy and provides the Commission with perspective and balance from the non-voting Federal Defender representative. Rounding out the Commission with this new representative will help ensure the guidelines are proportional, rational, and effective and will improve public safety." # # #
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) introduced several bills targeted at improving the nation’s broken criminal justice system. H.R. 1252, the Fair Sentencing Clarification Act of 2015, would allow all offenders, regardless of when they were arrested or convicted, to receive the benefit of the changes that Congress made in 2010 when it passed the Fair Sentencing Act (FSA). That Act reduced the 100-to-1 sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine in federal law to 18-to-1. Before the FSA, it took only five grams of crack cocaine to trigger a five-year mandatory minimum sentence, but for powder cocaine it took 500 grams to trigger the same 5-year mandatory minimum sentence. The FSA moved the threshold amount of crack for a 5-year mandatory minimum sentence from 5 grams to 28 grams and makes a similar reduction to an 18-to-1 ratio for the ten-year mandatory minimum. Retroactive application of the FSA would enable 8,829 offenders to petition the court for a sentence reduction. It is estimated to save over a billion dollars, enable offenders to receive rational sentences, and immediately reduce the overcrowding in federal prisons. H.R. 1255, the Fairness in Cocaine Sentencing Act, would go further and provide true 1 to 1 sentencing equality in terms of penalties for crack and powder cocaine offenses. H.R. 1254, the Recidivism Clarification Act of 2015, would address the excessive, severe, and irrational mandatory consecutive penalties that are added onto existing mandatory minimums in certain federal drug cases, a practice commonly known as “stacking.” The current stacking statute, 18 U.S.C. § 924, has led to grossly disproportionate, irrational, and excessive sentences that often do not fit the crime charged. The bill clarifies that sentences can only be “stacked” when the defendant is a “true recidivist”—meaning the defendant had a prior qualifying predicate conviction that had already been final. The bill would also provide relief to those who are already serving time under these unjust sentences, permitting them to petition for relief from excessive sentences, which a federal court, for the first time, will be able to grant in appropriate circumstances. H.R. 1253, the Prisoner Incentive Act of 2015, would address a flaw in how the Bureau of Prisons currently interprets federal law. Congress originally intended to allow federal prisoners to earn up to 54 days off their sentences each year if they follow prison rules and are well-behaved–commonly known as “good time credit.” However, due to the way in which the Bureau of Prisons calculates good time credit, the maximum the Bureau is providing prisoners is 47 days off – seven shy of the maximum Congress intended to provide. While a difference of seven days may appear to be insignificant, fixing this flaw would save approximately $1 billion every 9.5 years. “During my tenure in Congress, I have closely examined the policies that have been enacted over the last several decades and the unintended consequences those policies have had on our criminal justice system,” said Scott. “And for far too long, government officials have chosen to play politics by enacting so-called ‘tough on crime’ slogans such as ‘three strikes and you're out,’ ‘you do the adult crime, you do the adult time’ or so-called mandatory minimum sentencing. As appealing as these policies may sound and as expensive as they are, their impacts range from a negligible reduction in crime to an actual increase in crime.” “The bills I introduced today would make targeted but much needed improvements to our criminal justice system,” Scott stated. “For example, making the Fair Sentencing Act retroactive is just commonsense. There is absolutely no reason that individuals sentenced under the old crack cocaine sentencing laws should not be able to petition a court, which can conduct case-by-case determinations that it is in the interest of public safety, to grant the benefit of reductions enacted pursuant to the Fair Sentencing Act. Research has demonstrated that treating crack more severely than powder cocaine is not based upon any scientific or otherwise empirical evidence of increased dangerousness to the user or to the community. It is time Congress does away with this discriminatory disparity once and for all." “Moreover, we must reform the mandatory ‘stacking’ penalty that has led to long, unjust and discriminatory sentences that defy commonsense,” continued Scott. “Under the current stacking law, a judge is required to impose a 55-year mandatory sentence on a low-level, non-violent drug offender, but an airline hijacker would only be sentenced to 24 years in prison, a terrorist 20 years, or a child rapist 11 years. That simply does not make sense. These ‘stacking’ counts, like so many other mandatory penalties, are arbitrarily applied and disproportionately impact minorities, who represent over 90% of the defendants who receive the penalty.” “Comprehensive criminal justice reform is long overdue,” Scott commented. “The United States makes up only five percent of the world’s population yet houses 25 percent of the world’s prisoners. Adding insult to injury, several recent studies have concluded that our incarceration rate is so high that it is counterproductive—the slogans and sound bites are adding to crime, not preventing it.” “I look forward to working with my Republican and Democratic colleagues in Congress on bipartisan, bi-cameral, comprehensive, evidence-based solutions to reforming our broken criminal justice system,” concluded Scott. Earlier this year, Congressman Scott introduced H.R. 706, the Justice Safety Valve Act, with Congressman Thomas Massie (R-KY), which would give federal judges the ability to impose sentences below mandatory minimums in appropriate cases based upon mitigating factors. He is also the lead Democratic cosponsor of H.R. 920, the Smarter Sentencing Act, which was introduced by Congressman Raúl Labrador (R-ID). The Smarter Sentencing Act would allow courts to make individualized assessments in nonviolent drug cases, ensuring that limited resources are focused on the most serious offenders, while maintaining public safety. # # #
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tomorrow, the Supreme Court will hear arguments in David King, et al v. Sylvia Burwell, Secretary of Health and Human Services, et al. The Ranking Members of the House Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and Education and the Workforce today reiterated their support of the affordability provisions within the Affordable Care Act, as previously noted in an Amicus Brief before the Court. Ranking Members Sander Levin (D-MI), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) released the following joint statement: “Since day one, our commitment has been to provide quality and affordable health insurance for all Americans, regardless of whether a state chose to operate its own marketplace or let state residents purchase insurance in the federal marketplace. Let us be clear: the Affordable Care Act was structured and designed to improve health insurance coverage and access across the entire country. “During debate on the bill, we fully understood that tax subsidies would be available to our constituents, irrespective of the decisions of state legislators. The Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation also echoed the original intent by including the cost of tax subsidies for all eligible Americans in their Affordable Care Act cost estimates. “As the marketplaces were established, tax subsidies were available to any American who was eligible for them, regardless of the state’s action or inaction to establish a state marketplace – just as the law intended. Because of the law, millions of Americans, including many in our states, are now able to access quality and affordable health care, some of them even for the first time. “Those questioning the intent and clarity of the law are attempting to undermine Americans’ access to health care and the health security they now enjoy. Taking this access away would not only be disruptive to these constituents, but catastrophic to the broader health care system. Congressmen Levin, Pallone and Scott recently joined members of bicameral Congressional leadership and representatives from state legislatures in filing an Amicus Brief in support of Secretary Burwell. Together, the Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and Education and the Workforce hold jurisdiction over the Affordable Care Act. # # #
02.27.2015	Originally released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Democrats WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) led a bicameral group of Democratic lawmakers in filing an amicus brief opposing the District Court ruling that would maintain the outdated exclusion of home care workers from basic worker protections like minimum wage and overtime. “Home care workers, including tens of thousands in my home state of Washington, have demanding jobs that provide families in need with critical, deeply personal support,” said Senator Murray. “These professionals, ninety percent of whom are women, deserve to have the economic security that comes with a basic minimum wage and overtime protections. I’m proud to be joined by Democrats in both houses of Congress to challenge the court’s misguided decision.” “For too long, home care workers have been denied bedrock minimum wage and overtime protections,” said Congressman Scott. “ As this workforce grows, these workers deserve to be recognized as the professionals they are. I hope that the D.C. circuit court will overturn this misguided decision and extend Fair Labor Standards Act protections to the nearly 2 million workers who would benefit from the Department of Labor’s rule.” The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) currently exempts workers providing “companionship services” from minimum wage and overtime protections. The exemption, put in place in 1974, was originally intended to apply to elder sitting, similar to casual babysitting, and had been broadly interpreted to include home care workers. However, the role of home care workers has changed dramatically since this exemption was first enacted, and today, these workers provide critical professional services to millions of older Americans and individuals with disabilities. The home care workforce is projected to skyrocket over the next decade to nearly 3.2 million workers in 2020. The home care industry is booming, with over $90 billion in annual revenue and 30-40 percent gross margins. But under current law, these professionals, the majority of whom are women, would not have the same basic worker protections afforded to most American workers. In 2013, the Department of Labor (DOL) sought to correct this problem and issued a final rule to extend basic minimum wage and overtime protections to home care workers. But in January, DOL’s final rule was overturned by the U.S. District Court in D.C. despite a unanimous Supreme Court decision in Long Island Care Services vs. Evelyn Coke in 2007, which affirmed DOL’s authority to issue regulations defining “companionship services.” The amicus brief provides an authoritative account of legislative intent in the FLSA, which clearly allows DOL to determine rules and regulations that define the companionship services exemption. In the Senate, 15 members have signed on to the amicus brief, including: Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Senator Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Senator Bob Casey (D-PA), Senator Al Franken (D-MN), Senator Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Senator Ed Markey (D-MA), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Senator Bernie Sanders (D-VT), Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI), Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR). In the House of Representatives, 35 members have signed on the amicus brief, including: Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA), Rep. Alma Adams (D-NC), Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), Rep. Katherine Clark (D-MA), Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT), Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA), Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN), Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA), Rep. Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Rep. Lois Frankel (D-FL), Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Rep. Alan Grayson (D-FL), Rep. Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D- IL), Rep. Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Rep. Michael Honda (D-CA), Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA), Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Rep. John Lewis (D-GA), Rep. David Loebsack (D-IA), Rep. Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA), Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI), Rep. Charles Rangel (D-NY), Rep. Janice Schakowsky (D-IL), Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO), Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Rep. Mark Takano (D-CA), Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-FL). # # #
02.23.2015	Originially released by the Committee on Education and the Workforce Democrats. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, released the following statement today after President Barack Obama announced that the Department of Labor will lay out new standards to ensure retirement advisors act in the best interest of their clients when giving investment advice: "Today's announcement by the President is another critical step toward improving every American family's retirement security. Too many middle-class and working families are worried about saving enough for retirement. According to recent data, 71 percent of Americans who are not yet retired say that it is too hard keep up with their bills and also save for retirement. And more than half of American households are at risk not saving enough to maintain their current standard of living in retirement. While we need to do more to help families save for retirement, the very least we can do is safeguard the retirement investments they have already made. "Americans spend years putting hard-earned dollars away in individual retirement accounts to save for the future. In fact, today more than 75 million families save for retirement through their employer, and individual retirement account, or both. Unfortunately, many financial advisors receive backdoor payments or hidden fees for steering consumers into in appropriate retirement investments. If people cannot trust the professional advice they receive, they will have a harder time making smart investment decisions. "The decades-long shift from defined benefit pension programs to 401(k) type savings plans has only further exacerbated retirement insecurity among American households. While 401(k) type plans are one successful way to save for retirement, some participants are being talked into risky or inadequate investment portfolios, despite being under the impression they are receiving sound advice. "It's important to note that many financial advisors put the customers' best interest ahead of their own and do not accept any kind of kickback. These men and women take their fiduciary responsibilities and obligations very seriously; I commend them for their leadership in protecting Americans' retirement security. I hope that they will work closely with the Department of Labor to ensure that improved standards for retirement investing can effectively and efficiently implemented. "Today’s proposal helps to create a level playing field for those acting in the interest of the consumer by ensuring that bad investment advice cannot be incentivized. This reasonable and commonsense proposal seeks to curb just one egregious practice – profiteering by steering customers towards inappropriate investments. For too long we have taken the approach that ‘advice given by those with serious conflicts of interest is better than no advice at all,’ but this only rewards unscrupulous behavior and harms working and middle-class families. Participants should have access to all the necessary information available to help them make informed retirement decisions. I commend the President for leading on this issue to protect and enhance retirement security for America’s workers." For more information on President Obama's proposal to protect workers' retirement savings, click here. # # #
02.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3), and Don Beyer (VA-8) today wrote Interior Secretary Sally Jewell citing their serious concerns that Virginia and neighboring states are included in the U.S. Department of the Interior’s draft five-year plan for offshore oil and gas development. The Virginia congressmen asked Jewell to reconsider the decision to include portions of the Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf in the offshore leasing program for 2017-2022. Instead, they suggested that the Interior Department “build on opportunities to expand renewable energy production, such as wind energy,” which has the potential to generate nearly as much energy as offshore drilling and create 50 percent more jobs. “While we recognize the tremendous strides you and the Administration have made toward American energy independence and appreciate there must be a balanced approach between conservation and oil and gas development to meet our energy needs, we are deeply troubled that the Department has reversed its moratorium on offshore drilling off the Atlantic Coast, specifically in waters off of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia,” Connolly, Scott, and Beyer said in their letter. The Virginia congressmen warned that drilling in waters off the mid-Atlantic coast could have a serious impact on the region’s economy, employment, and environment, including the Department of Defense (DOD) presence in Hampton Roads, the region’s commercial fisheries, and the tourism and recreation industries. “It threatens local economies, ecosystems, natural resources, and poses significant national security concerns. The risks far outweigh the rewards,” they said. “The Navy and NASA have repeatedly said that Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) drilling could significantly affect their abilities to carry out training and testing activities in support of America’s national security and strategic interests,” Connolly, Scott, and Beyer said. They cited a May 2010 DOD report which found that nearly 80 percent of the proposed leasing area off Virginia’s coast would interfere with U.S. Navy training and operations. In their letter to Jewell, Connolly, Scott, and Beyer cited studies showing defense-related activities and spending account for 41.2 percent of the Hampton Roads region’s economy and 40 percent of the jobs, generating approximately $35.2 billion in gross regional product and 393,000 jobs. Similarly, fishing, tourism, and recreation support more than 91,000 jobs in Virginia and add $5 billion to the Commonwealth’s economy. Calling DOI’s decision to reverse the moratorium on drilling off the Atlantic coast “short sighted,” the Virginia congressmen said offshore drilling will yield only a few days-worth of the nation’s oil and gas supply. “The Department itself has made note of the ‘lack of infrastructure to support oil and gas exploration and development as well as spill preparedness and response’ along the Atlantic Coast in deferring such activities in the past,” they said. Connolly, Scott, and Beyer commended the Administration for recently taking action to protect 12 million acres of Alaska’s Arctic National Refuge from drilling, but said, “It is disappointing and ironic for the Administration to simultaneously expose Virginia’s coastline to many of the same threats.” Feb. 20 letter from Reps. Connolly, Scott, and Beyer to Interior Secretary Jewell: February 20, 2015 The Honorable Sally Jewell Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C St. NW Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Jewell: We write to express serious concerns with the Department of Interior’s recently released draft Five-Year program for oil and gas development. While we recognize the tremendous strides you and the Administration have made toward American energy independence and appreciate there must be a balanced approach between conservation and oil and gas development to meet our energy needs, we are deeply troubled that the Department has reversed its moratorium on offshore drilling off the Atlantic Coast, specifically in waters off of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. Drilling on the Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf (AOCS) is a source of considerable debate in the Commonwealth. It threatens local economies, ecosystems, natural resources, and poses significant national security concerns. For example, the Navy and NASA have repeatedly said that OCS drilling could significantly affect their abilities to carry out training and testing activities in support of America’s national security and strategic interests. A May 2010 Department of Defense report found that nearly 80 percent of the drilling area proposed to be leased off the coast of Virginia would interfere with U.S. Navy training and operations. We worry the Interior Department’s decision could threaten the Defense Department’s presence in this region and have a significant negative effect on the regional economy. According to a 2013 Hampton Roads Planning District Report, “Defense-related activities and spending account for 41.2% of the region’s economy, generating approximately $35.2 billion in gross regional product.” They go on to point out that the Department of Defense spending on salaries, retirement, and procurement account for approximately 393,000 jobs, or 40% of the employment in the region. Military personnel stationed in the Hampton Roads region account for more than 92,000 jobs, and $8.3 billion in salary and benefits. In addition, more than 51,000 federal civilians support DOD’s mission, and in FY 2012 regional contracts totaled more than $7.9 billion. A recent study also found that drilling on the AOCS would have a negative effect on fishing, tourism, and recreation which support over 91,000 jobs and generate nearly $5 billion in GDP in Virginia. In 2014, there were more than 2.1 million visitors to Assateague Island National Seashore. While the Department has proposed a 50-mile coastal buffer to minimize such multiple-use conflicts -- which also include renewable energy activities, commercial and recreational fishing, and critical habitat needs for wildlife, and other environmental concerns -- this falls short of giving our communities the protection they deserve. What’s particularly troubling to us is that the risks far outweigh the rewards considering this short-sighted action would yield nothing more than a few days-worth of national oil and gas supply. In addition, the Department itself has made note of the “lack of infrastructure to support oil and gas exploration and development as well as spill preparedness and response” along the Atlantic Coast in deferring such activities in the past. While we commend the Administration for protecting 12 million acres of Alaska’s Arctic National Refuge from drilling, it is disappointing and ironic for the Administration to simultaneously expose Virginia’s coastline to many of the very same threats. As the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster painfully demonstrated, we must exercise extreme caution in expanding OCS drilling. The Department’s previous assessments and moratorium on such activities off the Atlantic Coast reflected that prudence. We instead suggest the Department build on opportunities to expand renewable energy production, such as wind energy. Studies have shown that offshore wind has the potential to create nearly as much energy as oil and gas drilling and 1.5 times as many jobs in Virginia. Let’s deliver on the promise of the “Smart from the Start” program, which is expediting commercial-scale wind energy on the federal OCS, and the recent lease auction off Virginia’s coastline. These efforts will be critical to growing a clean and renewable energy future. We respectfully urge you to reconsider this decision to include portions of the Atlantic OCS in the gas lease program for 2017-2022. Sincerely, Gerald E. Connolly Member of Congress Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Member of Congress Donald S. Beyer Jr. Member of Congress # # #
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the Department of Health and Human Services’ release of open enrollment data for the Health Insurance Marketplaces created by the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “The enrollment data released today shows that the Affordable Care Act is working to provide affordable health insurance to millions of Americans. During the second open enrollment period which ended on February 15th, 11.4 million consumers selected plans or were automatically re-enrolled through HealthCare.gov or state-based Marketplaces – up from the 8 million who enrolled last year. This number includes 384,612 Virginians who selected plans through the Marketplace this year. Even more Virginians could benefit from the ACA if the Virginia General Assembly voted to expand Medicaid. “In addition to providing affordable insurance options for millions of Americans who do not already have insurance, the Affordable Care Act also included a variety of consumer protections. For example, the ACA makes sure that employers and insurance companies can no longer discriminate against individuals with a pre-existing medical condition or cancel coverage simply because the policyholder got sick. The ACA has tough new rules that crack down on unjustified rate hikes, and require that the money Americans pay towards monthly premiums is actually spent on medical services—not excessive administrative expenses or CEO bonuses. These provisions are working to protect all Americans, regardless of whether they get their health insurance through their employer or through the Marketplace. “The Affordable Care Act is also working to keep health costs down. Data released last December shows that national health spending grew only 3.6% in 2013, the lowest annual increase since 1960, when the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services began tracking the statistic. The Congressional Budget Office also now projects that federal health spending—including the costs of the ACA’s coverage expansions—will be approximately $600 billion less over ten years than what CBO projected in January 2010 in the absence of the ACA. “All this goes to show is that the Affordable Care Act is working for American families. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to strengthen and improve the law’s implementation.” The Department of Health and Human Services’ full enrollment data snapshot can be accessed online at: https://www.hhs.gov/healthcare/facts/blog/2015/02/open-enrollment-week-thirteen.html. # # #
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Raúl Labrador, R-Idaho, and Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, D-Va., introduced the Smarter Sentencing Act today to bring common sense and flexibility to federal criminal sentencing laws. The bill would allow courts to make individualized assessments in nonviolent drug cases, ensuring that limited resources are focused on the most serious offenders, while maintaining public safety. A companion bill has been introduced in the United States Senate by Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT) and Sen. Dick Durbin (D-IL). “As I’ve said before, we must be both strict and smart when it comes to federal criminal sentencing,” said Rep. Labrador. “The ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach Congress put on the books has tied the hands of judges without improving public safety. Nearly half of the inmates filling our federal prisons are incarcerated for drug offenses. Many of them do not need overly harsh penalties. And yet judges are forced to impose these penalties, even if they don’t want to. “Our bill will empower judges to determine, based on careful review of individual cases, when to impose the harshest sentences,” continued Rep. Labrador. “This approach will improve justice and reduce the burden on taxpayers. It will improve safety by enabling the justice system to focus on the most violent offenders. I am proud that over 200 groups from across the ideological spectrum are supporting our bill and I will work with my colleagues in a bipartisan way to get it passed.” During the past 30 years, the number of inmates in federal custody has grown by 500 percent, with nearly half of them serving sentences for drug offenses. Spending on federal incarceration has grown by more than 1100 percent. Today, it costs taxpayers approximately $29,000 on average annually to house just one federal inmate. The Department of Justice estimates that the Smarter Sentencing Act could save up to $24 billion over the first 20 years and immediately address the serious problem of overcrowding in our federal facilities. All four federal stakeholder agencies--the Department of Justice, the Judicial Conference, the Sentencing Commission, and the Federal Public Defenders–expressed their support for the Smarter Sentencing Act during the House Judiciary Committee's Over-Criminalization Task Force hearing on Agency Perspectives last year. "I am honored to join Congressman Labrador as a cosponsor of the Smarter Sentencing Act," said Rep. Scott. "Granting federal judges more discretion in sentencing for nonviolent drug offenses is the right thing to do. Studies of mandatory minimums conclude that they fail to reduce crime, they waste the taxpayers’ money, they discriminate against minorities, and they often require the imposition of sentences that violate common sense. “This historic bi-partisan, bi-cameral bill targets particularly egregious mandatory minimums and returns discretion to federal judges in an incremental manner,” continued Rep. Scott. “This legislation is an important step in updating sentencing policies that are not working, that are costing taxpayers too much, and that do nothing to make our families and communities safer. It also begins to address the longstanding disparate impact on minorities that our federal criminal laws and prosecution policies have had." The Smarter Sentencing Act would do the following: § Increase individualized review for certain drug sentences o It would lower certain drug mandatory sentences, allowing judges to determine, based on fact-specific case-by-case review, when the harshest penalties should apply (while not repealing any mandatory minimum sentences or lowering the maximum sentences for these offenses). § Promote sentencing consistent with the bipartisan Fair Sentencing Act o It would allow certain inmates sentenced under the pre-Fair Sentencing Act sentencing regime to petition for sentence reductions consistent with the Fair Sentencing Act and current law, while not automatically reducing a single sentence. § Expand the existing federal “safety valve” o The legislative “safety valve” has been effective in allowing federal judges to appropriately sentence certain non-violent drug offenders below existing mandatory minimums. Today’s bill would modestly broaden criteria for eligibility. The Smarter Sentencing Act is endorsed by over 200 organizations across the ideological spectrum, including law enforcement, corrections, and victims groups; conservative leaders; faith leaders; and other civil rights and advocacy groups. A similar bill was introduced in both the House and Senate in 2013, also by Reps. Labrador and Scott and Sens. Durbin and Lee. # # #
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) received the 2015 Congressional Champion Award from The Corps Network in recognition of his leadership on behalf of service, conservation, and the young men and women serving communities in Virginia and across the country. The Corps Network helps disadvantaged young people develop job and leadership skills through a variety of service projects designed to address important environment and community needs. “I am honored to be recognized by The Corps Network for my work in Congress,” said Rep. Scott. “Ensuring opportunities for disadvantaged and at-risk youth is critical to keeping them on the right track towards graduating high school and going on to college or into the workforce. I have focused my work in Congress on promoting comprehensive, evidence-based efforts to achieve this goal. I commend the staff and volunteers at The Corps Network for all that they do to support at risk youth and I look forward to working with them in the future to help our children grow and thrive.” In Congress, Congressman Scott serves as the ranking member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. He is the sponsor of the Youth PROMISE Act, which would assist communities in developing and implementing comprehensive, evidence-based early intervention and prevention strategies to address youth violence and crime. Data shows that if we invest in at-risk young people to keep them on the right track towards college or the workforce, we can reduce crime and save money in avoided social and incarceration costs. To learn more about the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit: www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa. # # #
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Tim Kaine and Mark Warner along with U.S. Congressmen Rob Wittman (R-01), Bobby Scott (D-03), Gerry Connolly (D-11), and Don Beyer (D-08) reintroduced legislation to grant federal recognition to six Virginia Indian tribes. The bill, the Thomasina E. Jordan Indian Tribes of Virginia Federal Recognition Act of 2015, was introduced by Kaine and Wittman in the Senate and House, respectively. The bipartisan delegation introduced an earlier version of the bill in the 113th Congress, which was passed out of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee in April 2014. The legislation would grant federal recognition to the Chickahominy, the Eastern Chickahominy, the Upper Mattaponi, the Rappahannock, the Monacan, and the Nansemond tribes. These tribes have received official recognition from the Commonwealth of Virginia but have faced barriers preventing them from receiving federal recognition because of gaps in official records. Specifically, the Virginia tribes lack formal treaties with the U.S. Government because they made peace with England well before the establishment of the United States. The Racial Integrity Act of 1924 also led to a “paper genocide,” which destroyed birth records, marriage certificates, and land titles of Virginia’s tribes. “The Virginia Indian tribes have played an integral role in our Commonwealth’s and our country’s history, and it is a grave injustice that the federal government has failed to grant them federal recognition because of unique circumstances out of the tribes’ control,” said Senator Kaine. “I’m proud to reintroduce this bipartisan bill to grant the Virginia tribes the long overdue recognition they have earned, and I will continue working tirelessly with my colleagues until the federal government rights this wrong.” “The history of these tribes is intertwined with the birth of our nation, and their federal recognition status is long overdue,” said Congressman Wittman. “I’m proud to work with the Virginia tribes to ensure that they are granted the recognition that they have been denied for far too long.” Federal recognition would grant Virginia’s tribes legal standing and status in relationships with the U.S. government. This status would enable the tribes to pursue repatriation of historical and cultural artifacts, comment on federal agency actions that could affect their future, and gain access to a number of federal programs that serve the other 566 federally recognized tribes. “I have been supportive of federal recognition of these Native American tribes since I had the honor of serving as Governor,” Senator Warner said. “Their contribution to Virginia and America’s history is clear, and I look forward to continuing to work for Senate passage of this federal recognition.” “Despite their critical role in our nation’s history, Virginia’s tribes are still waiting for federal recognition,” said Congressman Scott. “I commend my colleagues in the Virginia congressional delegation for introducing this legislation and I look forward to working with them to ensure the rightful status of Virginia’s tribes.” “We should do all that is within our reach to address the injustices of history in a way that has a positive and appreciable impact on Native American tribes. Granting Federal recognition of Virginia tribes is one way in which we can honor the role native Americans played in the history of our Commonwealth,” Congressman Connolly said. “It is a privilege to right this wrong and I am pleased to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort to correct a long-standing discrimination.” “Virginia’s tribes are a critical thread of our cultural cloth who have been denied proper recognition for far too long,” said Congressman Beyer. “I’m pleased to support the bill to grant these tribes the federal recognition to which they’re entitled.” "We are asking Congress to help us make history for the Indian people of Virginia, a history that honors our ancestors who were there at the beginning of this great country," said Chief Steve Adkins of the Chickahominy tribe. A full fact sheet on the Thomasina E. Jordan Indian Tribes of Virginia Federal Recognition Act of 2015 can be found here.
02.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Jared Polis (D-CO), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) today introduced the Student Non-Discrimination Act (SNDA), which would help protect public school students from bullying, harassment, and discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Senator Al Franken (D-MN) will be introducing the companion bill in the Senate today. “Every single child deserves a quality education that is free from discrimination and prepares them for college and a career,” said Representative Polis. “It’s simply unacceptable that in 2015, there are thousands of students who face bullying and harassment every day when they get to school simply because of their sexual orientation or their gender identity.” “Evidence shows that discrimination against LGBT students deprives them of equal educational opportunities by increasing their likelihood of skipping school, underperforming academically, and dropping out,” said Rep. Scott, ranking Democratic member on the House Education and the Workforce Committee. “School must be a place where all students feel welcome and safe to thrive.” “No student should face discrimination for any reason, including their sexual orientation or gender identity,” said Rep. Ros-Lehtinen. “If we aspire to a society where prejudices are a relic of the past then we must begin by preaching and living the virtues of tolerance at our educational institutions.” The bill would establish a comprehensive federal prohibition against discrimination in public schools based on actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity. It would also forbid schools from discriminating against LGBT students or ignoring harassing behavior. Modeled after Title IX, violation of SNDA would result in the loss of federal funding and give victims a legal cause of action for discrimination in public schools based on actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity. In addition to the many tragic news reports attesting to the dangers of bullying and harassment against LGBT youth, several academic and government studies have confirmed the need for action to address these patterns of discrimination. A recent nationally representative study of adolescents in grades 7–12 found that lesbian, gay, and bisexual youth were more than twice as likely to have attempted suicide as their heterosexual peers. Further, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, negative attitudes toward LGBT youth put these students “at increased risk for experiences with violence, compared with other students.” Rep. Polis first introduced the Student Non-Discrimination Act (SNDA) in 2010. During the 112th Congress, the Obama Administration took an official position on the Student Non-Discrimination Act (SNDA), stating their support. # # #
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of longtime Hampton University Photographer Reuben Burrell: “I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Reuben Burrell. For more than six decades, he served as Hampton University’s photographer where he affectionately became known as ‘One Shot Burrell.’ He skillfully documented the history of the university and the City of Hampton as it unfolded behind his camera lens. “I have been honored to know Mr. Burrell all of my life. My family has countless photographs he took of us over the years, even a few of me in nursery school. He was a remarkable man and a talented photographer who will be greatly missed. “My thoughts and prayers are with the Burrell family and the entire Hampton University community.” # # #
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Rand Paul (R-KY), Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Representative Thomas Massie (R-KY), and Representative Bobby Scott (D-VA) introduced the Justice Safety Valve Act (S. 353/H.R. 706) in the Senate and House of Representatives. The Justice Safety Valve Act would give federal judges the ability to impose sentences below mandatory minimums in appropriate cases based upon mitigating factors. “Since mandatory sentencing began, America's prison population has quadrupled, to 2.4 million. America now jails a higher percentage of its citizens than any other country due to mandatory minimum sentences. These sentences disproportionally affect minorities and low-income communities, while doing little to keep us safe. The federal government should get out of the way, and allow local and state judges to do their jobs. We must work hard in a bipartisan fashion to change these laws,” Sen. Paul said. “Over the last several decades politicians have added more and more mandatory minimum sentences to our criminal laws because they make for a good 'tough on crime' message. But the truth is they do not make our communities safer and they are breaking the bank. They mean we send too many people to prison for far longer than is needed to keep us safe. Each time we do that we waste tens of thousands of taxpayer dollars, and we keep families apart. It is time we stop this irrational approach to sentencing, which is one of the reasons why we have the largest prison population in the world. Something has gone very wrong and our laws must change. This bill offers a simple solution. Get politicians out of the way and let judges judge,” Sen. Leahy said. “The one-size-fits-all approach of federally mandated minimums does not give judges the latitude they need to ensure that punishments fit the crimes. As a result, nonviolent offenders are sometimes given excessive sentences,” said Rep. Massie. “Furthermore, public safety can be compromised because violent offenders are released from our nation's overcrowded prisons to make room for nonviolent offenders.” “Mandatory minimum sentences have been studied extensively and have been found to distort rational sentencing systems, discriminate against minorities, waste money, and often require a judge to impose sentences that violate common sense,” stated Rep. Scott. “To add insult to injury, studies have shown that mandatory minimum sentences fail to reduce crime. Our bill will give discretion back to federal judges so that they can consider all the facts, issues, and circumstances before sentencing.” Mandatory minimums force federal judges to issue indiscriminate punishments, regardless of involvement, criminal history, mental health, addiction, and other mitigating factors. The Justice Safety Valve Act would apply the current "safety valve" provision to all federal crimes, allowing federal judges to tailor sentences on a case-by-case basis. Such judicial discretion would go a long way in helping to reduce the bloated federal prison population while also ensuring sentences fit the circumstances of the crime. This landmark bipartisan, bicameral legislation would restore proportionality, fairness, and rationality to federal sentencing. It would also reduce the overcrowding in federal facilities, which are currently operating at between 35-50% above their rated capacity, posing risks to both inmates and officers. Lastly, it would reduce correctional spending, which currently accounts for almost a third of the Department of Justice’s annual budget. Every dollar spent on corrections is one that deprives the Department of Justice’s ability to fund victim services, state and local law enforcement, staffing, investigation, and prosecution. # # #
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the National Head Start Association awarded Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03), ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, with their Head Start PROMISE (PRotecting Opportunities for our Most Important Students Early) Award for his commitment to advance the needs of Head Start children and families. More than 300 Head Start teachers gathered in the nation’s capital this week to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the Head Start program, one of the nation’s most important early childhood education programs. Stephanie Gaignard, PTA President for Laburnum Elementary School in Henrico, Virginia, presented Congressman Scott with the Head Start PROMISE Award. “I am honored to be recognized by the National Head Start Association for my work and commitment supporting Head Start in Congress,” stated Rep. Scott. “For the last half century, Head Start has been supporting disadvantaged young children and their families with quality preschool and critical support services, including family engagement, health services and good nutrition.” “We know that these building blocks are essential to quality early childhood education,” Scott continued. “Head Start does more than just help children arrive in Kindergarten ready to learn. National studies, such as the recent Department of Health and Human Services Impact Study, have also found that children in Head Start have better language, literacy and math skills, better teacher-child interactions, stronger social-emotional skills, and greater access to health and dental care than their peers. Head Start children don’t just survive in Kindergarten, they thrive. I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to support and expand Head Start, so that every child in America has access to quality early childhood education.” # # #
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Tim Kaine and Mark Warner and U.S. Representatives Bob Goodlatte, Bobby Scott, Randy Forbes, Rob Wittman, Gerry Connolly, Morgan Griffith, Robert Hurt, Scott Rigell, Dave Brat, Don Beyer, and Barbara Comstock wrote a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel expressing their continued support for the 11 aircraft carrier fleet in advance of the release of the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposal. In 2014, the House and Senate Armed Services Committee secured full Fiscal Year 2015 funding for the refueling and overhaul of the USS George Washington (CVN-73). In making the case for maintaining the 11 aircraft carrier fleet beyond 2015, Virginia delegation members cited the ability of aircraft carriers to respond rapidly throughout the world to military and humanitarian crises. “The deployment of our carrier fleet to numerous conflict zones across the globe last year further demonstrates why we must continue to invest in this critical capability to ensure future military capacity and flexibility,” the Virginia delegation members wrote. “Most recently, the USS George H. W. Bush (CVN 77) was critical in responding with strikes against Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and later assisted humanitarian relief efforts on Mt. Sinjar…Whether in the Asia-Pacific region or responding to continued strife in the Middle East, our national leaders and combatant commanders require carriers to meet the threats in today’s world.” Delegation members concluded by noting the uncertainty and budgetary constraints imposed by sequestration, and committed to working tirelessly in a bipartisan manner to reduce its harmful impacts. A PDF of the letter can be accessed here. The full text of the letter is below: January 20, 2015 The Honorable Chuck Hagel Secretary of Defense Office of the Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301 Dear Secretary Hagel, We write to you regarding the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget, and to express continued support for the 11 aircraft carrier fleet, consistent with the statutory mandate and national security requirements. The Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act and Fiscal Year 2015 Omnibus Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act fully funded the USS George Washington (CVN 73) refueling and complex overhaul, imparting a strong signal of congressional intent to maintain the statutory requirement of an 11 aircraft carrier fleet. We applaud the Department of Defense for taking the initial steps to maintain the 11 aircraft carrier fleet beyond 2015 through funding of the refuel and complex overhaul of the USS George Washington (CVN 73). As Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus stated in October 2011, “There's a law that we got to have 11 carriers. It's like gravity - it's not just a good idea, it's the law.” Aircraft carriers continue to be the “flexible force,” and the most proven way for our Armed Forces to respond rapidly throughout the world to military and humanitarian crises. Carriers are the centerpieces of both defense and diplomatic policy, allowing the free flow of trade as well as a visible demonstration of force around the globe. The deployment of our carrier fleet to numerous conflict zones across the globe last year further demonstrates why we must continue to invest in this critical capability to ensure future military capacity and flexibility. Most recently, the USS George H. W. Bush (CVN 77) was critical in responding with strikes against Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and later assisted humanitarian relief efforts on Mt. Sinjar. When North Korea again threatened its neighbors in July by launching missiles, the USS George Washington (CVN 73) responded to deter any further escalation. As China continues to build a modern and regionally powerful Navy, maintaining an 11 carrier fleet is a vital aspect to our Asia-Pacific strategy. Whether in the Asia-Pacific region or responding to continued strife in the Middle East, our national leaders and combatant commanders require carriers to meet the threats in today’s world. We understand the uncertainty and constraints imposed by sequestration, and will work tirelessly in a bipartisan manner to reduce its harmful impacts. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to working closely with you on this matter. Sincerely, ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the President’s State of the Union Address: “Thanks to the leadership of this President and the resilience of the American people, our economy has emerged from one of the worst economic recessions since the Great Depression. But, as the President mentioned tonight, even with a growing economy, far too many hardworking American families are still not feeling the benefits of this growth. Wages remain stagnant for most workers, yet continue to grow exponentially for the top one percent. Congress must heed the President’s call to refocus our efforts to enact policies that truly benefit the middle-class by expanding opportunity for all. “One of the most important things this Congress can do to help the middle-class is to end the threat of sequestration, which will return in fiscal year 2016. Sequestration will not only wreak havoc on our nation’s military, but it will also greatly limit what we invest in education, job training, health care, advanced research and development, roads, bridges, and public transit. Combined, these draconian spending cuts could erase all the economic gains we have made in the last six years. “Finally, I commend the President for calling on Congress to consider a resolution authorizing the use of military force against ISIL. It has always been incumbent on Congress to review all the facts, debate the issue and decide whether or not to authorize any sustained military action.” # # #
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his vote against H.R. 3, the latest attempt by House Republicans to force an approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline: “Supporters of the Keystone XL Pipeline believe that construction of the pipeline will create jobs and move our nation closer to energy independence by reducing our reliance on foreign oil. However, these beliefs fail to recognize the current economic climate. Last year, the United States produced more oil domestically than was imported, and gas prices are, and are expected to remain, near lows not seen in years. Even if this were not the case, much of the tar sands oil that would run through this new pipeline would not be sold in the United States and would have no effect on domestic gas prices, but would instead pass through our nation for eventual sale on international markets. “Additionally, the long term economic benefits of this pipeline do not justify risking our nation's drinking water, farmlands, and tribal grounds. Cleanup costs from a 2010 tar sands oil pipeline spill in Kalamazoo, Michigan have exceeded $1 billion. To add insult to injury, companies that produce, ship, or refine tar sands oil are not required to pay into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, which conventional crude oil companies pay into, and therefore the cost of cleaning up tar sands oil spills will fall on the American taxpayer. "According to the State Department's Final Environmental Impact Statement, the project would only directly create 2,000 temporary jobs and few as 35 permanent jobs. Last month, our economy grew by more than 250,000 jobs and is currently creating more jobs in two hours of an average work day than the temporary jobs that would be created by this project, and more jobs in one and a half average workday minutes than the permanent jobs created. "Instead of exempting foreign corporations from federal permitting requirements, Congress should be working on policies that diversify our nation’s energy portfolio, reduce our reliance on fossil fuels, and support the President’s policies that have resulted in gas prices being reduced to lows not seen in years.” # # # Note: This press release was updated on January 12, 2015 when it was determined that the wrong data for gas prices was cited in the original release.
01.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the conclusion of the 113th Congress, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) will end his service as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations on the House Judiciary Committee. From 2007 through 2010, he served as the subcommittee’s Chairman. Additionally, during the 113th Congress, Congressman Scott served as Ranking Member of the bipartisan Task Force on Over-criminalization, which was authorized by the House Judiciary Committee on May 7, 2013. The Task Force was charged with assessing our nation’s current federal criminal justice system and to make recommendations for improvements. While the Task Force did not issue a final report, Congressman Scott recently filed the Democratic Views of the Task Force’s work and findings, including recommended reforms. Congressman Scott issued the following statement on the work of the Task Force over the last two years and urged Congress to act on reforming our nation’s broken criminal justice system: “As I end my tenure as Ranking Member of the Crime Subcommittee and as Ranking Member of the Over-criminalization Task Force, I wanted to examine the policies we have engaged in over the past several decades; the unintended consequences those policies have had on our fellow Americans, our criminal justice system, and our Constitutional scheme; the reforms states have successfully implemented to address issues similar to those faced by the federal government; and recommendations for the executive, judicial, and legislative branches, as well as for those to whom we are all accountable—the American people. “When it comes to crime policy, we have a choice — we can reduce crime or we can play politics. For far too long, government officials have chosen to play politics by enacting so-called ‘tough on crime’ slogans such as ‘three strikes and you're out,’ ‘you do the adult crime, you do the adult time’ or so-called mandatory minimum sentencing. As appealing as these policies may sound and as expensive as they are, their impacts range from a negligible reduction in crime to an actual increase in crime. “I believe in the First Law of Holes: when you find yourself in a hole, the first thing you should do is stop digging. Clearly, our policies and laws have not—and are not—working. “All that the slogans and soundbites enacted over the years have achieved is the highest incarceration rate in the world. With 5% of the world’s population, the United States has 25% of the world’s prisoners. Adding insult to injury, several recent studies have concluded that our incarceration rate is so high that it is counterproductive—the slogans and soundbites are adding to crime, not preventing it. The situation is so acute in the minority community that the Children’s Defense Fund labels our present incarceration problem as the ‘Cradle-to-Prison Pipeline.’ “In contrast, states have reformed their criminal justice systems to address almost identical problems that we face at the federal level with innovative, common-sense, and evidence-based reforms that have improved public safety, decreased crime, invested in beneficial community programs, and, at the same time, saved more money in reduced prison costs than what was spent on the new program. “It is time for all three branches of the federal government to learn from the state experience. More to the point, it is time for the federal government to lead the way in ensuring that the administration of justice at the federal level is the model for the states. “The recommendations included in the Democratic Views I filed last month are drawn directly from: (1) prioritized and consensus solutions to the primary drivers in the federal system from the Department of Justice, Federal Public Defenders, the Judicial Conference, and the Sentencing Commission (i.e. the four major stakeholders in the federal criminal justice system); (2) reforms implemented by the states that have been effective in addressing similar problems; and (3) evidence-based analysis and recommendations from expert organizations. “Although the full Task Force did not come to any final conclusions, I hope that the views and recommendations included in the Democratic report will be a starting point for the 114th Congress. It is my sincere hope that we can work together for a more fair, just, and effective federal criminal justice system.” # # # The full report of the Democratic Views on the Over-criminalization Task Force can be accessed here: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/sites/bobbyscott.house.gov/files/OTF%20FULL%20REPORT%20FINAL.pdf. An executive summary can be accessed here: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/sites/bobbyscott.house.gov/files/OTF%20FINAL%20EXECUTIVE%20SUMMARY.pdf. And a list of legislative recommendations can be accessed here: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/sites/bobbyscott.house.gov/files/OTF%20FINAL%20LEGISLATIVE%20SOLUTIONS.pdf.
01.05.2015	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of former Senator Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts: “As the first African-American to be popularly elected as a state attorney general and a United States Senator, Edward Brooke was a trailblazer in American politics. He was well respected by his colleagues and spent his career in the Senate effectively working across the aisle to advance civil rights and economic fairness for all. Our Congress could use more members in the mold of Edward Brooke. My thoughts and prayers are with the Brooke family and the many people positively impacted by Senator Brooke’s work.” # # #
12.31.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of former Virginia Congressman Herbert Harris II: “I was saddened to learn of the passing of former Congressman Herb Harris last week. Virginia has lost a dedicated public servant who helped transform Northern Virginia into one of the most important economic regions of our Commonwealth. His tenacious advocacy for civil rights, the poor, public transportation, our military, and our federal employees set a standard in our congressional delegation. My thoughts and prayers are with Congressman Harris’ family during this time of bereavement.” # # #
12.22.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the murders of New York Police Officers Rafael Ramos and Wenijian Liu and Tarpon Springs, Florida Police Officer Charles Kondek: "Saturday, two members of the New York Police Department were targeted, shot at point blank range and murdered while eating lunch in their patrol car. Sunday, a member of the Tarpon Springs Police Department in Florida was shot, run over, and murdered while approaching a car that was the subject of a noise complaint. The senseless murders of these three men are reprehensible. These officers were targeted because of what they looked like -- law enforcement officers. "My thoughts and prayers are with the families, friends, and colleagues of Officer Rafael Ramos, Officer Wenjian Liu, and Officer Charles Kondek, all of whom gave their lives to the communities they swore to protect and serve. "As we gather with family and friends to enjoy the Christmas holiday we should all be thinking about the terrible loss the family members and colleagues of Officers Ramos, Liu, and Kondek must now painfully endure. "These senseless and inexplicable acts of violence are a painful reminder that we all must work harder on efforts to build trust between law enforcement and our communities. We are all someone's parent, child, and neighbor, and we must strive to see and respect the humanity in each other." # # #
12.20.2014	RICHMOND, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) was recognized last night with the Richmond Chapter of the Continentals, Inc. "Champion for Children Award" at its annual Elegance in Black & White Gala. Chartered in 1976, the Richmond Chapter of the Continentals, Inc. is a public service organization dedicated to the welfare of underprivileged youth. The "Champion for Children Award" was established last year by the Richmond Chapter to recognize a person or organization that exemplifies the mission of the Continentals to help our society's children. "I am honored to be recognized by the Richmond Chapter of the Continentals, Inc. as a Champion for Children," said Rep. Scott. "Children in our community, particularly those in low income areas, are facing numerous challenges, such as food insecurity, unequal education, and the School to Prison Pipeline. Unfortunately many of these children have fallen through the cracks in our society. We can do better, and we must continue to work to provide a better future for these children. "The Continental Societies, Inc. and other organizations who reach out to at risk children are needed just as much now as ever, and I look forward to continuing to work with them and all of those in our community dedicated to ensuring that our children are given every opportunity to succeed." # # # For more information on the Continentals, Inc. organization, visit https://continentalsocietiesinc.org, and for more information on the Richmond Chapter of the Continentals, Inc., visit their website at https://www.richmondcontinentals.org/.
12.18.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, President Barack Obama signed into law H.R. 1447, the “Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2013,” a bill introduced by Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott. The bill requires states and federal law enforcement agencies to report to the Department of Justice information about deaths of individuals in their custody. In the 1980s, there was an increased focus on conditions in state and local jails and prisons and the problem of prisoners dying in custody. The interest in oversight of this issue was generated partly by the rising tide of wrongful death cases brought in relation to these deaths. Press reports in the 1990s concerning prison abuses and deaths of those incarcerated being attributed to suicide lead Congress to develop legislation in response to this problem. The Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2000 was enacted to require states to report quarterly to the Attorney General information regarding the death of any person in the process of arrest or who is otherwise in custody, including in jails, prisons, and juvenile facilities. After the law was enacted in 2000, reports showed declines in suicides and homicides of those in custody. That law expired in 2006, which lead to the effort to reauthorize substantially the same requirements on states and to extend them to federal agencies as well, which is what the bill signed by the President today will do. The new law also requires the Attorney General to study the information the Justice Department receives about deaths in custody and to issue a report to include a discussion of how the data may be used to reduce preventable deaths. In response to the enactment of the bill he introduced, Scott stated: "The President's signing the Death in Custody Act of 2013 into law today represents a critical step in improving and reforming our nation's criminal justice system. It is clear that the federal government needs to exercise greater oversight of federal, state and local law enforcement personnel to ensure that they are protecting and serving all of our citizens and that the protections embodied in our Constitution apply equally to all citizens. To aid in that measure, we need data on deaths that occur within our criminal justice system. Without accurate data, it is nearly impossible to identify variables that lead to an unnecessary and unacceptable risk of individuals dying in custody or during an arrest. The passage of the Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2013 will make this information available, so policymakers will be in a position to enact initiatives that will reduce incidences of avoidable deaths in our criminal justice system. "I appreciate the assistance of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the House and Senate for their efforts to enact the Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2013, particularly Congressman Bob Goodlatte, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Congressman John Conyers, Jr., Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, Senator Patrick Leahy, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Chuck Grassley, Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Richard Blumenthal, sponsor of the Senate version of the bill, and Senator Rand Paul. I appreciate the efforts of these and other colleagues who worked together to send this legislation to the President for his signature, and I look forward to continuing to work with them in future bipartisan efforts to improve our criminal justice system". # # #
12.17.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today upon the announcements of the release of American contractor Alan Gross from a Cuban prison where he was held for five years and the restoration of diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba: “I am relieved and thankful that Alan Gross has now returned home to his country and family. There is still much work to be done to encourage Cuba's respect of human rights and the promotion of democracy, but the natural first step in that work is to restore diplomatic relations with Cuba. Our two nations are separated by a mere 90 miles and the United States is home to millions of people with Cuban heritage. While our lack of engagement with Cuba may have been warranted during the Cold War, it no longer serves any constructive geopolitical purpose and is not supported by the international community. It is my hope that the White House will continue to promote our nation's ideals of freedom and open democratic society, and I look forward to eventual normalized relations between the United States and Cuba." # # #
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, the House of Representatives narrowly passed H.R. 83, the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2015 or so-called “CROmnibus.” The legislation is comprised of 11 FY 2015 Appropriations bills and a Continuing Resolution maintaining the current rate of Homeland Security funding until February 27, 2015. Citing several provisions tucked into the bill at the last minute, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on H.R. 83: "Representing an area that is largely dependent on Department of Defense and other federal spending, I appreciate how important fully funding our federal government for the entire fiscal year is to my constituents and to our nation. Regrettably due to several truly egregious provisions added late to this bill, I voted No. “I could not in good conscience vote for a bill that includes a provision that will allow banks to speculate with taxpayer insured funds – some of the very same activity that contributed to the 2008 Financial Crisis and that Congress voted in 2010 to limit when we passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act. At the same time it includes another provision that further erodes our nation’s campaign finance laws by increasing the maximum amount of money wealthy individuals can contribute to a political party. So in one hand these individuals can speculate with taxpayer insured funds and in the other donate any proceeds from such speculation to their political benefactors. That is just too much of an insult to the legislative process.” # # #
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representative Bobby Scott (D-Va.) today applauded last night’s Senate passage of the Death in Custody Reporting Act, bipartisan legislation which requires states to report to the U.S. Department of Justice how many individuals die each year while in police custody or during the course of an arrest. The House of Representatives approved the Death in Custody Reporting Act by voice vote on December 12, 2013, and the bill now goes to the President for his signature. “Tragic controversies in Ferguson and Staten Island have undercut trust and understanding between law enforcement and the communities they serve,” said Sen. Blumenthal. “Thousands have taken to the streets to protest what they see as unpunished criminal conduct by police. Alarmingly, on an issue this profoundly important and potentially explosive, there is no reliable data on the overall scope of the problem. The stark, staggering fact is that the nation has no reliable idea how many Americans die during arrests or police custody each year. This legislation will fix that unacceptable factual gap. It will ensure that the nation knows exactly how many Americans die in custody, and it will give the information needed to strengthen trust at every level.” Rep. Bobby Scott (D-Va.), the sponsor of the House version of the bill, said: “It is clear that the federal government needs to exercise greater oversight of federal, state and local law enforcement personnel to ensure that they are protecting and serving our citizens. To aid in that measure, we need data on deaths that occur within our criminal justice system. Without accurate data, it is nearly impossible to identify variables that lead to an unnecessary and unacceptable risk of individuals dying in custody or during an arrest. The passage of the Death in Custody Reporting Act will make this information available, so policymakers will be in a position to enact initiatives that will reduce incidences of avoidable deaths in our criminal justice system. I appreciate the assistance of Chariman Leahy, Senator Blumenthal, and Senator Paul in working with me to pass this important bill before the end of this Congress.” Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) said: “At a time when our Nation is having an important conversation about police encounters that result in the loss of life, we know that hundreds of police-related deaths are unaccounted for in federal statistics. Too many communities across our country are losing faith in our justice system. This bill provides a step towards accountability, and it is my hope that it may ultimately lead to restoring some measure of trust in these communities.” Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), a cosponsor of the Senate bill, said: "Passage of this bill is an important step in Congress assessing and reforming our criminal justice system. As a result, we will for the first time get a true picture of the extent and circumstances of deaths in the criminal justice system. I congratulate Rep. Scott and Sen. Blumenthal on passing this bill and will continue working with them on other necessary reforms." # # #
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With increasing numbers of Americans falling victim to drug addiction and overdoses from heroin and opiates, U.S. Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Bobby Scott (D-Va.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Karen Bass (D-Calif.), David Joyce (R-Ohio) and Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) today introduced bipartisan legislation that could help turn the tide in the struggle against this epidemic. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2014 would provide a series of incentives and resources designed to encourage states and local communities to advance a continuum of proven strategies to combat addiction. Among other things, the bill would expand prevention and education efforts to prevent the abuse of opioids and heroin and promote treatment and recovery. It would also strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs to help states monitor and track prescription drug diversion. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “Too many Wisconsinites are falling into the addiction trap. With a 350 percent increase in collected heroin samples reported by the State Crime Laboratory and growing alarm within Wisconsin’s law enforcement community, this is a very real problem that we cannot ignore. It must be addressed effectively and expeditiously. With this legislation, we have an opportunity to build on proven methods that enable law enforcement to respond to this epidemic and support long-term recovery by connecting prevention and education efforts with treatment programs.” Congressman Scott: “I am deeply concerned with the growth of heroin and prescription painkiller addiction across the nation. Something must be done at the federal level to address this issue and I believe the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act is the answer. This legislation would look at the problem from all angles – from prevention efforts to overdose medication and recovery – in order to stem this epidemic which is taking the lives of 114 people per day.” This bill is the companion to the Senate’s Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, S. 2839, introduced in September 2014 by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Pat Leahy (D-Vt.). The legislation is supported by 93 organizations, including the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse Directors (NASADAD), Faces and Voices of Recovery, the National Council for Behavioral Health, and the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, among others. # # #
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence’s redacted summary, released today, of its report on the use of torture by the Central Intelligence Agency: “The declassified summary of the Senate Intelligence Committee’s report confirms that the Central Intelligence Agency’s Detention and Interrogation Program had a policy of torture in contravention of federal law and international conventions. While the CIA suggests that such tactics were necessary to protect the nation from future terrorist attacks, the report indicates that the relationship between many counterterrorism successes cited by the CIA in support of the policy and the ‘enhanced interrogation techniques’ was tenuous at best and non-existent at worst. “The problem with torture is that when you begin torturing someone, you have no idea if you will be able to get any accurate, actionable information. So when you have a policy of torture, you have to accept the possibility that on some occasions, no meaningful information will be acquired as a result. This report adds insult to injury in that it suggests that none of the CIA’s torture in the name of the security of the United States produced any meaningful, actionable intelligence. “After World War II, we tried, convicted, and, in some cases, executed Japanese soldiers for war crimes that included charges of waterboarding. The United States is seen as a moral authority in the world, but we failed to lead by example in how we treat enemy combatants in our custody. Regrettably, our use of torture only encourages other countries to torture our courageous men and women in uniform if captured. As the report outlines how the CIA’s policy violated criminal law and our nation’s constitutional values, I hope that the House Judiciary Committee will hold hearings on this issue soon after the next Congress convenes in January.” # # #
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As President Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder begin to act on recommendations of an Administration review of federal programs and funding that provide military equipment to local law enforcement agencies; and discussions begin on how communities and law enforcement can work together to build trust to strengthen neighborhoods across the country, Reps. John Conyers (MI-13), Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Hank Johnson (GA04) sent a letter to Attorney General Holder raising questions on the role the Department of Justice plays in the training, monitoring, and controlling SWAT officers and the use of militarized equipment by local law enforcement and SWAT officers. The Congressman are all members of the House Committee on the Judiciary. The letter asks 17 specific questions to better understand how officers are trained and whether legislation is needed to help correct any potential problems that arise from the inquiry. “Though we empower law enforcement to protect us, we also need to oversee the tactics they are employing on our behalf,” said Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), who serves as Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee. “I applaud the efforts of our President and Attorney General for announcing plans to create the Task Force on 21st Century Policing and for reforming the process of providing equipment to law enforcement agencies. At this time, my colleagues and I ask the Attorney General for more information about the use of military-style equipment by law enforcement and the use of SWAT units by police. I hope our dialog on these issues will help improve the relationships between police and the communities they protect.” “I am concerned about reported abuses of SWAT tactics and the militarization of domestic law enforcement,” said Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03). “Law enforcement officers should be appropriately equipped to deal with domestic law enforcement issues, but when a military response is appropriate, the National Guard should be called.” “We are aware of reports from across the country of officers using excessive force against civilians, children being the unintended victims of SWAT officer activities, the increasing use of militarized equipment by SWAT officers, and the failure of SWAT officers to effectively maintain large crowds, as seen in Missouri,” said Rep. Hank Johnson, a senior member the Judiciary Committee. “In 2014 alone, there have been 34 deaths resulting from SWAT raids. We are concerned this number will continue to grow as the use of SWAT officers and militarized equipment increases across the country. We are alarmed by cases we hear of SWAT officers raiding the homes of civilians wrongly suspected of being involved in drug-related activity.” # # # To read the letter, see attached or click HERE.
11.25.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the Grand Jury’s decision not to issue an indictment in the shooting of Michael Brown: “The Grand Jury has spoken. While this is not the legal outcome of the state criminal proceedings desired by the Brown family and many in the Ferguson community, it is important to remember that a federal investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice remains ongoing. There are also civil remedies still available to the Brown family. "Regardless of this decision, the death of any young man is a tragedy, but as Michael Brown’s parents have called for, we must use this opportunity to recommit ourselves to advancing change, so that we can ensure that these events are an anomaly and are no longer the norm. One step in that direction would be for the House Judiciary Committee to hold hearings requested in August on recent incidents of excessive force by law enforcement as well as other violations where individual civil rights may have been infringed.” # # # On August 14, 2014, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers Jr. (MI-13), Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice Ranking Member Steve Cohen (TN-09) issued a letter to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) requesting a Congressional hearing on several incidents of local law enforcement using excessive force–sometimes deadly–and other violations where civil rights have been infringed upon. The letter also expresses concern over the extensive militarization of local law enforcement.
11.24.2014	RICHMOND, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) issued the following statement on the resignation of Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel: “Secretary Hagel has devoted much of his life and career to serving our nation – first as a combat veteran in Vietnam then as a United States Senator and now as Secretary of Defense. I saw firsthand his unwavering commitment to our men and women in uniform when he worked tirelessly with then Virginia Senator Jim Webb for passage of the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill. As Secretary Hagel moves on to the next chapter in his life, I wish him and his family well and I thank him for his service to our nation.” # # #
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement on the President’s executive actions on immigration announced this evening: “The President’s executive actions are limited in scope and will bring millions of undocumented individuals out of the shadows. There is ample legal authority and precedent for the President’s actions. Many past presidents­, including Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, have exercised this legal authority to act on immigration. As the President stated tonight, he is limited in what he can accomplish alone and it is incumbent on Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform. The Senate overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan immigration reform bill 18 months ago, yet House Republicans continue to refuse to offer an alternative or even allow a vote on the bipartisan Senate bill. In light of this continued obstruction by House Republicans, I am pleased that the President has exercised his legal authority to at least try to improve our nation’s broken immigration system where he can.” # # #
11.19.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) released the following statement today on his election as the Ranking Democratic Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce for the 114th Congress: “I am honored to be elected by my colleagues to lead Democrats on the Committee on Education and the Workforce in the 114th Congress. When I was first elected to Congress, I was privileged to serve on this committee to promote educational opportunity for all children, economic justice for families and fairness and safety for America’s workers. “During my tenure on this Committee, I have learned from some great leaders – from Chairman Bill Ford and Ranking Member Bill Clay to our retiring Ranking Member and former Chairman George Miller. This committee raised the minimum wage twice; protected child nutrition and head start programs from deep cuts; significantly reduced interest rates for federal student loans while securing the largest investment in higher education since the G.I. bill; and we proudly passed a law that makes quality and affordable health care for all a reality. We still have more work to do. “This Committee has serious issues to tackle in the next session – closing the achievement gap, reducing the school dropout rate, addressing college affordability, dismantling the School-to-Prison Pipeline, improving child nutrition, giving America’s workers a long overdue and much deserved raise, guaranteeing retirement security for our seniors, ensuring workers’ rights, and protecting affordable health care for all Americans. “As Ranking Member, I will continue the same strong and principled democratic leadership of my predecessors that has steered this committee since I was first named to it. I know this task will be much easier due to the dedication and talent of the Committee’s Democratic members. I look forward to working closely with them and our Republican colleagues to advance the priorities of America’s students, families and workers.” # # #
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott announced today that he will hold two health care town halls in Norfolk and Newport News next week. At both town halls, Congressman Scott will be joined by: Joanne Grossi, Regional Director at the Department of Health and Human Services; Ashley Richard, a Certified Navigator at ENROLL Virginia!; and Dr. Jennifer Lee, Deputy Secretary of Virginia’s Department of Health and Human Resources. The town halls will provide an overview of the Affordable Care Act, the enrollment process, and other health care initiatives at the federal and state levels. Open Enrollment began on November 15, 2014 and will run until February 15, 2015. Constituents will also have the opportunity to ask questions and share their concerns. This event is free and open to the public. Norfolk Health Care Town Hall Monday, November 24, 2014 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.Norfolk City Hall, 11th Floor810 Union StreetNorfolk, VA 23510 Newport News Health Care Town Hall Tuesday, November 25, 2014 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.The Downing Gross Cultural Arts Center (1st Floor Banquet Room)2410 Wickham AvenueNewport News, VA 23607 For more information about these town halls, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
11.14.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement on his opposition to H.R. 5682, the latest attempt by House Republicans to force an approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline: “Proponents of the Keystone XL Pipeline argue that it will move our nation closer to energy independence by reducing our reliance on foreign oil, but they fail to recognize reality. Last year, the United States produced more oil domestically than was imported and gas prices are, and are expected to remain, near lows not seen in years. Even if this were not the case, much of the tar sands oil that would run through this new pipeline will not be sold in the United States but will instead pass through our nation for eventual sale on international markets. “Additionally, the bill voted on today exempts TransCanada Corp and any other company that produces, ships or refines tar sands oil from paying into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund – even though conventional crude oil companies are required to pay 8 cents per barrel into the trust fund to help the federal government respond to oil spills. "Cleanup from a 2010 tar sands oil spill in Kalamazoo, Michigan is estimated to cost over $1 billion and, even four years after the spill, the cleanup is still ongoing. Incidents like this have led many landowners along and near the proposed pipeline to oppose construction. “Finally, the long term economic benefits of this pipeline do not add up. While there will be some temporary construction jobs, the total number of permanent jobs associated with this project is estimated to be approximately 35. The negligible economic benefit from the Keystone XL Pipeline does not justify risking America's drinking water, farmlands, and tribal grounds. I hope instead of exempting corporations from federal permitting requirements that Congress can work to ensure that our nation can become greener and more energy efficient.” # # #
11.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) officially announced that he will run for Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. If elected by his House Democratic colleagues, Congressman Scott would succeed his friend and retiring Ranking Member and former Chairman, Congressman George Miller of California. The Committee on Education and the Workforce has jurisdiction over America’s federal education and workforce programs, from early childhood learning through secondary and higher education and from job training through retirement. Below is the full text of Congressman Scott’s letter to his House Democratic colleagues. Dear Colleague: Congratulations on your election to the 114th Congress! As our Democratic Caucus prepares for the work ahead, I write to ask for your support to become the Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce in the 114th Congress. Our outgoing Ranking Member and former Chairman George Miller has been a staunch advocate for our nation’s students and workers. Under George’s leadership, we accomplished many great things, such as protecting students from a hike in student loan interest rates, expanding access to affordable health care to millions of Americans, and raising the minimum wage in 2007 for the first time in a decade. In the next Congress, we will need a strong and experienced voice advocating for our principles and values. And we have serious issues to tackle – long overdue reauthorizations of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act and the Higher Education Act, addressing student debt, closing the achievement gap, dismantling the School-to-Prison Pipeline, giving America’s workers a long overdue raise, ensuring retirement security for our seniors, protecting workers’ rights, and guaranteeing affordable health care for all Americans. I have served my entire 22-year career in Congress on the Committee on Education and the Workforce fighting for America’s students and workers. I humbly ask for your support to lead Democrats on this important Committee in the 114th Congress. Very truly yours, ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTTMember of Congress # # #
11.06.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3), Randy Forbes (VA-4), Rob Wittman (VA-1) and Scott Rigell (VA-2) issued the following joint statement on the announcement by the United States Navy that it intends to consolidate the headquarters of its Military Sealift Command from the Washington Navy Yard to Naval Station Norfolk by the end of Fiscal Year 2019: “This announcement from the Navy is welcome news for Hampton Roads. It is estimated that more than 400 civilian personnel and 52 active duty personnel will relocate to our region. This action is also an important strategic decision by the Navy. For the last several years, the headquarters for the Military Sealift Command has been split between Washington, D.C. and Naval Station Norfolk. This consolidation will help our Navy streamline its processes while also saving taxpayers money from the reduced costs of operating a single headquarters location. We look forward to welcoming the men and women attached to this important command to Hampton Roads.” # # #
10.30.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will hold a health care town hall in Petersburg on Wednesday, November 5, 2014 from 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Congressman Scott will be joined by Jill Hanken, a Health Attorney who manages the Navigator program at the Virginia Poverty Law Center, and Jodi Manz, Policy Advisor for the Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources. The town hall will provide an overview of the Affordable Care Act, the enrollment process, and other health care initiatives at the federal and state levels. Marketplace Open Enrollment for 2015 runs from November 15, 2014 to February 15, 2015. Constituents will also have the opportunity to ask questions and share their concerns. This event is free and open to the public. Petersburg Health Care Town Hall Wednesday, November 5, 2014 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.Tabernacle Baptist Church's Family Life Center418 Halifax StPetersburg, VA 23803 For more information about the town hall, please contact Congressman Scott's Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845. # # #
10.21.2014	NORFOLK, VA - Today, Virginia Attorney General Mark R. Herring, Congressman Bobby Scott, and Norfolk Mayor Paul Fraim announced a $1 million cooperative effort between local, state, and federal partners to reduce gun and gang violence in the City of Norfolk. The effort will be supported by a $500,000 federal grant from the Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction Program and $500,000 of asset forfeiture funds, meaning the funds to fight crime will come from criminals, not from taxpayers. The grant will bring together the Office of Attorney General, the U.S. Attorney's Office, the Norfolk Police Department, and the Norfolk Commonwealth's Attorney's Office to reduce gun and gang violence through strategic prosecutions and data-driven policing strategies, along with an extensive, community-based outreach, education, and prevention effort. "Gun violence and gang violence have claimed the lives of too many Virginians, many of them young people," said Attorney General Herring. "This smart, community-based approach to reducing violent crime has proven effective in neighborhoods across the Commonwealth and across the country, and we believe that this coordinated effort will produce results for Norfolk by building on the great work already being done. Through education and engagement, as well as smart, effective law enforcement and prosecution strategies, we're going to keep young people from ever getting involved with gangs or guns, and we'll make it clear that we will not accept violence in the City of Norfolk." "Successfully reducing and eliminating gun and gang violence requires communities coming together to develop a comprehensive, evidenced-based prevention and early intervention plan," said Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott. "All the credible research shows that a continuum of comprehensive, evidenced-based prevention and intervention programs for youth at risk of, or involved in, delinquent behavior will greatly reduce crime and save much more than they cost when the avoided law enforcement and social welfare expenditures are considered. I commend Norfolk and its partners for taking a community-based approach to addressing youth violence." "Gun violence is a local issue and it is most effectively addressed at the local level," said Norfolk Mayor Paul D. Fraim. "I want to thank the Attorney General for making this grant available to Norfolk." The effort to reduce gun and gang violence will be led by a community outreach coordinator who will build on the existing crime prevention and community engagement efforts of the Norfolk Police Department and Norfolk Commonwealth's Attorney Greg Underwood. The coordinator will work with local government, social service providers, neighborhood leaders, members of the faith community, non-profit organizations, business leaders, educators, and health care providers to promote a deterrent message to at-risk youth and would-be criminals stressing the consequences of gang and gun violence. At the same time, the partnership will promote educational and employment alternatives, intervention and prevention, and ex-offender reentry services. Outreach will include a broad advertising and marketing campaign that will emphasize the consequences of gang activity and illegally possessing firearms. The community outreach coordinator is expected to work out of Norfolk's Berkley Neighborhood Multi-Service Center. New law enforcement resources and strategies will also be brought to Norfolk, including the addition of two prosecutors for the region who will each have cross-designations as both Assistant Attorneys General and Special Assistant U.S. Attorneys. One will be assigned to the U.S. Attorney's Office and the other to the Norfolk Commonwealth's Attorney's Office, allowing for serious gun or gang cases to be brought in state or federal court. Other strategies will include: Enhanced capacity for prosecutions of serious gun and gang crimes at the state and federal level, and enhanced sentences for the most dangerous gun crimes; Funding of directed community patrols based on data about gang and gun violence; Specialized training of local law enforcement personnel on gun crime investigations and related issues; Training of prosecutors by the U.S. Attorney's Office and the Office of Attorney General on effective prosecution of gun and gang cases; Arrests of fugitives and high-profile violent criminals in neighborhoods; Improved inter-agency communication and intra-agency communication. The partners will work with the grant's research partner, The Urban Institute, a non-profit research and policy organization with extensive experience on crime reduction projects, to monitor progress towards achieving crime reduction goals, including: Reducing homicides committed with a firearm, Reducing the combined number of homicides, aggravated assaults, and robberies with a firearm Reducing gang-related homicides, aggravated assaults, and robberies Maintaining strong conviction rates for those who commit gun or gang crimes. In 2012, three-quarters of homicides in Norfolk were committed with a firearm, and more than 40% of all violent crime involved a firearm. The Norfolk Gang Task Force estimates that gang activity is responsible for approximately 18% of homicides, 22% of aggravated assaults, and 15% of all other violent crimes. # # #
10.08.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced today that he will host a Youth Gang Violence Prevention Town Hall on Tuesday, October 14, 2014 in Richmond. In addition to other experts and community leaders, Congressman Scott will be joined by Clayton County, Georgia Juvenile Court Judge Steven Teske, who is a recognized national leader on juvenile justice issues. Judge Teske is visiting Richmond Tuesday and Wednesday to work with local juvenile justice professionals and the Juvenile Justice Collaborative on how the Clayton County, Georgia “Systems of Care” approach can work in Richmond. WHO: Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott Judge Steven C. Teske, Clayton County, Georgia Juvenile Court WHAT: Youth Gang Violence Prevention Town Hall WHERE: Virginia General Assembly Building Intersection of Ninth St. & Broad St. Senate Room B Richmond, Virginia 23219 WHEN: Tuesday, October 14, 2014 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. This event is free and open to the public. For more information about this event, please contact Congressman Scott's Richmond District office at (804) 644-4845. # # #
10.07.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement on the U.S. District Court in Richmond overturning the boundary lines of Virginia’s Third Congressional District and mandating the Virginia General Assembly redraw the district by April 2015: "I was not involved in this lawsuit. However, during the last round of redistricting in 2011, I was a strong proponent of the redistricting plan sponsored by State Senator Mamie Locke, which made all congressional districts in the Commonwealth more compact and contiguous. I hope and expect the General Assembly will more equitably and appropriately balance the influence of all Virginia’s voters, as mandated by this decision, when they redraw the third congressional district and adjacent congressional districts next session." # # #
10.06.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s denial of a writ of certiorari in the case overturning Virginia’s ban on same-sex marriages: “Today’s decision by the Supreme Court will finally allow marriage equality to move forward in Virginia and many other states. With the circuit courts so far ruling unanimously on the issue of marriage equality, there was no conflict for the Supreme Court to resolve. Additionally, having allowed so many challenges to stand, today’s decision makes it a virtual certainty that whenever the Court does choose to weigh in on this issue, it will rule in favor of marriage equality. I now expect that there will be many more successful marriage equality cases, so that the right to marry will be extended to same sex couples living in every corner of our great nation.” # # #
10.01.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, a senior member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, issued the following statement on new guidance issued by the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights to states, school districts and schools on standards set in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to ensure that each student has equal access to educational resources: "I commend the Department's renewed commitment to equity, especially given the chronic and widespread disparities that still persist in our nation’s schools 60 years after the landmark Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education. While we have made significant progress, the promise of equal educational opportunity envisioned by the Brown decision unfortunately remains unfulfilled today. For example, equal educational opportunity does not occur when one jurisdiction spends substantially more per student than an adjacent jurisdiction because of the relative differences in property values between the two. Obviously, we have work to do to guarantee the promise of the Brown decision. The Department's guidance released today offers an opportunity to rededicate ourselves to achieving that promise." For more information about this guidance, please visit: https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/us-education-secretary-announces-guidance-ensure-all-students-have-equal-access-. # # #
09.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations on the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement on Attorney General Eric Holder’s announcement that he will resign from the Department of Justice upon the confirmation of his successor: “Attorney General Holder has diligently served as our nation’s top law enforcement official for the last six years. During his tenure, I have enjoyed working with him on efforts to reform our nation’s sentencing laws, protect voting rights, and guarantee the civil rights of all Americans. His leadership was instrumental in passage of the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, which I sponsored in the House. After last year’s Supreme Court decision in Shelby v. Holder, which gutted key provisions of the Voting Rights Act, he doubled efforts at the Justice Department to combat voter suppression using every legal tool available. And most recently, he has worked to restore trust between minority communities and local law enforcement after the tragic shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri. These are just a few examples of Attorney General Holder’s dedication over his long career in public service. “I hope and expect that whoever is nominated and confirmed to replace him will continue his work on these issues. I wish Attorney General Holder and his wife the best of luck as they transition to a new chapter in their lives.” # # #
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott announced today that he will hold a town hall in Hampton, Virginia on Tuesday, September 23, 2014 to discuss issues impacting our nation’s veterans. The meeting will provide an opportunity for Congressman Scott to hear directly from veterans in his district about their experiences with the Hampton V.A. Medical Center and the V.A. claims backlog. The meeting will also include an overview of the recently enacted Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act and a discussion of mental health issues. This event is free and open to the public. Veterans Town Hall Tuesday, September 23, 2014 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.Hampton City Council Chambers22 Lincoln StreetHampton, Virginia For more information about this event, please contact Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his vote in favor of the McKeon Amendment to the Continuing Resolution, authorizing the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to train and equip appropriately vetted elements of the Syrian opposition and other appropriately vetted Syrian groups or individuals to combat ISIL. “The McKeon Amendment is not a formal authorization for this President or future presidents to use American military force in Syria. It has been argued that the President already has such authorization pursuant to the 2001 and 2002 Authorizations of Use of Military Force. I do not, however, believe these are sufficient authorizations to target terrorist groups that may not have even existed 13 years ago. And that is why I support a repeal of both the 2001 and 2002 authorizations to allow Congress an opportunity to assess the current situation, review all the facts, debate the issue, and then vote on whether or not to authorize continued American military action in the Middle East and around the world. “Virtually every country in the Middle East is experiencing internal turmoil and any action taken by the United States has the potential of backfiring. However, by working with our allies and partners in the region and around the world, President Obama is thoughtfully and deliberately building an international coalition to address this quagmire. The McKeon Amendment is narrowly drafted to allow the President to use existing resources in a way limited to training and equipping only properly vetted moderates in the Syrian opposition willing to combat ISIL. “The McKeon Amendment will hopefully afford Congress the necessary time to repeal the 2001 and 2002 Authorizations of Use of Military Force and debate whether or not to grant the President a new authorization limited in scope to address the ISIL threat with sustained American military action.” # # #
09.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. George Miller (D-CA), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), and Bobby Scott (D-VA), senior members of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, released the following statements today upon the House’s passage of a bill to improve and reauthorize the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act. “The Child Care and Development Block Grant is an indispensable resource for millions of children and families nationwide,” said Rep. Miller, senior Democrat on the committee. “CCDBG enables parents to send their kids to safe, high quality and affordable child care so that they can work or attend a training program and provide for their families. Meanwhile, the program helps to place children in the sorts of environments they need for healthy growth and development. The bipartisan, bicameral agreement passed today by the House improves child care access, makes critical new investments, and helps to ensure children are safe and are receiving quality care. These updates to CCDBG are vital for our children, our families, and our nation’s future.” “I am pleased the House acted swiftly to pass the reauthorization of the Child Care Development Block Grant. This bipartisan effort shows that when Congress comes together with a spirit of compromise and a common goal that we are able to actually get things done and accomplish what the American people sent us here to do,” said Rep. Loebsack, ranking member on the Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education. “This revamp of the CCDBG will bring important safety and quality improvements to child care delivery in our country and support working families as they strive to enter the middle class.” “Quality child care offers children vital early learning experiences that will set them on a path toward success in school, in the workforce and in the rest of their lives," said Rep. Scott, a senior committee Democrat. "This long overdue update of the Child Care and Development Block Grant program will significantly improve services, quality and access for our nation's children.” The legislation includes commonsense reforms to: Promote high-quality child care by increasing state-level investments in activities to improve the quality of care, enhancing states’ ability to train providers and develop safer and more effective child care services. Strengthen health and safety requirements in child care programs and providers. Improve access to child care by expanding eligibility for participating families and helping families connect with quality programs that meet their needs. The full text of the bill is available here. # # #
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the President’s address to the nation on ISIL: “After the execution of two American journalists and numerous human rights violations against Syrian and Iraqi civilians, it is clear that ISIL poses a serious and dangerous threat to the stability of the region and potentially to the United States itself. Tonight, the President laid out a thoughtful but narrowly defined strategy to deal with this immediate threat that includes a broad international coalition of our allies and no American ground troops. The President’s strategy will continue to protect U.S. military and non-military personnel, civilians, and those providing humanitarian assistance in the region. Any additional action, however, should be taken only with the authorization of Congress. Therefore, it is incumbent on Congress to review all the facts, debate the issue and decide whether or not to authorize any sustained military action. I look forward to learning more about the details of the President’s strategy in a classified briefing tomorrow morning.” # # #
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced awards for the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery, or TIGER, Discretionary Grant program. Two critical transportation projects in Virginia’s Third Congressional District were awarded a combined $39.9 million in federal funding through the TIGER program. The Virginia Port Authority’s Norfolk International Terminal Intermodal Gate Complex and I-564 Connector project in Norfolk received $15 million in TIGER funding. This project will significantly improve access to one of the nation’s busiest ports and alleviate congestion on Hampton and Terminal Boulevards in Norfolk. The Greater Richmond Transit Company’s Broad Street Bus Rapid Transit Project in Richmond received $24.9 million in TIGER funding. This project will connect Main Street Station and the East End of Richmond to the Willow Lawn section of Henrico County. By improving transit options, this project will connect tens of thousands of Virginians to employment centers in the Richmond area. “I am very pleased that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded TIGER grants to GRTC and the Virginia Port Authority for two much needed projects,” stated Congressman Bobby Scott. “Robust and sustained transportation investments are critical for our nation’s long term economic competitiveness. These federal funds will help move these projects forward expeditiously and will greatly improve transportation outcomes for two important regions in our Commonwealth.” # # #
09.04.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the jury verdict in the trial of former Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell: "This is a sad day in the history of our Commonwealth. Today's verdict will require Congress to clarify the exact meaning of 'honest services' and will encourage state legislatures to adopt meaningful gift bans. My thoughts and prayers are with Bob and Maureen McDonnell and their children." # # #
09.04.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, a senior member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, reaffirmed his support for raising the federal minimum wage and called on the leadership of the House of Representatives to vote on the issue when Congress returns to Washington next week. Congressman Scott is a cosponsor of H.R. 1010, the Fair Minimum Wage Act, which will raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 an hour, increase the tipped minimum wage, and tie future annual increases to the rate of inflation. "For years, the federal minimum wage has remained stagnant and its value has eroded, failing to keep up with the cost of living and forcing more and more working families to rely on government programs to make ends meet," said Congressman Scott. "A pay raise is long overdue for minimum wage workers. Those who work hard, hold a steady job, and play by the rules should not be forced to live in poverty. Full-time workers should not need to rely on government programs, a situation which costs the federal government money and detracts from the economic stability of hard-working families. It is critical that House Republicans allow a vote on the Fair Minimum Wage Act when Congress returns to Washington next week. Increasing the minimum wage will strengthen our economy, enhance the economic security of our families, and put more money in the pockets of those who need it most.” # # #
08.25.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott announced today that he will hold a town hall in Surry County, Virginia on Thursday, September 4, 2014 from 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. The meeting will give an overview of legislative issues currently pending before Congress and provide an opportunity for constituents to ask questions and share their concerns. This event is free and open to the public. Surry Town Hall Thursday, September 4, 2014 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.Surry County Community Center205 Enos Farm DriveSurry, VA 23883 For more information about the town hall, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
08.14.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers Jr. (MI-13), Subcommittee on Crime Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Subcommittee on the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice Ranking Member Steve Cohen (TN-09) issued a letter to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) requesting a Congressional hearing on recent incidents of local law enforcement using excessive force—sometimes deadly—and other violations where civil rights have been infringed upon. In the letter, the Congressmen highlighted the troubling events that have transpired in Ferguson and those of similar nature that have occurred recently in New York City, Los Angeles, and Houston. The letter also expresses concern over the extensive militarization of local law enforcement. A copy of the letter sent to House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) can be read HERE. # # # The House Committee on the Judiciary has jurisdiction over protecting constitutional freedoms and civil liberties, oversight of the U.S. Departments of Justice and Homeland Security, legal and regulatory reform, innovation, competition and anti-trust laws, terrorism and crime, and immigration reform.
08.08.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement regarding the President’s recent actions in Iraq: “As the President clearly stated last night, there is no American military solution to the crisis in Iraq and the only lasting solution is reconciliation among Iraqi communities and a stronger, stable Iraqi government. The President has described the humanitarian aid and limited airstrikes as necessary to protect American troops in northern Iraq and assist Iraqi civilians fleeing the horrific threats of violence from the ISIL terrorist group. Because these strikes are necessary to protect American troops, this action is consistent with the President’s constitutional role as commander-in-chief and the President must continue to consult with Congress, as he has done. However, if further sustained military action is necessary, it is incumbent on Congress to review all the facts, debate the issue and decide whether or not to authorize any sustained military action.” # # #
08.07.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott announced today that he will host a town hall in Portsmouth, Virginia on Thursday, August 14, 2014 from 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. The meeting will give an overview of legislative issues currently pending before Congress and provide an opportunity for constituents to ask questions and share their concerns. This event is open to the public. Seating will be limited. Portsmouth Town Hall Thursday, August 14, 2014 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.Portsmouth City Hall City Council Chambers 801 Crawford Street Portsmouth, VA 23704 For more information about the town hall, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
08.06.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott released the following statement on the 49th anniversary of President Lyndon B. Johnson signing into law the Voting Rights Act of 1965: "The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was one of the most consequential pieces of legislation of the Civil Rights Movement. For the last 49 years, the Voting Rights Act has helped ensure that no one's right to vote is infringed. Unfortunately, as we mark this anniversary, we must recognize that we still have work to do to restore the core protections of the Voting Rights Act. Last year's Supreme Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder dealt a striking blow to the Voting Rights Act by ruling the coverage formula in Section 4 of the law unconstitutional. This coverage formula was critical in requiring states with a long history of discrimination and voter intimidation to pre-clear any changes to their voting and election laws with the federal government. It is my hope that in honor of the Act's 49th year, Congress will pass the Voting Rights Amendment Act, a bipartisan bill carefully crafted to create a coverage formula consistent with Shelby that will protect voters in states with a history of discrimination." # # #
08.01.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his opposition to H.R. 5230, the Supplemental Appropriations Related to the Humanitarian Crisis at the Southwest Border, and H.R. 5272, the No New DREAMers Act: "Tonight, after hours of delay, the House will vote on two bills that do nothing to address the humanitarian crisis at the Southwest border. Tens of thousands of children are fleeing Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala because of the extreme violence in these countries. The influx of these refugees is not a problem unique to the United States. Asylum applications from children from these countries are up a staggering 712 percent in neighboring Mexico, Panama, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Belize. Sadly, the leadership of the House of Representatives has refused to work with Democrats and the President to responsibly and humanely address this regional problem. "At $734 million, the emergency supplemental appropriations bill falls far short of the Obama Administration's request of $3.7 billion and includes provisions that would do more harm than good to the refugee children at the border. Specifically, the bill would expand the inhumane practice of family detention and would severely limit the due process protections for Central American children under the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008. The bill also does not provide sufficient additional resources to reduce the backlog at our nation's immigration courts. Additional and sufficient funding is critical to ensure that these refugee children receive a full and fair adjudication of their cases. "The House will also vote on another bill that would end the Obama Administration's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. This program allows certain undocumented individuals, who came into the United States as children and meet several criteria, to request consideration for deferred removal action for a period of two years, subject to renewal. Moreover, DACA allows U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to target their limited resources at removing the most dangerous undocumented immigrants. Ending the DACA program would do nothing to help solve this current regional crisis and it would negatively impact many individuals who have spent their entire lives in the United States and may be eligible to benefit from the program. "Neither of these bills will help solve the humanitarian crisis at our border and throughout Central America. I urge the Speaker to work with Democrats in the House and the Senate on a bipartisan emergency supplemental appropriations bill that we can pass and send to the President. More importantly, if we truly want to fix our broken immigration system, the Speaker must allow a vote on the Senate-passed version of Comprehensive Immigration Reform, which will secure the border, protect American workers, unite families, create jobs and reduce our nation's budget deficit by nearly $1 trillion over the next two decades. It has been over a year since more than two-thirds of the United States Senate passed this bipartisan legislation, and it is long overdue for an up or down vote in the House of Representatives." # # #
07.31.2014	THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary For Immediate Release July 31, 2014 Readout of the Obama Administration’s Meeting with Members of Congress and their Constituents on Criminal Justice Reform Today, senior Administration officials met with Members of Congress and their constituents in the Roosevelt Room to engage on criminal justice priorities and discuss policies, Administrative initiatives, and legislative efforts to reform the criminal justice system. The Members and their constituents shared some of the best practices that are working well back home in their districts and states, and discussed ways that the Administration can best partner with Members, local law enforcement, and community leaders to use evidence-based practices to reduce recidivism, improve access to economic opportunities, deter crime, and address our most pressing public safety challenges. The group also emphasized the need to advance common-sense sentencing reform legislation that will address disparities in the justice system and strengthen protections for vulnerable populations. Administration officials reaffirmed the President’s commitment to building fairer and more equitable juvenile and criminal justice systems. Members of Congress who attended the meeting included: Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey Representative Bobby Scott of Virginia Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York Representative Robin Kelly of Illinois Senior Administration officials who attended the meeting included: Attorney General Eric Holder Roy L. Austin, Jr., Deputy Assistant to the President for the Office of Urban Affairs, Justice and Opportunity Michael Bosworth, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President # # #
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Mark R. Warner (D-VA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and U.S. Reps. Rob Wittman (R-1st), Scott Rigell (R-2nd) and Bobby Scott (D-3rd) today met with U.S. Air Force Assistant Secretary Kathleen Ferguson, Deputy Chief Management Officer Mr. Bill Booth and Major General Theresa Carter for a briefing on proposed personnel reductions at Joint Base Langley-Eustis in Hampton, Virginia. Today’s meeting followed a July 15th letter sent to by the Virginia delegation to the Secretary of the Air Force requesting a thorough briefing of the proposed personnel reductions, and the status of efforts to locate a new Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center (AFIMSC). As a result of the meeting: USAF committed to providing the delegation with specific details on personnel reductions within 30 days. USAF committed to using expansive personnel transfer authority to “go the extra mile” to accommodate civilian and military personnel dislocated by these reductions, including other federal or military agencies. And USAF acknowledged that Joint Base Langley-Eustis would be considered for the new Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, which could create up to 350 new positions. Members of the delegation released the following joint statement following the briefing: “We appreciate Air Force Secretary James and Assistant Secretary Ferguson providing us with today’s briefing on the proposed reductions at Langley. We remain committed to working together as a delegation to ensure that all of Virginia’s military and civilian Air Force employees are provided every opportunity to continue to serve. We also are committed as a delegation to explore all opportunities to highlight the considerable advantages and existing investments, already made at Joint Base Langley Eustis.” # # #
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) introduced a Senate version of H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act, which ends domestic bulk collection and reforms the government’s surveillance of United States citizens. On May 22, 2014, the House of Representatives passed the USA FREEDOM Act by a vote of 302-121. Senator Leahy’s version of the bill includes a new definition of “specific selection term” that addresses many of the concerns aimed at the House-passed compromise legislation. “Senator Leahy’s introduction of the USA FREEDOM Act reinforces our commitment to protecting the civil liberties and rights of all Americans. This critical legislation will end domestic bulk data collection and increase much-needed oversight of intelligence-gathering programs, while ensuring that our national security remains intact. Enactment of this legislation would constitute the first significant rollback of any aspect of government surveillance since passage of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978. The House passed its version of the bill in May. It is important that the Senate take the next step and pass this legislation without delay.” # # # Below are key provisions of H.R. 3361 as passed by the House of Representatives on May 22, 2014: Prohibits Bulk Collection of Data: The bill protects Americans’ privacy by ending the bulk collection of Americans’ business records under Section 215 of the Patriot Act, such as telephone and electronic communications records, among many others. The bill also prohibits bulk collection under other national security authorities. New Process for Obtaining Call Records: The USA FREEDOM Act makes clear that the government cannot indiscriminately acquire Americans’ records and creates a new process for the collection of call detail records. Specifically, the bill requires that these call detail records can only be collected on an ongoing case-by-case basis after approval by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. The FISC is authorized to allow up to two “hops.” Protects Americans’ Privacy: The bill codifies current minimization procedures, requiring the government to minimize the acquisition and prohibit the retention and dissemination of information about Americans. Additionally, it prohibits the government from using unlawfully obtained information about Americans acquired outside the scope of court-approved procedures. Ensures Robust Oversight of Intelligence-Gathering Programs: The bill increases oversight of our intelligence-gathering programs by providing for judicial review of minimization procedures for the production of business records. Increases Transparency of Intelligence-Gathering Programs: The bill creates a panel of legal experts to help ensure the FISA court adequately considers privacy concerns and Constitutional rights of Americans and also requires the Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General to conduct a declassification review of each decision, order, or opinion of the FISA court that includes a significant construction or interpretation of the law. The bill requires the government to disclose the number of requests made for call detail records and requires the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts to publicly report annually the number of FISA orders issued, modified, or denied by the FISC. Allows American Tech Companies to Disclose FISA Orders: Last year’s national security leaks have also had a commercial and financial impact on American technology companies that have provided these records. They’ve experienced backlash from both American and foreign consumers and they’ve lost their competitive edge in the global marketplace. In January of this year, the Justice Department entered into a settlement with several companies to permit new ways to report data concerning requests for customer information under FISA. The USA FREEDOM Act builds upon this settlement, allowing tech companies to inform their American and foreign customers by publicly reporting national security requests.
07.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on today's decision by a three judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit upholding the district court's decision in Bostic v. Rainey, which ruled Virginia's same-sex marriage ban unconstitutional: "I applaud the Fourth Circuit for upholding the lower court's decision in Bostic v. Rainey. This decision is based on sound legal reasoning consistent with a growing list of decisions by courts all over the country, beginning with the Supreme Court's 1967 decision in Loving v. Virginia. The Loving Court unanimously struck down bans on interracial marriage stating that marriage is one of the 'basic civil rights of man.' And last year, the Supreme Court in U.S. v. Windsor continued this legal reasoning when it struck down the so-called Defense of Marriage Act, which I opposed in Congress. Today's decision is a critical step forward for marriage equality in the Commonwealth." # # #
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan's Anti-Poverty Plan released today: "I strongly commend Chairman Ryan for endorsing sentencing reform in his Anti-Poverty Plan. Studies of mandatory minimum sentencing have concluded time-and-time again that they fail to reduce crime, they waste the taxpayers’ money, they often require the imposition of sentences that violate common sense, and they unnecessarily destroy families and communities. I am pleased that Chairman Ryan has specifically endorsed the Smarter Sentencing Act, which I have introduced with Republican Congressman Raul Labrador of Idaho. Our bill reduces the harm of mandatory minimum sentences for non-violent drug offenses by granting discretion to federal judges to sentence below the mandatory minimum. "I am also pleased that Chairman Ryan has endorsed another bill, the Public Safety Enhancement Act, which I have introduced with Republican Congressman Jason Chaffetz of Utah. This bill implements a post-sentencing dynamic risk assessment system to identify an inmate's risk of recidivism. Then, using evidence-based practices developed by states, effective recidivism reduction programs are identified and utilized. High rates of recidivism, as pointed out in Chairman Ryan's plan, contribute to a cycle of poverty in too many of our communities. "Without knowing all the precise details, I am also encouraged that Chairman Ryan's plan calls for a commission on evidence-based policy making. It should be obvious that sound policymaking be based on the best evidence available. Unfortunately, this is rarely the case. For example, too many of our nation's so-called 'tough on crime' laws have not been based on any readily available evidence and have been shown to actually contribute to the crime rate. Additionally, proponents of certain tax cuts have argued that targeting significant relief at the wealthiest Americans would grow the economy and reduce the deficit. This theory has also been debunked time-and-time again by the data. "While I commend Chairman Ryan's work in outlining a detailed proposal, I am deeply concerned by some of the proposed changes, particularly in education policy and workforce training programs. The plan calls for the creation of an Opportunity Grant which would replace many of the current federal programs that keep Americans out of poverty. While coordination across these programs can and needs to be improved, a full consolidation could result in loss of services and diminished access. The plan offers no detail on how it will ensure that marginalized groups can retain access to social service programs, particularly job training programs that are tailored to meet their unique needs. "Further, the plan proposes eliminating or cutting programs that are currently working, such as the Social Services Block Grant and the Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program. It also alludes to the need to reduce eligibility and benefit levels for Pell grants. In order to craft a holistic approach in reducing poverty, we must strengthen the programs that we know are working and continue to improve them. "It is my hope that Chairman Ryan will be willing to work with all Members of Congress to address the issue of pervasive poverty in this country. I applaud his good faith effort in proposing his vision, but remain concerned by the lack of important legislative initiatives that will have a profound positive impact on poor and working families, such as raising the minimum wage, guaranteeing equal pay for equal work, and enhancing retirement security. I hope that we will be able to work together to eradicate poverty in America." # # #
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a joint letter, U.S. Senators Mark Warner, Tim Kaine and U.S. Congressmen Bobby Scott, Randy Forbes, Scott Rigell and Rob Wittman urged Secretary of the Air Force Deborah James to consider Virginia’s Joint Base Langley-Eustis as a location for the future Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center (AFIMSC). Locating the new facility there would help minimize the impact of 742 positions being eliminated at Langley-Eustis as part of the Air Force’s consolidation plans announced this week. “Virginia is more connected to the military than any other state,” the members wrote. “We believe the existing infrastructure, military-friendly environment, and close proximity to major commands and other Service installations, make it an ideal location for this headquarters.” “Virginia has been disproportionately impacted by the Air Force’s recent nationwide reductions in personnel,” the letter continues. “Locating the new Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center in Virginia will minimize the impact to Airmen and Air Force civilians and their families, while also minimizing Permanent Change of Station (PCS) expenses.” Full text of the letter is below: July 15, 2014 The Honorable Deborah L. James Secretary of the Air Force 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330-1670 Dear Secretary James: As you complete your Air Force Management Headquarters Review, we request that you consider Virginia as a premier location for the future Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center (AFIMSC). Virginia is more connected to the military than any other state, and we believe the existing infrastructure, military-friendly environment, and close proximity to major commands and other Service installations, make it an ideal location for this headquarters. We are confident that Joint Base Langley-Eustis will prove to be the ideal location to minimize costs, leverage a transformational history, and reap the benefits of co-located tenant commands. Virginia has been disproportionately impacted by the Air Force’s recent nationwide reductions in personnel. Of the 3,459 positions being eliminated by the Air Force Management Headquarters Review, 734 will come from the National Capital Region in addition to the 742 lost at Joint Base Langley-Eustis. Locating the new Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center (AFIMSC) in Virginia will minimize the impact to Airmen and Air Force civilians and their families, while also minimizing Permanent Change of Station (PCS) expenses. Joint Base Langley-Eustis has been a pioneer of air power, with a proven track record of implementing changes, from revolutionary F-15 Eagle technology to the premier location of the F-22 Raptor. With these recent reductions, Langley will have additional capacity to host the new AFIMSC. By staging AFIMSC at the same base as Air Combat Command, Air Force base managers can directly liaise with warfighters to ensure that they provide the best possible support and ensure the close alignment between mission support and operations. We look forward to shortly reviewing the possible locations for basing AFIMSC. We request that the Air Force promptly provide all information regarding current plans to and criteria for candidate locations of AFIMSC, to include the projected timeline and costs associated with such a move, expected savings, scoring criteria, and the anticipated impact on the current workforce. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to working with you on this matter. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Mark R. Warner U.S. Senator Tim Kaine U.S. Congressman Bobby Scott U.S. Congressman Randy Forbes U.S. Congressman Rob Wittman U.S. Congressman Scott Rigell # # #
07.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A bipartisan group of House members today introduced legislation that would strengthen support for youth who are victims of sex trafficking. The proposed bills would improve identification and assessment of child sex trafficking victims and enhance existing support for runaway and homeless youth. “Every year thousands of children are victims of sex trafficking,” said Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline (R-MN). “We have to do more to address this national crisis. There is no reason why we shouldn’t fix outdated policies that make it harder to identify and serve these vulnerable youth. The bipartisan legislative proposals introduced today will help prevent victims from falling through the cracks and strengthen the support they need. I want to thank my colleagues for their leadership on this critical issue. More must be done and today’s effort is a step in the right direction.” It is estimated that each year 300,000 children become victims of sex trafficking. Many of these children were once involved in a state child welfare system, yet their experience with sexual exploitation may go undetected. Members are introducing bipartisan legislation that will enhance support services for victims and improve the child welfare response to trafficking: Enhancing Services for Runaway and Homeless Victims of Youth Trafficking. Introduced by Reps. Joe Heck (R-NV), John Kline (R-MN), and Bobby Scott (D-VA), the legislation (H.R. 5076) will improve support provided specifically to runaway and homeless youth who are victims of sex trafficking. Strengthening the Child Welfare Response to Trafficking Act of 2014. Introduced by Reps. Karen Bass (D-CA), John Kline (R-MN), Tom Marino (R-PA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Michelle Bachmann (R-MN), and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), the legislation (H.R. 5081) will improve practices within state child welfare systems to identify and document sex trafficking victims. The bipartisan leaders of this effort praised today’s action: Congressman Joe Heck (R-NV) – “We have a moral obligation to care for victims of sex trafficking, especially vulnerable children. By passing a simple fix to the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act we can ensure that those suffering from the trauma of these deplorable acts will have access to the care and support they need.” Congresswoman Karen Bass (D-CA) – “We absolutely must confront the reality that girls in our foster care system are being recruited and pipelined into sex trafficking. And, unfortunately, far too often, those responsible for protecting our children fail to properly identify and assist trafficked and exploited children. This bi-partisan and commonsense legislation will make sure that state child welfare agencies have the policies and training to combat sex trafficking so that our foster care system is protecting children.” Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) – "In order to ensure that victims of trafficking receive the support they need, we must provide additional support to states, organizations and other entities to train the staff working with these victims. This training allows service providers to successfully address and respond to the behavioral and emotional effects of abuse and assault. Our bill ensures that staff training will also include ways to recognize and respond to the unique needs and circumstances of trafficking victims. It is a simple change, but an important one necessary to improve the services available. It is my hope that we can continue this spirit of bipartisanship and work together to improve and strengthen programs that support our nation's children." To learn more about the legislative proposals, click here.
07.08.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the passing of former Newport News School Board Chairwoman Effie Ashe: "It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of former Newport News School Board Chairwoman Effie Ashe. Effie spent most of her life in service to her community. For 33 years, she served our nation at Fort Eustis working in several civil service positions, and was often one of the few African Americans on base who worked in an office. She was never drawn to the limelight of public office, but her community and the schools and students of Newport News desperately needed her tenacity and straightforwardness. Because of her dedication and involvement in the PTA and other community organizations, I wasn't surprised when Effie was coaxed in to running for the school board from the South District. And I certainly wasn't surprised when she became the first African American woman to serve as School Board Chair. Even after leaving the school board, Effie remained an active participant in the public discourse. The City of Newport News has lost a humble and dedicated public servant. I will greatly miss her counsel and friendship." # # #
07.07.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) and Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.) sent a letter to the Chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission Patti Saris. This letter comes at the close of the Commission’s comment period on a “drugs minus two” amendment, a proposal that fixes a flaw in the sentencing guidelines that has resulted in excessive sentences for approximately 51,000 currently incarcerated federal drug offenders who have been sentenced since 1987. The Commission has acknowledged that since 1987 the drug guidelines have been higher than necessary for years, due to a miscalculation at the “low end” of the drug sentencing guidelines wherein a low level offense carriers a prison term higher than the mandatory minimum sentence. In the letter, Representatives Conyers and Scott urge the Sentencing Commission to make the amendment retroactive, to lessen to the disproportionate impact that drug sentences have had on tens of thousands of people, primarily communities of color. Retroactive application of the “drugs minus two” amendment would save the federal government billions of dollars, ease the overcrowding found in federal prisons, and improve public safety. A copy of the letter is attached, and the full text can be found below: July 7, 2014 Chair Patti Saris U.S. Sentencing Commission One Columbus Circle NE, Suite 2-500 Washington, DC 20002-8002 Attn: Public Affairs-Retroactivity Public Comment Dear Chair Saris: We write to express our support for amending U.S.S.G. § 1B1.10 to make Amendment 3, the “drugs minus two” amendment submitted by the U.S. Sentencing Commission to Congress on April 30, 2014, retroactive. The “drugs minus two” amendment should be made retroactive without restriction or limitation, as a matter of equity and fundamental fairness. Retroactive application of the amendment will save billions of dollars, ease overcrowding in federal prisons, and lessen the disproportionate impact that drug sentences have had on tens of thousands of people and communities of color. It will also improve public safety and, as past experience proves, can be handled efficiently by the courts, U.S. Probation (“Probation”), federal public defenders, and the Department of Justice (“DOJ”). As a threshold matter, the “drugs minus two” amendment fixes a flaw in the guidelines that has resulted in excessive sentences for approximately 51,000 currently incarcerated federal drug offenders who have been sentenced since 1987. Since 1987, the “low end” of the calculated guideline drug sentence has actually been higher than the mandatory minimum prison term. As a direct result, as the Commission has recognized, the drug guidelines have been higher-than-necessary for many years. This amendment would bring federal drug guidelines into line with the mandatory minimums Congress created. It is commendable that this fix will go into effect on November 1, 2014 and apply automatically to everyone sentenced after that date. Its anticipated benefits are notable: a reduction in the federal prison population by 6,500 inmates in the first five years in addition to federal drug sentences after that date that will be, on average, 11 months shorter than what the current guidelines require. But the truly critical and significant benefit is in giving this amendment retroactive effect. In order to remedy the excessively harsh sentences that have resulted from this flaw in the guidelines since 1987, the “drugs minus two” amendment should be applied retroactively to those sentenced before November 1, 2014. Applied retroactively, this amendment would make those 51,000 currently incarcerated federal drug offenders---70% of which are Black and Hispanic---eligible for sentence reductions averaging 23 months. Fundamental fairness demands that all eligible prisoners receive a chance to seek punishments that hew more closely to the mandatory minimum drug sentences that set the baseline for the drug sentencing guidelines. The Commission has a long and commendable track record of recognizing that corrections to flawed drug sentencing guidelines should, as a matter of fairness, be made retroactively applicable. The Commission has previously applied guideline changes to sentences retroactively for LSD (1993), marijuana (1995), and crack cocaine (2007 and 2011). The same concern for fairness that drove the Commission to make those guideline adjustments retroactive applies to the “drugs minus two” amendment today: justice should not depend on something as arbitrary as the date a person was sentenced, especially when the flaw being corrected has been present since the guidelines’ creation in 1987. Retroactivity of the “drugs minus two” amendment will not harm public safety. First, no currently incarcerated prisoner would receive an automatic sentence reduction. The statute governing sentence modifications, 18 U.S.C. § 3582(c)(2), requires individualized review and specific procedures in each case. If the amendment applied retroactively, the prisoner would need to file a request with the court, the prosecutor and law enforcement agent may oppose it based upon the facts of the case, and the court would make the ultimate highly individualized determination after its consideration of the facts, including any additional ones adduced at a hearing. Of particular importance to the court is the consideration of the prisoner’s dangerousness; courts can and will deny sentence reductions if the prisoner poses a threat to public safety. After the 2007 crack cocaine retroactive amendment, courts denied 6% of all sentence reduction requests on public safety grounds. Moreover, under current statutory law, career offenders will not be eligible for sentence reductions. Both in 2007 and 2011, there were no automatic sentence reductions. Courts reviewed each motion for sentence reduction presented to it and, when merited, denied retroactive sentence reductions to crack cocaine offenders who posed a danger. Experience and the statutory mandate in § 3582(c)(2) demonstrate that courts will continue to employ this highly-individualized review and procedure to ensure our continued public safety when the “drugs minus two” amendment is given retroactive effect. Furthermore, the Commission’s previous retroactive crack cocaine guideline fixes did not increase recidivism; in fact, those who received sentence reductions re-offended at a lower rate (43%) than those who did not receive retroactive reductions (47%) within five years of their release. For the retroactive crack cocaine guideline amendments in 2007 and 2011, courts, prosecutors, federal defenders, and probation officers all ably handled retroactive sentence reduction requests from over 25,000 and 17,000 applicants, respectively, when the Commission changed crack cocaine sentencing guidelines. For this “drugs minus two” amendment, to be clear, many of the approximately 51,000 prisoners who would be eligible for retroactive sentence reductions will still have many years left to serve on their sentences before they would be eligible for release. This allows the courts, prosecutors, federal defenders, and probation officers to do what they have always done: employ planning and foresight to prioritize cases based upon amended release dates so as to prevent any disruption to case and docket management. Furthermore, the impact on Probation would be lower now than in previous reduction years 2007 and 2011. This is because Probation’s caseloads are down 5% since FY 2012. It is also due to the fact that many of these federal drug offenders do not have legal status in the United States or their convictions are deportable/removable offenses such that upon their release, would be immediately transferred and placed into U.S. Department of Homeland Security Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody and deported or removed, thus eliminating the need for Probation’s involvement. Our federal prison system is currently at 132% overcapacity---half of all federal prisoners are drug offenders---and consumes more than 25% of the DOJ’s budget. This level of overcrowding and funding is unsustainable and threatens the safety of correctional officers, inmates, and the general public. The Commission’s own analysis estimates that making the “drugs minus two” fix retroactive will save 83,525 prison bed years over the period of more than 30 years. Assuming an average sentence reduction of 23 months for those eligible and then applying the current annual cost of federal incarceration of approximately $29,000, making the “drugs minus two” fix retroactive equates to $2.42 billion in savings. In conclusion, the Commission should apply Amendment 3 retroactively to all those who are eligible, without limitation or restriction. It should reject DOJ’s proposal to limit the retroactivity of this amendment to “lower level, nonviolent drug offenders without significant criminal histories.” To begin with, criminal history is already included in the guidelines calculation and the judge’s consideration and imposition of the sentence, including any enhancement or upward departure or variance. Thus, the sentence the offender is serving is already calibrated to reflect and account for prior criminal records. A retroactive reduction without restriction would be a reduction from a sentence that has already been increased due to criminal history. Not only does the DOJ’s proposal automatically cut the pool of eligible prisoners by almost half---thus halving the beneficial impact on prison overcrowding and costs---but it disproportionately excludes Black offenders, leaving them to serve what the Commission has already determined are excessive, unfair, and empirically-unsound sentences. This is particularly troubling because the federal “war on drugs” and our corresponding drug sentencing laws and guidelines have disproportionately impacted communities of color. According to the Commission’s own retroactivity impact analysis, almost 75% of the people eligible for retroactive application of the “drugs minus two” amendment are Black or Hispanic. While national data show that people of all races use drugs at about the same rate, Black and Hispanic men and women are sentenced and imprisoned for federal drug offenses at disproportionately high rates, for virtually every kind of drug. For example, in FY 2013, Blacks and Hispanics comprised almost 75 percent of all federal drug offenders and more than 80 percent of offenders sentenced for powder cocaine, crack cocaine, and heroin offenses. Currently, almost 40 percent of all federal inmates are Black; 35 percent are Hispanic. Making the “drugs minus two” amendment retroactive will not only provide the more proportionate sentences that eligible offenders of color should have received to begin with, but also restore these offenders to their communities and families sooner, strengthening communities of color and increasing the perception – and reality – that the justice in our system applies equally to everyone, irrespective of race or proxies for race. Proposals to categorically exclude certain offenders based on criminal history category and gun enhancements or convictions will disproportionately impact prisoners of color and thus should be rejected. These prisoners of color were not excluded from previous retroactive amendments in 2007 and 2011 nor should they be for this amendment. As noted before, public safety concerns can and must be taken into consideration by reviewing courts as part of their statutory mandate in granting or denying these requests. For all these reasons, we urge the Commission to make Amendment 3 fully retroactive, without limitation or restriction as it did with other amendments in 2007 and 2011. We thank you for your leadership and commitment to repairing the flaws in our sentencing guidelines. We appreciate your continued commendable record of ensuring that equal justice under the law. Sincerely, John Conyers, Jr. Ranking Member Robert C. "Bobby" Scott Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations cc: The Honorable Bob Goodlatte, Chairman, House Committee on the Judiciary # # #
06.30.2014	NORFOLK, VA – Today, U.S. Senator Tim Kaine, U.S. Congressmen Scott Rigell, Bobby Scott, and Rob Wittman, as well as Norfolk Mayor Paul Fraim and Virginia Beach Mayor Will Sessoms hosted a regional conference on sea level rise at Old Dominion University in Norfolk. The forum focused on meeting the challenges Hampton Roads faces due to sea level rise and land subsidence and how to promote action at the federal, state and local level to address the region’s needs. The two panels of policy experts and regional stakeholders focused on the urgency of combating sea level rise, which is already having visible impacts on the Hampton Roads region, and can no longer be looked at solely as a long-term challenge. “We’re here to learn together so that we can act together,” Kaine said. “We’re here today because of the long-term vitality of the Hampton Roads region. We can’t just sleep walk and pretend there are no challenges. This is about bringing everybody together, state, local and federal, and having a dialogue about solutions. I think we can feel good about walking away today with some good insights and good ideas.” “As home to some of the largest military installations in the world, we must remain prepared and vigilant to deal with the risks associated with living on a coast,” said Rigell. “I am convinced that with cooperation with our state, local, private sector and military partners, we can ensure that Hampton Roads remains the best place to open or grow a command or business. I appreciate the bipartisan attention this matter is receiving and was glad to hear from the experts present at this morning’s discussion.” "I am committed to addressing the issue of sea level rise in Hampton Roads, and this conference provided good insight as to what my colleagues in Congress and I can do to help the region deal with its increasing effects,” Scott said. “This is just the beginning of this conversation and these efforts, and I look forward to working with those in Hampton Roads and across the Commonwealth to ensure that our communities are able to face this challenge." “The issues discussed today are already impacting coastal localities, area federal facilities, businesses and private citizens,” Wittman said. “I'm pleased at the strong commitment from the military, academia, and officials at all levels of government to address recurrent coastal flooding, land subsidence and rising sea levels. Our nation's military readiness depends on a strong, sustainable Hampton Roads, and ensuring that our forces can effectively train and defend this nation is my top priority.” The members of Virginia’s Congressional delegation came away from the event with a better understanding of how they can better advocate for the region’s needs at the federal level, as well as better coordinate the efforts of those seeking to find concrete solutions to sea level rise in Hampton Roads. # # #
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Monday, June 30, U.S. Senator Tim Kaine, U.S. Congressmen Scott Rigell, Bobby Scott, and Rob Wittman, as well as Norfolk Mayor Paul Fraim and Virginia Beach Mayor Will Sessoms, will host a regional conference on sea level rise at Old Dominion University in Norfolk. The bipartisan forum will focus on meeting the challenges Hampton Roads faces due to sea level rise and land subsidence and how to promote action at the federal, state and local level to address the region’s needs. The conference will feature two panels of federal policy experts and regional stakeholders that will respectively discuss federal policy needs and the process of coordinating work on these issues across government, academia and the private sector. Monday, June 30, 2014 Conference on Sea Level Rise: Meeting the Challenge 9:00 AM Ted Constant Center Old Dominion University 4320 Hampton Blvd Norfolk, VA *Please RSVP to sarah_peck@kaine.senate.gov. # # #
06.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on Virginia's diminished Congressional seniority in the 114th Congress: "With the loss of Frank Wolf, Jim Moran, and now Eric Cantor, the Commonwealth's influence in Congress will be greatly diminished when the 114th Congress convenes next January. I have always enjoyed working with Congressmen Wolf, Moran and Cantor on issues important to Virginia and I look forward to continuing this work for the remainder of this Congress. "Our congressional delegation has a long history of always working closely together for the benefit of Virginia. This tradition was recently led by Senator John Warner, whose thirty year tenure in the Senate was marked by bipartisanship and the ability to put the needs of the Commonwealth before politics. I hope and expect that we will continue to follow this tradition in the next Congress. While our seniority may be diminished, I have faith that our delegation will continue to be unified on the issues important to Virginia for the benefit of our Commonwealth." # # #
06.05.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on a recent Virginia delegation letter sent to Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe calling for a statewide task force to address the growing heroin epidemic in the Commonwealth. Congressman Scott declined to sign the letter out of concerns of the legislative proposals referenced in his colleagues' letter. "I am concerned about the growing use of heroin in the Commonwealth and support the establishment of a statewide task force to address this issue; however, I have serious reservations about the legislative proposals referenced in the letter sent to the Governor by my colleagues in the Virginia delegation. One proposal requiring hospitals to report overdoes to law enforcement may violate federal privacy laws, including HIPAA, and may violate doctor-patient confidentiality. This proposal may deter individuals from bringing individuals who have overdosed to the hospital if they fear that law enforcement will be notified. "The second proposal, which may expand murder liability to include those not present at the time of an overdose, has serious culpability and burden of proof problems. While seeking additional ways to impose greater liability on heroin dealers is laudable, I do not believe this is an effective or efficient way to do it in terms of human or fiscal costs. "While both proposals are well intentioned, I remain concerned that they will lead to unintended consequences, namely deterring individuals from doing the right thing by bringing those who are overdosing to the hospital to receive treatment. Incarcerating more individuals after the fact will not save lives. I believe there are more workable solutions, such as helping states and localities purchase and distribute medications (i.e. naloxone) that rapidly reverse overdoses from heroin, training first-responders and law enforcement to administer these medications to save lives, raising awareness in the community that these life-saving resources are available to those who call 911 or go to the hospital, and focusing on primary prevention initiatives to ensure that those at risk of drug use do not begin using heroin and other narcotics in the first place. "I commend my colleagues for advocating for a solution to this problem. I look forward to working with them and the Governor on a more comprehensive solution to this problem." # # #
06.03.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott announced today that he will be hosting a Gang Violence Prevention Town Hall this Thursday, June 5, 2014 in Newport News. WHO: Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott Newport News Mayor McKinley Price Hampton City Councilman Will Moffett Dr. Zina T. McGee, Professor, Hampton University Dr. Dan Edwards, President, Evidence-Based Associates WHAT: Gang Violence Prevention Town Hall WHERE: An Achievable Dream Middle and High School 5720 Marshall Ave Newport News, VA 23605 WHEN: Thursday, June 5, 2014 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. This event is free and open to the public. For more information about this event, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
06.02.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency announced new actions to cut carbon pollution 30 percent by 2030: "In Virginia, and across the nation, we are already seeing the harms of climate change. From increased health risks from diseases such as asthma to increasingly devastating extreme weather events, numerous scientific reports have shown that a failure to reduce carbon pollution will only increase these and other threats. These impacts are being felt particularly in Norfolk, which has been listed as the second most at risk city behind New Orleans for sea level rise in the United States. "We have an obligation to act to reduce the impacts of climate change, and that is why I support the Clean Power Plan announced today. These actions will allow future generations of Americans to enjoy our clean air and our natural resources well into the future. "While work remains to ensure that Virginia remains resilient in the face of climate change and its effects, I am confident that the commonsense limits on carbon pollution announced today will spur innovation and ensure that the United States is a world leader in taking action to deal with the realities of climate change." # # #
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement today after Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki announced his resignation: "Eric Shinseki has dedicated his life to serving our nation in the U.S. Army, as a General, as Army Chief of Staff, and as Secretary of Veterans Affairs. He has always tried to do what he thought was best for our nation. In 2003, he gave his honest assessment about the required troop levels of going to war in Iraq, which led to him being forced out of the Pentagon. Had the Congress and Bush Administration heeded his advice, the human cost of that misguided war may have been far smaller. "As a combat veteran himself, he was deeply committed to improving the care of our nation's veterans. This devotion, even in light of the V.A.'s deep-rooted issues, was certainly evident by the fact that our nation's major veterans service organizations were willing to give him time to fix the V.A.'s problems. "Secretary Shinseki's resignation removes a political distraction, but it does not solve the litany of problems facing the V.A. Those responsible for manipulating scheduling and wait time reports must still be held accountable. The initial recommendations of the Inspector General must still be implemented. And, most importantly, our veterans at the greatest health risk as a result of the scheduling delays must still receive the appropriate medical care immediately. "It will now be up to an acting secretary to address these issues, while we wait for the next secretary to be nominated and confirmed. As I have stated before, accurately recording the wait times will do nothing to solve the problem that too many of our veterans are waiting too long to see a doctor. I hope the acting secretary will soon report to Congress on what additional resources the Department needs to reduce and eliminate wait times, which will undoubtedly require hiring additional doctors and specialists." # # #
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement in reaction to the interim reported released Wednesday by the Inspector General for the Department of Veterans Affairs: "At this time, I am not calling on the Secretary to resign. The Inspector General's interim report conspicuously does not recommend personnel changes at this time. Further, I believe a power vacuum at the top of the V.A. may further exacerbate the current problem, because there is no telling how long it will take the President to nominate and the Senate to confirm a replacement who will then take months to familiarize him or herself with V.A. leadership. The scheduling problems must be immediately fixed, the delays must be accurately reported, and those veterans at the greatest health risk because of the delays must receive the appropriate medical care immediately, as recommended in the IG's interim report. However, simply accurately reporting the delays won't fix the delays – the only way to truly reduce the backlog is to ensure more doctors and specialists are available to care for our veterans. And so I recommend Congress immediately provide the V.A. additional resources to specifically hire more doctors and specialists. This may not be the only solution, but it will certainly be part of the solution." # # #
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 302-121 the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 3361), a bipartisan bill authored by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) that ends bulk collection of data by the government and reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). For nearly a year, the House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over intelligence-gathering programs operated under FISA, has studied the scope of these programs in detail. The Committee has held three hearings on this issue and has worked with civil liberties advocates, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, House leaders, and the Obama Administration to reach the bipartisan solution approved by the House today. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), Crime Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-Va.), Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), and Congressman Randy Forbes (R-Va.) – key lawmakers who brought this bill to fruition – praised today’s strong vote in the House of Representatives in the joint statement below. “Today’s strong, bipartisan vote by the House of Representatives on the USA Freedom Act will help protect our cherished individual liberties as the federal government carries out its duty to keep our nation safe from foreign enemies. The USA Freedom Act safeguards Americans’ civil liberties by ending domestic bulk collection once and for all and increases the oversight and transparency of these intelligence-gathering programs so that we can begin to rebuild trust with the American people. “With today’s vote, the House approved the first significant rollback of government surveillance since the passage of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act in 1978. While this is not a perfect bill, the USA Freedom Act is an important step in the right direction. We thank our staff, House leaders, and President Obama and his Administration for working tirelessly with us to reach this bipartisan solution that protects both national security and Americans’ privacy. We urge the Senate to move expeditiously on the USA Freedom Act so that our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs are operated in a manner that honors our country’s legacy of both providing for the common defense and securing the blessings of liberty.” Below are key provisions of H.R. 3361. Prohibits Bulk Collection of Data: The bill protects Americans’ privacy by ending the bulk collection of Americans’ business records under Section 215 of the Patriot Act, such as telephone and electronic communications records, among many others. The bill also prohibits bulk collection under other national security authorities. New Process for Obtaining Call Records: The USA Freedom Act makes clear that the government cannot indiscriminately acquire Americans’ records and creates a new process for the collection of call detail records. Specifically, the bill requires that these call detail records can only be collected on an ongoing case-by-case basis after approval by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. The FISC is authorized to allow up to two “hops.” Protects Americans’ Privacy: The bill codifies current minimization procedures, requiring the government to minimize the acquisition and prohibit the retention and dissemination of information about Americans. Additionally, it prohibits the government from using unlawfully obtained information about Americans acquired outside the scope of court-approved procedures. Ensures Robust Oversight of Intelligence-Gathering Programs: The bill increases oversight of our intelligence-gathering programs by providing for judicial review of minimization procedures for the production of business records. Increases Transparency of Intelligence-Gathering Programs: The bill creates a panel of legal experts to help ensure the FISA court adequately considers privacy concerns and Constitutional rights of Americans and also requires the Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General to conduct a declassification review of each decision, order, or opinion of the FISA court that includes a significant construction or interpretation of the law. The bill requires the government to disclose the number of requests made for call detail records and requires the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts to publicly report annually the number of FISA orders issued, modified, or denied by the FISC. Allows American Tech Companies to Disclose FISA Orders: Last year’s national security leaks have also had a commercial and financial impact on American technology companies that have provided these records. They’ve experienced backlash from both American and foreign consumers and they’ve lost their competitive edge in the global marketplace. In January of this year, the Justice Department entered into a settlement with several companies to permit new ways to report data concerning requests for customer information under FISA. The USA Freedom Act builds upon this settlement, allowing tech companies to inform their American and foreign customers by publicly reporting national security requests. ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on his No vote to H.R. 4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014: "I strongly support accountability at the V.A. The allegations of misconduct and the misrepresentation of data must be fully investigated and those responsible must be held accountable. However, we must not ignore the real problem and that is the unacceptably long wait times at the V.A. Properly recording the wait times will not fix the problem. Adverse medical complications will continue unless we hire more doctors in order to reduce the wait times. H.R. 4031 does nothing to address this problem. "This bill only allows V.A. leadership to expeditiously fire people who have fraudulently recorded wait times. However, present law already allows V.A. leadership to fire these employees for cause. Instead, this bill dismantles our nation's civil service protections, converting it back into a political patronage system. The protections of our civil service system have been in place for over a century and have been essential in preventing widespread firings without cause motivated by politics. This bill strips civil service protections for many career employees at the V.A., and over time will seriously undermine the operation of government. Converting career officials into at-will employees, who can be fired for political reasons, is a step in the wrong direction. "Although the bill responds to a temporary political crisis, it does not address the problem of long wait periods for our veterans and only appears to be doing something that can already be done under current law – firing for cause those responsible for the misconduct. Because the bill does not address the underlying issues at the V.A. and has serious long term implications for the civil service system, I voted no." # # #
05.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC — At the 60th anniversary of the Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision, much more must be done to reduce segregation and increase equity in our school system, say Representatives George Miller, John Conyers, and Bobby Scott. Today the three members sent a joint letter to the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to request an examination of current policies in school districts and the impact of such policies on racial and socioeconomic integration and student education outcomes, as well as an analysis of the changes in student racial isolation or integration over time. In addition, Miller, Conyers, and Scott issued the following statement: “Brown v. Board was a historic turning point for our nation, one that reverberated throughout the civil rights movement, our nation’s schools, and our children’s lives. But as we mark this momentous decision sixty years later, we must recognize that there is still more work to be done. Every child in every neighborhood deserves access to a high-quality public education. We know that all children—regardless of their background, their race, or their zip code—can succeed. By continuing to fight for all students to have equal access to excellent teachers, schools, and resources, we can continue to ensure that all students receive the ultimate civil right—a quality education.” Read the full letter to GAO below. May 16, 2014 The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro Comptroller General U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Dorado: This week marks the 60th anniversary of the landmark ruling in Brown v. Board of Education in which the United States Supreme Court concluded that “segregation is inherently unequal” and that the prevailing doctrine of separate but equal in the field of education violated the dictates of our Constitution. Although our nation has made progress toward realizing the promise of Brown; we write out of concern that inequality persists in public education and more must be done to fully realize the promise of Brown. The population of our nation’s public schools is dramatically different than it was in 1954. While there has been a steady decrease in the percentage of white students, the presence of Latino students has increased nearly five-fold. National statistics show that segregation in public schools typically occurs by both race and poverty, with African American and Latino students more likely to be educated in schools with a substantial majority of low-income students. Nearly a half-century of research shows that segregation negatively impacts student outcomes and exacerbates unequal opportunity later in life. Schools that are racially and socioeconomically isolated are related to factors including quality of instruction, teacher turnover, lower-achieving peer groups, facilities disrepair, and outdated learning materials. High school dropout rates are significantly higher in poor, segregated schools, with most of the roughly 2,000 “dropout factories” doubly segregated by both race and income. A 2010 research study concluded that a school’s concentration of poverty more strongly influences student academic achievement than the poverty status of the individual student. Despite 60 years having passed since Brown, African American and Latino students are more likely to be poor, far less likely than their white and Asian peers to perform on grade level, and more than twice as likely to drop out of high school before earning a diploma. As dramatic achievement gaps persist and demographics within communities are changing, there is growing concern that much of the initial progress made toward school integration in the decades immediately following Brown is dissipating and that policy changes are being made within public education without deliberate consideration for the impact on and effects of racial and socioeconomic isolation. Specifically, we respectfully request that the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) carefully examine: (1) changes in student racial isolation or integration over time, as measured by concentration (the proportion of students of different races who attend schools that are majority white) and exposure to overall racial composition, experienced by major metropolitan areas due to variables including regional structure (county-wide versus municipal and multi-municipal school districts) and shifts in boundary lines from year to year, including shifts caused by school closures or consolidations, with particular attention to changes over time experienced in suburban school districts; (2) implementation of state and local educational agency (LEA) policies that affect attendance areas or admissions, including open enrollment in public charter schools, non-charter schools and magnet schools, within and inter-district enrollment policies, and any impact on socioeconomic and racial concentration (the proportion of students of different races who attend schools that are majority white) and exposure to overall racial composition and income level over time; (3) voluntary actions designed to further integration, such as student assignment policies and transfer priorities and policies within or across districts, undertaken by school districts and states, including those in post-unitary status, and any resulting failures or successes that may have policy implications for achieving integration in public schools more broadly; (4) impact of racial and socioeconomic isolation in public education, including GAO findings in responses to this inquiry, on student academic achievement, including reading and math proficiency rates, high school graduation rates, high school dropout rates, rates of college enrollment and completion, and postsecondary or postgraduate earnings. We appreciate your assistance on this issue. If you have any questions concerning this request, please contact Jacque Chevalier with Committee on Education and the Workforce Democratic staff at (202)225-3725. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, GEORGE MILLER Ranking Member, Committee on Education and the Workforce JOHN CONYERS Ranking Member, Committee on the Judiciary ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTT Member, Committee on Education and the Workforce Member, Committee on the Judiciary # # #
05.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) will announce the winners of the 21st Annual Third Congressional District Art Competition at two upcoming award receptions in Newport News and Richmond. Each year, the Third Congressional District Art Competition is open to all High School students in the Third Congressional District of Virginia.An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of young people. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program.This year’s first place winner will receive a scholarship of $3,000 and will attend a reception in honor of all the winners nationwide in Washington, DC. The first place entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year, where it will be seen by hundreds of thousands of people who visit the Capitol.Congressman Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate and various other prizes.The award receptions will be held on:Monday, May 12, 2014, 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.Downing-Gross Cultural Arts Center2410 Wickham Avenue, Newport News, VA 23607Wednesday, May 14, 2014, 5:30 PM to 6:30 PMBlack History Museum and Cultural Center of Virginia00 Clay Street, Richmond, VA 23219# # #
04.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott's website was named one of the best websites on Capitol Hill today and awarded a 113th Congress Bronze Mouse Award by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF), a nonpartisan nonprofit working to improve communications between citizens and Congress and enhance operations in Capitol Hill offices. CMF has assessed and graded congressional websites and issued these awards since 2002.“I am honored that my official congressional website has been recognized as one of the best websites on Capitol Hill," stated Rep. Scott. "Online communications have transformed the way members of Congress interact with their constituents and have become a critical component of effective representation. I commend my staff for constantly working to ensure that our website is up to date and always has easy to access and useful information and resources. This award reflects our dedication to serving the citizens of the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia.""By demonstrating exceptional accountability and transparency in online communications, Congressman Scott not only provides benefits to his constituents but the entire Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, CMF President and CEO. “Congressman Scott should be congratulated by his constituents, applauded by advocates of good government, and emulated by congressional colleagues.”Download a copy of the report here.A total of 70 personal office and committee websites received a Gold, Silver, or Bronze Mouse Award. The criteria for website assessments have been developed and refined by CMF over the past decade based on survey research, focus groups with constituents, and interviews with key stakeholders to congressional offices. Reviewers assessed 10 categories of criteria: usability of website; timeliness of content; breadth and depth of information on issues; constituent services and casework information; promoting accountability to constituents; legislative process information; district/state information; floor proceedings information; availability of diverse forms of content; and availability of diverse forms of content channels.Founded in 1977, CMF is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit dedicated to helping Congress and its Members meet the evolving needs and expectations of an engaged and informed 21st century citizenry. Its work focuses on improving congressional operations and enhancing citizen engagement through research, publications, training, and management services.# # #
04.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Department of Justice Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole announced six criteria the Department of Justice will consider when reviewing and expediting clemency applications - for President Obama’s review and approval- from a select group of non-violent individuals behind bars. These petitions will be prioritized for review over other clemency petitions that do not require all six criteria. In addition to announcing the new head of the Office of the Pardon Attorney, Attorney General Eric Holder announced his intention to increase the numbers of attorneys, with backgrounds in both prosecution and defense, to aid the permanent staff of the Pardon Office during this initiative. After the public announcements, U.S. House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.) issued the following statement:“For far too long, America’s criminal justice system and policies have tipped the scales of justice in favor of slogans and sound bites over commonsense. This approach has locked away our youth and torn apart families; a disproportionate number of which are within minority communities. As a matter of civil rights and basic justice, the Obama Administration has decided to stem the tide on decades of this injustice. The Department of Justice’s decision to expand and expedite the clemency process has the potential to assist thousands of non-violent offenders serving lengthy sentences behind bars who would not be serving such lengthy terms under sentencing laws today. This action builds on the progress that the Judiciary Committee began, in the 111th Congress, in passing the Fair Sentencing Act to reduce the arbitrary disparity in drug sentencing.”“We commend President Obama for taking this historic first step, but in doing so we also call on Congress to lead the way for the United States to see lasting criminal justice reform. While clemency attempts to fix our broken system of mandatory sentencing on the back end - providing relief to a lucky individual plucked from the stack of petitions - it does not repair the unjust system that put thousands of individuals there in the first place. Congress must work to eliminate or greatly reduce mandatory minimum sentencing provisions, and enhance judge’s discretion to avoid disproportionate sentences when mandatory minimums are charged. Again and again studies show that mandatory sentences discriminate against minorities, are ineffective at preventing crime, are inefficient from a cost perspective, and often require judges to impose sentences that violate commonsense. For these reasons, we have a moral obligation to put an end to mandatory sentencing and pass laws with proportional penalties that make sense. Only then will justice truly be restored to an American criminal system gone awry.”# # #
04.22.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Members of Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott's District Office staff will hold satellite office hours to assist constituents living in Charles City on May 6th, Prince George and Surry on May 7th, and Petersburg on May 21st at the following locations:Charles City CountyTuesday, May 6, 2014 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.County Administration Building10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, VirginiaSurry CountyWednesday, May 7, 2014 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Surry County Community Center205 Enos Farm DriveSurry, VirginiaPrince George CountyWednesday, May 7, 2014 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Prince George County Library6402 Courts DrivePrince George, VirginiaPetersburgWednesday, May 21, 2014 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Petersburg City Hall135 North Union Street, 3rd floorPetersburg, VirginiaThe Congressman’s primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Congressman Scott’s staff also holds weekly satellite office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the Norfolk State University Police Department, second floor, on Corprew Avenue at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov.# # #
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) was recognized last week as a "Champion of Healthcare Innovation" by the Healthcare Leadership Council at their annual Healthcare Innovations Expo on Capitol Hill. "I am honored to be recognized as a Champion of Healthcare Innovation by the Healthcare Leadership Council," said Rep. Scott. "The Healthcare Leadership Council is an important coalition working to ensure that policymakers are developing policies, plans, and programs so that all Americans have access to affordable, high-quality care. Towards this goal, I was proud to support the Affordable Care Act in 2010, which has allowed millions of Americans to access affordable, quality health insurance. I look forward to working with the Healthcare Leadership Council in the future on improving our nation's healthcare system to make it more accessible, efficient and affordable for all." # # #
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) was presented a Congressional Leadership Award by the National Urban League for his work on protecting voting rights for all Americans and for his leadership role in the introduction and championing of the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014."I am honored to receive the National Urban League's Congressional Leadership Award for my work on voting rights," said Rep. Scott. "Last summer, the Supreme Court in Shelby County v. Holder struck down a critical voter protection provision of the Voting Rights Act. I have been working closely with my colleagues on a path forward in the aftermath of this decision. The Voting Rights Amendment Act, of which I am a cosponsor, is not a perfect bill, but it is certainly a step in the right direction. I applaud the efforts of the Urban League in fighting for voting rights for all and I look forward to continuing this fight as we push to amend the Voting Rights Act to protect this sacred right for all Americans."# # #
03.28.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - Tomorrow, with three days left in Obamacare's first open enrollment period, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) will attend Enrollfest in Petersburg. Enrollfest is one of many outreach events across Virginia focused on encouraging consumers to learn more about Obamacare and to enroll in coverage.“There are just a few days left to sign up for health insurance coverage that begins in 2014,” Rep. Scott stated. "Open enrollment for 2014 ends on March 31st, so if you, a family member, or a friend needs health insurance, now is the time to select a plan and get covered.""Events such as Enrollfest help to get the word out in the community and educate people about their options when it comes to healthcare," continued Rep. Scott. "There has been so much misinformation spread about Obamacare, but the more people we can educate about the benefits of the law, the more people understand what a good deal it is. The Marketplace allows people to shop for and enroll in affordable and comprehensive health insurance ? sometimes for the first time in their lives. It is important that we get the word out in these final days to make sure everyone can take advantage of the benefits of the law and get covered for 2014.”WHO: Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" ScottVirginians Enrolling in the Health Insurance MarketplaceWHAT: Celebrate Healthcare Presents Enrollfest in PetersburgWHERE: Zion Baptist Church225 Byrne StreetPetersburg, VA 23803WHEN: Saturday, March 27, 2014 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.mPress Availability at 10:00 a.m.To look for affordable health care options in Virginia, please visit www.healthcare.gov or call 1-800-318-2596. # # #
03.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) and Crime Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-Va.) issued the joint statement below following President Obama’s proposal to end the bulk telephone data collection program operated under the Foreign Surveillance Intelligence Act (FISA) and reform other aspects of our nation’s intelligence gathering programs.“President Obama has outlined many good ideas to reform our nation’s surveillance programs, including ending the bulk telephone data collection program. However, these ideas need to be implemented through legislation that protects our privacy. As the Committee of primary jurisdiction, we look forward to continuing to work on legislation with members from both sides of the aisle on the House Judiciary Committee to strengthen some of the ideas put forth by the President. It’s imperative that we reform our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs so that we better protect our civil liberties and regain the trust of the American people.”Background: Over the past several months, the House Judiciary Committee has conducted aggressive oversight of our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under FISA. In July 2013, the Committee held a public hearing to examine the statutory authorities that govern certain surveillance programs operated under FISA, in which the Committee heard from officials from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), the National Security Agency (NSA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and from civil liberties groups. In September 2013, the Committee also held a classified hearing where members of the House Judiciary Committee were afforded the opportunity to further probe government officials from the DOJ, the ODNI, the NSA, and the FBI about our nation’s surveillance programs. And in February 2014, the Committee held a comprehensive hearing to examine the various recommendations to reform or end these programs made by President Obama, the President’s Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies, and the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board.# # #
03.21.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – To commemorate the 4th Anniversary of the enactment of the Affordable Care Act, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) will visit the Community Free Clinic of Newport News on Monday, March 24, 2014 to highlight the successes of the law that have occurred right here in Hampton Roads. He will also urge the General Assembly to expand Medicaid in Virginia.WHO: Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" ScottVirginians Who Have Benefited from the Law and Virginians Who Stand to Benefit from the LawWHAT: Affordable Care Act SuccessesWHERE: The Community Free Clinic of Newport News727 25th Street, Newport News, Virginia 23607WHEN: Monday, March 24, 2014 at 9:30 a.m.# # #
03.21.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - This weekend, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will mark the fourth anniversary of the enactment of the Affordable Care Act by calling on uninsured Virginians to enroll in coverage by March 31st. President Obama signed this historic law on March 23, 2010.“Sunday marks the fourth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare,” Rep. Scott stated. “Four years later, we are seeing the law's provisions improve the lives of millions of people in the Commonwealth and across the United States.”“We know that the law's implementation has not been perfect," continued Rep. Scott. "But the truth is millions of Americans are better off now than they were four years ago. No one can ever again be denied coverage for a pre-existing condition. No one ever again has to worry that one major illness will mean bankruptcy for his or her family. No senior citizen will ever again have to pay a co-pay for key preventive services, such as cancer screenings. Despite the sound bites and misinformation that have spread over the past four years, these benefits are improving and will continue to improve the financial security of hardworking American families.""Additionally, Obamacare makes health insurance available to all Americans," Rep. Scott continued. "There are many people who - for the first time in their entire lives - can now access affordable and comprehensive health insurance through the Marketplace. Open enrollment for 2014 ends on March 31st, so if you, a family member, or a friend needs health insurance, now is the time to select a plan and get covered."To look for affordable health care options in Virginia, please visit www.healthcare.gov or call 1-800-318-2596. # # #
03.13.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced the beginning of the 21st Annual Third Congressional District High School Art Competition. The competition is open to all high school students (grades 9-12) residing in the Third Congressional District of Virginia. Entries are due Thursday, April 24, 2014.An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program.This year acceptable entries may include, but are not limited to, paintings, drawings, and photography. The first place winner will receive a scholarship and travel to Washington, DC to attend a Congressional Reception in honor of all the winners from around the nation. The first place entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year, where it will be seen by hundreds of thousands of people who visit the Capitol.Representative Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate and various other prizes at two upcoming receptions in the Third Congressional District.All entries must be submitted by Thursday, April 24, 2014. Students can submit their entries to either of Congressman Scott's District Offices in Newport News and Richmond. The Newport News District Office is located at 2600 Washington Avenue, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607. The Richmond District Office is located at 400 N 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, Virginia 23219.If you have any questions regarding this year's art competition, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.The guidelines for this year's competition can be accessed here: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/sites/bobbyscott.house.gov/files/migrated/uploads/2014_Art_Comp_Guidelines.pdf.# # #
03.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday evening, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) was honored by the National Association of County Behavioral Health and Development Disability Directors (NACBHDD) for his continued leadership on mental health issues in Congress."Mental illness and severe emotional stress affects millions of Americans every year and, unfortunately, too many problems go untreated," said Rep. Scott. "We have made great progress in ensuring that a range a health services are available for all Americans. The Affordable Care Act includes mental health and substance use disorder services in the 'essential health benefit' package, which all new health plans are now required to cover."It is an honor to be recognized by the National Association of County Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability Directors. This group helps ensure that our national policies are adequately addressing the needs of those with mental health disorders and developmental disabilities."Representatives Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Ron Barber (AZ-02), Paul Tonko (NY-20), and Tim Ryan (OH-13) were also recognized by the NACBHDD for their commitment to mental health.# # #
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the President's Fiscal Year 2015 Budget:"The President has laid out a comprehensive budget that calls for additional investments on top of the discretionary spending caps set by the last year's Bipartisan Budget Agreement. These additional investments in infrastructure, job training, education, advanced manufacturing, and other critical areas will help accelerate economic growth and expand opportunity for all hardworking Americans. Most importantly, the President has laid out a way to pay for these additional investments through closing tax loopholes and cutting spending elsewhere in the budget."Despite the President's proposed additional investments in both domestic and defense programs, I remain concerned with some of the choices that we will be forced to make if we do not adequately address sequestration. Nevertheless, I look forward to learning more about the many proposals included in the President's budget, such as expanding access to pre-school, the administration's plan to close the achievement gap, improving STEM education, and making college more affordable."# # #
03.02.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement upon learning of the passing of former Virginia state senator Dr. Benjamin J. Lambert, III:"I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my friend and former colleague in the Virginia General Assembly, Dr. Benjamin Lambert. Benny and I were elected to the House of Delegates the same year in 1977 and also served together in the Senate of Virginia. In the General Assembly, Benny was a very influential and effective legislator. He devoted his career in and out of public service to the citizens of Richmond and Central Virginia, always doing what he thought was best for his constituents, regardless of the political consequences. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends during this difficult time."# # #
02.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on yesterday's preview by Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel of the Department of Defense's Fiscal Year 2015 budget:"Secretary Chuck Hagel's Defense budget preview highlights the budget quagmire we have gotten ourselves into by prioritizing unaffordable tax cuts over addressing sequestration. The recently passed Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 only alleviated the impacts of sequestration for two years and, as the Secretary pointed out, if full sequestration funding reductions return in 2016, the consequences will be dire for military readiness. I am most concerned with the Secretary's statement that if sequestration is not fully addressed the Department will have to seriously consider retiring the George Washington, which would cancel her midlife refueling and overhaul at Newport News Shipbuilding. I am also concerned that the Department is requesting changes to military compensation and reducing the federal contribution to military commissaries, which may have serious impacts on troop morale, retention, and recruitment."Like every agency and department in the federal government, the Department of Defense has been forced to make difficult decisions and has been able to achieve significant savings that will not necessarily harm readiness. However, as so many experts have pointed out, the further reductions that will be required if sequestration is not fully addressed will be catastrophic not just for the Defense Department, but for every other critical function of government. We can blame the Secretary for pointing out what these tough choices are, but it is incumbent on Congress to seriously consider new revenues and revisiting the 2013 fiscal cliff deal. That deal made it all but impossible to fully cancel sequestration without significant and unpopular cuts, such as those currently being proposed, to Defense, Social Security, Medicare and other vital functions of government."# # #
02.18.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced today that he will be hosting Eugene Schneeberg, the Director of the Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships at the U.S. Department of Justice, on Thursday, February 20th in Newport News. Full details below. WHO:Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" ScottDirector Eugene Schneeberg, Center for Faith-Based and NeighborhoodPartnerships, U.S. Department of JusticeFaith and Community Leaders from Around Hampton RoadsWHAT:A Discussion on Youth Violence Prevention Measures, Mentoring Opportunities, and Other Faith-Based Policy InitiativesWHERE:Transformation Place @ Gethsemane Baptist Church5405 Roanoke Avenue, Newport News, Virginia 23605WHEN:Thursday, February 20, 2014 at 12:00 p.m.# # #
02.14.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia's decision in Bostic v. Rainey ruling that Virginia's same-sex marriage ban is unconstitutional:"I am pleased that the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia in Norfolk has ruled in favor of marriage equality. This ruling is based on sound reasoning and is consistent with a growing list of decisions by courts all over the country, beginning with Loving v. Virginia and including the recent Supreme Court decision in U.S. v. Windsor that struck down the so-called Defense of Marriage Act. Last night's decision is an important step forward for marriage equality in Virginia."# # #
02.13.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement regarding today's announcement that Newport News City Councilman Joseph Whitaker will not seek another term on City Council:"I congratulate Councilman Whitaker on a distinguished career in public service. Councilman Whitaker has served the South District with distinction since his election in 2004. Prior to serving on City Council, Councilman Whitaker served on the Newport News City Planning Commission. He also worked on behalf of the southeast community in many capacities, which includes maintaining his long association with the Boys and Girls Club, establishing a scholarship with the Newport News Redevelopment and Housing Authority for students who reside in public housing and fundraising for diabetes research with his annual 20 mile walks. I will miss working with him as a member of the Newport News City Council, but I look forward to continuing to work with him as he enters this next chapter of his career in public service."# # #
02.13.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement regarding today's announcement that Newport News City Councilman Joseph Whitaker will not seek another term on City Council:"I congratulate Councilman Whitaker on a distinguished career in public service. Councilman Whitaker has served the South District with distinction since his election in 2004. Prior to serving on City Council, Councilman Whitaker served on the Newport News City Planning Commission. He also worked on behalf of the southeast community in many capacities, which includes maintaining his long association with the Boys and Girls Club, establishing a scholarship with the Newport News Redevelopment and Housing Authority for students who reside in public housing and fundraising for diabetes research with his annual 20 mile walks. I will miss working with him as a member of the Newport News City Council, but I look forward to continuing to work with him as he enters this next chapter of his career in public service."# # #
02.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on this morning's jobs report for January 2014:"Today's jobs report marks the 47th consecutive month of private sector job growth. During this span, our economy has added more than 8.2 million private sector jobs and the unemployment rate has dropped to 6.6 percent. Despite these gains, too many Americans still remain out of work or underemployed. Congress can and must to more to further improve the economy. Raising the federal minimum wage and extending emergency unemployment insurance are two things Congress could do immediately to achieve this goal. Fundamentally, Congress must provide increased long-term and sustained direct investments in education, job training, domestic manufacturing, research and development, and our crumbling infrastructure to cement our recovery and move towards full employment. I hope my Republican colleagues in Congress will work with the President and Democrats to accelerate our economic growth."# # #
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the Ranking Membership of the Committee on Education and the Workforce for the 114th Congress:"With the retirement of Ranking Member George Miller and today's announcement that Congressman Rob Andrews will be leaving Congress at the end of this month, the House Education and the Workforce Committee is losing two staunch advocates for America's students and workers. Their expertise, passion, and leadership on the Committee have improved the lives of millions of Americans. I have enjoyed serving with Ranking Member Miller and Congressman Andrews on the Committee for the last 21 years and I have also valued their friendship. There are critical issues under the jurisdiction of this Committee that Congress must address this year, such as reauthorizing the Higher Education Act, reauthorizing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, raising the minimum wage, and ensuring retirement security for our nation's seniors. I know Ranking Member Miller will continue to be the Democratic Caucus' leading advocate on these issues for the remainder of the 113th Congress."As for the 114th Congress, we will need a strong and experienced voice leading Democrats on the Committee to continue to fight for our principles in education and labor policy. Over the next weeks and months, I will be discussing my interest in serving as Chairman or Ranking Member of this critical Committee with my colleagues in the Democratic Caucus and stakeholders outside of Congress."# # #
01.31.2014	By Robert C. "Bobby" ScottPrinted in the Richmond Times Dispatch | Friday, January 31, 2014In 1964, the Supreme Court noted in Wesberry v. Saunders, “No right is more precious in a free country than that of having a voice in the election of those who make the laws under which, as good citizens, we must live. Other rights, even the most basic, are illusory if the right to vote is undermined.” While this is certainly true, there is an unfortunate history in our country of blocking access to the ballot box for minorities. For this reason, Congress passed and President Lyndon Johnson signed into law the Voting Rights Act of 1965.The Voting Rights Act contains several important provisions; however, the pre-clearance provision in Section 5 is the essence of the law’s protections. Section 5 requires states and jurisdictions with a documented history of discrimination to submit changes to their election laws or procedures to the U.S. Department of Justice for approval. This process is commonly referred to as pre-clearance. Those states and areas that were initially covered by Section 5 were selected “the old-fashioned way — they earned it.” The purpose of Section 5 is not to punish states, but simply to stop a discriminatory scheme before it ever goes into effect.Another important section of the law is Section 2, which prohibits voting practices or procedures that have the intent or effect of discriminating based on race, color or language. Section 2 empowers the federal government or private citizens to bring an action in a court of law to stop a discriminatory practice. Under a Section 2 claim, a court would be authorized to extend or “bail in” Section 5 pre-clearance requirements to the violating jurisdiction.Unfortunately, last summer, the Supreme Court in Shelby County v. Holder struck down the coverage formula, essentially dismantling a fundamental voter protection of the Voting Rights Act. The court stated that the current coverage formula was not “grounded in current conditions.” With this decision, voters in the states and local jurisdictions with a long history of voter discrimination are no longer protected by Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act.Many members of Congress, including myself, were astonished by the Supreme Court’s decision because of the careful and diligent reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act in 2006 led by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., that was ultimately signed into law by President George W. Bush. It became incumbent on many of these same legislators, led by Sensenbrenner, to delicately craft legislation to appropriately respond to the Supreme Court and ensure that the core protections of the Voting Rights Act are restored. I was honored to be a part of this group of legislators.After months of careful deliberation, we were finally able to introduce the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014 earlier this month. The bill’s provisions seek to increase transparency and provide additional protections for voter rights, but a major portion of the bill is the updated formula to identify those jurisdictions subject to Section 5 coverage. If enacted, the new coverage formula will require a state to be covered if that state has committed five violations within a 15-year period. A local jurisdiction will be covered if it has committed three violations within a 15-year period or commits one violation during that period and has had what the bill refers to as “persistent and extremely low minority voter turnout.” This new formula would cover four states automatically if enacted: Georgia, Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. While this is fewer than the nine states previously covered in the old formula, it appears to be the best we can do under the rationale articulated by the Supreme Court in the Shelby decision.Despite our bill’s imperfections, I believe it is the most aggressive legislation possible after the Shelby decision. With this bill, Congress will ensure that the core protections of the Voting Rights Act will be restored. It is my hope that Congress will pass the Voting Rights Amendment Act quickly, so that the protections will be available for the 2014 elections.Robert C. “Bobby” Scott is serving his 11th term representing Virginia’s 3rd District in the U.S. House of Representatives. To contact him, please visit Facebook.com/congressmanbobbyscott, Twitter.com/repbobbyscott or www.bobbyscott.house.gov.As originally printed in the Richmond Times Dispatch: https://www.timesdispatch.com/opinion/their-opinion/columnists-blogs/guest-columnists/robert-c-bobby-scott-moving-forward-on-voting-rights/article_e1907767-d6f1-5f73-8542-326d7e0e6e8d.html
01.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Raúl Labrador (R-ID) and Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), authors of H.R. 3382, theSmarter Sentencing Act, commended the Senate Judiciary Committee today for approving S. 1410, the Senate version of the bill. The Smarter Sentencing Act would reform criminal sentencing laws, empowering judges to make individualized assessments in nonviolent drug cases. This would ensure that limited resources are focused on the most serious offenders, while maintaining public safety."The Senate Judiciary Committee’s passage of the bill today is a step forward on this important legislation," said Rep. Scott. “Granting federal judges more discretion in sentencing for nonviolent drug offenses is the right thing to do. Studies of mandatory minimums conclude that they fail to reduce crime, they waste the taxpayers’ money, and they often require the imposition of sentences that violate common sense. This bipartisan, bicameral bill targets particularly egregious mandatory minimums and returns discretion to federal judges in an incremental manner," Rep. Scott continued. "While the Senate Judiciary Committee's action today is an important step in updating sentencing policies that are not working, the amended bill, unfortunately, includes three new mandatory minimums. If this amended bill passes, we will end up with more mandatory minimums than we started with. The primary purpose of this legislation was to reduce the negative impact of mandatory minimums since they cost taxpayers too much and do nothing to make our families and communities safer. I hope the House Judiciary Committee will act on the original version of the bill."“I am pleased that momentum continues to build for our common-sense bipartisan legislation,” said Rep. Labrador. “There is a growing realization that the ‘one-size-fits-all approach’ to criminal sentencing has tied the hands of judges, hurt the cause of justice, and increased the burden on taxpayers, without making us safer. I appreciate the Senate Judiciary Committee for acting quickly and effectively, and I will keep working with my colleagues in both the House and the Senate to get this bill passed through Congress and become the law of the land.”During the past 30 years, the number of inmates in federal custody has grown by 500 percent, with nearly half of them serving sentences for drug offenses. Spending on federal incarceration has grown by more than 1100 percent. Today, it costs about $29,000 per year to house just one federal inmate. The Smarter Sentencing Act could save up to $1 billion in incarceration costs. The House-version of the Smarter Sentencing Act would do the following:Increase individualized review for certain drug sentencesIt would lower certain drug mandatory sentences, allowing judges to determine, based on individual circumstances, when the harshest penalties should apply (while not repealing any mandatory minimum sentences or lowering the maximum sentences for these offenses).Promote sentencing consistent with the bipartisan Fair Sentencing ActIt would allow certain inmates sentenced under the pre-Fair Sentencing Act sentencing regime to petition for sentence reductions consistent with the Fair Sentencing Act and current law, while not automatically reducing a single sentence.Expand the existing federal “safety valve” The legislative “safety valve” has been effective in allowing federal judges to appropriately sentence certain non-violent drug offenders below existing mandatory minimums. Today’s bill would modestly broaden criteria for eligibility.The Smarter Sentencing Act is endorsed by Heritage Action; Justice Fellowship of Prison Fellowship Ministries; ACLU; American Correctional Association; American Bar Association; NAACP; Constitution Project; and other organizations across the ideological spectrum.# # #
01.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Raúl Labrador (R-ID) and Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), authors of H.R. 3382, theSmarter Sentencing Act, commended the Senate Judiciary Committee today for approving S. 1410, the Senate version of the bill. The Smarter Sentencing Act would reform criminal sentencing laws, empowering judges to make individualized assessments in nonviolent drug cases. This would ensure that limited resources are focused on the most serious offenders, while maintaining public safety."The Senate Judiciary Committee’s passage of the bill today is a step forward on this important legislation," said Rep. Scott. “Granting federal judges more discretion in sentencing for nonviolent drug offenses is the right thing to do. Studies of mandatory minimums conclude that they fail to reduce crime, they waste the taxpayers’ money, and they often require the imposition of sentences that violate common sense. This bipartisan, bicameral bill targets particularly egregious mandatory minimums and returns discretion to federal judges in an incremental manner," Rep. Scott continued. "While the Senate Judiciary Committee's action today is an important step in updating sentencing policies that are not working, the amended bill, unfortunately, includes three new mandatory minimums. If this amended bill passes, we will end up with more mandatory minimums than we started with. The primary purpose of this legislation was to reduce the negative impact of mandatory minimums since they cost taxpayers too much and do nothing to make our families and communities safer. I hope the House Judiciary Committee will act on the original version of the bill."“I am pleased that momentum continues to build for our common-sense bipartisan legislation,” said Rep. Labrador. “There is a growing realization that the ‘one-size-fits-all approach’ to criminal sentencing has tied the hands of judges, hurt the cause of justice, and increased the burden on taxpayers, without making us safer. I appreciate the Senate Judiciary Committee for acting quickly and effectively, and I will keep working with my colleagues in both the House and the Senate to get this bill passed through Congress and become the law of the land.”During the past 30 years, the number of inmates in federal custody has grown by 500 percent, with nearly half of them serving sentences for drug offenses. Spending on federal incarceration has grown by more than 1100 percent. Today, it costs about $29,000 per year to house just one federal inmate. The Smarter Sentencing Act could save up to $1 billion in incarceration costs. The House-version of the Smarter Sentencing Act would do the following:Increase individualized review for certain drug sentencesIt would lower certain drug mandatory sentences, allowing judges to determine, based on individual circumstances, when the harshest penalties should apply (while not repealing any mandatory minimum sentences or lowering the maximum sentences for these offenses).Promote sentencing consistent with the bipartisan Fair Sentencing ActIt would allow certain inmates sentenced under the pre-Fair Sentencing Act sentencing regime to petition for sentence reductions consistent with the Fair Sentencing Act and current law, while not automatically reducing a single sentence.Expand the existing federal “safety valve” The legislative “safety valve” has been effective in allowing federal judges to appropriately sentence certain non-violent drug offenders below existing mandatory minimums. Today’s bill would modestly broaden criteria for eligibility.The Smarter Sentencing Act is endorsed by Heritage Action; Justice Fellowship of Prison Fellowship Ministries; ACLU; American Correctional Association; American Bar Association; NAACP; Constitution Project; and other organizations across the ideological spectrum.# # #
01.30.2014	By Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" ScottFifty years ago this month, President Lyndon B. Johnson proposed anti-poverty legislation and declared a War on Poverty. Fifty years later, we are still fighting to eradicate poverty in the United States.Poverty rates have declined from the 19% that existed in 1964, but we have never seen the rate in single digits and today it is still a troubling 15%. President Johnson said that, "Very often a lack of jobs and money is not the cause of poverty, but the symptom. The cause may lie deeper in our failure to give our fellow citizens a fair chance to develop their own capacities, in a lack of education and training, in a lack of medical care and housing, in a lack of decent communities in which to live and bring up their children." Those words could not be truer today.Why have we not yet won the War on Poverty? Part of the reason has been Washington's preference for tax cuts rather than focusing first on the investments which can grow our economy and lift people out of poverty. In 2001, we squandered a $5.6 trillion 10-year projected surplus on tax cuts that primarily benefited the wealthiest among us and then racked up an additional $5 trillion in new debt. This left President Obama with an annual federal budget deficit topping $1.2 trillion when he first took office in 2009 and instead of letting the tax cuts expire and investing the restored revenue in jobs and education, we unfortunately permanently extended most of those tax cuts in 2013. Congress is now scrambling to find a way to pay for that extension by slashing many of the programs President Johnson created to fight poverty. Instead of more tax cuts, we must make the tax code more fair to ensure that the wealthiest pay their fair share so that we will have resources necessary to make bold new investments in education, job training, health care, housing, and comprehensive unemployment benefits which would pay huge dividends both for our economy and those living in poverty.The best strategy to defeat poverty requires investments in education and job training, beginning with early education and continuing through college or vocational education, as well as adult education and job training. A well-educated workforce is more important today than ever before. With the rapid development of the global marketplace, the United States is no longer the single dominant country in the world economy. Our nation's workers are in direct competition with workers from other countries. If we do not prepare our citizens for the jobs of tomorrow, then those jobs will go to workers who are prepared, where ever in the world they may live.Unfortunately, there is also a trend that makes it hard for even those with a job to stay afloat – rising income inequality. Just 3.2 percent of the income in the nation goes to the bottom 20 percent of households, with only around 26 percent going to the bottom 60 percent. One way to address this inequality is to provide a long overdue increase in the federal minimum wage. Raising the minimum wage not only increases workers’ incomes and reduces turnover, it is also stimulative for our economy. We can choose to require companies to pay their employees a fair, living wage so that they can afford food and housing for their families or we, as taxpayers, can be left picking up the tab through increased public assistance costs when these low-wage workers can't pay their bills. This is one specific action that Washington can take to get serious in addressing poverty. We also need to address pervasive pay disparities. Women and minorities earn significantly less than white men and when they bring home less money each day, it means their families have less for their everyday needs. Legislatively we should help close the wage gap by providing effective remedies to those who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work.Fifty years ago, President Johnson recognized that poverty was the biggest drain on our country and our society and one of the biggest concerns of that time. Today, poverty still persists and we need to start making the tough choices necessary to eradicate it. We know what we need to do, but it's up to Washington to get serious. It's my hope that fifty years from today when we celebrate the 100th anniversary of President Johnson's declaration, we can celebrate our victory eradicating poverty.Congressman Bobby Scott is currently serving his eleventh term representing the Third Congressional District of Virginia in the U.S. House of Representatives. He serves on the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Education and the Workforce.Permalink: https://politic365.com/2014/01/29/rep-scott-recommitting-ourselves-to-ending-poverty-in-america/
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his Yes vote on the Conference Report on H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act:"I voted in favor of the conference report on the Farm Bill because it is the best compromise that can be achieved in our divided government. The bill continues to authorize critical funds to preserve and restore the Chesapeake Bay through the Regional Conservation Partnership Program. This will allow states in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed, including Virginia, to continue to work with the Federal government to ensure that future generations are able to enjoy the Bay. Additionally, the bill includes increased investments in our nation's food banks, which will help ensure that more families can get access to nutritious foods in times of need."According to CBO, this compromise will save approximately $16.6 billion on the deficit over the next decade through closing a loophole in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and repealing the direct payment program for farmers. The modest savings in the nutrition assistance program are achieved by closing a loophole related to how Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program payments interact with the nutrition benefit calculation. For Virginians, this change will not have any impact on nutrition assistance beneficiaries."It should be noted, however, that we would not have even needed to squeeze money out of nutrition assistance had we not passed the 2013 fiscal cliff deal, which added $3.9 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. Nevertheless, compared to the draconian $40 billion cut to the nutrition assistance program favored by House Republicans, I believe that these savings in this compromise bill are the least harmful and will ensure that the program continues to assist families that need it the most."# # #
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on President Barack Obama's State of the Union Address to a joint session of Congress:"Tonight, the President charged Congress to refocus our attention on the everyday economic concerns of middle-class Americans. It has been five years since the Democratic Congress worked with this President in passing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which laid the groundwork for our economic recovery. Since then, our economy has been growing steadily, adding jobs in the private sector for 46 consecutive months. But as the President pointed out tonight, more needs to be done because too many Americans are not feeling the benefits of the recovery."Congress must do more to expand economic opportunity. Extending emergency unemployment insurance and raising the federal minimum wage are two things that we could do immediately to help hardworking American families. This can be a year of action if we decide to work together. The President outlined an agenda tonight that, if acted upon, can expand economic opportunity for millions of Americans."# # #
01.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB) released a report criticizing and calling for an end to the National Security Agency’s (NSA) sweeping telephone metadata collection program. The PCLOB cited the program, currently permitted under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, as having “little unique value” in investigating and preventing terrorism. This comes on the heels of President Obama’s speech at the Department of Justice last Friday calling for Congressional action to curb excesses in the United State’s surveillance programs. After the report was released, Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.) issued the following statement:Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.): “In 2007, Democratic Members of the House Judiciary Committee called for the creation of an independent civil liberties watchdog to respond to expanding government surveillance programs and capabilities. Ultimately, our advocacy resulted in the creation of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Today, the board released its long-awaited report on the government’s use of Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act. The report concludes that the telephone metadata program has provided no significant contribution to our national security, at great cost to our privacy and pocketbooks. I agree, and urge Congress to take immediate action to discontinue the program as soon as is practicable. Moreover, as many of the PCLOB’s recommendations overlap with bipartisan surveillance legislation I co-authored – the USA FREEDOM Act – I am confident that meaningful reform of the NSA’s dragnet surveillance operations can be realized.”Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.): “I applaud the work of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board and welcome their voice in this critical debate over whether our existing surveillance scheme adequately safeguards Americans’ constitutional rights and Congress’s statutory demands. I agree with their conclusion that the National Security Agency must end its indiscriminant bulk surveillance of the American people. We know that this sort of mass collection of data does not make us safer and undermines our constitutionally protected rights. Working from these recommendations, along with those outlined in the USA FREEDOM Act, Congress must reform the law to ensure that there is real and lasting change and that the Constitution is fully respected.”Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.): “Last week, President Obama spoke in detail about the need to reform the program of bulk metadata collection under section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act, and today the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board issued its report calling for the end of that program. I have been particularly concerned that the manner in which the statute has been interpreted places virtually no statutory limits on the collection or use of the metadata. The conclusions reached in this report reinforce the fact that executive action alone will not be enough. Now is the time for Congress to act, and we must trust but codify.”# # #
01.22.2014	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the report and recommendations of the Presidential Commission on Election Administration released this morning:"I commend the President for establishing this commission of experts to review election administration in the United States. During the 2012 election, there were numerous reports of severely long lines at the polls throughout Virginia on Election Day, as well as reports of issues with voter registration. The Commission's report provides several important recommendations that our local and state election officials should review to better allocate election resources, improve access to the polls, streamline voter registration, and reduce wait times. Congress should also closely look at these recommendations to see how the federal government can assist state and local governments in improving how elections are administered."Expanding and improving access to voting is a critical goal, but we must also exert equal effort on preventing and eliminating voter discrimination. Last year's Supreme Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder undermined a significant portion of the Voting Rights Act and that is why Congress must pass the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014 to restore important protections against discrimination in voting."The Commission's full report can be accessed online at: www.supportthevoter.gov.# # #
01.17.2014	House Judiciary Democrats Seek Legislative Action on Comprehensive Surveillance ReformWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Ranking Member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) attended President Obama’s address on surveillance reform at the Department of Justice. In his remarks, the President concurred with many of the findings of the Review Group he convened on Intelligence and Communications Technologies—including its recommendation that the government should no longer engage in the bulk collection of telephone metadata at the National Security Agency (NSA). After the President concluded his remarks, Congressman Conyers, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), and Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.) issued the following statement:Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.): “President Obama has taken a courageous first step towards improving oversight of these surveillance programs, reassuring our foreign allies, and restoring the public’s trust. Perhaps most importantly, the government will take immediate action to mitigate the damage caused by the NSA’s massive bulk collection programs. Yet, even if implemented in full, the President’s proposals are not the end of our efforts to reign in excessive government surveillance - they are the first steps. Now, with the President’s remarks behind us, it falls to Congress - and, specifically, to the House Judiciary Committee - to begin the hard work of putting these proposals, and others, into practice. In my judgment, the best vehicle for that effort remains H.R. 3361, the bipartisan ‘USA FREEDOM Act,’ which requires more disclosure from the government, places a public advocate within the FISA court, and permanently ends bulk collection under Section 215 of the Patriot Act. As President Obama stated, ‘while the reforms that I have announced will point us in a new direction, I am mindful that more work will be needed in the future.’ I agree with the President, and look forward to Congress stepping up to the challenge of legislating comprehensive surveillance reform.”Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.): “Today’s speech by President Obama is a welcome step in the right direction, but the reforms proposed by the President are not enough. Executive branch overreach in the name of national security did not start - and will not end - with this Administration. The balance of powers enumerated in the Constitution must be respected for generations to come, regardless of who occupies the White House. Congress, and specifically the House Judiciary Committee, will continue to work to protect the American people from an intrusive Executive Branch, which all too often operates in secrecy and without proper accountability. We will make sure that President Obama follows through on the promises he made today, and will fight for further legal reforms to safeguard against indiscriminate, bulk surveillance of everyday Americans. We will ensure that our hard-fought freedoms are fully respected.”Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.): “In his address concerning surveillance conducted by the NSA, the President recognized the need for reform. I am pleased he is taking steps to limit some of the programs which have raised particular concerns, and I welcome his call for consultation with Congress on these issues. It is now time for Congress to take the next step by enacting legislation to appropriately limit these programs. For instance, the manner in which Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act has been interpreted places virtually no limits on the collection or use of the metadata, and Congress must take action to ensure reforms are enacted into law. While changes to these programs through executive action are welcome, we must trust but codify.”# # #
01.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-02), John Conyers (MI-13), John Lewis (GA-05), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), Steve Chabot (OH-01), Shelia Jackson-Lee (TX-18), Spencer Bachus (AL-06), Steny Hoyer (MD-05), and Sean Duffy (WI-07) introduced the Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014 (H.R. 3899). The legislation updates the Voting Rights Act in response to the U.S. Supreme Court's 2013 decision in Shelby County v. Holder."The Voting Rights Amendment Act of 2014 was introduced in response to the Supreme Court's decision in Shelby County v. Holder, which struck down a significant part of the Voting Rights Act," said Rep. Scott. "Since this decision, I have worked closely with my colleagues in a bipartisan way to ensure that voting rights are adequately protected in the wake of the Supreme Court's decision."# # #
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on Congressman Jim Moran's (VA-08) announcement that he will retire from Congress at the end of the 113th Congress:"For more than two decades, Jim Moran has been a leading voice on the budget and protecting our environment, as well as a staunch advocate for our nation's veterans and federal employees. He has become a close friend and colleague, especially on budget issues. Jim and I were part of a small minority in Congress last year that correctly pointed out that permanently extending the Bush-era tax cuts would have devastating consequences for the budget."As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, Jim has been a leader in attempts to protect vital government programs from the draconian spending cuts that have been required to pay for those unaffordable tax cuts. Jim has also been a leader in Congress championing additional funding for PTSD research, treatment and care for our returning veterans from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. He has also been a leader in supporting funding for shipbuilding, which is a critical concern for my district."I have especially enjoyed working with him in advocating for more resources for restoring and protecting the Chesapeake Bay, and opposing efforts to allow oil drilling off Virginia's precious coast line. And just last year in the wake of the government shutdown, Jim Moran was leading the charge to ensure that the hundreds of thousands of furloughed federal employees would not be penalized for the government shutdown caused by the obstruction of a small minority in Congress."The Commonwealth and the House of Representatives are losing a dedicated public servant and a skilled and thoughtful legislator. I look forward to working with Jim for the remainder of his term and I wish him well on the next chapter in his career."# # #
01.08.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the Navy helicopter crash off the coast of Virginia:"The Navy and the Coast Guard have kept me informed about today's unfortunate Navy helicopter crash off the coast of Virginia Beach and the ongoing search and rescue effort. I was saddened to hear of the confirmed death of one of the helicopter's crewmembers. We must always remember the tremendous sacrifices our men and women in uniform make each and every day both here at home and abroad. My thoughts and prayers are with all of the crewmembers and their families."# # #
12.19.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, President Obama commuted the sentences of eight federal inmates serving lengthy time behind bars for nonviolent offenses related to crack cocaine under an older sentencing regime. This decision follows the implementation in 2011 of the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, landmark criminal justice legislation that reduced mandatory minimum sentences for crack offenses and minimized the arbitrary disparity between crack and powder cocaine. Ranking Member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.), were both the primary sponsors of this legislation in the House of Representatives. In addition, they wrote to President Obama in May of 2012 about the mishandling of Clarence Aaron’s application for clemency by the U.S. Pardon Attorney’s office and pointed out the injustice of his situation. Clarence Aaron is one of the eight individuals whose sentence was commuted today. Reps. Conyers and Scott issued the following statement in response to the news:Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.): “After decades of criminal and racial injustice in our drug sentencing policies, Congress took action in 2010 to counter these regressive trends by passing the Fair Sentencing Act. This legislation reduced the arbitrary disparity between harsh sentences for crack cocaine offenders versus those sentenced for powder cocaine offenses. However, many individuals sentenced prior to the Fair Sentencing Act being signed into law remain unfairly behind bars today. Today, President Obama commuted the sentences of eight such individuals serving excessive sentences. As we work in Congress to bring fairness and justice back into our criminal justice laws, I welcome this step by the President. ”Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.): “Today, President Obama commuted the prison terms of eight men and women who were sentenced under unfair sentencing laws. Commuting these sentences was the right thing to do. But eight commutations does not fix a broken system. Congress must enact sentencing reform measures such as H.R. 3382, the Smarter Sentencing Act, which would allow courts to make individualized assessments in nonviolent drug cases by allowing courts to resentence defendants consistent with the bipartisan Fair Sentencing Act, and H.R. 1695, the Justice Safety Valve Act, which would give judges authority to sentence offenders below the mandatory minimums if those mandatory sentences would be unjust. Congress should pass these bills next year so we can begin to fix the failed sentencing system.”# # #
12.19.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on today's announcement by Virginia Governor-elect Terry McAuliffe nominating former Hampton Mayor Molly Ward to serve as Virginia's next Secretary of Natural Resources:"I commend Governor-elect McAuliffe for his wise selection of Molly Ward to serve as the Commonwealth's next Secretary of Natural Resources. Having served as Hampton's Mayor and City Treasurer and as a special assistant to the President of the United States, Molly is one of Virginia's most faithful and dedicated public servants. She has shown time and time again that she is capable of bringing diverse groups and interests together for a common purpose. Most recently, she did this through her efforts as Mayor of Hampton to designate Fort Monroe as a National Monument, which required her to work with numerous local, state, and federal stakeholders and diverse private interests. This type of experience is critical for our next Secretary of Natural Resources to ensure that we protect the Commonwealth's precious natural and historic resources. I congratulate Molly on her nomination and I look forward to working with her in her new role."# # #
12.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on yesterday's announcement by Congressman Frank Wolf (VA-10) that he will retire from Congress at the end of his current term:"Frank Wolf has dedicated his career to serving the citizens of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Since the retirement of Senator John Warner, Frank has been the Dean of the Virginia Congressional Delegation, and he has ensured that our delegation continues the tradition of working together for the benefit of the Commonwealth. The House of Representatives is also a better institution because of Frank Wolf. His service to his constituents, his ability to work across the aisle and his dedication to defending human rights serve as a strong model for all those that serve and will serve in the future. While this announcement is a significant loss for the House and the Commonwealth, I look forward to being able to continue to work with Frank Wolf during the remainder of his term."# # #
12.18.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on yesterday's announcement by Congressman Frank Wolf (VA-10) that he will retire from Congress at the end of his current term:"Frank Wolf has dedicated his career to serving the citizens of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Since the retirement of Senator John Warner, Frank has been the Dean of the Virginia Congressional Delegation, and he has ensured that our delegation continues the tradition of working together for the benefit of the Commonwealth. The House of Representatives is also a better institution because of Frank Wolf. His service to his constituents, his ability to work across the aisle and his dedication to defending human rights serve as a strong model for all those that serve and will serve in the future. While this announcement is a significant loss for the House and the Commonwealth, I look forward to being able to continue to work with Frank Wolf during the remainder of his term."# # #
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on H.J. Res. 59, the Bipartisan Budget Act, which establishes overall discretionary spending of $1.012 trillion for fiscal year 2014 and alleviates the sequester for fiscal years 2014 and 2015:"This budget agreement is another predictable consequence of the fundamental principles of arithmetic after Congress passed an extension of $3.9 trillion in tax cuts at the beginning of the year. As I said on January 1, when Congress passed the 'Fiscal Cliff Deal': 'Responsibly reducing our budget deficit requires making tough, unpopular choices. We didn't do that today since this bill does nothing to reduce our deficit. In fact, according to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill will add $3.9 trillion to our deficit. It does, however, make the task of responsibly reducing our deficit all the more difficult and makes it much more likely that seniors, the disabled, students, and our most vulnerable communities will bear the greatest burden when Congress eventually pays for what we did today.' "So you cannot pass a tax cut of that magnitude and still attempt to realistically address the deficit without either raising new revenues or deeply cutting Defense, Medicare, Social Security, and other vital government programs. This agreement highlights the reality that it is unlikely that any meaningful new revenue will be possible anytime soon. And so this agreement will continue to limit our ability to make strong and sustained investments in education, transportation and infrastructure, job training, and advanced research and development – all things we know will grow our economy and create jobs."I reluctantly support this agreement, because the alternatives are worse. Sequestration and budgetary challenges have already inflicted damage on my constituents – thousands of federal employees were furloughed, too many children were denied access to Head Start, interest on student loans has increased, and construction of a new aircraft carrier was delayed. Even with this agreement, funding challenges in Medicare were only delayed, not solved. But without this agreement, sequestration would inflict serious harm on our economy in 2014, jeopardizing funding for shipbuilding, NASA, and other investments in our future, as well as the social safety net. This agreement falls far short in actually addressing the long-term threat of sequestration and fails to extend emergency unemployment insurance for 1.3 million Americans still looking for work. Unfortunately, there was no better alternative after we started the year with a $3.9 trillion tax cut."# # #
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Ron Barber (AZ-02), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Bobby Scott (VA-03), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), and Jackie Speier (CA-14) co-hosted a mental health training administered by the House Office of Employee Assistance (HOEA) for Members of Congress and their staff in advance of the one year anniversary of the tragic shooting in Newtown, Connecticut.“We have made positive strides in mental health in 2013, and we must continue to build on this momentum and eliminate stigma,” said Rep. Grace Napolitano. “Mental illness knows no boundaries, affects all segments of our society, regardless of race, class, or gender. By educating ourselves and our staff, we are creating healthier workplaces and ensuring that we can be prepared in the event of crises. I sincerely thank all of my colleagues and their staff for participating in the training, and in our effort to raise mental health awareness by speaking out and bringing light to a long neglected issue. It is critical that everyone – elected officials, mental health professionals, and the general public – be part of the conversation, become properly informed and educated about mental health. We can prevent tragedies and save lives through educating people on the warning signs of mental health issues, connecting them with available resources, and encouraging them to seek help.”“Much work remains to be done to improve mental health care in our country,” said Rep. Paul Tonko. “Whether it’s improving access or delivery of care, removing the stigma that comes from seeking help, or simply raising awareness, we have many issues that can only be successfully tackled in a bipartisan fashion.”“An estimated 1 in 5 adults experiences a mental illness in any given year, so this type of training is beneficial for everyone,” said Rep. Ron Barber. “Most mental illnesses are treatable and this event gives people some of the tools they need to help a person in need get assistance. And it could help identify individuals who are a danger to themselves or others.”“"Mental health affects every aspect of one's life – from physical health to one's ability to succeed in school, at work, and in society,” said Rep. Bobby Scott. “It is important that we both educate ourselves about mental illness and ensure that our nation's health policies include a full spectrum of care services for mental health disorders. The reality of the situation is that most families in the United States are affected by mental illness in some capacity. You can look at the recent tragedy involving a member of the Virginia State Senate and his son who was left untreated for mental health problems. That is the reason we are having this training today – even politicians such as Members of Congress and members of their staff are not immune to mental health challenges any more than we are immune to cancer or heart attacks. This training represents a small step towards making sure that all Americans understand the full implications of mental health by raising awareness and encouraging others to better identify and more effectively respond to the mental health issues facing millions of Americans.”“Today’s Mental Health training adds to our continued fight to eliminate the stigma associated with mental illness,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. “As a psychiatric social worker by profession, I know how important quality mental health care is to our families, our workplaces, and our communities.”“Educating ourselves on how vital mental health is to a quality life is critical,” said Rep. Jackie Speier. “People who suffer with mental illness must be treated with respect and compassion. Sometimes mental illness is identified yet ignored. We need to see it as less of a stigma and more as a disease that deserves treatment. Learning what those signs are and increased training on the matter will go a long way toward keeping us all safe.”Today’s training provided information on how to recognize the signs and symptoms of mental illness and stress factors. Attendees learned what to do in a crisis situation and how to locate appropriate mental health resources. The training, conducted by licensed mental health professionals through HOEA, focused on how to properly address mental health care in the workplace.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the Senate's confirmation of Congressman Mel Watt (NC-12) as Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA):"I congratulate my friend and colleague Mel Watt on his confirmation as Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The House of Representatives is losing a very talented and effective legislator, but the American people are gaining an experienced and dedicated public servant to lead this important agency. A Yale educated lawyer with significant private practice experience in real estate transactions and over 20 years of valuable experience on the House Financial Services Committee, Mel is uniquely qualified to lead the FHFA. He has spent his career in Congress working to ensure that all Americans have access to affordable housing and are protected from deceptive and predatory lending practices. I know that he will continue to do this in his new role as Director of the FHFA."# # #
12.09.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) joined other Members of Congress on a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Johannesburg, South Africa to attend the memorial service for former South African President Nelson Mandela. The memorial service will be held on Tuesday, December 10th. The CODEL departed from Joint Base Andrews, Maryland for South Africa early this morning.Last Thursday, December 5, 2013, Congressman Scott issued the following statement on the passing of Nelson Mandela:"With the passing of Nelson Mandela, the world has lost one of its most unwavering advocates for freedom, democracy, and equality. His life and legacy will always be a source of inspiration for all who seek freedom's embrace. My thoughts and prayers are with the Mandela family and the people of South Africa."# # #
12.09.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) joined other Members of Congress on a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Johannesburg, South Africa to attend the memorial service for former South African President Nelson Mandela. The memorial service will be held on Tuesday, December 10th. The CODEL departed from Joint Base Andrews, Maryland for South Africa early this morning.Last Thursday, December 5, 2013, Congressman Scott issued the following statement on the passing of Nelson Mandela:"With the passing of Nelson Mandela, the world has lost one of its most unwavering advocates for freedom, democracy, and equality. His life and legacy will always be a source of inspiration for all who seek freedom's embrace. My thoughts and prayers are with the Mandela family and the people of South Africa."# # #
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of former South African President Nelson Mandela:"With the passing of Nelson Mandela, the world has lost one of its most unwavering advocates for freedom, democracy, and equality. His life and legacy will always be a source of inspiration for all who seek freedom's embrace. My thoughts and prayers are with the Mandela family and the people of South Africa."# # #
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced that nearly three million Virginians have gained access to free preventive care, such as recommended cancer screenings and immunizations, because of the Affordable Care Act. The number includes both individuals with private insurance and seniors enrolled in Medicare."I am pleased to announce that nearly three million Virginians have already received expanded coverage for preventive services under the Affordable Care Act," said Rep. Scott. "We all know the importance of receiving preventive care and the Affordable Care Act has made great strides in increasing access to essential preventive medicine. Access to prevention means that families can get the care they need early on, decreasing the risk that they might develop a more serious and more expensive medical condition. For example, when breast cancer is detected early, the five-year relative survival rate is 98%, but declines to 23% when cancer has spread to other parts of the body. And unfortunately, before the Affordable Care Act, too many Americans put off their checkups or screenings because they could not afford the co-pays or deductibles. No one should ever have to forego a life-saving screening because he or she lacks the money or the insurance. And now, thankfully, the Affordable Care Act has ensured that all Americans have full access to preventive care."# # #
12.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Members of Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott's District Office Staff will hold satellite office hours to assist constituents living in Surry County on December 10th, Prince George on December 12th, and Petersburg on December 17th at the following locations:Surry CountyTuesday, December 10, 2013 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Surry County Community Center205 Enos Farm DriveSurry, VirginiaPrince George CountyThursday, December 12, 2013 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Prince George County Library6402 Courts DrivePrince George, VirginiaPetersburgTuesday, December 17, 2013 – 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.Petersburg City Hall135 North Union Street, 3rd floorPetersburg, VirginiaThe Congressman’s primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Congressman Scott’s staff also holds weekly satellite office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the Norfolk State University Police Department, second floor, on Corprew Avenue at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov.# # #
12.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Members of Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott's District Office Staff will hold satellite office hours to assist constituents living in Surry County on December 10th, Charles City County on December 11th, Prince George on December 12th, and Petersburg on December 17th at the following locations:Surry CountyTuesday, December 10, 2013 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Surry County Community Center205 Enos Farm DriveSurry, VirginiaCharles City CountyWednesday, December 11, 2013 – 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.County Administration Building10900 Courthouse Road,Charles City County, VA Prince George CountyThursday, December 12, 2013 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Prince George County Library6402 Courts DrivePrince George, VirginiaPetersburgTuesday, December 17, 2013 – 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.Petersburg City Hall135 North Union Street, 3rd floorPetersburg, VirginiaThe Congressman’s primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Congressman Scott’s staff also holds weekly satellite office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the Norfolk State University Police Department, second floor, on Corprew Avenue at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov.# # #
11.27.2013	RICHMOND, VA – Congressmen Bobby Scott (VA-3) and Eric Cantor (VA-7) today joined students from St. Christopher’s School to volunteer at FeedMore’s Central Virginia Food Bank. The Congressmen helped prepare weekend backpacks for children who do not have reliable access to nutritional meals other than those provided at school. This is part of an ongoing #ServiceRVA effort to encourage more people to give back to the community.Congressman Scott added, "I am pleased to join Congressman Cantor in giving back to our community this Thanksgiving. FeedMore's Central Virginia Food Bank is a vital resource for those in our community facing food insecurity. FeedMore's work is possible because of the generous donations of time, money, and food from the people right here in the greater Richmond community who understand that caring for one another is essential to the betterment of our community."Congressman Cantor said, "Helping those in need is the best way to strengthen our community. During the holiday season, many groups need even more helping hands. I was pleased to join Congressman Scott and the FeedMore’s Central Virginia Food Bank to ensure that no child in the Richmond area will go without a warm meal over the Thanksgiving holiday. I am always impressed by the generosity of Virginians and encourage everyone to embrace the spirit of #ServiceRVA and give back to the community in their own way.”Gayle Haglund, Chief Philanthropy Officer at FeedMore, added, “With hunger in our region continuing to pose such a challenge, we at FeedMore truly welcome the time, volunteerism, and conversation we had today with Congressmen Cantor and Scott. There are deep solutions needed – by working together in true collaboration, we will make progress. We thank the congressmen sincerely for their return to FeedMore today!”About Weekend Backpack Program:Around the region, you’ll find many teachers who can tell you about a student who came to school on Monday, not reluctant to start the school week but eager to get back to school after going through Friday evening, all day Saturday, and all day Sunday without a square meal—or knowledge of a source for their next meal. Those children are the reason we started the BackPack Program. The BackPack Program is one of FeedMore’s major initiatives to ensure that children in need have balanced, nutritious food they need to learn and grow. The concept is simple: children at risk of weekend hunger receive a bag of food that is child-friendly, nutritious, nonperishable, and easy to prepare/eat. Each BackPack offers enough food that children can easily assemble into six healthy meals over the weekend when schools are unable to provide breakfasts or lunches. By partnering with Communities in Schools, school staff, and local school systems, the BackPacks are distributed to children in need through the school system—discreetly—each Friday afternoon or before a long holiday weekend. Courtesy of FeedMore Central VA Food Bank# # #
11.27.2013	RICHMOND, VA – Congressmen Bobby Scott (VA-3) and Eric Cantor (VA-7) today joined students from St. Christopher’s School to volunteer at FeedMore’s Central Virginia Food Bank. The Congressmen helped prepare weekend backpacks for children who do not have reliable access to nutritional meals other than those provided at school. This is part of an ongoing #ServiceRVA effort to encourage more people to give back to the community.Congressman Scott said, "I am pleased to join Congressman Cantor in giving back to our community this Thanksgiving. FeedMore's Central Virginia Food Bank is a vital resource for those in our community facing food insecurity. FeedMore's work is possible because of the generous donations of time, money, and food from the people right here in the greater Richmond community who understand that caring for one another is essential to the betterment of our community."Congressman Cantor added, "Helping those in need is the best way to strengthen our community. During the holiday season, many groups need even more helping hands. I was pleased to join Congressman Scott and the FeedMore’s Central Virginia Food Bank to ensure that no child in the Richmond area will go without a warm meal over the Thanksgiving holiday. I am always impressed by the generosity of Virginians and encourage everyone to embrace the spirit of #ServiceRVA and give back to the community in their own way.”Gayle Haglund, Chief Philanthropy Officer at FeedMore, added, “With hunger in our region continuing to pose such a challenge, we at FeedMore truly welcome the time, volunteerism, and conversation we had today with Congressmen Cantor and Scott. There are deep solutions needed – by working together in true collaboration, we will make progress. We thank the congressmen sincerely for their return to FeedMore today!”About Weekend Backpack Program:Around the region, you’ll find many teachers who can tell you about a student who came to school on Monday, not reluctant to start the school week but eager to get back to school after going through Friday evening, all day Saturday, and all day Sunday without a square meal—or knowledge of a source for their next meal. Those children are the reason we started the BackPack Program. The BackPack Program is one of FeedMore’s major initiatives to ensure that children in need have balanced, nutritious food they need to learn and grow. The concept is simple: children at risk of weekend hunger receive a bag of food that is child-friendly, nutritious, nonperishable, and easy to prepare/eat. Each BackPack offers enough food that children can easily assemble into six healthy meals over the weekend when schools are unable to provide breakfasts or lunches. By partnering with Communities in Schools, school staff, and local school systems, the BackPacks are distributed to children in need through the school system—discreetly—each Friday afternoon or before a long holiday weekend. Courtesy of FeedMore Central VA Food Bank# # #
11.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Dick Durbin, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Human Rights, and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, along with Senator Mazie Hirono and Reps. John Conyers, Jr., Bobby Scott, Marcia Fudge, and Luis Gutiérrez, sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder requesting that the Department of Justice collect additional information on “stand your ground” laws to fully document their disparate racial impacts in communities across the country.“More than half of all Americans live in states with ‘stand your ground’ laws on the books,” Durbin said. “We learned in a recent hearing I chaired that these laws have led to increased violence and wider racial disparities, but the federal government does not collect adequate data on these laws’ impact. That must change.”“The acquittal of Trayvon Martin’s killer and the proliferation of stand your ground laws across our nation have added fuel to the flames of racial profiling and discrimination,” said Cummings. “Getting states to collect and examine data regarding the impact of stand your ground laws in our communities will provide local leaders and advocates with the tools necessary to address the disparate and deadly outcomes that can arise from the expansion of these laws.”“As the recent tragic shooting in Wayne County, Michigan demonstrated, the increasing prevalence of ‘stand your ground’ laws are having a negative impact on public safety,” said Conyers. “While some studies exist demonstrating how ‘stand your ground’ laws have a disproportionate impact on minority communities, it is important for the Department of Justice to collect the information necessary for us to better understand the impact of ‘stand your ground’ laws on the escalation of conflicts and the tragic use of firearms. This is an important opportunity for the Department and the FBI to work with the states to shed more light on this threat to public safety.”“Studies show that ‘stand your ground’ laws contribute to increases in homicides and exacerbate racial disparities in the criminal justice system,” said Scott. “The Department of Justice, however, has no comprehensive, accurate way of monitoring the impact of these laws on public safety and civil rights. The steps we call for today will help the DOJ evaluate the impact of these laws.”“The use of ‘stand your ground’ laws by civilians and the application of the law by courts too often rely on decisions made by those with cultural biases,” said Fudge. “These prejudices often affect determination if one’s life was truly in danger, while also eliminating all responsibility by those invoking the law to retreat and peacefully end an incident. No individual in our country should live with the fear of death based on race or age, and no individual’s death should be justified because they had the appearance of guilt, rather than being proven to have done anything wrong.”“The use of a weapon to kill another human being is very rarely ‘justified’ in my mind, so I am joining with Senators and Congressmen requesting that more data be collected about the circumstances and sheer volume of killings that are ruled ‘justified’ under “stand your ground” laws and how these laws have a disparate racial impact in our communities,” said Gutiérrez.In their letter today, the Members requested that the FBI’s Supplementary Homicide Report for “Justifiable Homicides” be amended to include data on the location of the homicide, whether it resulted in arrest or prosecution and the justification if not, and whether the basis for the finding of “justifiable homicide” was “stand your ground.”Last month, Durbin convened a hearing on the civil rights implications when racial profiling and “stand your ground” laws mix.Below is the full letter:November 26, 2013The Honorable Eric HolderAttorney GeneralU.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20530Dear Attorney General Holder:There has been growing concern about the effect that state “stand your ground” laws have on the safety of our communities and on Americans’ civil rights. “Stand your ground” laws expand the situations in which lethal force can be used by civilians in response to perceived threats, and they create presumptions and immunities that diminish accountability under our justice system for those who use lethal force. More than half of the states have passed some form of “stand your ground” legislation since 2005,[i] and studies show that these laws are contributing to increases in homicides[ii] and firearm injuries[iii] and are exacerbating racial disparities in the criminal justice system.[iv] You observed in a speech in July that these laws undermine public safety, and you called for an effort to “ensure that our laws reduce violence and take a hard look at laws that contribute to more violence than they prevent.”While the nature and impact of “stand your ground” laws may vary across the states, the Department of Justice can play a valuable role in providing centralized monitoring of the impact of these laws on public safety and civil rights. Justice Department components including the FBI and National Institute of Justice are already engaged in data collection and research efforts that have helped clarify the effect of “stand your ground” laws. We request that the Department build upon these ongoing efforts by pursuing the following additional steps to examine the impact of “stand your ground” laws:a) Clarify the definition of “Justifiable Homicide” in the FBI Supplementary Homicide Report (which currently is defined as and limited to “the killing of a felon, during the commission of a felony, by a private citizen”) to effectively capture other homicides which are ruled justifiable under “stand your ground” laws or for which no prosecution is brought.b) Amend the FBI Supplementary Homicide Report for “Justifiable Homicides” to include data on the location of the homicide (e.g., public location vs. private location and inside vs. outside).c) Amend the FBI Supplementary Homicide Report for “Justifiable Homicides” to include data on whether the homicide resulted in any arrests or prosecutions, and the justification upon which any decision not to arrest or declination to prosecute was based.d) Amend the FBI Supplementary Homicide Report for “Justifiable Homicides” to include data on whether the victim or the offender was armed.e) Amend the “Weapon Used” category of the FBI Supplementary Homicide Report for “Justifiable Homicides” to record the “Weapon used by Victim.”f) Amend the FBI Supplementary Homicide Report for “Justifiable Homicides” to include the identification of each designated category of death as “murder,” “nonnegligent homicide” and/or “justifiable homicide” for each reported incident. g) Amend the FBI Supplementary Homicide Report for “Justifiable Homicides” to include data on whether the basis for the finding of “justifiable homicide” was “stand your ground” in the “Circumstances” column.h) Sponsor research through the National Institute of Justice on trends in justifiable homicides, with research assessing whether variations in state “stand your ground” laws and other laws governing the use of lethal force have a statistically significant impact on justifiable homicide and overall homicide rates.i) Sponsor research through the National Institute of Justice on state-by-state trends involving race, gender and justifiable homicides, with research assessing whether variations in state “stand your ground” laws and other laws governing the use of lethal force have a statistically significant impact on racial disparities in justifiable homicides.j) Sponsor research through the National Institute of Justice regarding uses of lethal force involving firearms by individuals who have been issued a concealed carry permit, and whether such uses of lethal force resulted in any arrests or prosecutions, with research assessing whether variations in “stand your ground” laws or other laws governing the use of lethal force and variations in state concealed carry laws have a statistically significant impact on the incidence and outcome of uses of lethal force. We believe this information would prove extremely useful in helping to evaluate the laws that govern the use of lethal force and in quantifying the impact of such laws on public safety and civil rights. Thank you for your consideration of this request. We look forward to your response. Please feel free to contact us if you would like to discuss this matter further. Sincerely,/S/Richard J. DurbinUnited States Senator/S/Elijah E. CummingsMember of Congress/S/Mazie K. HironoUnited States Senator/S/John Conyers, Jr.Member of Congress/S/Luis V. GutierrezMember of Congress/S/Robert C. "Bobby" ScottMember of Congress/S/Marcia FudgeMember of Congress cc: Mr. Thomas Turner, Chair, Criminal Justice Information Services Advisory Policy Board[i] See Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, “Shoot First Laws Policy Summary,” July 18, 2013.[ii] See, e.g., Cheng Cheng and Mark Hoekstra, “Does Strengthening Self-Defense Law Deter Crime or Escalate Violence?” NBER Working Paper No. w18134, June 2012.[iii] See, e.g., Chandler McCellan and Erdal Tekin, “Stand Your Ground Laws, Homicides, and Injuries,” National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper 18187, https://www.nber.org/papers/w18187, June 2012.[iv] See, e.g., John J. Roman, “Race, Justifiable Homicide, and Stand Your Ground Laws: Analysis of FBI Supplementary Homicide Report Data,” July 2013.
11.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – On Thursday, November 21, 2013, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), co-chair of the U.S.-Philippines Friendship Caucus, co-hosted a briefing featuring the Philippines Ambassador to the United States, Jose L. Cuisia, Jr., on the ongoing relief efforts in the Philippines after Typhoon Haiyan. The briefing was co-hosted by the U.S.-Philippines Friendship Caucus and the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus. In addition to Ambassador Cuisia, Colonel Christopher C. Starling, Executive Assistant to the Deputy Commandant for Plans, Policies, and Operations for the United States Marine Corps, and Nancy Lindborg, USAID Assistant Administrator for the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance, also provided their perspective on recovery operations. A bi-partisan group of fourteen Members of Congress and their staffs also attended the briefing."It's been two weeks since Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines, leaving thousands dead and millions in need of aid," said Rep. Scott. "It is extremely important that Members of Congress know how critical our nation's support can be during this time of need. The Philippines has long been a good friend of the United States and Congress must ensure that aid is effectively reaching all affected communities. I was pleased to hear from the Ambassador that aid is reaching those who need it most and that the response from both the United States and the international community has thus far been efficiently coordinated and very effective."During the briefing, Ambassador Cuisia expressed his sincere thanks to the United States for our support and interest in the recovery efforts. He also reiterated the Philippines' government's promise to maintain transparency and accountability for all aid dollars received.Colonel Christopher Starling discussed the robust role the Marine Corps and other armed services branches are playing in the recovery. Colonel Starling affirmed that the post-typhoon recovery mission was precisely the type of mission that our Marines are uniquely equipped and trained to handle. He also reported that Marines were on the ground in the Philippines conducting emergency response activities less than 48 hours after the storm hit and that nearly 1,500 tons of supplies had already been delivered to affected communities. Additionally, Nancy Lindborg elaborated on the complex humanitarian response efforts currently being executed by USAID, and reported proudly that the United States government was the first government to conduct overflight damage assessments. She also reported that the World Food Program has provided food aid to 2 million people in the Philippines."While the response is being carried out in a very effective way, there is no doubt that the recovery process will be a long one," continued Rep. Scott. "It will be important for Congress to remain engaged to ensure a speedy and effective recovery for our friends in the Philippines."If you are interested in assisting with relief efforts please visit the USAID's Typhoon Haiyan Response website at: www.usaid.gov/haiyan.# # #
11.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – On Thursday, November 21, 2013, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), co-chair of the U.S.-Philippines Friendship Caucus, co-hosted a briefing featuring the Philippines Ambassador to the United States, Jose L. Cuisia, Jr., on the ongoing relief efforts in the Philippines after Typhoon Haiyan. The briefing was co-hosted by the U.S.-Philippines Friendship Caucus, co-chaired by Congressman Scott and Congressman Darrell Issa, and the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, chaired by Congresswoman Judy Chu. In addition to Ambassador Cuisia, Colonel Christopher C. Starling, Executive Assistant to the Deputy Commandant for Plans, Policies, and Operations for the United States Marine Corps, and Nancy Lindborg, USAID Assistant Administrator for the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance, also provided their perspective on recovery operations. A bi-partisan group of fourteen Members of Congress and their staffs also attended the briefing."It's been two weeks since Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines, leaving thousands dead and millions in need of aid," said Rep. Scott. "It is extremely important that Members of Congress know how critical our nation's support can be during this time of need. The Philippines has long been a good friend of the United States and Congress must ensure that aid is effectively reaching all affected communities. I was pleased to hear from the Ambassador that aid is reaching those who need it most and that the response from both the United States and the international community has thus far been efficiently coordinated and very effective."During the briefing, Ambassador Cuisia expressed his sincere thanks to the United States for our support and interest in the recovery efforts. He also reiterated the Philippines' government's promise to maintain transparency and accountability for all aid dollars received.Colonel Christopher Starling discussed the robust role the Marine Corps and other armed services branches are playing in the recovery. Colonel Starling affirmed that the post-typhoon recovery mission was precisely the type of mission that our Marines are uniquely equipped and trained to handle. He also reported that Marines were on the ground in the Philippines conducting emergency response activities less than 48 hours after the storm hit and that nearly 1,500 tons of supplies had already been delivered to affected communities. Additionally, Nancy Lindborg elaborated on the complex humanitarian response efforts currently being executed by USAID, and reported proudly that the United States government was the first government to conduct overflight damage assessments. She also reported that the World Food Program has provided food aid to 2 million people in the Philippines."While the response is being carried out in a very effective way, there is no doubt that the recovery process will be a long one," continued Rep. Scott. "It will be important for Congress to remain engaged to ensure a speedy and effective recovery for our friends in the Philippines."If you are interested in assisting with relief efforts please visit the USAID's Typhoon Haiyan Response website at: www.usaid.gov/haiyan.# # #
11.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations on the House Judiciary Committee, commended the Federal Communications Commission's denial yesterday of petitions urging the FCC to stay the Commission's order reducing high long-distance calling rates paid by prisoners and their families. Two telecommunications companies filed petitions seeking to delay the FCC's Inmate Calling Services Report and Order issued in August."I am pleased that the FCC has denied the petitions of two telecommunications companies seeking to continue the unfair practice of charging exorbitant long-distance calling rates paid by inmates and their families. Yesterday's decision by the FCC will allow the Inmate Calling Services Report and Order to go forward and end the practice of phone companies charging these unfair fees for calls made from prison."Contact with family has been shown to be a significant factor in the successful rehabilitation and re-entry of an offender back into society. The FCC's order will make inmate calls more affordable and therefore make it easier for those who are incarcerated to maintain contact with their loved ones. I commend the FCC for their ongoing commitment to addressing this injustice."# # #
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his opposition to H.R. 3350, the so-called Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013:"Congress's legislative intent was very clear when we drafted the Affordable Care Act. That's why we included the grandfather clause. If insurance companies wanted to continue to offer substandard plans to individuals enrolled at the time of the law's passage and these individuals were willing to continue to pay for a substandard plan, then they could. However, insurance companies knew that beginning on January 1st, 2014, any new plans would have to meet basic standards and that any new substandard plans offered after the law's passage could not be renewed after 2013. Insurance companies were very aware of this but failed to honestly inform consumers why some of their policies could no longer be offered after 2013. The bottom line is that cancelled plans were either cancelled by an insurance company even though the Affordable Care Act did not require the cancellations or the plans were not eligible for renewal in 2014 and that fact was known by the insurance company when it sold these policies."When the President stated, 'if you like your plan, you can keep it,' there was always the understanding that under some circumstances, you wouldn't be able to. For example, if you like your plan, but you don't pay your monthly premium, then you clearly wouldn't be able to keep it. If you like your plan, but the insurer decides to stop selling your plan in your state, then you clearly wouldn't be able to keep it. If you like your plan, but you lose your job, then you clearly wouldn't be able to keep it. If you like your plan, but your employer decides to switch policies, then you clearly wouldn't be able to keep it. The notices that many are now receiving represent the decision of an insurance company to cancel the plan, even though the Affordable Care Act did not require them to do so."The Upton bill, which purports to fix the cancellation 'problem,' represents the 46th attempt by House Republicans to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. This bill would allow insurance companies to go back to the old way of doing things – selling second-rate insurance plans that cover very little, discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions, and capping the amount of care an individual can receive. The bill would allow insurance companies to once again pick and choose who they want to cover, creating a separate pool for healthy people while forcing everyone else to pay more. The Upton bill undermines the fundamental prohibition against discrimination based on preexisting conditions provided for in the Affordable Care Act, as well as almost every single consumer protection that Americans now enjoy. Incredibly, even under this so-called 'fix,' insurance companies would still be free to cancel policies, as they are doing now."Individuals who purchased a substandard plan may not realize how substandard that plan is until it's too late. If their substandard plan covers very little and someone in their family gets sick, they may be on the hook for almost all of the medical costs. One of the best aspects of the President's administrative fix is that insurance companies will be required to notify consumers of the protections they are giving up in order to keep the plan they have, such as essential health benefits, subsidies, and potentially lower prices available in the Marketplace."The intent of the Affordable Care Act and the new Health Insurance Marketplaces has always been to offer uninsured Americans comprehensive private health insurance with vital consumer protections. When the website is fully functional, the shortcomings of the Upton bill will be apparent."# # #
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement on H.Res. 411, articles of impeachment against Attorney General Eric Holder:"I am disappointed that several of my colleagues chose to introduce articles of impeachment against Attorney General Eric Holder. It is clear that these articles were introduced to advance nothing more than a partisan agenda. It is my hope that Members of the House of Representatives will not waste their time considering them."# # #
11.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Walter B. Jones (NC-3), David Price (NC-4), and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) introduced legislation that would make it illegal for candidates or employees associated with federal political committees to use committee funds for personal activities. Federal law already prohibits candidates from using their campaign funds for “personal use,” but no such law prohibits conversion of the funds of political committees such as leadership PACs, super PACs, corporate PACs, labor PACs, non-connected committees, and party committees. The No Political Funds for Personal Use Act, H.R. 3466, would extend to all of these political committees the prohibition on conversion of campaign funds for “personal use” – which includes things like vacations, cars, clothing, event tickets, and home payments.The text of H.R. 3466 was first proposed by the bipartisan Federal Election Commission (FEC) after witnessing a substantial number of cases in which individuals with access to the funds of political committees abused the funds to pay for personal expenses. The need for the legislation was also highlighted by a 60 Minutes piece that aired in October entitled “Washington’s Open Secrets: Profitable PACs,” which showed how some members of Congress personally benefit from their leadership PAC funds.“For too long, candidates and employees of political committees have been able to exploit loopholes in the law to use political committee funds for their own personal items,” said Congressman Jones. “This bill would put a necessary end to this abuse of the system and ensure that PAC funds are used solely for their intended purpose.”“Members of Congress can’t convert money from their campaign accounts for personal use, and they shouldn’t be able to do it with funds they raise for their leadership PAC either,” said Congressman Price. “As a matter of public trust, we need to close the PAC loophole so that all funding committees are subject to the same ethics laws.”"I am pleased to co-sponsor the No Political Funds For Personal Use Act,” said Congressman Scott. “This bill simply closes a loophole that presently allows some Political Action Committee funds to be converted to personal use. Most Members of Congress believed this to be current law. It is my hope that Congress will quickly take up this bill."The legislation has garnered support from a variety of government watchdog groups, including Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), Democracy 21, Common Cause, Public Citizen’s Congress Watch, and Americans for Campaign Reform.# # #
10.31.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the Senate's failure to invoke cloture on Congressman Mel Watt's nomination to be Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA):"I am extremely disappointed that a minority in the Senate voted to block Congressman Mel Watt's nomination to lead the Federal Housing Finance Agency. A Yale educated lawyer with significant private practice experience in real estate transactions and over 20 years of service on the House Financial Services Committee, Congressman Watt is highly qualified to lead this important agency. He has spent his career in Congress working to ensure that all Americans have access to affordable housing and are protected from deceptive and predatory lending practices. We need Congressman Watt's leadership at the FHFA, and it is my hope that the Senate will reconsider his nomination soon."# # #
10.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Raúl Labrador (R-ID) and Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), members of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced a landmark bipartisan bill today to bring common sense and flexibility to federal criminal sentencing laws. Their bill – the Smarter Sentencing Act – would allow courts to make individualized assessments in nonviolent drug cases, ensuring that limited resources are focused on the most serious offenders, while maintaining public safety.“We must be strict, but also smart, when it comes to federal criminal sentencing,” said Rep. Labrador. “The ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach Congress put on the books has tied the hands of judges without improving public safety. Nearly half of the inmates filling our federal prisons are incarcerated for drug offenses. Many of them do not need overly harsh penalties. And yet judges are forced to impose these penalties, even if they don’t want to.“The bill Rep. Scott and I are introducing today will empower judges to determine, on an individual level, when the harshest sentences should apply," stated Rep. Labrador. "This approach will improve justice, reduce the burden on taxpayers, and actually improve safety by enabling the justice system to focus on the most violent offenders. I am proud of the large number of groups – representing the whole ideological spectrum – who are supporting our bill, and I will work with my colleagues in a bipartisan way to get it passed.”During the past 30 years, the number of inmates in federal custody has grown by 500 percent, with nearly half of them serving sentences for drug offenses. Spending on federal incarceration has grown by more than 1100 percent. Today, it costs about $29,000 per year to house just one federal inmate. The Smarter Sentencing Act could save up to $1 billion in incarceration costs."I am honored to join Congressman Labrador as a cosponsor of the Smarter Sentencing Act," said Rep. Scott. "Granting federal judges more discretion in sentencing for nonviolent drug offenses is the right thing to do. Studies of mandatory minimums conclude that they fail to reduce crime, they waste the taxpayers’ money, and they often require the imposition of sentences that violate common sense."“This bipartisan bill targets particularly egregious mandatory minimums and returns discretion to federal judges in an incremental manner," Rep. Scott continued. "This legislation is an important step in updating sentencing policies that are not working, that are costing taxpayers too much, and that do nothing to make our families and communities safer."The Smarter Sentencing Act would do the following:Increase individualized review for certain drug sentencesIt would lower certain drug mandatory sentences, allowing judges to determine, based on individual circumstances, when the harshest penalties should apply (while not repealing any mandatory minimum sentences or lowering the maximum sentences for these offenses).Promote sentencing consistent with the bipartisan Fair Sentencing ActIt would allow certain inmates sentenced under the pre-Fair Sentencing Act sentencing regime to petition for sentence reductions consistent with the Fair Sentencing Act and current law, while not automatically reducing a single sentence.Expand the existing federal “safety valve”The legislative “safety valve” has been effective in allowing federal judges to appropriately sentence certain non-violent drug offenders below existing mandatory minimums. Today’s bill would modestly broaden criteria for eligibility.In introducing today’s bill, Reps. Labrador and Scott are joined by Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN), Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL), Rep. Hakeem S. Jeffries (D-NY), Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), and Rep. Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA).The Smarter Sentencing Act is House companion legislation to S. 1401, introduced by Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL), Senator Mike Lee (R-UT), and Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.The Smarter Sentencing Act is endorsed by Heritage Action; Justice Fellowship of Prison Fellowship Ministries; ACLU; American Correctional Association; American Bar Association; NAACP; Constitution Project; and other organizations across the ideological spectrum.# # #
10.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) is still accepting applications for nominations for eligible high school students in the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia wishing to attend one of our nation's five service academies. The deadline for a Fall 2014 nomination is Tuesday, November 19, 2013.Each year hundreds of young men and women are chosen to fill positions at each of our nation's service academies. Students can receive nominations from the Vice President of the United States, their United States Senators, or their Representative in the U.S. House of Representatives. Students can also pursue a military-service-connected nomination. Due to the competitive nature of the nomination process, students are encouraged to pursue multiple routes to securing a nomination.The service academies provide a full four-year scholarship, which is valued at more than $150,000. After four years of college-level education and training, cadets or midshipmen are commissioned as junior officers in the appropriate branch of the military and commit to serve a minimum of five years."It is one of my greatest privileges as a Member of Congress to nominate the best and brightest students in my congressional district to attend one of our nation's service academies," said Rep. Scott. "I encourage all students wishing to serve their nation to consider applying for a nomination through my office."The deadline for nominations for Fall 2014 is Tuesday, November 19, 2013. For more information on the nomination process, eligibility or to download an application, please visit www.bobbyscott.house.gov/service-academy. Students and parents can also call Congressman Scott's district office in Newport News at (757) 380-1000 or Richmond at (804) 644-4845 for more information.# # #
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement regarding his support for H.R. 2775, the Senate Agreement that reopens the federal government and prevents a default on the nation's obligations:"I support this deal because it reopens the federal government, it assures that we will not default on our obligations, and it retroactively pays the hundreds of thousands of federal employees furloughed through no fault of their own. The deal that passed tonight should have passed months ago, but Republicans blocked every single attempt to go to conference on the budget with the Senate. Now that a conference committee has been agreed to with this deal, we are finally able to negotiate the differences between the House and Senate versions of the Fiscal Year 2014 budget."It should be clear that we can no longer afford to let a fringe element hold the nation hostage, forcing us to govern from one self-created crisis to the next. It is utterly irresponsible that Tea Party Republicans shutdown our nation's federal government for sixteen days and then threatened a default on our nation's obligations in a failed attempt to defund, repeal, delay, or sabotage the Affordable Care Act. If there is any take away from this unnecessary budget crisis, it should be that there are no rewards for holding our economy hostage. I just hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have learned this valuable lesson, so we don't find ourselves in another shutdown and default crisis when this agreement expires in early 2014."There are no winners with this agreement. A recent study by the Peter G. Peterson Foundation estimates that recent self-created budget crises have contributed to the loss of approximately 900,000 jobs. Since the last time Republicans toyed with default in August 2011, uncertainty about Congress' ability to govern responsibly has grown around the world and has harmed our nation's credibility. Standard and Poors downgraded our credit rating in 2011 despite a last minute deal and yesterday Fitch Ratings issued a warning on our credit rating. One of America's largest brokerage firms, Fidelity Investments, recently sold all of its short-term U.S. government bonds to protect its investors. The interest rate paid by banks for day-to-day loans quadrupled since the start of this latest crisis. A four month debt ceiling extension is woefully inadequate and I fear too short to provide the necessary stability for our economy. The only thing worse than this inadequate debt ceiling extension would be no extension at all."This has to change. I just hope that in the next few months we can return to regular order, pass a full year appropriation for the federal government, cancel the sequester, and pass a long-term debt ceiling extension to provide our economy with the necessary certainty it needs to grow."# # #
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement concerning the operation of his congressional office during the current Federal Government Shutdown:"Due to the ongoing shutdown of the Federal Government, my district offices in Newport News and Richmond are closed. My Washington Office is open but with a skeleton staff. I encourage you to weigh in about how the shutdown is impacting you, your families, and your neighbors through my website, Facebook page, and on Twitter. It is my hope that this shutdown will not be unnecessarily drawn out and that the Republican leadership will bring a clean continuing resolution to the floor for a vote as soon as possible."# # #
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on House Passage of H.J.Res. 59, a short term Continuing Resolution which would delay parts of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Obamacare):"Once again Republicans are attempting to hold the Government hostage in order to extract passage of unrelated legislation. Obamacare will continue even if the government is shut down. This comes after Senate Democrats have already agreed to House Republican's budget numbers, leaving nothing in the budget to negotiate. The Federal Government should stay open, and it must be made clear to Tea Party Republicans that we will not respond to temper tantrums in which they threaten to shut down the government if they don't get what they want. Should we legitimize Tea Party Republican's tactics by passing unrelated legislation, Congress is at risk of allowing Tea Party Republicans to continue to hold the economy as ransom in future debates. And those debates will come soon -- this Continuing Resolution only funds the government for about two months, when all of this wrangling will begin anew."The next deadline facing Congress is the Debt Ceiling, likely to be reached in the next two weeks. Every credible economist, in addition to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, has concluded that failing to extend the debt ceiling is stupid and will have catastrophic implications for the global economy. That conclusion ought to end the debate. Nonetheless, Tea Party Republicans are still threatening to use the Debt Ceiling as another weapon to pass unrelated legislation."What kind of dysfunction would there be if Senate Democrats attached an assault weapons ban, immigration reform, or gay marriage legalization to legislation to continue funding the government and threatened to shut down the government if the unrelated legislation did not pass? That, of course, would be absurd. It is essential that Members of Congress, both Democratic and Republican, work together to pass a clean Continuing Resolution without unrelated issues and allow our government to continue to operate, our troops to continue to receive the pay they deserve, and our seniors the assistance that they need."# # #
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the appointment of Hampton Mayor Molly Joseph Ward to serve as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director for the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs:"I congratulate Mayor Ward on this exciting new endeavor. Mayor Ward has faithfully served the City of Hampton as its Mayor since 2008 and before that as the City's Treasurer. Mayor Ward led the City's successful effort to designate Fort Monroe as a National Monument. While her term as Mayor comes to an end, it is clear that Hampton is a better place to live and work thanks to her leadership. Our federal government is gaining a very smart, capable and dedicated public servant and I know that the President will benefit greatly from Molly's counsel. I will miss working with her on local issues impacting Hampton, but I am excited that I will continue to work with her in her new capacity at the White House."# # #
09.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – The Office of Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) is currently accepting applications for nominations for eligible high school students in the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia wishing to attend one of our nation's five service academies. The deadline for a Fall 2014 nomination is Tuesday, November 19, 2013.Each year hundreds of young men and women are chosen to fill positions at each of our nation's service academies. Students can receive nominations from the Vice President of the United States, their United States Senators, or their Representative in the U.S. House of Representatives. Students can also pursue a military-service-connected nomination. Due to the competitive nature of the nomination process, students are encouraged to pursue multiple routes to securing a nomination.The service academies provide a full four-year scholarship, which is valued at more than $150,000. After four years of college-level education and training, cadets or midshipmen are commissioned as junior officers in the appropriate branch of the military and commit to serve a minimum of five years."It is one of my greatest privileges as a Member of Congress to nominate the best and brightest students in my congressional district to attend one of our nation's service academies," said Rep. Scott. "I encourage all students wishing to serve their nation to consider applying for a nomination through my office."The deadline for nominations for Fall 2014 is Tuesday, November 19, 2013. For more information on the nomination process, eligibility or to download an application, please visit www.bobbyscott.house.gov/serviceacademy. Students and parents can also call Congressman Scott's district office in Newport News at (757) 380-1000 or Richmond at (804) 644-4845 for more information.# # #
09.23.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, the Ranking Democratic Member on the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, joined Newport News Mayor McKinley Price, and Robert Listenbee, Jr., the Administrator of the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, in announcing that the City of Newport News has been awarded a Community-Based Violence Prevention Program grant.The Community-Based Violence Prevention Program provides funding for localities to support federal, state, and local partnerships to replicate proven multi-disciplinary, community-based strategies to reduce violence. Newport News will use the grant to help fund an expansion of the City's Targeted Outreach Program (TOP), which is a community-based collaborative youth violence prevention initiative. TOP provides comprehensive resources and prevention services to youth and their families in an effort to engage and empower them to make positive contributions to their families and communities."I am very pleased that Newport News has been awarded a Community-Based Violence Prevention Program grant," commented Rep. Scott. "This funding will assist the city in expanding a successful program that helps the most at-risk young people in our community stay on the right track by engaging a wide range of community stakeholders toward reducing crime and youth violence. This community-based approach has been shown to work time and time again. Numerous studies have predicted an average cost savings of $3 to $5 for each one dollar invested in evidence-based prevention and intervention initiatives. That is why Congressman Walter Jones and I have introduced the Youth PROMISE Act in Congress, which will greatly expand the availability of funding for successful, evidence-based programs like the TOP program here in Newport News. We shouldn't wait to respond to crime when we have reams of science and evidence to show that evidence-based programs applied in a comprehensive and collaborative manner, as the Youth PROMISE Act calls for, will help save lives, taxpayers, our children and society from the ravages and enormous costs of crime. Today's modest, but important, investment from the federal government will do just that here in Newport News."To learn more about the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit: www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa. To learn more about Newport News's Targeted Outreach Program, please visit: www.nngov.com/human-services/social-services/resources/targeted_outreach.# # #
09.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Members of Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott's District Office Staff will hold satellite office hours to assist constituents living in Surry County on September 17th, Charles City County on September 18th, Prince George on September 19th, and Petersburg on September 24th at the following locations:Surry CountyTuesday, September 17, 2013 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Surry County Community Center205 Enos Farm DriveSurry, VirginiaCharles City CountyWednesday, September 18, 2013 – 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.County Administration Building10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, VirginiaPrince George CountyThursday, September 19, 2013 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Prince George County Library6402 Courts DrivePrince George, VirginiaPetersburgTuesday, September 24, 2013 – 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.Petersburg City Hall135 North Union Street, 3rd floorPetersburg, VirginiaThe Congressman's primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Congressman Scott's staff also holds weekly satellite office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the Norfolk State University Police Department, second floor, on Corprew Avenue at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott's website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov.# # #
09.16.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), a vice chair of the House Democratic Caucus Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, issued the following statement on today's tragic events at the Washington Navy Yard:"I was deeply saddened to hear about today's mass shooting at the Washington Navy Yard. These types of acts of violence are becoming far too common in our society, and that is why many members of Congress are working together to explore ways to prevent these tragedies from happening."My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, as well as the civilian personnel and military service members supporting the Washington Navy Yard."# # #
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will be hosting his fourth information session on the Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as Obamacare, this Monday, September 16th at Gethsemane Baptist Church in Newport News, Virginia.Joining the Congressman at Monday's session will be Tamia Booker, Executive Officer for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Region III and Kathy May, Director of Virginia Consumer Voices for Healthcare."Major provisions of the Affordable Care Act take effect in January 2014 and open enrollment through the Health Insurance Marketplaces begins this October," stated Rep. Scott. "Unfortunately, the amount of misinformation about Obamacare from opponents of the new law is hindering many small businesses and individuals in my district from understanding how the new law can help them access affordable health insurance. Many small businesses currently qualify for tax credits that can assist them in purchasing health insurance plans for their employees. Additionally, the new Health Insurance Marketplaces will allow individuals without insurance or those looking for a better deal to purchase affordable insurance from qualified health plans in the Marketplaces. Nearly 18 million Americans may be eligible for tax credits that will help them pay for their insurance through the Marketplaces. Obamacare is the law of the land and my constituents deserve to have all the necessary information available to them to understand how this new law will help improve their lives and the lives of their families."The Newport News information session will be hosted on the following date and location:Monday, September 16th - Newport News6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.Gethsemane Baptist Church5405 Roanoke AvenueNewport News, VA 23605The information session is free and open to the public. For more information, please call Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
09.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in reaction to the President's speech on Syria: "The President again presented a compelling case on why it is so important for the United States and the international community to respond to the atrocities committed by the Syrian government against innocent civilians. I remain concerned, however, about both the legality of any intervention without the support of the United Nations and the potential ramifications of a military intervention that could exacerbate volatility in the region. I am pleased that the President will allow more time for the diplomatic process to work towards a non-military solution and it is my hope that the international community will continue to support us in these diplomatic efforts." # # #
09.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after attending a classified briefing on the situation in Syria this afternoon in the United States Capitol:"Like all Americans, I am deeply disturbed by the significant evidence that the Syrian government used chemical weapons against innocent civilians. I am pleased that the President will seek Congressional authorization before committing to use any U.S. military force against the Assad regime. I believe such authorization is required by the War Powers Resolution and the Constitution when there appears to be no imminent threat to American citizens or assets."Any failure by the international community to strongly condemn these crimes against humanity could have dire consequences for the people of Syria, our allies in the region, and for the legitimacy of international law. However, I believe the precedence that will be set by engaging Syria militarily without the support of the United Nations, or at least an alternate coalition demonstrating an international consensus, would be problematic."As Congress begins to debate and consider the proposed authorization for the use of military force submitted by the Administration, I fully expect the President to continue to engage the members of the United Nations and our allies in order to achieve an international consensus supporting any action."# # #For additional statements on the issue, please click here.
08.27.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the situation in Syria:"The revelations that the Syrian government used chemical weapons against innocent civilians are alarming. As the President continues to deliberate with our allies on how to respond to these atrocities, I fully expect the President to consult with Congress on what level of involvement, if any, our military should have."# # #For additional statements on this issue, please click here.
08.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, further details about the National Security Agency's (NSA) surveillance program were made public in press accounts. Specifically, it was reported that internal NSA's reports show that the agency repeatedly ran afoul of privacy rules. Following these public revelations, Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, and Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Va.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations issued the following statement:"We are gravely concerned with recent revelations of the government's misuse of its surveillance authorities. Earlier this week, we learned of an internal review that shows the NSA routinely oversteps its own privacy rules. Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal reported that the government has the capability to reach nearly three-quarters of all internet traffic in the United States. Just moments ago, the government declassified court documents that show the NSA collected Americans' electronic communication with no connection to terrorism—and did not learn of the problem for nearly three years. These revelations, and others over the past weeks, demand that we act immediately."Although we have repeatedly been assured that the government's surveillance programs are subject to robust internal and external oversight, the burden remains on the House and Senate Judiciary Committees to ensure that government acts in a manner that is consistent with our civil liberties. The House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on these programs in July, and Chairman Goodlatte has announced his intention to hold a classified hearing on these programs in September. These hearings are good first step in our work to curb these abuses with all deliberate speed."Meaningful Congressional oversight of these matters also depends on reporting by the executive branch. We must take appropriate legislative action to ensure that the government may not take advantage of existing authorities. H.R. 2399, the 'LIBERT-E Act,' will restrict the use of the USA PATRIOT Act's Section 215 authority and to provide Members of Congress greater information about the FISA Court's decisions and opinions. Given recent disclosures, we also believe it is imperative that we enact legislation to declassify certain reports, introduce a public advocate to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, and change the manner in which FISC judges are selected."# # #
08.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced that Navigator grants totaling over $1.7 million have been awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to organizations in the Commonwealth of Virginia. These organizations and their staff will provide in-person assistance to consumers in Virginia who want additional help shopping for and enrolling in plans in the Health Insurance Marketplaces beginning this fall. Advanced Patient Advocacy, LLC and Virginia Poverty Law Center, Inc. have both been awarded Navigator grants in Virginia."One of the biggest and most important parts of Obamacare is the establishment of Health Insurance Marketplaces," Rep. Scott said. "The Navigators will be a key resource to help many consumers understand their coverage options in the Marketplace. Navigators are based in local communities and will provide support to consumers so that they can more easily navigate the Marketplace. In addition, HHS has also begun training other individuals who will be providing in-person assistance, such as agents and brokers and certified application counselors.""These Navigator grants build on the progress that has already been made in outreach and education about the new Marketplaces," continued Rep. Scott. "Consumers can now learn about the Marketplaces through www.HealthCare.gov along with a HHS hotline that is already up and running. While these Navigator grants will assist Virginians in obtaining health coverage, we all need to continue to spread the word about open enrollment beginning on October 1."For more information or if you have questions on the coverage that will be available through the Marketplaces, please visit www.healthcare.gov or call the hotline at 1-800-318-2596.# # #
08.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, the Ranking Democratic Member of the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, will appear on CBS's Face the Nation this Sunday. Congressman Scott will be discussing Attorney General Eric Holder's recent speech on sentencing reform, mandatory minimum sentencing, immigration reform, the NSA's domestic surveillance program, and voting rights.Local CBS listings for Face the Nation in Virginia's 3rd Congressional District:Richmond-PetersburgWTVR - CBS 610:30 A.M.Norfolk-Hampton RoadsWTKR - News Channel 310:30 A.M.For more information about Face the Nation, please visit www.cbsnews.com/face-the-nation/.# # #
08.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Attorney General Eric Holder delivered an important speech at the American Bar Association's annual meeting in San Francisco. He spoke about the issue of overcrowding in federal prisons and the policies that have led to this problem. He said that, "too many Americans go to too many prisons for far too long and for no good law enforcement reason." He also stated that, "widespread incarceration at the federal, state, and local levels is both ineffective and unsustainable." He announced that federal prosecutors will take steps to prevent the application of mandatory minimum sentences to certain low-level drug offenders. Since 1970, the number of individuals incarcerated in the U.S. has risen from approximately 300,000 to over 2 million. This makes the United States the world's leading incarcerator by far with an average incarceration rate of over 700 per 100,000. Mass incarceration has consigned 1.3 million African Americans and Hispanics to prison. According to the latest available figures, these two groups comprise 58 percent of all inmates even though they make up only one quarter of the U.S. population.Following Attorney General Holder's comments, John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee, and Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Va.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations issued the following statement:Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.): "I welcome Attorney General Holder's recognition of the problem of massive over-incarceration, a situation that is unjust and fiscally unsustainable, both at the federal level and in the states. In fact, some states, such as Texas and Arkansas are already taking action to find alternatives to incarcerating some offenders. I applaud the steps the Attorney General will take to reduce the application of mandatory minimum sentences to certain low-level drug offenders and I hope he will join in the larger effort to eliminate mandatory minimum sentencing across the board, including H.R. 1695, the 'Justice Safety Valve Act,' introduced by Rep. Bobby Scott and which I am cosponsoring."Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Va.): "The Attorney General is taking an important step toward rational and sound sentencing policy, but we must do more to curtail the application of mandatory minimum sentences. Studies have shown that mandatory minimum sentencing, which handcuffs the ability of judges to apply sentences which fit the circumstances of each case, fails to reduce crime. That is why we need to enact H.R. 1695, the 'Justice Safety Valve Act,' a bipartisan bill I have introduced with Rep. Thomas Massie (R-KY) and other colleagues including Rep. John Conyers, and which has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Rand Paul (R-KY) as S. 619. This bill would allow judges to sentence federal offenders below the mandatory minimum sentence to prevent an unjust sentence, consistent with sentencing criteria already specified in federal law. We continue our call to adopt evidence-based, smart approaches to reducing crime, such as the Youth Promise Act, which I have introduced in the House as H.R. 1318, instead of policies which sound tough but only feed what the Children's Defense Fund calls the 'Cradle to Prison Pipeline.' We hope that the Attorney General's leadership in making these remarks today will be a spark that generates a broader discussion about how we can adopt cost-effective crime-fighting approaches that make us safer while also saving money."For more details on incarceration statistics, the NAACP Criminal Justice Fact Sheet can be found online at: https://www.naacp.org/pages/criminal-justice-fact-sheet# # #
08.11.2013	By Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" ScottThe Daily Press, August 10, 2013In my 33 years as an elected official, I learned that when it comes to crime policy, we have a choice – we can reduce crime or we can play politics. Reducing crime requires evidence-based strategies that identify youth at risk of becoming criminals and redirect them toward productive, law-abiding lives. Playing politics, on the other hand, involves waiting for crimes to occur and responding with simplistic slogans and sound bites – like "three strikes, you're out", "life without parole", "mandatory minimum sentencing", "truth-in-sentencing" and rhymes like "do the adult crime, do the adult time" – that sound good but do little or nothing to reduce crime.Enacting slogan-based policies has caused incarceration levels in the U.S. to quadruple over the past 30 years from about 500,000 in 1980 to more than 2 million today. The U.S. now leads the world in incarceration. Research by the Pew Center on the States concluded that incarceration has diminishing returns above a rate of about 350 per 100,000, and above 500 per 100,000 such rates of incarceration actually become counter-productive. The average U.S. lockup rate is about 700 per 100,000 – roughly seven times the world average of about 100 per 100,000 – meaning that our nation's high rate of incarceration is actually increasing crime, not reducing it. The Children's Defense Fund has labeled this phenomenon the "Cradle to Prison Pipeline."We spend an average annually of about $29,000 per prisoner in the federal system. If we reduced the number of people in prison, we would save billions of taxpayer dollars each year – dollars that are currently being wasted on counter-productive incarceration. If we directed those savings toward the children who are most at risk of becoming involved in crime, we could spend thousands of dollars on each at-risk child every year enhancing their education and supporting them in a way that reduces the chance that they will get in trouble.All the credible research and evidence shows that a continuum of comprehensive, evidence-based prevention and intervention initiatives for youth identified as being at risk will greatly reduce crime and save much more than they cost when compared to the avoided law enforcement and social welfare expenditures that would otherwise result. Teen pregnancy prevention, prenatal care, nurse home visits, Head Start, after-school programs, mentorships, and comprehensive job-training programs, among others, have all been scientifically proven to reduce crime and save money. They will effectively convert the "Cradle to Prison Pipeline" into a "Cradle to College and Career Pipeline" for children at greatest risk.That's why Representative Walter Jones and I introduced the "Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention and Education Act", or "Youth PROMISE Act." This bipartisan legislation will engage a wide range of community stakeholders to serve on a local planning council to develop and implement evidence-based, locally-tailored violence prevention plans for their communities. The bill also builds on the strengths of local communities by partnering with colleges and universities as regional research partners and establishes a National Research Center for Proven Juvenile Justice Practices at the Department of Justice. Studies have predicted an average cost savings of $3 to $5 for each one dollar invested in evidence-based prevention and intervention initiatives. The bill requires communities to reinvest some of those savings gained from reduced law enforcement and incarceration costs to fund the future operation of the plans. This allows the evidence-based, locally-tailored violence prevention plans to become self-sustaining after the initial federal funding expires.Many policy makers at the state and federal level, unfortunately, have put too much emphasis on responding to crime. Why wait to respond to crime when we have reams of science and evidence to show that evidence-based programs applied in a comprehensive and collaborative manner, as the Youth PROMISE Act calls for, will save victims, taxpayers, our children and society from the ravages and enormous costs of crime?The Youth PROMISE Act already has the support of over 300 national, state, and local government, professional, civil rights, education and religious organizations. And just last month, Democratic Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and Republican Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma introduced the bill in the United States Senate. I am hopeful that my colleagues in the House and Senate will work with us to pass the Youth PROMISE Act and finally do something to effectively stem the tide of violence engulfing so many of our communities.Congressman Scott represents Virginia's 3rd District Permalink: https://www.dailypress.com/news/opinion/dp-nws-oped-scott-0811-20130810,0,7403206.story
08.09.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on today's Federal Communications Commission (FCC) order reducing high long-distance calling rates paid by prisoners and their families:"I am pleased that the FCC has taken actions today that will lower the cost of inmate calls. Phone companies charge exorbitant fees for calls made from prison. Members of Congress have heard from families who have spent thousands of dollars a month for these calls."For those who are incarcerated, contact with family has been shown to be a significant factor in the successful re-entry of an offender back into society. The FCC's order will make inmate calls more affordable and therefore make it easier for those who are incarcerated to maintain contact with their loved ones. I commend the FCC on taking this important action."Specific details on the FCC order can be viewed here.# # #
08.06.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott announced today that he will be hosting three information sessions on the Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as Obamacare, during the August District Work Period."Major provisions of the Affordable Care Act take effect in January 2014 and open enrollment through the state health insurance marketplaces begins this October," stated Rep. Scott. "Unfortunately, the amount of misinformation about Obamacare from opponents of the new law is hindering many small businesses and individuals in my district from understanding how the new law can help them access affordable health insurance. Many small businesses currently qualify for tax credits that can assist them in purchasing health insurance plans for their employees. Additionally, the new health insurance marketplaces will allow individuals without insurance or those looking for a better deal to purchase affordable insurance from qualified health plans in the marketplaces. Nearly 18 million Americans may be eligible for tax credits that will help them pay for their insurance through the marketplaces. Obamacare is the law of the land and my constituents deserve to have all the necessary information available to them to understand how this new law will help improve their lives and the lives of their families."The information sessions will be hosted on the following dates and locations:Monday, August 12, 2013 - Richmond, Virginia6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.The Imani Center1506 Hull StreetRichmond, VA 23224Tuesday, August 13, 2013 - Petersburg, Virginia6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.Union Train Station103 River StreetPetersburg, VA 23803Monday, August 19, 2013 - Norfolk, Virginia6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.Norfolk City Council Chambers810 Union StreetNorfolk, VA 23510These events are free and open to the public. For more information, please call Congressman Scott's Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or his Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.
08.02.2013	By Bobby ScottPublished: August 2, 2013, The Virginian-PilotThis week, we celebrate the 48th anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid. These programs have been and continue to be critical to seniors, people with disabilities, children, women and other Americans.Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act and the Supreme Court's ruling upholding the law as constitutional, there has been a lot of talk about the law's Medicaid expansion provision.The ruling effectively allows states to decide whether to expand their Medicaid programs. States still have a financial incentive to comply, but they have an option to forgo the additional federal funds and not expand.States have begun to determine whether to expand their programs to include those who are at up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level, around $31,000 for a family of four. Twenty-three states and the District of Columbia have decided to move toward expansion, and there is a compelling case for Virginia to do so, too.First, let's look at Virginia's current program. It offers comprehensive coverage to very low-income children and pregnant women, including physician and hospital visits, vision care and dental services.Contrary to the popular belief that Medicaid is purely insurance for poor people, the vast majority of Medicaid dollars pay for long-term care services for the elderly and people with disabilities. In Virginia, only 30 percent of Medicaid funds are directed to insurance for low-income families, while nearly 70 percent is spent on ensuring quality of life for the elderly and people with disabilities.Over the past decade, the number of enrollees in Virginia's program has increased dramatically. Despite this growth, Virginia still has some of the strictest eligibility standards in the nation and the 48th lowest per-capita Medicaid expenditure rate in the country.It is under this reality that the commonwealth must take a hard look at its Medicaid program and determine if it should do more to ensure that Virginians have access to quality health care coverage.Expanding coverage would improve health, help control communicable diseases and enhance productivity. From a public health standpoint, it's indisputably wise to expand access to health care.Apart from the public health and moral imperative argument, there is also an extremely compelling economic case for expansion.The federal government will pay for the vast majority of the cost - 100 percent for the first three years, then gradually reduced to 90 percent by 2020.Recent studies have outlined numerous economic benefits to expanding Medicaid. It's estimated that expansion will create 30,000 jobs in Virginia in just five years. It would generate an annual average of $3.9 billion, directly and indirectly, in economic activity in the state.And, under expansion, many services the state now provides with its own funds would be instead paid for with the 90 percent federal contribution.Taking into account all these factors, Medicaid expansion would create state general fund savings and revenues that would more than offset the state's share of expansion costs, netting Virginia $555 million over the next eight years.These benefits cannot come without a cost. Virginia would have to do its part and contribute slightly more to its Medicaid program in the out years.But Virginians have already paid and will continue to pay for Medicaid expansion nationwide, even if we forgo expansion here. Virginia taxpayers would just be footing the bill for all the other states that opted to expand their Medicaid programs.That doesn't make any sense. We should use the tax dollars already paid by Virginians to improve our own program.Over the past 10 years, Virginia has spent more than $1 billion from the general fund to subsidize the cost of indigent care, and all insured Virginians pay higher premiums to defray the cost of this uncompensated care. It is only right that Virginians reap the benefits, instead of paying into the system only to subsidize expanded benefits in other states.As we mark the 48th anniversary of Medicaid, I call on the Virginia Medicaid Innovation and Reform Commission, the General Assembly and Gov. Bob McDonnell to act quickly to ensure that it can be expanded as soon as possible.Virginia taxpayers should enjoy all the benefits provided by the Affordable Care Act, especially when they are already paying for it.Bobby Scott, a Democrat from Newport News, serves in the U.S. House of Representatives Permalink: https://hamptonroads.com/2013/08/virginia-should-expand-medicaid
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), a senior member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, issued the following statement on his Yea vote on H.R. 1911, legislation to alter the interest rate charged on federal student loans. The interest rates for some federal student loans recently doubled from 3.4% to 6.8%."Today Congress passed a bill that will help students and families better afford college as students begin to return to campuses across the nation. This legislation, which will tie interest rates on federal loans to the 10-year Treasury Note, will save current students and their families thousands of dollars in lower interest payments over the next several years compared to current law."The compromise passed by Congress today will allow current students to take advantage of historically low interest rates but may, unfortunately, burden future college students and their families with much higher interest rates. Under this compromise, student loans will retain a rate fixed at the time the loan is originated for the life of the loan. The interest rate on these loans will be tied to the 10-year Treasury Note at the time of origination. Today that's not a bad deal, but the interest rate in five years for new loans could possibly grow higher than even the 6.8% interest rate that students faced without passage of this legislation. As a result, Congress must revisit the issue in the coming years."As a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, I am committed to ensuring that students are not completely overburdened with debt upon graduation. I am hopeful that Congress will work to continue to make higher education more affordable and ensure that student loan interest rates are reasonable."# # #
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a new report on Defective Drywall at the request of Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), Representative Scott Rigell (VA-02), and other members of the House. Defective Drywall has plagued the homes of thousands of Americans, including many in Hampton Roads. Representative Scott issued the following statement on the GAO's findings:"In response to our request, today the GAO released a report finding that some consumers received reimbursements from the insurance companies of manufacturers of defective drywall and other companies in the supply chain responsible for the distribution or installation of the defective drywall. Other consumers received remedies from federal and state governments, and yet many of the affected homeowners have not received any assistance at all. While the Consumer Product Safety Commission and other government entities have issued guidance on how best to deal with this toxic and contaminated drywall, much more needs to be done to make homeowners whole and prevent this from happening in the future. As a result of our request, the GAO plans to subsequently study how an 'all peril' insurance policy or other enhanced insurance coverage can protect future homeowners from unforeseen disasters such as Chinese drywall."The full GAO report can be accessed online at: https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-13-735R# # #
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Earlier this week, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) received the 2013 Sankofa Award at the annual convention of the National Bar Association (NBA) in Miami, Florida.The Sankofa award was established in 2005 and is presented to an individual who has distinguished him or herself by empowering the futures of young people by his or her tireless efforts to make a quality education accessible to all. The Award is presented on behalf of the President of the NBA and the Chairperson of the NBA's Awards Committee. It represents the old African adage "Always remember the past for therein lies the future.""I am honored to receive the 2013 Sankofa award at this year's National Bar Association convention," stated Rep. Scott. "The National Bar Association is our nation's oldest and largest association of African American lawyers and judges. This organization has been at the forefront of improving our nation's justice system and ensuring that more minorities are represented in the legal profession. To be recognized by such an esteemed organization for my efforts in Congress to improve access to a quality education is truly an honor."# # #
07.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, the Ranking Democratic Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations on the House Judiciary Committee, introduced the Fairness and Accuracy in Criminal Background Checks Act of 2013, along with Representatives Judy Chu (CA-32), Steve Cohen (TN-09), John Conyers (MI-13), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Charles Rangel (NY-13), Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02), and Melvin Watt (NC-12) as cosponsors."At a time when millions of America's workers continue to struggle to find work in the aftermath of the Great Recession, many face an additional barrier created by faulty criminal background records released by the FBI," said Rep. Scott. "Frequently, mistakes in the records cause qualified job applicants to be denied employment or cause significant delays while the mistakes are corrected."A recently issued report by the non-partisan National Employment Law Project (NELP), entitled ÂÂ "Wanted: Accurate FBI Background Checks for Employment," illustrates the many examples of the devastating impact of faulty FBI criminal background checks for employment and licensing purposes through points such as the following: The use of FBI background checks for employment is rapidly increasing. Roughly 17 million FBI background checks were conducted for employment and licensing purposes in 2012, which is six times the number conducted a decade ago.Despite clear federal mandates that require the reports to be complete and accurate, 50 percent of the FBI's records fail to include information on the final disposition of the case. The missing information could frequently be beneficial to job seekers. For example, one third of felony arrests do not result in conviction and many other such arrests are reduced to misdemeanors; acquittals and misdemeanors do not usually disqualify job applicants from consideration.NELP estimates that 1.8 million workers a year are subject to FBI background checks that include faulty or incomplete information. Roughly one in four U.S. adults has an arrest or conviction record. It is estimated that as many as 600,000 workers annually may be prejudiced in their job search when information that is of benefit to the worker is not reported by the FBI.African Americans are especially disadvantaged by the faulty records, because they are arrested at rates greater than their representation in the general population, and large numbers of those arrests never lead to conviction. Consequently, African Americans were more than four times as likely as whites to have to appeal an inaccurate FBI report under the federal port worker security clearance program."There is a solution to this problem that would immediately result in less job-loss and financial hardship," commented Rep. Scott. "The FBI must ensure that records are accurate and complete prior to being released for employment and licensing decisions. That is why I have introduced the 'Fairness and Accuracy in Criminal Background Checks Act,' which requires the FBI to ensure that records are accurate before they are sent to the employers and agencies that rely on them to make hiring and licensing decisions. The FBI already possesses the capacity to quickly update and correct criminal background checks. For example, in implementing the background check provisions for firearms purchases under the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, the FBI cleans up two-thirds of faulty records within just three days of requests, by contacting the appropriate federal, state, and local agencies to obtain the missing information. A similarly effective system for employment and licensing-related criminal background checks can be implemented. My legislation will ensure that this is accomplished. Most importantly it will ensure that job seekers are treated more fairly, increase the likelihood that employers will have access to the best and most qualified workers in a timely fashion, and increase public confidence in the integrity of the FBI criminal background check process."# # #
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) discussed furloughs and the effects of sequestration on the federal workforce. Click the image below to watch Congressman Scott speaking on how sequestration and federal employee furloughs could have been avoided had Congress made more responsible decisions regarding our nation's fiscal challenges. Click here to watch the interview
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on his 'No' vote on H.R. 5, the so-called "Student Success Act," legislation to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA):"Our education system is in need of reform, but H.R. 5 is not the solution. H.R. 5 would scrap key provisions of No Child Left Behind (NCLB) that hold schools, districts, and states accountable for providing a quality education to all students. The legislation passed today also does nothing to close the achievement gap that affects so many of our students, or to reduce the school dropout rate."It is my hope that Congress will work to build on and improve NCLB, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the future to expand educational opportunities for all students." # # #
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Senator Mary Landrieu (D-LA) and Senator James Inhofe (R-OK) introduced S. 1307, the "Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention, Support and Education (PROMISE) Act" in the United States Senate. It is a companion bill H.R. 1318 which was introduced in the U.S. House by Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) and Walter Jones (R-NC) earlier this year.The Youth PROMISE Act (H.R. 1318/S.1307) will provide resources to communities to engage in comprehensive, evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies to decrease violence, gang crime, illegal drug activity and other crime. Under the Youth PROMISE Act, communities facing the greatest youth gang and crime challenges will each form a local council of representatives from law enforcement, court services, schools, social service organizations, health and mental health providers, the business community, and other public and private community-based organizations, including faith-based organizations. The council will develop a comprehensive plan for implementing evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies for young people who are at-risk of becoming involved, or who are already involved, in gangs, or the criminal justice system to redirect them toward productive and law-abiding alternatives."We commend Senator Landrieu and Senator Inhofe for their bipartisan work to introduce the Youth PROMISE Act in the Senate," said Rep. Scott and Rep. Jones. "Our Senate colleagues recognize that investing in evidence- and community-based approaches to delinquency prevention not only saves lives, it saves communities and taxpayers money. As Congress works to rid our communities of violence and to be faithful stewards of the taxpayer's money, it is our hope that more of our colleagues in both the House and Senate will support this legislation and work with us to get it passed in this Congress."The Youth PROMISE Act has the support of over 300 national, state, and local government, professional, civil rights, education and religious organizations, including the National Association of Counties, the National Conference of Mayors, the Children's Defense Fund, the National Juvenile Justice Network, Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, the National Education Association, the NAACP, the American Bar Association, the Coalition for Juvenile Justice, and the Campaign for Youth Justice, amongst others.For more information about the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa. # # #
07.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-3) and Congressman Randy Forbes (VA-4) issued the following statement on the introduction of H.R. 2634, which would expand the boundaries of the Petersburg National Battlefield:"We are proud to introduce legislation to expand the boundaries of Petersburg National Battlefield. The Siege of Petersburg marked an important turning point near the end of the Civil War and directly preceded the Confederacy's surrender at Appomattox Courthouse. This Siege also marked the largest incorporation of African Americans serving in the United States Colored Troops in to the Union Army, during which these men earned 15 of the 16 total Medals of Honor awarded to African-American soldiers in the Civil War."Passage of this bill and expansion of the Petersburg National Battlefield Park has been estimated to directly create 150 jobs and significantly expand tourism to Petersburg at no cost to taxpayers. We look forward to continuing to work with our colleagues in Congress to ensure that the lands and history of Petersburg National Battlefield Park are preserved for future generations."# # #
07.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement regarding the acquittal of George Zimmerman by a Florida jury for the murder of Trayvon Martin:"A jury of Mr. Zimmerman's peers has spoken and we must accept the verdict. Nevertheless, I am encouraged that the U.S. Department of Justice has decided to take another look at this case to see if there is a federal prosecutable violation against Mr. Zimmerman. I expect that the Department will review possible violations of the Civil Rights Act and federal hate crimes law. I fully expect the Justice Department to diligently review all the evidence gathered in both the state trial and last year's federal investigation before deciding whether or not to bring any federal charges. The Martin family may also pursue civil remedies against Mr. Zimmerman for the tragic and senseless death of their son."Despite the outcome of the state criminal trial, we must ultimately focus our attention on how we can ensure that more young people do not fall victim to this sort of violence in the future. Congress must enact stronger gun safety measures, such as banning assault weapons, limiting magazine sizes, improving background checks, and ending straw purchases. Additionally, enacting evidenced-based youth violence prevention and intervention programs, such as the Youth PROMISE Act, will also save lives. While these actions may not have prevented this tragedy, advocating for an end to violence in our communities is the best way we can all honor the life and memory of Trayvon Martin."# # #
07.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the full U.S. House Judiciary Committee, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Va.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, and Congressman Cedric Richmond (D-La.) sent a letter to the Department of Justice's Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights Thomas Perez calling for investigations into the alarming conditions in several Louisiana state prison facilities. Specifically, the Members expressed deep concern that the Louisiana Department of Corrections has, "engaged in a pattern or practice of violations of the United States Constitution and federal law in its use of such confinement and detention practices." In the letter the Representatives urge the Attorney General to begin an investigation into the use of solitary confinement, and other troubling detention practices, in numerous Louisiana prison facilities, especially in the Louisiana State Penitentiary at Angola, Louisiana.The full version of the letter transmitted to the Department of Justice can be found below.To download a PDF of the original, please click here.---July 12, 2013Honorable Thomas E. PerezAssistant Attorney General for Civil RightsU.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20530Dear Assistant Attorney General Perez:Under the authority granted to the Attorney General pursuant to the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Prisoners Act ("CRIPA"), 42 U.S.C. § 1997, we urge you to begin an in depth investigation into the egregious and extensive use of solitary confinement and other troubling detention practices in various Louisiana prison facilities, especially the Louisiana State Penitentiary at Angola, Louisiana ("Angola"). We have reason to believe that the Louisiana Department of Corrections ("Louisiana DOC") has engaged in a pattern or practice of violations of the United States Constitution and federal law in its use of such confinement and detention practices. We believe that an investigation of conditions at Angola and other facilities under the control of the Louisiana DOC could yield evidence of knowing violations of the 14th Amendment Due Process Clause, the 8th Amendment Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause, as well as numerous additional violations of prisoners' statutory and constitutional rights.The Louisiana DOC has an abysmal history of protecting the rights of its prisoners, and the tragic story of the Angola 3 is a case in point. Herman Wallace and Albert Woodfox were charged with murder and convicted with evidence that has been called into question by numerous courts and stakeholders, including the victim's wife. Another inmate, Robert King, was also subjected to decades of isolation after a wrongful conviction. His conviction was overturned and he was released in 2002. Although held in isolation for being a purported threat to prison security, since his release he has toured the world speaking about his ordeal in isolation, and he was recently awarded an honorary Ph.D. from Cambridge University in England.Since their convictions (which are currently under review in federal court), Woodfox and Wallace have endured over four decades of isolation. This is an unprecedented period of time by any standard, and quite possibly the longest any person has spent in solitary confinement worldwide. Within the last five years, Woodfox and Wallace have been transferred from Angola to other facilities in the Louisiana prison system, including the David Wade Correctional Center ("Wade") and the Evalyn Hunt Correctional Center ("Hunt"), where we understand the very same complained-of constitutional and statutory violations have been perpetuated. We understand that upon their transfers, brand new Closed Cell Restricted ("CCR") tiers were created at these facilities, and additional inmates are now also confined on these tiers. We have reason to believe that, as at Angola, many of the inmates housed in the CCR tiers of Hunt and Wade suffer from mental health and other serious illnesses. Woodfox and Wallace continue to be held apart from the general prison population, to the detriment of their mental and physical health.Indeed, after years of what we have been informed was sub-standard medical care, Herman Wallace was diagnosed just weeks ago with liver cancer. We have heard that he lost over 50 pounds within 6 months. Despite that dramatic weight loss, and at 72 years old, the prison did nothing to treat or diagnose him until he was sent to an emergency room on June 14. Given the late stage of his diagnosis, his treatment options are now limited. He is frail and ill, but is still being treated as if he is a threat to security, and we hear that he remains under lockdown conditions. This is unconscionable.We also have reason to believe that at the Wade facility, 68-year-old Woodfox, and all CCR inmates there, are being subjected to daily strip searches whenever they enter or exit their cells, even when there is no basis or reasonable suspicion that they might be in possession of contraband. We have been told that even when Woodfox is removed from his cell to go to the exercise yard, where he is being kept under surveillance of guards and apart from any other inmates or prison visitors, he is strip searched when he leaves his cell and upon return.Moreover, we have reason to believe that the Louisiana DOC continues to knowingly engage in behavior that violates the due process rights of inmates held in solitary confinement. The requirements of the 14th Amendment Due Process Clause call for periodic, meaningful hearings on the question of whether a prisoner should be held for continued closed cell restriction. Yet, we are told that in many Louisiana DOC facilities, officials orchestrate sham 90-day reviews that take no consideration of a prisoner's conduct while he was in solitary or the prisoner's state of mind, and do not attempt to determine, by any defined standard, whether the prisoner should be released to a less restrictive cellblock or dormitory. We have been informed that there may be more than 100 inmates who have been subjected to these fictitious reviews.In addition to the above-detailed due process violations, this use of prolonged isolation over a period of 40 years at Angola and other Louisiana DOC facilities is indicative of cruel and unusual punishment, and its blatant and persistent use suggests that this practice is pervasive and not confined to the Angola 3. We have reason to believe that there are other inmates who have received less attention from the press who have also been subject to such onerous, punitive periods of isolation.We do not allege these apparently unconstitutional patterns and practices lightly. Over the past 6 years we have engaged officials, inmates and stakeholders in conversations about conditions at the prison, and most of what we have heard is alarming. Recently, lawyers representing inmates on Angola's death row filed suit in federal court alleging that the conditions of confinement there are inhumane because the tiers are not air-conditioned, and the heat index goes as high as 195 degrees Fahrenheit in summer months. On July 2, 2013, Chief U.S. District Court Judge Brian Jackson in the Middle District of Louisiana issued an order in that case directing that temperature data be collected for 21 straight days in advance of an evidentiary hearing set for August 5. Just as with the death row at Angola, the CCR tiers at Angola, Wade and Hunt have no air-conditioning in the scorching Louisiana summer heat.Finally, we have reason to believe that Louisiana DOC employees have colluded with persons from the Office of the Louisiana Attorney General to fabricate violations of prison rules to unjustifiably punish inmates. Significant issues also exist related to prisoners' personal safety, unhealthy environmental conditions, inhumane sanitary conditions and excessive use of force by prison staff. We have been told that e-mails between the Louisiana Attorney General's office and Louisiana DOC employees document that, in the Fall of 2008, staff of the Attorney General's office and Angola prison "joined forces," as a February 10, 2010 Order of the federal District Court describes it, to search a year's-worth of Wallace and Woodfox's recorded phone calls for "'sufficient justification for stiff disciplinary action.'" Wilkerson v. Stalder, No. 00-304 (M.D.La.) (Doc. No. 374 at 9, 10). This search coincided with proceedings related to Woodfox's motion for bail after he was granted habeas relief by the federal District Court which was later overturned by a split Fifth Circuit panel. We are told that as a result of their efforts to find pretextual disciplinary violations—which involved staff of the Attorney General's office requesting and listening to privileged attorney-client calls—Wallace and Woodfox were written up for phone call violations; sentenced to a removal from the dormitory setting where they had peacefully resided for eight months; and placed back into isolation, where they remain today.In this day and age, the federal government simply cannot abide unconstitutional behavior of this magnitude from those who run corrections facilities. It simply cannot be that in this country, a state can subject men to inhumane solitary confinement conditions, for decades on end, with no standards for the review procedures in place to ensure that such profoundly harsh confinement is justified, without intervention by our federal government. As the Supreme Court found in Brown v. Plata, "prisoners retain the essence of human dignity inherent in all persons."In this spirit, we ask that the Civil Rights Division's Special Litigation Section use the Department's statutory CRIPA authority to investigate and ultimately take all appropriate action to ensure that Louisiana's prison system fully complies with the mandates of the Constitution and all applicable statutes. The Division's work in the Orleans Parish Prison and St. Tammany Parish Jail cases have sent a strong signal that the Department is serious about its obligation to protect the rights of institutionalized persons in the State of Louisiana. The situation at Angola, especially the treatment of the Angola 3, is ripe for investigation and immediate action. We look forward to your earliest response.Sincerely, /S/Cedric L. RichmondMember of CongressÂÂÂÂ /S/John Conyers, Jr.Member of CongressÂÂÂÂ /S/Jerrold NadlerMember of CongressÂÂÂÂ /S/Robert C. "Bobby" ScottMember of CongressÂÂÂÂ cc:Roy Austin, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, Department of JusticeJocelyn Samuel, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, Department of JusticePeter J. Kadzik, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legislative Affairs, Department of JusticeJonathan M. Smith, Chief, Civil Rights Division, Special Litigation Section, Department of JusticeThe Honorable Bob Goodlatte, Chairman, House Committee on the Judiciary
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and Bobby Scott (D-VA), Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, introduced H.R. 2656, The Public Safety Enhancement Act of 2013. This bipartisan legislation uses risk assessment tools to reduce recidivism, lower the crime rate, and reduce the amount of money spent on the federal prison system.Chaffetz and Scott are joined as original cosponsors by the following members: John Conyers (D-MI), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, Howard Coble (R-NC), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Tom Marino (R-PA), and Adam Schiff (D-CA)."It's no longer enough to be tough on crime. We have to be smart on crime as well," said Chaffetz. "We never want to see these individuals in federal prison again. The ultimate goal of this legislation is to reduce recidivism by incentivizing inmates to participate in activities and programs that help them prepare to integrate back into society. ""I am pleased to join Congressman Chaffetz and my other colleagues in this effort to bring more efficiencies, productivity, effectiveness and fairness to the federal prison and post release supervision systems through evidenced-based strategies," said Scott. "Ultimately, we will all benefit from the effort as we will all be less likely to be victims of crime as a result of the reduced recidivism this approach has been shown time and again to produce at the state level. "H.R. 2656 would implement a post-sentencing dynamic risk assessment system to identify an inmate's risk of recidivism. Then, using evidence-based practices developed by states, effective recidivism reduction programs are identified and utilized. The bill would then provide incentives for inmates to participate in those programs.Ultimately, inmates could earn credits toward an alternative custody arrangement – such as a halfway house or home confinement – at the end of their term. Such arrangements reduce the cost of housing an inmate in the federal prison system."By using risk assessments to divide inmates into high, moderate or low risk categories, we can identify those most likely to succeed in an alternative custody arrangement," said Chaffetz. "And as a byproduct, this proposal has the very appealing side effect of reducing long-term prison costs."The program will be phased in over a five year period. The savings will be reinvested into further expansions of proven recidivism reduction programs during this time. After that, it is anticipated that the savings can be used either for other Justice Department priorities such as FBI agents, US Attorney offices etc., or the savings can be used to help reduce the deficit.Similar programs have found success on a state level in several states including Texas, Oklahoma, Ohio, and North Carolina.Post-Sentencing Risk Assessment System The Attorney General is directed to consult with appropriate federal agencies and stakeholders to design, develop, implement, and regularly upgrade an actuarial Post Sentencing Risk Assessment System which shall include one or more comprehensive risk and needs assessment tools, which shall be peer-reviewed and validated, and periodically re-validated, on the federal prison population for the specific purposes of this Act.Prisoners will be divided into high, moderate, or low risks of recidivism.Prisoners will be periodically re-evaluated and have the opportunity to progress to low risk of recidivism. Prisoners who misbehave can move the other way – i.e. from low to moderate risk of recidivism.Bureau of Prisons shall incentivize prisoners to reduce their individual risk of recidivism by participating in and completing recidivism reduction programs.Prisoners who have committed more serious crimes such as child abuse, terrorism, and violent felonies, are not eligible for the program.If a prisoner is successfully participating in and/or completing programs, holding a prison job, participating in educational courses, participating in faith-based services and courses, or delivering programs or faith-based services and courses to other prisoners, the prisoner can earn:Low risk – 30 days time credits per monthModerate risk – 15 days time credits per monthHigh risk – 8 days time credits per monthLow risk prisoners will be eligible for consideration for alternative custody such as halfway houses, home confinement, ankle bracelets, etc.This is not automatic – it must be reviewed and approved by the prison warden, the chief probation officer in the relevant federal district, and a judge in the relevant federal district.This is not a reduction in sentence – prisoners are not being released and nothing in this Act affects Truth in Sentencing requirements that prisoners complete at least 85% of their sentence.# # #
06.30.2013	(WASHINGTON) – June 25, 2013, marked the one year anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision in Miller v. Alabama. In their decision, Justices of the Court ruled that mandatory sentences of life without the possibility of parole may not be imposed on children. Following the anniversary, Ranking Member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Va.) issued the following statement:"One year ago, in the case of Miller v. Alabama, the U.S. Supreme Court issued an historic ruling that mandatory life sentences for children without any possibility of parole are unconstitutional. In marking this anniversary, we applaud the Justices of Supreme Court for their compassion and commitment to the 8th Amendment's prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment. "Our children are precious, and for too long our Nation's juvenile justice laws have punished children in some of the harshest terms imaginable. In fact, the United States stands alone in the world as the only country on earth that imposes sentences of life without parole for crimes committed by children. Though children must be held accountable if they commit serious crimes, our laws should not be so heartless that they would throw a child away for life."For the past 100 years, Courts have held that, as juveniles are still in cognitive and emotional development, they should not be treated as adults in the criminal justice system. Previously, it was ruled that capital punishment imposed on juveniles was unconstitutional. In later cases, the Court ruled that it was unconstitutional to impose sentences of life without parole in non-homicide cases. Now, as a result of the Court's decision one year ago, juveniles cannot be subject to mandatory life sentences without parole even in homicide cases."The sentencing court should have an opportunity to review the individual circumstances of each case before imposing the draconian punishment of life without parole, and, for children, such a sentence cannot be mandatory without such individualized consideration."We hope that in the aftermath of this historic decision, our juvenile justice policies turn towards prevention and rehabilitation, such as the enactment of the Youth Promise Act. Saving children before they head down the wrong path is not just good policy, but the decent approach that a compassionate society should take." ###
06.28.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in response to the House passage H.R. 2231, the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act, and H.R. 1613, the Outer Continental Shelf Transboundary Hydrocarbon Agreements Authorization Act:"After the BP oil spill disaster in the Gulf Coast in 2010, there is simply too much at risk for Congress to mandate offshore oil exploration and drilling in the Atlantic. The effect that a similar catastrophe would have on Hampton Roads and the Chesapeake Bay would be economically devastating, likely causing significant harm to tourism, recreational spending, and the seafood industry."When considering the benefits of this legislation we must also consider the effect that additional oil drilling will have on gasoline prices. Unfortunately, as oil is sold on a world market, expanded drilling off the Atlantic coast will have a negligible effect on prices at the pump."Additionally, H.R. 1613, and H.R. 2231, respectively, include significant exemptions from the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the National Environmental Policy Act. Language included in H.R. 1613 would allow large, public, oil corporations to make payments to foreign governments without disclosing these payments to shareholders or the American public. Meanwhile, H.R. 2231 would allow the Department of Interior to issue a blanket environmental impact statement for the entire Atlantic coast, not taking in to account the geological differences in the proposed lease areas."In light of the BP disaster and other oil spills, Congress, instead of looking to open up new areas for offshore drilling, should work to strengthen safety requirements for offshore drilling, invest in renewable energy sources (such as offshore wind which could create 80,000 jobs in Virginia by 2020), and conserve Virginia's coastline for future generations." ###
06.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) and Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-Va.) met with Attorney General Holder to discuss his sworn congressional testimony and the search warrant for James Rosen's emails. After the meeting, they issued the joint statement below:"Today we had a frank discussion with Attorney General Holder about his testimony before the House Judiciary Committee and the search warrant for James Rosen's emails. The House Judiciary Committee intends to issue a report outlining its findings of its investigation into this matter. We felt it was prudent to hold a private meeting with Attorney General Holder due to the pending prosecution of Mr. Kim. The private meeting afforded us the opportunity to ask Attorney General Holder substantive questions about the ongoing prosecution and the relationship between Mr. Kim and Mr. Rosen that he would not have been able to answer in a public setting."###
06.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court's judgment in the cases Windsor v. United States and Hollingsworth v. Perry:"The Windsor v. United States and Hollingsworth v. Perry decisions represent a victory for equality. Today's ruling in the Windsor case invalidates Sec. 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, which I have opposed since it was passed in to law in 1996. The Court decided that discrimination against gay and lesbian married couples cannot be upheld under the Equal Protection Clause, which prohibits discrimination when there is no rational basis for the discrimination. A law that disparages and inflicts harm on a class of citizens cannot constitute a rational basis for discrimination. Hollingsworth was decided on a legal technicality, but is consistent with the Windsor decision, and so the right to marry will be restored to gay and lesbian couples in California."It should be noted that today the Court in Windsor did not rule on the constitutionality of Sec. 2 of the Defense of Marriage Act, which allows states and territories not to recognize legal marriages performed in other states. If the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the Constitution requires states to recognize marriages performed in other states, then Sec. 2 of the Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional. If the Full Faith and Credit Clause does not require states to recognize marriages from other states, then Sec. 2 is unnecessary. For the reasons articulated in today's decisions, it is my view that when the Court considers the constitutionality of Sec. 2 of the Defense of Marriage Act, it will in fact require Virginia to recognize marriages from other states, even if Virginia law does not provide for same-sex marriages."# # #
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court's judgment in the case of Shelby County v. Holder:"Today's Supreme Court ruling is a disappointing setback for voting rights. While I am pleased that the Court left Section 5 intact, it ruled Section 4 unconstitutional, the Section that determines the formula that is used to establish which state and local governments must comply with Section 5's preapproval process. The Supreme Court based its opinion on the fact that minority voter turnout has increased over the last few elections. However, the Voting Rights Act not only protects the right to vote, but also ensures that discriminatory practices and schemes that dilute votes are blocked."While considering reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act in 2006, Congress received over 15,000 pages of documentation from covered states showing the continued need for their coverage. These states were covered "the old fashioned way: they earned it." Jurisdictions that feel that they are inappropriately covered have a process by which they can be "bailed out." In fact, many jurisdictions have bailed out by showing that they were no longer discriminating in their election procedures. Just yesterday, Hanover County, Virginia was cleared to bailout."Congress must immediately call hearings to ascertain which jurisdictions should be covered under a new formula. In the meantime, the Attorney General should use his powers under other parts of the Voting Rights Act to file for injunctions on the implementation of many pending laws that would have been subject to Section 5 but for today's decision. This includes laws pending in North Carolina and the voter ID law in Virginia, which were unlikely to be precleared under Section 5."
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court's judgment in the case of Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin:"This decision is a victory for diversity in our institutions of higher learning. Today's Supreme Court opinion leaves in place the law articulated in Regents of the University of California v. Bakke, Grutter v. Bollinger and Gratz v. Bollinger, guaranteeing that affirmative action will continue to be the law of the land. In considering this case, the Court had a prime opportunity to dismantle diversity based admissions as we know it, but instead it sent the case back to the lower court to ascertain whether or not the process articulated in these cases has been adhered to faithfully."# # #
06.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Following the public revelation concerning the collection of phone records, Ranking Member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.) issued the following statement:“The recent revelation that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court has approved the blanket and ongoing collection of telephone records – including those of everyday Americans with absolutely no ties to terrorism – is highly problematic and reveals serious flaws in the scope and application of the USA PATRIOT Act. We believe this type of program is far too broad and is inconsistent with our Nation’s founding principles. We cannot defeat terrorism by compromising our commitment to our civil rights and liberties.“As senior members of the Committee, we have long fought against Congress’s grant of such overbroad surveillance authority to the executive branch. The intended goal of Section 215 was to ensure that our law enforcement and intelligence agencies have the ability to investigate foreign-based terrorist activities. But we have long voiced our concerns that, as drafted and interpreted, Section 215 does not require a sufficient connection to terrorist activity before allowing for the potentially overbroad collection of information.“And while the recent revelations confirm our fears – that the law would be distorted to allow for ongoing, indiscriminate collection of data – this problem unquestionably predates the current Administration. Indeed, once the National Security Agency’s vast over-collection of metadata like that at issue here was publicized during the Bush Administration, we fought for meaningful Congressional review and amendment of the PATRIOT Act’s surveillance authorities – introducing legislation, offering amendments, and ultimately voting against blanket reauthorization of the very provision at issue here.“We strongly disagree with those who would assert that because this type of program appears to be long standing and Members of Congress may have been briefed, that it is acceptable to us or the Congress. A classified briefing which does not permit any public discussion does not imply approval or acceptance. We believe the House Judiciary Committee should conduct oversight hearings about this situation and promptly consider legislation to help correct this matter.”# # #
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on his 'No' vote on H.R. 1911, legislation to alter the interest rate charged on federal student loans:"In 2007, Congress cut the interest rate on student loans in half from 6.8% to 3.4% for five years. Last year we extended that benefit for one year. But, on July 1st, without Congressional action, student loan interest rates are scheduled to double back to 6.8%. In response, my Republican colleagues brought this bill to the floor of Congress."Unfortunately, according the Congressional Research Service, students would be actually worse off under the proposed Republican legislation than they would be if Congress did nothing and just let the interest rate double to 6.8%.ÂÂ The bill would make rates variable for the life of the loan, therefore forcing students to sign up to an interest rate that will fluctuate over time and according the the Congressional Research Service, reach levels far exceeding even 6.8% when present low rates return to their historic averages."This bill is significantly different from the variable interest proposals advocated by Democrats: in these proposals, the interest rate is variable based on current market prices, but once a student signs the loan, the rate would remain fixed for the duration of the loan. Under Democratic proposals, students would benefit from historically low interest rates, without the risk of future rate adjustments."As a Member of Congress, I am committed to ensuring that students are not completely overwhelmed with debt upon graduation and I am hopeful that Congress will work to continue to make higher education more affordable and ensure that student loan interest rates are reasonable."# # #
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Jim Moran (D-08) joined Senators Tim Kaine and Mark R. Warner, Congressmen Rob Wittman (R-01), Bobby Scott (D-03), and Gerry Connolly (D-11), and members of Virginia tribes to announce legislation to grant federal recognition to six Virginia Native American tribes. The bill, the “Thomasina E. Jordan Indian Tribes of Virginia Act” was introduced by Moran and Kaine in the House and Senate, respectively.The legislation would grant federal recognition to the Chickahominy, the Eastern Chickahominy, the Upper Mattaponi, the Rappahannock, the Monacan, and the Nansemond tribes. These tribes have received official recognition from the Commonwealth of Virginia and submitted petitions to the Interior Department Bureau of Indian Affairs, but the federal government has yet to act on their applications.“In the name of decency, fairness, and humanity, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and bring closure to centuries of injustice Virginia’s tribes have experienced,” said Rep. Moran. “Federal recognition is long past due, and with strong bipartisan support, this should be the year Virginia’s tribes finally receive the recognition they have earned.”Virginia’s tribes have a unique history that has left them without required documentation, making federal recognition a painfully slow and costly administrative process that few predict will be completed in their lifetime. Specifically, the Virginia tribes lack formal treaties with the U.S. Government, having signed treaties with the Kings of England, the most significant treaty in May 1677 well before the establishment of the United States. The Racial Integrity Act of 1924 also led to a “paper genocide,” which destroyed birth records, marriage certificates, and land titles of Virginia’s tribes."Over 400 years after the founding of the first American colony in Jamestown, we owe it to Virginia’s tribes to see that their rightful status is recognized at the federal level and in the history of our nation,” said Sen. Kaine. “For too long they’ve paid the price for the careless practices and policies of others. I’m proud to introduce this legislation today in the U.S. Senate to seek the federal recognition that these Tribes deserve.”Federal recognition would grant Virginia’s tribes legal standing and status in relationships with the U.S. government. This status would enable the tribes to pursue repatriation of historical and cultural artifacts, comment on federal agency actions that could affect their future, and gain access to a number of federal programs that serve the other 565 federally recognized tribes.“This is an issue of fairness. The Chickahominy, Eastern Chickahominy, Monacan, Nansemond, Rappahannock and Upper Mattaponi tribes of Virginia deserved to receive federal recognition long ago, and this legislation is necessary to make that happen,” Sen. Warner said. “I am proud to have been supportive of federal recognition of these Native American tribes ever since I served as Governor. I will continue to work for recognition through Senate passage of this legislation.”“I’m pleased to join with my colleagues to support Federal recognition of Virginia's Indian tribes,” said Rep. Wittman. “These tribes are important culturally and historically to the First District, and the Commonwealth of Virginia, and have been intertwined with the birth of our Nation for over 400 years. It is beyond time to recognize these tribes and I encourage the House to swiftly pass this legislation.”“Virginia’s tribes have waited far too long for federal recognition, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure the rightful status of Virginia’s tribes in our nation's history,” said Rep. Scott.“Virginia’s Native American tribes played a vital role in the early days of the Commonwealth and our country. They were there to greet and assist the first English settlers at Jamestown. But through a gross injustice, they have not received the same Federal recognition as other Native American tribes, which has placed them at a distinct disadvantage,” Rep. Connolly said. “I am pleased to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort to correct a long-standing discrimination.”“Our path leading up to today has been difficult. Difficulties the Virginia tribes have faced never broke our will. Doing the right thing may not always be easy, but doing the right thing is always right,” said Chief Steve Adkins of the Chickahominy tribe. “We see the dawning of a new day and with the support evidence the members of Congress standing with us today, our hope is renewed and our expectations are high. We will prevail.”To read a fact sheet on the legislation, please visit: https://moran.house.gov/sites/moran.house.gov/files/documents/ThomasinaEJordanAct.pdf ###
05.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) questioned Attorney General Eric Holder during a House Judiciary Committee oversight hearing on the Department of Justice. The Congressman questioned the Attorney General about the recent IRS scandal, possible commutation of certain crack-cocaine sentences in light of passage of the Fair Sentencing Act, hiring discrimination in programs administered by the so-called faith-based initiative, and the impact of sequestration on the administration of justice.The full video of the Congressman questioning the Attorney General is below.Click here to watch the full video clip.ÂÂ # # #
05.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), Jim Moran (VA-08), and Gerry Connolly (VA-11) sent a letter to Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell urging him to work closely with the members of the newly established Medicaid Innovation and Reform Commission to take advantage of the increased federal funding that the Commonwealth is entitled to under the Affordable Care Act by expanding the Medicaid program.The full text of the letter is below. A PDF copy of the original letter can be accessed by clicking here.May 10, 2013The Honorable Bob McDonnellOffice of the GovernorPatrick Henry Building, 3rd Floor1111 East Broad StreetRichmond, Virginia 23219Dear Governor McDonnell:We write to express our strong support for expanding the Medicaid program in Virginia to include those up to 133% of the federal poverty level.For too long, many have been forced to go without health insurance. With the passage of the Affordable Care Act, we have the opportunity and the responsibility to ensure that all Americans get access to affordable health insurance. It is both our moral imperative and a commonsense public health necessity to ensure that low-income individuals and families are not left behind.Estimates from the Department of Medical Assistance Services (DMAS), show that Medicaid expansion of health care coverage for up to 400,000 Virginians will cost the Commonwealth $137.5 million over 2014 – 2022. However, savings from the reforms currently underway at the state level would completely offset these initial costs and expansion of the Medicaid program would guarantee quality health care for all in the Commonwealth.Further, a recent study conducted by Chmura Economics & Analytics outlined the numerous economic benefits to expanding Medicaid. This study found that the health care sector, businesses, and households in Virginia all stand to benefit more if the state opts in than if it opts out. Specifically, it was determined that the total economic impact – both direct and indirect – from opting in would generate an annual average of $3.9 billion in economic activity and create over 30,000 jobs from 2014 to 2019, more than four times the economic impact that would be generated in the absence of expansion. Research conducted by the Commonwealth Institute of Fiscal Analysis similarly found that Medicaid expansion makes economic sense. Their research shows that Medicaid expansion would create state general fund savings and revenues that would more than offset the Commonwealth's share of expansion costs, netting the Commonwealth $555 million over the next eight years. Additionally, Medicaid expansion would significantly reduce the need for indigent care subsidies. Over the past ten years, Virginia has spent over $1.0 billion from the general fund subsidizing the cost of indigent care and Virginians now pay higher premiums in order to defray the cost of this uncompensated care.The recent passage of the transportation bill in Virginia shows that Democrats and Republicans can work together to move the Commonwealth forward and it is our hope that we can continue this cooperation for the benefit of the Commonwealth and its citizens. The fact of the matter is that Virginians have already paid and will continue to pay for Medicaid expansion. It is only right that they reap the benefits and not pay into the system only to subsidize expanded benefits in other states. We therefore strongly urge you work closely with the members of the Medicaid Innovation and Reform Commission (MIRC) to take advantage of the increased federal funding that the Commonwealth is entitled to by expanding the Medicaid program.Sincerely,/S/JAMES P. MORANMember of Congress /S/ROBERT C. "BOBBY" SCOTTMember of Congress/S/GERALD E. CONNOLLYMember of Congresscc: Secretary of Finance Ric BrownSecretary of Health and Human Resources William HazelSenator Walter StoschSenator Emmett HangerSenator Janet HowellSenator Louise LucasSenator John WatkinsDelegate Steve LandesDelegate Jimmie MassieDelegate Beverly SherwoodDelegate John O'BannonDelegate Johnny Joannou# # #
05.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) will announce the winners of the 20th Annual Third Congressional District Art Competition at two upcoming award receptions in Newport News and Richmond. Each year, the Third Congressional District Art Competition is open to all High School students in the Third Congressional District of Virginia.An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of young people. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Congressman Scott has participated every year he has served in Congress.This year's first place winner will receive a scholarship of $3,000 and will attend a reception in honor of all the winners nationwide in Washington, DC. The first place winning entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the primary tunnel connecting the United States Capitol Building to the Cannon House Office Building for one year, where it will be seen by thousands of people who visit the U.S. Capitol.Congressman Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate and various other prizes.The award receptions will be held on:Monday, May 13, 2013 6:00 PM to 7:00 PMDowning-Gross Cultural Arts Center2410 Wickham Avenue, Newport News, VA 23607Thursday, May 30, 2013, 6:00 PM to 7:00 PMBlack History Museum and Cultural Center of Virginia00 Clay Street, Richmond, VA 23219# # #
05.09.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his opposition to H.R. 807, the so-called "Full Faith and Credit Act":"With this legislation, the leadership in the House has revealed that they are more concerned with manufacturing another crisis that will only threaten our economic recovery, instead of governing responsibly. The bill considered in the House today would require the Treasury Secretary to pay principal and interest on the debt first and then use any available remainder to pay other obligations. Essentially, the government of the United States would no longer be able to guarantee that we can pay our bills on time. Economists from across the political spectrum have warned that any kind of default on any obligations of the government of the United States would inflict significant damage to our economy."The leadership in the House has apparently forgotten that the last time they threatened default, the economic damage was serious. In the summer of 2011, our economy slowed, the Dow plunged 2,000 points, and Standard and Poor's downgraded America's credit rating for the first time in our nation's history. That occurred even though the debt ceiling was ultimately raised in a timely fashion, but the mere discussion of a failure to raise the debt ceiling was sufficient to inflict the damage. History should be our guide and the consideration of this legislation only lends credibility to the idea that the debt ceiling may not be raised. The House should instead be focused on governing responsibly by moving to reconcile the budgets passed by the House and the Senate and cancelling the sequester – not wasting our time on legislation that will only raise questions about the full faith and credit of the United States."# # #
05.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote the creation of a bipartisan task force on over-criminalization to assess our current federal criminal statutes and make recommendations for improvements. The task force is authorized for six months and will be led by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) and Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-Va.). Members of the task force include Reps. Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), George Holding (R-N.C.), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.), Karen Bass (D-Calif.), and Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.). Ex officio members of the task force include House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.).At present, there are an estimated 4,500 federal crimes in the U.S. Code, many of which address conduct also regulated by the states. According to a study by the Federalist Society, the number of federal criminal offenses increased by 30 percent between 1980 and 2004. There were 452 new federal criminal offenses enacted between 2000 and 2007, averaging 56.5 new crimes per year. Over the past three decades, Congress has been averaging 500 new crimes per decade. One problem with the expansion of the federal criminal code is that along with it has come an ever-increasing labyrinth of federal regulations, often which impose criminal penalties without requiring that criminal intent be shown to establish guilt.Below are statements on the creation of this task force from Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, and Ranking Member Scott.Chairman Goodlatte: "Over-criminalization is an issue of liberty. As federal criminal laws and regulations have increased, so has the number of Americans who have found themselves breaking the law with no intent of doing so. Americans who make innocent mistakes should not be charged with criminal offenses. We need to take a closer look at our laws and regulations to make sure that they protect freedom, work as efficiently and fairly as possible, and do not duplicate state efforts. I am hopeful that the bipartisan task force established today will be able to reach consensus and make recommendations to the House Judiciary Committee on how to improve our federal criminal statutes and protect our freedom."Ranking Member Conyers: "Unduly expansive criminal provisions in our law unnecessarily drive up incarceration rates. Almost one-quarter of the world's inmates are locked up in the United States, yet Americans constitute only 5 percent of the world population. In addition, the incarceration rate for African Americans is six times that of the national incarceration average. I welcome the work of the over-criminalization task force in analyzing this serious issue."Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner: "Our current criminal code is riddled with outdated provisions, inconsistent with modifications made to reflect America's contemporary approach to criminal law. This bipartisan task force will review federal laws in Title 18 and work to clean it up. Congress must ensure the federal role in criminal prosecutions is properly limited to offenses within federal jurisdiction and within the scope of constitutionally-delegated federal powers. I also plan to reintroduce the Criminal Code Modernization and Simplification Act which reforms and recodifies Title 18 of the U.S. Code. This bill cuts more than one-third of the existing criminal code, consolidates criminal offenses from other titles, and streamlines the code to make it more coherent for attorneys, judges, and Congress."Crime Subcommittee Ranking Member Scott: "Although crime is primarily a matter for states and localities to handle, over the last 40 or so years Congress has increasingly sought to address societal problems by adding criminal provisions to the federal code. There are now over 4,000 federal criminal provisions, plus hundreds of thousands of federal regulations which impose criminal penalties, often without requiring that criminal intent (mens rea) be shown to establish guilt. As a result, we are hearing many complaints of overuse and abusive uses of federal criminal laws from a broad-based coalition of organizations ranging from the Heritage Foundation to the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. Today, we are establishing a bipartisan task force on over-criminalization to assess issues and make recommendations for improvements to the federal criminal system, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on this worthy endeavor."# # #
05.01.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) released the following statement today after President Obama nominated Congressman Mel Watt (NC-12) to be the next Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The Agency was created at the height of the 2008 housing foreclosure crisis. Its mission is to provide effective supervision, regulation and housing mission oversight of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks to promote their safety and soundness, support housing finance and affordable housing, and support a stable and liquid mortgage market."I congratulate my friend and colleague Mel Watt on his nomination to lead the Federal Housing Finance Agency," said Congressman Scott. "Mel and I were elected to Congress in the same year and have sat next to each other on the House Judiciary Committee for many years. Mel is one of our nation's smartest and most dedicated public servants and is a powerful voice for hardworking American families. As a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, Mel has worked to ensure that all Americans have access to affordable housing and are protected from deceptive and predatory lending practices. Americans need Mel's leadership as our nation continues to recover from the foreclosure crisis. It is my hope that the Senate acts swiftly to confirm Mel Watt as the next Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency."# # #
04.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) today announced that he will host a Military Service Academy Day on May 11 in Yorktown, along with Rep. Rob Wittman (VA-01). High school and middle school students, their parents, guidance counselors and interested citizens are invited to attend. Attendees will be provided a comprehensive overview of the United States service academies and their admission process. In addition, students will be able to meet with officials from the service academies.Representatives from Congressional offices will be available to answer questions regarding the application procedures for Congressional nominations.Video link:Rob Wittman and Bobby Scott announce Military Service Academy Day:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nD-3AhkdhWADate: Saturday, May 11, 2013Time: 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.Doors open at 8:30 a.m. for registrationProgram begins at 9:00 a.m.Location: Naval Weapons Station Yorktown, Gate 3Scudder HallYorktown, VirginiaDirections: From Interstate 64 take exit 247 to Naval Weapons Station, Gate 3, Longfellow Road & Jefferson Avenue. Once at Gate 3, security personnel will direct you to Scudder Hall. No military IDs needed.Constituents are encouraged to R.S.V.P. at https://event.pingg.com/ServiceAcademyDay or call (757) 874-6687 (Rep. Wittman), (757) 380-1000 (Rep. Scott).# # #
04.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) and Thomas Massie (R-KY) introduced the bipartisan "Justice Safety Valve Act of 2013," which would give federal judges the flexibility to issue sentences below mandatory minimums. Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) and Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, introduced sister legislation on March 20, 2013."Mandatory minimum sentences have been shown to mandate unjust results," said Rep. Scott. "They have a racially discriminatory impact, studies conclude that they waste the taxpayer's money, and they often violate common sense.""The one size fits all approach of federally mandated minimums does not give local judges the latitude they need to ensure that punishments fit the crimes," said Rep. Massie. "As a result, nonviolent offenders are sometimes given excessive sentences. Furthermore, public safety can be compromised because violent offenders are released from our nation's overcrowded prisons to make room for nonviolent offenders."Mandatory minimums force federal judges to issue indiscriminate punishments, regardless of involvement or criminal history. The Justice Safety Valve Act of 2013 would expand the current "safety valve" provision to include all federal crimes, allowing federal judges to tailor sentences on a case-by-case basis. This would also reduce the bloated federal prison population.The Federal Bureau of Prisons represents over 25% of the Department of Justice annual budget, and encumbers resources otherwise available to law enforcement and other community safety programs.# # #
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – In reaction to the news today that the Department of Justice has filed a lawsuit seeking to shut down the Mo' Money tax preparation firm, Congressman Bobby Scott, the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, issued the following statement:"During the early part of the 2012 tax preparation season, my Congressional office and others in Memphis, Tennessee, Jackson, Mississippi and elsewhere, were inundated with complaints ranging from lost or incomplete tax returns to accusations of fraudulent or unauthorized submissions of returns by the Mo' Money tax preparation firm. I, along with Representative Steve Cohen from Tennessee, and Representative Bennie Thompson from Mississippi, asked the U.S. Department of Justice and the Internal Revenue Service to investigate the complaints. The case brought by the Department of Justice seeks to close all Mo' Money operations. I hope this action will provide some measure of justice to those who were victimized by Mo Money's activities."The Department of Justice's press release announcing the filing of a civil injunction lawsuit to shut down Mo' Money Taxes can be accessed here: https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/2013/April/13-tax-412.html.# # #
04.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, April 9, 2013, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, will be joined by New York Times best-selling author and financial expert Suze Orman for a briefing and discussion on solutions to the looming student loan debt crisis."Higher education is the key to unlocking a brighter financial future," said Rep. Scott. "Unfortunately, the cost of an education from a four-year public university has been rising much faster than other sectors of the economy – even outpacing the rise in health care costs. This trend is forcing many more students and families to rely more and more on student loans to cover the cost of attending college. An increasing amount of student debt and a weak employment climate has led to far more recent college graduates finding themselves in an untenable financial situation. This problem has a disparate impact on students of color. I am looking forward to hearing Suze Orman's thoughts on this important issue and her advice on how better financial literacy can decrease rates of default, saving many young people from financial ruin."The briefing will be held on Tuesday, April 9th from 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. in room HVC-215 in the U.S. Capitol Visitor Center. The main entrance to the Capitol Visitor Center is located on First Street NE, directly across from the United States Supreme Court.# # #
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced the Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention, Support, and Education (“Youth PROMISE”) Act (H.R. 1318).The Youth PROMISE Act will provide resources to communities to engage in comprehensive, evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies to decrease violence, gang crime, illegal drug activity and other crime. Under the Youth PROMISE Act, communities facing the greatest youth gang and crime challenges will each form a local council of representatives from law enforcement, court services, schools, social service organizations, health and mental health providers, the business community, and other public and private community-based organizations, including faith-based organizations. The council will develop a comprehensive plan for implementing evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies for young people who are at-risk of becoming involved, or who are already involved, in gangs, or the criminal justice system to redirect them toward productive and law-abiding alternatives."The United States now has the highest average incarceration rate of any nation in the world, and the cost of corrections in this country has risen to over $68 billion a year," Mr. Scott said. "All the credible research and evidence shows that a continuum of evidenced-based prevention and intervention programs for at-risk youth will greatly reduce crime and save much more than they cost.""In this time of budgetary constraint, the Youth PROMISE Act is a wise investment," continued Rep. Scott. "Ultimately, the Youth PROMISE Act will prevent crime while also saving lives, saving communities and saving money."“In addressing the very serious issue of youth crime, we know that local communities know best," commented Rep. Jones. "The Youth Promise Act will empower these communities and help them create plans to prevent youth crime and incarceration that will save taxpayers in the long run.”The Youth PROMISE Act has the support of over 250 national, state, and local government, professional, civil rights, education and religious organizations, including the National Association of Counties, the National Conference of Mayors, the Children's Defense Fund, the National Juvenile Justice Network, Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, the National Education Association, the NAACP, the American Bar Association, the Coalition for Juvenile Justice, and the Campaign for Youth Justice, to name a few.# # #
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) joined 46 of his colleagues in a bipartisan letter to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel urging the Department of Defense to reinstate tuition assistance for service members.“While we understand the Department of Defense must make tough choices in the face of sequestration and current budget cuts, we wholly disagree with the decisions to suspend this critical program,” Scott and his colleagues wrote to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel.The military tuition assistance programs pay up to $250 per semester hour for active duty personnel, or as much as $4,500 per year. But because of cuts required under sequestration, the programs have been suspended by the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, U.S. Marines and the U.S. Coast Guard. The U.S. Navy has not suspended its program so far.The full text of the letter is below. Click here for a pdf copy of the original letter.Dear Secretary Hagel:We write to urge the immediate reinstatement of all suspended Department of Defense tuition assistance programs. Earlier this month, the Army, Marines, and Air Force suspended all tuition assistance programs as a cost-savings measure due to sequestration. While we understand the Department of Defense must make tough choices in the face of sequestration and current budget cuts, we wholly disagree with the decisions to suspend this critical program.As you know, tuition assistance programs provide service members the opportunity to better themselves personally and professionally. Service members can use tuition assistance programs to earn a diploma, gain college credit, and even earn a college degree. Not only do these programs benefit the individual service member, but they also benefit the armed forces as a whole. Tuition assistance programs enable soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines to directly contribute to the professionalization of their individual service component. As a voluntary program, we applaud every participant who has striven to better themselves, their organization, and their country through education.The tuition assistance program must be allowed to continue unhindered. Our service members have come to rely on support from the Department and Congress for this needed program. In the Army alone, over 201,000 soldiers participated in Fiscal Year 2012. The number of Army participants shows the value of the program and the commitment to personal and professional growth.We strongly urge you to reconsider the decision to allow the services to suspend tuition assistance and provide our service member’s with the education assistance they have earned.Thank you for your efforts and for your consideration of this request.Sincerely,Rep. Ron BarberRep. Pete P. GallegoRep. Mark PocanRep. Spencer BachusRep. Raul M. GrijalvaRep. Ted PoeRep. Gus M. BilirakisRep. Denny HeckRep. Nick J. Rahall, IIRep. Madeleine Z. BordalloRep. Rush HoltRep. Charles B. RangelRep. John R. CarterRep. Daniel T. KildeeRep. Bobby RushRep. Kathy CastorRep. Ann M. KusterRep. Loretta SanchezRep. David CicillineRep. David LoesbackRep. Adam B. SchiffRep. John Conyers, Jr.Rep. Alan LowenthalRep. Bobby ScottRep. Elijah E. CummingsRep. Ed MarkeyRep. Carol Shea-PorterRep. Peter A. DeFazioRep. Jim MathesonRep. Eric SwalwellRep. Suzan K. DelBeneRep. Betty McCollumRep. Mark TakanoRep. Rosa L. DeLauroRep. James P. McGovernRep. Mike ThompsonRep. John D. DingellRep. Eleanor Holmes NortonRep. Niki TsongasRep. Lloyd DoggettRep. Beto O'RourkeRep. Juan VargasRep. Sam FarrRep. Scott PetersRep. Maxine WatersRep. Tulsi Gabbard # # #
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) has announced the beginning of the 20th Annual Third Congressional District High School Art Competition. The competition is open to all high school students (grades 9-12) residing in the Third Congressional District of Virginia.An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Congressman Scott has participated every year that he has served in Congress.This year acceptable entries may include, but are not limited to: paintings, drawings, and photography. The first place winner will receive a scholarship and travel to DC to attend the Congressional Reception in honor of all the winners nationwide. The first place entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year, where it will be seen by tens of thousands of people who visit the U.S. Capitol.Representative Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate and various other prizes at two upcoming receptions in the Third Congressional District.All entries must be submitted by Friday, April 12, 2013. Students living in the Richmond area can submit their entries to the Congressman's Richmond District Office at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, Virginia 23219. Students living in the Hampton Roads area can submit their entries to the Congressman's Newport News District Office at 2600 Washington Avenue, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607. On Thursday, April 11th from 3:00 to 5:00 pm only, students can also submit their entries to Room 216 of the University Police Building at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, VA 23504.If you have any questions regarding this year's art competition, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives considered and passed H.R. 803, "Supporting Knowledge and Investing in Lifelong Skills (SKILLS) Act". The SKILLS Act reauthorizes the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, the primary federal program that supports job training programs across the country.The SKILLS Act eliminates or consolidates 35 separate programs, such as the Veterans Workforce Investment Program and YouthBuild, and creates a block grant. Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), a senior Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, opposed the bill."The block grant freezes funding for six years, thereby subjecting funding in the block grant to erosion over time due to inflation," said Rep. Scott. "The bill also eliminates the targeted nature of the workforce training system, so those who need the training most and are the most expensive to train, may end up being the last served. Several of those targeted populations who are no longer priorities under the bill include high school dropouts, long-term unemployed, the homeless and veterans. Further, the change in composition of the Workforce Investment Boards will marginalize many of the groups that traditionally advocate for those vulnerable populations.""Americans deserve a job training system that works," continued Rep. Scott. "Slashing programs and freezing funding, as this bill does, will not get us closer to the goal of full employment across the United States and it will not help us remain competitive in the global economy. As our economy continues to recover from the recession, it is more important than ever that we make targeted and robust investments in our nation's training and job assistance system."# # #
03.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) today said they were pleased to learn that the U.S. Department of Justice will create a national center for public safety on school campuses, an idea advocated by the VTV Family Outreach Foundation.Scott and Wolf have been working with the families and victims of the shootings at Virginia Tech to create a center through Scott's CAMPUS Safety Act. The Center would train campus public safety agency personnel, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information.The measure has strong support from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle, and a companion bill, sponsored by Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), recently advanced in the Senate. The measure also has strong support from the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators.Wolf, chairman of the subcommittee that funds the Justice Department, asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder in January to reprogram existing monies to establish the center. Holder, in a letter this week to Wolf, said he would."I am pleased that DOJ has agreed to create the National Center for Campus Public Safety," said Scott. "In the wake of the Newtown tragedy and almost six years since the shootings at Virginia Tech, it is clear that violence at our schools is a national problem that must be addressed. There is a wealth of information available to help schools prevent such violence and effectively respond if and when such incidences occur. Creating a National Center for Campus Public Safety will ensure that our nation's schools have better access to this critical information.""Keeping our communities safe, particularly our schools, is paramount," Wolf said today. "I am especially pleased that these programs can be enacted using funds that have already been appropriated and will cost American taxpayers nothing. I am also appreciative of the hard work my colleague Bobby Scott has done to keep students on campuses across America safe, and I look forward to working together on this issue moving forward."# # #
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on his Yes vote on H.R. 933, legislation to continue funding the federal government through the end of Fiscal Year 2013."The appropriations bill considered by the House today is far from perfect. It delays implementation of the Affordable Care Act, it impedes enforcement of key Dodd-Frank protections, it underfunds critical programs such as Head Start and Child Care Development block grants, and it does nothing to address sequestration. Despite the bill's glaring imperfections, it does include important technical changes requested by the Department of Defense to facilitate ship maintenance and construction projects that will protect jobs in Hampton Roads."In the end, the vote was a choice between dysfunctional government under an imperfect bill if it passed or potentially no government at all if it failed. I voted for the former and hope that the bill can be improved before current funding for the federal government expires on March 27th."This ongoing fiscal uncertainty and our total inability to cancel the sequester and pass annual appropriations bills that meet the needs and demands of the nation are predictable consequences of the fiscal cliff vote on January 1st that permanently extended $3.9 trillion in tax cuts."# # #
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) announced today that he will be hosting a roundtable with small businesses to discuss how the Affordable Care Act will benefit their businesses and employees. The Congressman will be joined by Joanne Grossi, the Regional Director of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for Region III, and Jayne Armstrong, District Director for the Small Business Administration in Richmond.The roundtable will give small business owners the opportunity to learn more about the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and have any questions or concerns addressed. Additionally, the draft regulations for the Employer Shared Responsibility provision of the law will be open for public comment until March 18th, so this roundtable will be an important opportunity for small businesses to learn about the draft regulations and provide input before they are finalized.Interested small business owners, as well as other stakeholders, are encouraged to attend. This event is free, but space will be limited. Please RSVP by calling (202) 225-8351 or (804) 644-4845.Affordable Care Act Small Business RoundtableTuesday, March 12, 201310:00 am – 11:30 amFederal Office Building, 400 N. 8th Street, Ground Level, (G-23 & G-24)Richmond, Virginia 23219# # #
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow, March 1st, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will visit the Hampton Ave Center Head Start program in Newport News and read to students as a part of Read Across America Day. The Congressman will also meet with administrators to discuss the impact sequestration will have on Head Start programs in Virginia and across the nation."Head Start and Early Head Start are vital programs that provide important services to at-risk children that dramatically help improve their long-term educational outcomes," said Congressman Scott. "The automatic across-the-board budget cuts through sequestration that take effect tomorrow will have a devastating impact on Head Start and Early Head Start. Here in Virginia, these budget cuts will deny approximately 1,000 children access to these critical early education services. It's an embarrassment that the leadership of the House of Representatives refused to consider any legislation to cancel the sequester. Children should not be asked to help bear the burden of these unnecessary budget cuts."Congressman Scott warned that these cuts would be a predictable consequence of Congress first passing $3.9 trillion in tax cuts on January 1st of this year instead of addressing sequestration. WHO:Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" ScottWendell Braxton, Executive Director of the Office of Human AffairsNancy Null, Director of Head Start at the Office of Human AffairsWHAT:Read Across America Visit and Discussion on the Impact of SequestrationWHERE:Hampton Ave Center610 Hampton AvenueNewport News, Virginia 23607WHEN:Friday, March 1, 2013 at 9:30 a.m.Press Availability After Visit# # #
02.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced today that he will host a community forum on the economic impacts of sequestration on Tuesday, February 19, 2013 in Newport News, Virginia. Joining Congressman Scott at the community forum will be Dr. Vinod Agarwal, Professor of Economics and Director of the Economic Forecasting Project at Old Dominion University."Unless Congress acts, sequestration is scheduled to be implemented on Friday, March 1, 2013," said Rep. Scott. "These automatic, indiscriminate across-the-board spending cuts, included in the 2011 agreement to raise the debt ceiling, will have a significant impact on our local economy. Over the last year, I have heard from many of my constituents about how these unnecessary cuts will negatively impact their businesses. I share their concerns and I have urged my colleagues in Congress to make canceling sequestration our top priority. I remain optimistic that the sequester will be delayed again, but with only a few legislative days left before March 1st, I believe it is important to hold this community forum to help explain the impact sequestration will have on the federal budget, our economy, and my constituents."The community forum will be held from 6:00 P.M. to 7:30 P.M. on Tuesday, February 19, 2013 at An Achievable Dream Middle and High School, located at 5720 Marshall Avenue, Newport News, Virginia 23605. This event is open to the public.# # #
02.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives considered and passed H.R. 592, the Federal Disaster Assistance Nonprofit Fairness Act of 2013. Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) spoke on the House floor in opposition to the bill, delivering the following statement:"Madame Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 592, the Federal Disaster Assistance Nonprofit Fairness Act of 2013 which would add "houses of worship" to the list of eligible entities that can receive direct government assistance from FEMA. While the devastation caused to many communities after Hurricane Sandy is severe, and while I empathize with the desire to assist all who have suffered severe losses, direct government funding to houses of worship, whether for building or re-building, remains unconstitutional."The Establishment Clause in the First Amendment protects religious freedom by preventing the government from endorsing and funding any one religion – or all religions. While well intended, this bill would violate years of established legal precedent interpreting the Establishment Clause."In Committee for Public Education v. Nyquist, a 1973 case upholding the principles of Everson v. Board of Education, a 1947 case, the U.S. Supreme Court held that no taxpayer funds could be used for maintenance and repair of facilities in which religious activities take place, explaining that "[i]f the State may not erect buildings in which religious activities are to take place, it may not maintain such buildings or renovate them when they fall into disrepair." Accordingly, longstanding precedent specifically holds that taxpayer funds cannot go to construct, rebuild, or repair buildings used for religious activities. The types of buildings that this bill seeks to make eligible for direct government funding – houses of worship – are inherently used for religious activities and the bill would have the effect of unconstitutionally funneling taxpayer money for religious activities."Other court cases have also upheld the precedent established in Everson v. Board of Education and have further clarified the application of the Establishment Clause to cases of direct religious funding. In Tilton v. Richardson, the Supreme Court unanimously held that a government subsidy used to construct buildings at colleges and universities was constitutional, but only if the buildings were never used for religious activities."And in Hunt v. McNair (1973), the Supreme Court upheld a South Carolina law, which established an "Educational Facilities Authority" that issued bonds to finance the construction and renovation of facilities at educational institutions. This was upheld because it included a condition that government-financed buildings could never be used for religious worship or instruction."All of these cases firmly establish that it is constitutionally impermissible for the government to provide direct subsidization of religious institutions for the construction, repair, or maintenance of any building that is, or even might be, used for religious purposes. Houses of worship clearly fall within this category of buildings and based on a long line of Supreme Court cases cannot be publically funded and cannot be recipients of direct grant funding."Now, there are constitutional ways to assist churches along with other community organizations. Loan programs, such as the government sponsored small business loan program available to any business in a community, could also be used by churches. Such loan programs have been upheld as constitutional so long as they are neutral both on their face and in their application, and so long as their purpose is not to aid religious institutions specifically. In Mitchell v. Helms (2000), the Supreme Court held that loan programs for religious institutions are allowable in some cases. However, such programs are distinguishable from grants, and are further distinguishable from the direct funding of church facilities that are, or may be used, for religious purposes. The opinion included that, "Of course, we have seen 'special Establishment Clause dangers,' when money is given to religious schools or entities directly rather than . . . indirectly." Justice O'Connor's controlling concurrence further noted the Court's "continued recognition of the special dangers associated with direct money grants to religious institutions." Therefore H.R. 592 clearly violates the principles prohibiting direct government grants to religious institutions. It also violates any possible exception that could be available under the theory of neutrality – the standards in this bill applicable to houses of worship are different from the standards for other entities."While I am in favor of constitutionally permissible ways to assist churches that have been damaged by natural disasters, this bill clearly does not do so in a constitutionally permissible way, and for this reason, I must oppose the bill and urge my colleagues to instead work together to ensure that all entities affected by Hurricane Sandy can be assisted in an expeditious and constitutionally permissible manner."# # #
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's State of the Union Address:"The President laid out a compelling set of achievable goals that will foster increased economic growth through investments in our children, our workforce, our infrastructure and our ingenuity."Ensuring that every child has access to universal early education, ensuring that more high school graduates are workforce ready, making college more affordable, and raising the minimum wage and tying it to the cost-of-living are all commonsense goals that Congress should be able to come together to achieve. I was also pleased to hear the President call on Congress to address climate change, which if we fail to address now will have a devastating impact on our children and grandchildren."The President also reaffirmed that we must address sequestration, but we can't achieve economic prosperity by cutting investments in our future."Most importantly, the President challenged us to protect our children from the ravages of gun violence."# # #
02.08.2013	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the Navy's announcement that it will delay the overhaul of the USS Abraham Lincoln due to ongoing budget uncertainty:"Even weeks before it is to take effect, we are already seeing the harm sequestration will have on the Hampton Roads economy and the readiness of our Navy with the delay of the overhaul of the USS Abraham Lincoln. It is beyond absurd that we were able to find $3.9 trillion to permanently extend most of the Bush-era tax cuts in the fiscal cliff deal without also finding $1 trillion to turn off the sequester. The men and women who serve our nation in uniform deserve better than this. The men and women at Newport News Shipbuilding who build, repair, and maintain the most advanced naval fleet in the world deserve better than this."# # #
02.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) joined House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force Chairman Mike Thompson (CA-05) in announcing the release of the Task Force's comprehensive set of policy principles designed to reduce gun violence. Congressman Scott is the Ranking Democratic Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, and is a Vice Chair of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force."I commend Chairman Thompson and the other members of the Task Force for their hard work and dedication in developing these principals," said Rep. Scott. "I am particularly pleased that the principals specifically endorse the need to enact evidence-based prevention and early intervention strategies. Sustained gun violence prevention is achievable through scientifically proven general violence prevention strategies. Such general violence prevention strategies require comprehensive, evidence-based services for at-risk children and families delivered through a collaborative plan involving law enforcement, social services, schools, mental health, businesses, non-profit, faith-based and other community-based organizations working with such children and families. This approach has been scientifically proven to not only greatly reduce gun violence and crime, but it also saves much more in avoided criminal justice and social welfare expenditures than the evidenced-based services cost.""As a hunter and gun owner I believe we should protect a law-abiding individuals' 2nd Amendment right to own firearms," said Chairman Thompson. "As a father and grandfather I also believe that we have a responsibility to make our schools, streets and communities safe. This comprehensive set of policy principles accomplishes both those goals and Congress should act on them without delay. Moving forward I will use these recommendations to develop and influence legislation in both the House and Senate and work to get legislation based on these principles signed into law."For nearly two months, the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, under the leadership of Chairman Mike Thompson, has met with people on both sides of the aisle and all sides of the issue to develop a comprehensive set of policy principles that respect the 2nd Amendment and will make our schools, neighborhoods, and communities safer.The task force met with and solicited input from victims of gun violence and gun safety advocates; gun owners, hunters, and outdoor sportsmen; federal, state, and local law enforcement; educators and community workers; mental health experts and physicians; representatives of the motion picture, television, music, and video game industries; leaders in our faith communities; and representatives of gun manufacturers and retailers, as well as cabinet secretaries and the Vice President of the United States. The task force also met with Members of Congress from all sides of the issue, and held hearings in Washington, DC to consider ways to address this issue.The Gun Violence Prevention Task Force urges Congress to:Support the 2nd Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans. The United States Supreme Court affirmed individuals' 2nd rights to firearms in District of Columbia v. Heller (2008). However, the Supreme Court also held that "the right secured by the Second Amendment is not unlimited," Within the limits described by Heller, the federal government has the responsibility to take appropriate steps to protect our citizens from gun violence. Support citizens' rights to possess firearms for hunting, shooting sports, defense, and other lawful and legitimate purposes: In the United States, there is a long tradition of hunting and recreational shooting, and firearms are often passed down within families from generation to generation. Policies passed by Congress should respect this. Reinstate and strengthen a prospective federal ban on assault weapons: These weapons are designed to fire a large number of rounds in a short period of time. They constitute a lethal threat to law enforcement and other first responders. Reinstate a prospective federal ban on assault magazines: These magazines hold more than ten rounds and allow a shooter to inflict mass damage in a short period of time without reloading. Banning them will save lives. Require a background check for every gun sale, while respecting reasonable exceptions for cases such as gifts between family members and temporary loans for sporting purposes: It is estimated that four out of ten gun buyers do not go through a background check when purchasing a firearm because federal law only requires these checks when someone buys a gun from a federally licensed dealer. That would be like allowing four out of ten people to choose if they'd go through airport security. This loophole allows felons, domestic abusers, and those prohibited because of mental illness to easily bypass the criminal background check system and buy firearms at gun shows, through private sellers, over the internet or out of the trunks of cars. Strengthen the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) database: Immediate action is needed to ensure the information in the NICS database is up to date. Many federal and state agencies remain deficient in transferring important records to the database. Without the information, the background checks aren't complete. This needs to change. Prosecute those prohibited buyers who attempt to purchase firearms and others who violate federal firearm laws: Federal law bars nine categories of people—including felons and those prohibited because of mental illness —from buying guns. But when prohibited persons attempt to buy guns, they are hardly ever prosecuted. More can and must be done to make these investigations and prosecutions a priority. Pass legislation aimed specifically at cracking down on illegal gun trafficking and straw-purchasing: Straw-purchasing is when a prohibited buyer has someone with no criminal history walk into a gun store, pass a background check and purchase a gun with the purpose of giving it to the prohibited buyer. This puts guns in the hands of people who are prohibited from having them. Congress should pass a law that will put an end to this practice. Restore funding for public safety and law enforcement initiatives aimed at reducing gun violence: Congress should fund law enforcement's efforts to reduce gun violence, while supporting federal research into causes of gun violence. Put simply, there is no reason the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) or the National Institute of Health (NIH) should be inhibited from researching the causes of gun violence. And there is no reason for the restrictions federal law places on our law enforcement officers' ability to track and combat the spread of illegal guns. Support initiatives that prevent problems before they start: Local communities should have assistance in applying evidence-based prevention and early intervention strategies that are designed to prevent the problems that lead to gun violence before those problems start. Close the holes in our mental-health system and make sure that care is available for those who need it: Congress must improve prevention, early intervention, and treatment of mental illness while working to eliminate the stigma associated with mental illness. Access to mental health services should be improved, the shortage of mental health professionals should be addressed, and funding should be made available for those programs that have proven to be effective. Help our communities get unwanted and illegal guns out of the hands of those who don't want them or shouldn't have them: Congress should help support and develop local programs that get unwanted guns off our streets. And Congress should work with states to develop programs that get guns out of the hands of those convicted of certain crimes or those prohibited because of mental illness. Support responsible gun ownership: Congress should support safety training, research aimed at developing new gun safety technologies and the safe storage of firearms. Take steps to enhance school safety. Congress must help all schools implement evidence-based strategies that support safe learning environments tailored to the unique needs of students and local communities. And Congress must work with all schools to develop emergency response plans. Address our culture's glorification of violence seen and heard though our movie screens, television shows, music and video games: Congress should fund scientific research on the relationship between popular culture and gun violence, while ensuring that parents have access to the information they need to make informed decisions about what their families watch, listen to, and play.Click here to download the Task Force's full set of recommendation.# # #
01.31.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations, has introduced legislation with Congressman Richard Nugent (R-FL) that would help improve access to mental health services for people who come into contact with the criminal justice system. The bipartisan Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Act (JMHCA) of 2013 builds upon the successes of Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act (MIOTCRA) and supports law enforcement training, support for mental health and veterans treatment courts, resources for corrections systems and other collaborative approaches."Despite common misconceptions, the majority of mentally ill people who are arrested and incarcerated are low-level, nonviolent offenders," said Congressman Scott. "In 2004, the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act offered a new approach to this challenge by investing in state and local governments emphasizing effective, evidence-based approaches to improving interactions between people with mental illness and the criminal justice system. This reauthorization bill will provide grants to help correctional agencies learn how to identify and screen mentally ill prisoners so they can get help while incarcerated, and even help correctional services plan for reentry into the community. These programs will help jurisdictions to assist mentally ill persons and help keep them from unnecessarily going to jails and prisons."The Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act was signed into law by President Bush in 2004. The funding helps states and counties design and implement collaborative efforts between criminal justice and mental health systems. It was reauthorized again in 2008 and expanded training for law enforcement to identify and respond appropriately to individuals with mental illnesses. It also supported the development of law enforcement receiving centers as alternatives to jail booking, where individuals in custody could be assessed for mental health and substance abuse treatment needs.The new JHMCA legislation extends the program for an additional five years and also fills critical gaps, including providing additional resources for veterans treatment courts to help veterans suffering from behavioral or post-traumatic stress disorders; providing resources for transitional and reentry programs in correctional facilities; allocating resources for communities to better address "high utilizers" of public services; offering broader training during police academies and orientation; and promoting the use of evidence-based practices.In addition to over 15 original cosponsors from both sides of the aisle, the legislation enjoys broad support from law enforcement, mental health professionals, judicial organizations, and veterans groups, including the National Alliance on Mental Illness, the National Association of Counties, the National Sheriffs Association, and the American Legion. It will be introduced in the Senate soon by a bi-partisan group of Senators led by Senator Franken (D-MN) and Senator Johanns (R-NE).# # #
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) introduced the Center to Advance Monitor and Preserve University Security (CAMPUS) Safety Act, a bill to create a National Center for Campus Public Safety. Congressman Scott introduced the bill along with Representatives Frank Wolf (VA-10) and Elijah Cummings (MD-7).The CAMPUS Safety Act will create a National Center for Campus Public Safety, which will be administered through the U.S. Department of Justice's Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. The Center will train campus public safety agency personnel, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information. The CAMPUS Safety Act previously passed the House of Representatives by voice vote as a standalone bill in the 110th and 111th Congresses and was included in the House-passed versions of the College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2008 in the 110th Congress and the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2012 in the 112th Congress."In the wake of the Newtown tragedy and almost six years since the shootings at Virginia Tech, it is clear that violence at our schools is a national problem that must be addressed," said Rep. Scott. "There is a wealth of information available to help schools prevent such violence and effectively respond if and when such incidences occur. The CAMPUS Safety Act ensures that this information will be available to all schools. Although this bill was originally drafted in direct response to the 2007 Virginia Tech shootings to assist college and university campuses, elementary and secondary schools and their governing agencies will also be able to access the informational and training benefits of the Center. It is my hope that we can finally pass this important bill to establish the National Center for Campus Public Safety to ensure that our nation's schools have better access to this critical information."Congressman Scott is the Ranking Democratic Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations on the Committee on the Judiciary and a member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. He is also a Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.# # #
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his opposition to H.R. 325, the so-called "No Budget, No Pay Act":"Raising the nation's debt ceiling is an acknowledgment of money that past Congresses have already spent. Congress should not continue to jeopardize the full faith and credit of the United States, as we did in 2011, by further delaying a long term debt ceiling increase. Unfortunately, the bill considered today only provides a short term increase in the debt ceiling, prolonging a long term increase, and creates a gimmick that withholds pay for Members of either chamber until they pass a concurrent budget resolution. This is a precedent that should not be set."I also doubt that this gimmick would actually force action to pass a concurrent budget resolution. In order to conform to Article I, Section 6 and the 27th Amendment of our Constitution, the bill provides that even if either the House or Senate failed to pass a concurrent budget resolution, the Members of the offending chamber would still receive compensation in the form of a lump sum paycheck at the end of the 113th Congress."Instead of debating and passing gimmicks that make for a good sound bite, we should be spending our time passing a long term debt ceiling increase, cancelling the economic disastrous sequester that takes effect on March 1st, funding the federal government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2013, and preparing a budget and appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 2014."# # #
01.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, a vice chair of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, announced today that he will co-host a Youth Violence Prevention Summit, along with other Task Force Members, on Tuesday, January 22, 2013."The tragic shooting in Newtown, Connecticut reminds us that although mass shootings are rare, violence is common in our communities, and our children are exposed to it every day," said Rep. Scott. "The U.S. Attorney General’s National Task Force on Children Exposed to Violence noted in its report, released just two days before the Newtown shooting, that 'exposure to violence is a national crisis that affects approximately two out of every three of our children.' And the violence that the Attorney General’s task force is talking about is not violence on television or in video games—it’s crime, abuse and trauma affecting 46 million children in America each year."WHO:Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" ScottMembers of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention TaskforceProfessor Dewey Cornell, forensic clinical psychologist and professor of education in the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia;Professor Peter Scharf, criminal justice researcher and professor in the Department of Global Health Systems and Development at the Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine;Judge Chandlee Johnson Kuhn, Chief Judge of the Family Court for the State of Delaware and Member, Association of Juvenile and Family Court Judges;Professor Aaron Kupchik, Associate Professor in the Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice at the University of Delaware;Brian Bumbarger, Director, Evidence-based Prevention and Intervention Support Center, Penn State;Sherriff Gabriel (Gabe) Morgan, Sherriff of Newport News, Virginia;Rashad Burns, a 19 year old student at Potomac State University in West Virginia WHAT:A summit on youth violence prevention with Members of Congress and numerous experts in the fields of juvenile and criminal justice, mental health, education, child development and law enforcement. The summit will discuss:Identifying Threats and Risks of Violence in Schools and CommunitiesStrategies That Reduce Violence and Keep Children, Families and Communities SafeTrue Safety Strategies vs. the False Sense of Safety of Some StrategiesLegislative Initiatives to Empower Communities to Prevent Violence and Crime WHERE:Congressional AuditoriumU.S. Capitol Visitor CenterWashington, D.C. 20515WHEN:Tuesday, January 22, 20131:30 P.M. to 3:30 P.M.# # #
01.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), a vice chair of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, issued the following statement on the President's plan to reduce gun violence:"I commend the President for releasing his proposal to address gun violence. The President, Vice President, and the members of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force all agree that we need a comprehensive approach to reduce and prevent gun violence. The President's proposed executive actions will be a critical and necessary improvement to the administration of current laws. However, it is incumbent on Congress to act to amend the law to require background checks for all gun sales, reinstate the ban on assault weapons and high capacity magazines, and ensure that gun traffickers are held responsible for helping place guns into the hands of criminals."During the next several weeks, I look forward to continuing to work with Chairman Thompson and my colleagues on the Task Force to examine the President's proposals and the proposals of others. We will continue meeting with stakeholders on every side of this issue. Next Tuesday, I will co-host a youth violence prevention summit. This summit will highlight the importance and effectiveness of a comprehensive, evidenced-based approach to addressing youth violence by gathering testimony from numerous experts in the fields of juvenile and criminal justice, mental health, education, child development and law enforcement."I fully expect that our Task Force will develop a comprehensive, evidenced-based set of policy proposals that will help keep our communities safe from gun violence."# # #
01.06.2013	By Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" ScottPublished Sunday, January 6, 2013 - Richmond Times DispatchLate in the evening on New Year's Day, Republicans and Democrats slapped each other on the back as the House of Representatives passed the "fiscal cliff" deal, congratulating one another on what we can achieve when we all work together. The deal was made in order to avoid the automatic across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration, and extend the "middle class" Bush-era tax cuts. Sequestration was not averted; it was just delayed two months. The middle-class tax cuts were permanently extended for family incomes up to $450,000 per year, but I expect that when many find out how their tax cut will be paid for, most would have preferred not to get any tax cut at all. Few in Washington are willing to acknowledge that this bipartisan "achievement" will have a long-term, devastating impact on our nation's budget and economy.Twelve years ago, our nation was facing a projected $5.6 trillion surplus, the prospect of paying off our national debt, and the potential of shoring up Social Security and Medicare. Instead, Washington squandered that opportunity by enacting the Bush tax cuts without offsets, fought two wars on the nation's credit card, and passed a prescription drug benefit without paying for it. These policies, combined with the effects of the recent recession, have contributed to annual $1 trillion budget deficits. The largest contributor to our deficits, however, has been the Bush-era tax cuts. Instead of surpluses and paying off our debt, our national debt has grown to more than $16 trillion. Since a majority of these tax cuts have now been made permanent by the fiscal cliff deal, responsibly solving our deficit problem is now much more difficult than it would have been if we had just allowed these tax cuts to expire as scheduled.While I do not endorse all of their recommendations, the Simpson-Bowles Fiscal Commission set a $4 trillion, 10-year deficit reduction goal, which most experts agree would be enough to get our fiscal house in order and put our nation on a more sustainable fiscal path. With that deficit reduction goal in mind, I voted against the fiscal cliff deal, because you can't begin a serious deficit reduction discussion with tax cuts that add a staggering $3.9 trillion to our deficit with no plan to pay for it.With this deal, there are now very few options available to Congress to achieve the deficit reduction goal without significant cuts to Social Security and Medicare. The truth is, we cannot offset the total cost of this deal by only cutting discretionary spending, especially in light of the fact that non-defense discretionary spending is already at a 50-year low as a percent of GDP. Additionally, nearly every member of Congress agrees that sequestration would be devastating. This near-unanimous opposition to sequestration demonstrates the problem: If we cannot withstand $1 trillion in across-the-board cuts, then how can we ever find $3 trillion or $4 trillion in spending cuts?So by virtue of the very size of this tax cut, the likely inability of Congress to approve new revenues, and the limited cuts we can make in discretionary spending, it is an arithmetic certainty that Congress will have to cut Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, education, transportation and other vital programs of the social safety net in order to achieve our deficit reduction goal. This is the reality that we will be faced with when Congress seriously attempts to reduce the deficit in the next few months.Some of these cuts are already being discussed. For example, changing the way Social Security cost-of-living adjustments are calculated (referred to as "chained CPI") and raising the eligibility age of Medicare were both discussed during fiscal cliff negotiations between the president and House Speaker John Boehner.Responsibly reducing our budget deficit requires making tough, unpopular choices. By agreeing to a deal that only cuts taxes, we did not make any tough choices. Instead, we passed a plan that does nothing to reduce our deficit and in fact adds $3.9 trillion to our deficit over the next decade. This makes the task of responsibly reducing our deficit all the more difficult and makes it much more likely that seniors, people with disabilities, students and our most vulnerable communities will bear the greatest burden when Congress eventually decides to pay for these tax cuts.Robert C. "Bobby" Scott is serving his 11th term representing Virginia's 3rd District in the U.S. House. To contact him, please visit www.facebook.com/congressmanbobbyscott, www.twitter.com/repbobbyscott, or www.bobbyscott.house.gov. Original Link: https://www.timesdispatch.com/opinion/their-opinion/tuesday-s-house-vote-vote-will-have-devastating-impact-on/article_78d2e3b8-b03e-5150-912e-6aba809b3862.html
01.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) was appointed a vice chair of a congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force by its chair, Congressman Mike Thompson (D-CA). The task force was established by House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi in wake of the tragedy in Newtown, Connecticut to investigate what steps Congress can take now and in the future to reduce gun violence.Congressman Bobby Scott serves as the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security. He is a known leader of legislative efforts to reduce crime and prevent youth violence by advocating for comprehensive, evidence-based solutions. Following the Columbine tragedy, he co-led a bi-partisan effort to develop juvenile crime prevention and accountability legislation that resulted in the Juvenile Accountability Block Grant Program (JABG) legislation which was cosponsored by every member of the Crime Subcommittee on both sides of the aisle and passed into law in 2002. He has also co-led bipartisan legislative efforts to add fines and suspensions to the tools available to the ATF to enable the agency to more effectively enforce gun sale and transfer regulations and he has worked to close the gun show loophole.Most recently, Congressman Scott has introduced the Youth PROMISE Act, which would provide resources to state and local governments for comprehensive, evidenced-based strategies and programs to prevent juvenile crime. He has also sponsored the CAMPUS Safety Act, which would create a National Center for Campus Public Safety at the Department of Justice. Additionally, in the 112th Congress, Congressman Scott cosponsored H.R. 308, the Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act, H.R. 1781, the Fix Gun Checks Act, and H.R. 2554, the Stop Gun Trafficking and Strengthen Law Enforcement Act."I am honored to serve as a vice chair of this very important effort to review what Congress can do to reduce gun violence," said Congressman Scott. "Obviously one single approach to ending gun violence will not be effective. What is needed is a comprehensive, evidence-based approach which will include gun safety, mental health, juvenile justice, and crime prevention initiatives. I look forward to working with Chairman Thompson and my colleagues on the taskforce on these issues in the 113th Congress."# # #
01.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) issued the following statement on his No vote on H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012:"Responsibly reducing our budget deficit requires making tough, unpopular choices. We didn't do that today since this bill does nothing to reduce our deficit. In fact, according to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill will add $3.9 trillion to our deficit. It does, however, make the task of responsibly reducing our deficit all the more difficult and makes it much more likely that seniors, the disabled, students, and our most vulnerable communities will bear the greatest burden when Congress eventually pays for what we did today."# # #Previous statements and media appearances of Congressman Scott discussing his position on the Bush-era tax cuts over the last two years:December 18, 2012: On Fox Business, Scott questions any Fiscal Cliff Deal that would cut Social Security and Medicare to pay for Bush-era Tax CutsDecember 6, 2012: On Bloomberg's Taking Stock, Scott questions how any extension of the Bush-era tax cuts will be paid forFebruary 17, 2012: Scott Statement on Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation ActFebruary 2, 2012: Scott Opposes Budget GimmicksAugust 29, 2012: Scott Statement on Sequestration's Possible Impact on AirportsAugust 1, 2012: Scott Statement on Extension of Bush-era Tax CutsJuly 30, 2012: Scott Welcomes Senate Colleagues to Hampton Roads, Asks "What's your plan"June 25, 2012: Scott: Defense cuts can be avoided if all or some Bush-era tax cuts allowed to expire (Daily Press article)January 26, 2012: Scott Statement on FY 2013 Defense BudgetAugust 1, 2011: Scott Votes No on Budget Control ActJuly 28, 2011: Scott Discusses Debt Ceiling on MSNBCJune 7, 2011: 10 Year Anniversary of the Bush Tax Cuts, Resulting in the Slowest Job Growth Since Hoover and Annual Trillion Dollar DeficitsDecember 17, 2010: Ghosts of Past Budget Debates Still Haunt CongressDecember 16, 2010: Scott Opposes Tax DealDecember 7, 2010: Scott Letter to House Democratic Leadership on Bush-era Tax CutsNovember 16, 2010: Scott: Ending All Bush-era Tax Cuts Will Bring Budget Near BalanceOctober 22, 2010: Scott discusses Bush-era Tax Cuts on NBC-12 in Richmond
12.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) appeared on Fox Business with Neil Cavuto and questioned any fiscal cliff deal that would cut Social Security and Medicare to pay for any extension of the Bush-era tax cuts. Full video below:Click here to view video of Rep. Scott's appearance on Fox Business with Neil Cavuto.# # #
12.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Va.), Ranking Member of the Crime Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee, and Representative John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking Member of the full House Judiciary Committee, led a letter from House members to President Obama requesting that he establish a process for considering appropriate clemency for those in prison who were sentenced prior to enactment of the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010 (FSA). The FSA was signed into law by President Obama on August 3, 2010. It reduced the infamous sentencing ratio between crack cocaine and powder cocaine from 100 to 1 to 18 to 1. Congressmen Scott and Conyers, along with other signatories to the letter, had worked for more than 17 years to eliminate this clearly unwarranted sentencing disparity and were instrumental in the 18 to 1 compromise enacted in the FSA. In forwarding the letter to the President, Congressmen Scott and Conyers stated the following:"Scientific studies and experiences over time revealed that there are no significant differences between cocaine in the crack form, which is generally smoked, and the powder form, which is generally inhaled. Yet, prior to enactment of the FSA, the mandatory minimum penalty for 5 grams of crack was 5 years whereas 500 grams of powder cocaine were required for a 5 year sentence. While we worked for, and continue to work for, elimination in its entirety of the sentencing disparity between crack and powder, the reduction from 100 to 1 to 18 to 1 is a good step toward that goal. With the strong national consensus, including within the Legislative, Executive and Judiciary branches of the federal government, that the 100 to 1 sentencing ratio is unfair to crack defendants, it is unconscionable that we still have people serving mandatory sentences under the 100 to 1 ratio. Therefore, we are calling upon President Obama to exercise his constitutional clemency authority to right this wrong by setting up a process for according those whose sentence length is based on a mandatory sentence for a crack violation, a reduction equivalent to an application of the FSA 18 to 1 reduction."This is the fair action for the President, whose strong support of the FSA greatly assisted its passage in the Congress. In the past, systemic clemency has been used to address injustices for which there was a similarly strong national consensus. For instance, President Gerald Ford established a commission to make recommendations to him on clemency for those imprisoned or subject to imprisonment for draft dodging during the Vietnam War era. Without the President's intervention through his clemency authority, men and women will continue to be held accountable to unfair sentences, some involving life imprisonment for non-violent crimes that resulted from romantic or familial relationships with other offenders, such as the so-called 'girlfriend problem' where the defendant was a bit player in the boyfriend's drug offense. It is appropriate and necessary for the President to close this gap in fairness in the application of our drug laws."Click here to download a PDF copy of the letter.# # #
12.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – This morning, the House Judiciary Committee held a Full Committee Markup of H. Res. 819, "Directing the Attorney General of the United States to transmit to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the date of the adoption of this resolution, any documents and legal memoranda in the Attorney General's possession relating to the practice of targeted killing of United States citizens and targets abroad." Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Ranking Member on the Constitution Subcommittee Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), and Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Va.) released this statement following the Markup:"Today the House Judiciary Committee considered a topic of increasing importance, the use of drones overseas," said Conyers."The Obama Administration was not the first to employ drones to combat terrorism, but reports of the Administration's expansion and growing reliance on the drone program has necessitated Congressional oversight."Many aspects of this program trouble me. I am deeply concerned by reports that United States citizens have been targeted in drone operations. I am also concerned by reports of so-called 'signature strikes,' wherein drones target suspicious behavior rather than specific individuals. I am concerned that the United States has killed at least some of these individuals far from an active battlefield. Lastly, I am concerned that the legal rationale for this program remains, for the most part, secret."Due to these concerns, Congressman Nadler, Congressman Scott, and I have written Attorney General Eric Holder on three separate occasions. Specifically, we requested that the Administration provide us with the legal, factual, and ethical justifications for these programs. Further, we have urged the Attorney General to make public at least a portion of this analysis, to allow for a meaningful public debate over the use of lethal force as a counterterrorism measure. While the Department of Justice has provided us with some legal support justifying the use of targeted killings, our progress has been relatively limited."During today's Markup, we saw growing consensus that this is an important issue with deep constitutional implications. I commend Members of the Judiciary Committee on both sides of the aisle for their supportive statements in favor of robust oversight. Many unanswered questions remain, and I look forward to working together with the Majority to address this issue in the 113th Congress.""The power to wage war, and to order the killing of any person, is perhaps the most awesome power the President has," said Rep. Nadler. "The framers of our Constitution rightly placed stringent limits on the authority of any one individual to take the nation down that road. Accordingly, it is the Congress that must take responsibility for declaring and funding any and all wars and for ensuring adequate oversight. We pushing the Administration to make more information available to enact us to fulfill our oversight obligations and to ensure meaningful review of executive branch actions. I look forward to working with my colleagues to bring greater clarity and legal accountability to the drone program in the future.""The legal basis for American authorities to order or sanction the killing of American citizens anywhere must be fully set out by the Administration," said Rep. Scott. "And along with that basis, the Administration must also provide a full explanation of the legitimacy of the process used to determine that an American citizen can be placed on a kill list, including whether a person is entitled to notification and if so, does he have an opportunity to challenge the decision. It is troubling that there is no apparent standard of proof required to put someone on a kill list, i.e., by a preponderance of evidence, clear and convincing evidence, beyond a reasonable doubt, or an accuracy to a moral certainty. There is also no apparent independent impartial review or oversight of a decision to place someone on such a list. While we have been seeking this information from the Attorney General and have received some information, I am not convinced at this time that there is a constitutionally and morally sufficient foundation on any of these issues, and I believe that the Congress must determine that there is sufficient foundation on all of these issues if we are to allow the continued expenditure of funds for these activities."Copies of the Member's correspondence with the Department of Justice, and the Attorney General, can be found here: https://democrats.judiciary.house.gov/letters.# # #
12.14.2012	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Democratic Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, issued the following statement on the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut."Our schools, and especially our elementary schools, are meant to be sanctuaries of peace and safety. Words alone cannot describe the anguish of this shocking tragedy that the community of Newtown, Connecticut and our entire nation are feeling at this moment. My thoughts and prayers are with all the students, parents, and teachers of Sandy Hook Elementary.""In the near future, we need to review all the recent mass shootings to ascertain what can be done to prevent these types of senseless tragedies from happening."# # #
12.05.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott announced today that he will be hosting a forum in Norfolk on Monday, December 10th to hear from constituents about voting irregularities."On Election Day, there were reports of severely long lines at the polls throughout Hampton Roads," said Rep. Scott. "There were also reports of problems with voter registration in the weeks leading up to Election Day. This forum will provide me the opportunity to hear first hand from my constituents about the problems they may have faced in exercising their right to vote and will help me identify potential ways to alleviate these issues legislatively at the federal level."The forum will be held on Monday, December 10, 2012 from 7:00 p.m to 8:30 p.m. in the City Council Chambers at Norfolk City Hall located at 810 Union Street in downtown Norfolk. This event will be open to the public.# # #
11.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Members of Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott's District Office Staff will hold satellite office hours to assist constituents living in Surry County on December 11, 2012 and Charles City County on December 12, 2012 at the following locations:Surry County Tuesday, December 11, 2012 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Surry County Community Center 205 Enos Farm Drive Surry, VirginiaCharles City County Wednesday, December 12, 2012 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. County Administration Building 10900 Courthouse Road Charles City, VirginiaThe Congressman’s primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Congressman Scott’s staff also holds weekly satellite office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the L. Douglas Wilder Center at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov.# # #
11.21.2012	RICHMOND, VA – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) joined Governor Bob McDonnell, First Lady Maureen McDonnell and Congressman Eric Cantor (VA-07) to volunteer at the Central Virginia Food Bank:Speaking about today's visit, Congressman Scott said, "I am pleased to be joining Governor McDonnell and Congressman Cantor in giving back to our community this Thanksgiving. Here in the greater Richmond area, the Central Virginia Food Bank is positively impacting lives by providing meals to those who would otherwise have to go without. This is all made possible by the generous donations of time, money, and food from the people right here in the greater Richmond area who understand that caring for one another is essential to the betterment of our community. Making sure that we provide for the least of us should be our number one priority in Washington as we work towards addressing our serious fiscal issues. I commend the Central Virginia Food Bank, their dedicated volunteers, and all those who have donated for being an excellent example of service to our neighbors in need."Congressman Cantor said, "The Central Virginia Food Bank does more than fight hunger. They provide real relief, hope and opportunity to the most vulnerable in our region. Today, I was proud to join Governor Bob McDonnell and Congressman Bobby Scott to take part in advancing the food bank's mission to make sure struggling moms and dads can put food on the table, kids have access to healthy meals and seniors receive the care they need. When people are in trouble or facing tough times, it's an opportunity for neighbors and communities to step up and provide a helping hand. That's why I was so pleased to be here today and see that individuals can make a difference in others lives. Especially as we celebrate Thanksgiving, we must remember that we can all do our part to help those in need."Governor McDonnell said, "I was pleased to join together with Congressman Cantor and Congressman Scott to volunteer today at the Central Virginia Food Bank. Food banks are vitally important organizations that help people in need put food on their tables. They need our support more than ever. During the Thanksgiving season, and throughout the year, it is imperative that we remember those who need assistance and extend a helping hand to our fellow Virginians. I want to encourage all Virginians to support their local food bank, whether it's by volunteering at a local facility, donating food items, or providing monetary support."# # #
11.14.2012	Click here for information about the 57th Presidential Inauguration, which will be held on Monday, January 21, 2013.
10.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Jim Moran (VA-08), Bobby Scott (VA-03), and Gerry Connolly (VA-11) today sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder calling on the Department of Justice to conduct a multi-state investigation of voter registration fraud connected to Strategic Allied Consulting and its subsidiary Pinpoint. The letter follows voter fraud allegations in three states and the October 18 arrest of Pinpoint employee Colin Small in Harrisonburg, Virginia on 13 counts of voter registration fraud."The number of allegations in a multitude of locations would suggest something more than the isolated acts of "a few bad apples," the lawmakers wrote. "We respectfully request the Justice Department to assume the responsibility and conduct its own investigation, given the mounting evidence that one company may have been engaged in a similar multi-state effort to commit voter registration fraud."Strategic Allied Consulting, currently under investigation by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, is facing more than 200 allegations of voter registration fraud including the registration of dead people. These coordinated attempts to destroy or tamper with voter registration forms threaten the integrity of the electoral process.The lawmakers continued: "While the Republican National Committee and five state committees have severed their relationship with Strategic Allied Consulting, we are concerned that the alleged illegal practices may be continuing under its subsidiary Pinpoint."Pinpoint operates throughout Virginia including the Counties of Rockingham, Fairfax, Prince William and Loudon and the Cities of Virginia Beach and Chesapeake. The Commonwealth's voting process is under national spotlight given its important role in this year's election.Full text of the letter follows:October 23, 2012The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr.Attorney GeneralUnited States Department of Justice900 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.Washington, D.C. 20530Attorney General Holder,We are writing today to urge the Department of Justice to conduct a multi-state investigation to determine if a pattern of voting registration irregularities related to Strategic Allied Consulting are connected and constitute a broader conspiracy of voter registration fraud.Our inquiry is prompted by the recent media reports that an employee of Pinpoint, a subsidiary of Strategic Allied Consulting, was charged in Rockingham County, Virginia with 13 counts of destruction of voter registration applications, disclosure of voter registration information, and obstruction of justice. We note that in addition to its Rockingham County operation, Pinpoint is reportedly operating in at least five other jurisdictions in Virginia: Chesapeake City, Fairfax County, Prince William County, Loudoun County, and Virginia Beach. We also note that prior to drawing a paycheck from Pinpoint, the charged individual was under the direct employ of Strategic Allied Consulting.As you are aware, Strategic Allied Consulting is currently under investigation by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and faces more than 200 allegations of voter registration fraud including registration of the deceased. Allegations of voter registration fraud by Strategic Allied Consulting also have been raised in Arizona and Colorado. The number of allegations in a multitude of locations would seem to suggest something more than the isolated acts of "a few bad apples."While the Republican National Committee and five state committees have severed their relationship with Strategic Allied Consulting, we are concerned that the alleged illegal practices may be continuing under its subsidiary Pinpoint. We respectfully request the Justice Department to assume the responsibility and conduct its own investigation, given the mounting evidence that one company may have been engaged in a similar multi-state effort to commit voter registration fraud. We believe the circumstances warrant a broader federal review.We look forward to your favorable response.Sincerely,James P. MoranGerry ConnollyRobert C. Scott###
10.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Jim Moran (VA-08), and Bobby Scott (VA-03) wrote to Governor Bob McDonnell today detailing the impact sequestration cuts would have on Virginia families and urging Gov. McDonnell to use his leadership position in the national Republican Party to prod House Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor "to begin discussions on a balanced deficit reduction package that can garner bipartisan support" and avoid an economic disaster for the Commonwealth.The Virginia lawmakers were responding to McDonnell's October 9 letter urging President Obama and the Virginia Congressional delegation to support a House Republican "cuts-only" plan that would shift all defense cuts to safety-net domestic programs. "We were puzzled by your recent letter to the President and congressional delegation urging support for the cuts-only approach," the three Democratic lawmakers wrote. "Your concerns about the impact on Virginia of a sequester to defense spending, which we share, applies almost equally to nondefense discretionary spending, to which your letter is silent."The lawmakers questioned Governor McDonnell's support of the "Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act" (H.R. 5652) passed by the House on May 10 on a party line vote. The legislation would prevent the sequestration cuts to defense programs by cutting an additional $300 billion over the next 10 years from safety net programs like Medicare, SNAP (food stamps), and non-profit health clinics providing preventive services. The bill also requires all current and future federal workers to pay an additional 5 percent of their salary toward their federal pensions. "Contrary to its title, this bill does not avert sequestration, instead shifting cuts to safety-net domestic programs in the early years and leaving the door open to across-the-board cuts in later years."Along with the defense cuts and their impact on Virginia's federal contracting sector, sequestration could trigger massive layoffs in the federal workforce, and would result in fewer air traffic controllers, border guards, food inspectors, and cuts to public safety and nearly every other government function. The House Republican bill advanced by McDonnell would only make those cuts more severe since it contains no balance of new revenue.Ironically, in 2011, Governor McDonnell wrote the Virginia delegation calling for a bipartisan solution with all options, including revenue, on the table. The cuts-only approach advocated by Governor McDonnell in his October letter departs from his previous bipartisan approach. "Last year...we applauded your initiative. We hope you will join us in calling on Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor to begin discussions on a balanced deficit reduction package that can garner bipartisan support. We stand ready to work with you to achieve a balanced solution that delivers on the tradition of our Commonwealth," Connolly, Moran, and Scott wrote.Sequestration, which mandates $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction, came about after House Republicans, for the first time in history, refused to support the President's request for a clean debt limit bill and instead demanded massive cuts. A commission formed in the aftermath failed to reach agreement on the savings when Republicans refused to consider closing tax loopholes, ending unneeded subsidies or any other revenue measures, and walked away from the table.Unless Congress is able to find these savings, on January 2nd, defense spending immediately will be cut by about 10 percent, while non-defense discretionary spending will be cut by roughly 8 percent, and payments to Medicare providers will be cut by two percent – a total reduction in spending of $110 billion for fiscal year 2013.Dr. Stephen Fuller of George Mason University predicted sequestration cuts could cost Virginia 207,000 jobs and put a $20.9 billion hole in Virginia's economy.Connolly, Moran, Scott, and other Democrats in Congress have repeatedly urged the House Republican leadership to cancel the 5-week August recess and the current 7-week recess to bring Congress back to Washington to deal with sequestration and other pressing fiscal matters that expire at the end of the calendar year. LINKS TO PDFs of LETTERS:Link to October 18 Connolly, Moran, Scott Letter to Gov. McDonnell – https://connolly.house.gov/sites/bobbyscott.house.gov/files/migrated/uploads/McDonnell%20sequester%20response%20Connolly%20-%20Moran%20-%20Scott%2010-18-12.pdfOctober 10 Letter from McDonnell to President Obama and Virginia delegation - https://connolly.house.gov/sites/bobbyscott.house.gov/files/migrated/uploads/McDonnell%20sequester%20letter%20to%20POTUS%2010-10-12.pdfMcDonnell Letter of July 2011 from McDonnell to President Obama and Virginia delegation - https://connolly.house.gov/sites/bobbyscott.house.gov/files/migrated/uploads/McDonnell%20to%20President%20on%20debt%20ceiling%2007-20-11.pdfThe full text of the letter to Governor McDonnell follows:October 18, 2012Dear Governor McDonnell,We share your concern over the looming across-the-board cuts in federal spending known as sequestration. With more than one-third of Virginia's economy driven by federal expenditures, any reduction whether it is in defense or domestic spending would have a disproportionate effect on the Commonwealth.We find ourselves in this situation as a result of the House leadership's unwillingness to compromise on a balanced solution to achieve the savings required under the bipartisan Budget Control Act, legislation you supported last year to avert a catastrophic default on the nation's credit. We already are seeing the effects of delayed action on the national debt crisis ripple through the economy. The uncertainty created by Congress' inaction has led employers to hold back on hiring and purchasing, which has created a drag on the recovery, and S&P cited the partisan rhetoric of the House leadership in last year's unprecedented downgrading of the U.S. credit rating. This is why we have consistently pushed for Congress to achieve a balanced, bipartisan solution sooner rather than later. In fact, we urged House leadership to forego the traditional August recess to work toward a solution.We must say we were puzzled by your recent letter to the President and congressional delegation urging support for the cuts-only approach of the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act (H.R. 5652). Your concerns about the impact on Virginia of a sequester to defense spending, which we share, applies almost equally to non-defense discretionary spending, to which your letter is silent. Close to half the $20.9 billion in lost state gross product that Dr. Stephen Fuller cites, approximately $9 billion, would come from nondefense discretionary spending. By directing all spending reductions to the non-defense discretionary account, H.R. 5652 is certain to trigger an even greater loss to Virginia than the figure cited by Dr. Fuller, delivering a devastating blow to Virginia's economy and its at-risk residents.Specifically, the House bill calls for reducing nutrition assistance for low income families and eliminating support for Meals on Wheels and assistance for children and adults with disabilities. It also would trigger massive layoffs in the federal workforce and increase the financial burden on those still employed. As you know, Virginia is home to one of the largest concentrations of federal workers in the nation, so that would be particularly harmful to our residents and economy. Contrary to its title, the bill does not avert sequestration, instead shifting cuts to safety-net domestic programs in the early years and leaving the door open to across-the-board cuts in later years.Last year at this time, you wrote to us urging a bipartisan solution without taking any options off the table, including revenue. We applauded your initiative. It was reflective of the proud tradition of Virginia governors working with the congressional delegation to rise above narrow partisan interests to do what's right for the Commonwealth and setting an example for the rest of the nation. Given your prominent role in both the National Governors Association and the Republican Governors Association, you are uniquely positioned to carry forward that mantle.So we hope you will join us in calling on Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor to begin discussions on a balanced deficit reduction package that can garner bipartisan support. We stand ready to work with you to achieve a balanced solution that delivers on the tradition of our Commonwealth.Sincerely,Gerald E. ConnollyJames P. MoranRobert C. Scott# # #
10.09.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Monday, October 15th is Virginia's voter registration deadline. Soon-to-be naturalized citizens living in Virginia who have been scheduled for a naturalization ceremony after the registration deadline and wish to vote in this year's election should contact U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to request to participate in an earlier ceremony so they can register before the October 15th deadline. Please visit https://infopass.uscis.gov to schedule an appointment to visit a USCIS office to see if this can be arranged. Please be aware that if USCIS is able to accommodate an earlier ceremony, travel to a different location in Virginia may be necessary."We want to make sure that all those who are technically eligible to vote this November have the ability to register to vote before the registration deadline," said Rep. Scott. "It would be unfortunate to be denied a fundamental right of American citizenship, the right to vote, because they became a citizen a few days after the registration deadline. If this situation applies to you, I strongly encourage you to contact U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to see if your ceremony can be scheduled before October 15th."# # #
10.06.2012	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the passing of former Portsmouth Mayor James W. Holley, III:"Mayor Holley was a dedicated public servant and a tireless advocate for the City of Portsmouth and all of her citizens. A career in public service spanning back to 1968 when he was first elected to city council culminated in his election as the first African American mayor of a South Hampton Roads city in the 1980s. Despite the ups and downs of his career, Mayor Holley will always be known for his tremendous spirit, courage and tenacity when it came to fighting for the 'Portsmouth Family.' I will greatly miss his counsel on issues facing Portsmouth. My prayers go out to Mayor Holley's family, friends, his former staff, and all the people positively impacted by his life."# # #
10.05.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – At an awards reception last night, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, was recognized as a Legislative Champion by The Justice Roundtable. The Justice Roundtable is a diverse coalition of over 100 national organizations working to reform the U.S. justice system. Congressman Scott was recognized as a Legislative Champion for his work on the Fair Sentencing Act and the Second Chance Act."I am honored to be recognized as a Legislative Champion by the Justice Roundtable," said Rep. Scott. "For ten years, the Justice Roundtable has relentlessly fought to reform our justice system. I have had the privilege to work with this dedicated group in successfully advocating for two critical pieces of legislation ¬– the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, which reduced the discriminatory 100-to-1 sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine, and the Second Chance Act of 2007, which invests in evidence-based reentry programs to reduce recidivism and save taxpayer dollars. We have more work to do, but I look forward to partnering with the Roundtable in the months and years ahead to achieve other urgently needed reforms to the federal criminal justice system."# # #
10.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott was named a 2012 Champion for Children for his work in the second session of the 112th Congress by the First Focus Campaign for Children (FFCC). FFCC considered Members of Congress who demonstrated extraordinary initiative by sponsoring hearings or garnering the support of their colleagues to improve the health, educational outcomes, and well-being of children."I am honored to be recognized by the First Focus Campaign for Children as one of their 2012 Champions for Children," said Rep. Scott. "Children are our nation's greatest resource, and investing in America's next generation has always been my number one priority in Congress. Congress must work to improve opportunities for all children, beginning with access to quality healthcare and early education, and continuing on through college access and graduation. We must also work proactively to protect at-risk youth from going down the wrong path. I remain committed to these goals."For more information about this year's Champions for Children, please visit: https://www.ffcampaignforchildren.org/content/champions-for-children-2012/# # #
09.26.2012	RICHMOND, VA – Last night, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott was presented with the 2012 Distinguished Community Health Defender Award by the Capital Area Health Network (CAHN) at their annual Board of Directors meeting. Congressman Scott received the award in appreciation of his consistent efforts to protect and promote Health Centers nationwide and ensure continued access to cost-effective, comprehensive and affordable primary and preventive care for millions of Americans."I am honored to receive the Distinguished Community Health Defender Award from the Capital Area Health Network," said Rep. Scott. "CAHN has been committed to providing superior health care services to the Richmond area community. Recognizing that too many Americans went without insurance and those with insurance were losing it or facing bankruptcy due to excessive co-pays and deductibles, I was proud to support passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010. The Affordable Care Act will ensure health care providers like CAHN that provide health care services to underserved populations will have the necessary resources to enhance and expand. CAHN has already received hundreds of thousands of dollars in grants as a direct result of the Affordable Care Act. I remain committed to protecting the gains we made with the Affordable Care Act and will continue to strongly advocate for its full implementation."# # #
09.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and a lead developer of the 2008 Second Chance Act, issued the following statement praising the release of a new report by the Council of State Governments Justice Center highlighting seven states that have significantly reduced their statewide recidivism rates:"This report is a strong confirmation that recidivism reduction efforts are beginning to work. Just a few years ago, recidivism rates were climbing in nearly every state, costing taxpayers millions and increasing crime. Now, over two thirds of all states have recidivism rates that are either holding steady or declining. This is testament to a commitment by state leaders to address the problem, and a bipartisan consensus at the federal level about the need for smart investments in effective reentry programs."The United States locks up a higher number and a higher percentage of people than any other country. In fact, studies have shown that the lockup rate is so high, that it is counterproductive as a crime reduction strategy. One of the consequences of this counterproductive strategy is a high recidivism rate. We were finding that two thirds of released offenders were rearrested within three years of release."To assist states and localities in reducing these high recidivism rates, we passed the bipartisan Second Chance Act to help them lessen recidivism risk factors by investing in evidence-based reentry programs that offer substance abuse or mental health treatment, education, employment training, and more. This report indicates that the Second Chance Act is working. It not only lowers crime rates, but also saves money."This report confirms a big victory in our efforts to reduce recidivism, and with the continuation of these successful reentry strategies through reauthorization of the Second Chance Act, the progress in reducing recidivism will continue to grow."The full report can be accessed at: https://www.justicecenter.csg.org/files/9.24.12_Recidivism_Reductions.pdf# # #
09.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03), a member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, issued the following statement on his No vote on H.J.Res. 118, a resolution that would overturn the Obama Administration proposal to provide states with flexibility to move more Americans from welfare to work:"Today I voted against a Republican, partisan resolution to overturn an Obama administration proposal providing states flexibility to move more Americans from welfare to work."Let's be clear about what this proposal does. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recently offered a waiver to states to give them flexibility to the work requirement only if that flexibility results in increasing the success of getting people to work. In doing so, HHS is not waiving the work requirement; rather, it is giving states the flexibility to surpass the results achieved under existing work requirements."The Republicans have attempted to use this waiver as a political scheme to suggest that Democrats are not concerned about helping American families get back on their feet. They offered a resolution expressing congressional disapproval of the waivers and attempting to prevent the waivers from being implemented."The hypocrisy is apparent. If you want to talk about efforts to actually undermine work requirements, it is important to note that Republicans have repeatedly voted for a broader waiver authority of work participation standards in the past, which in fact dilute the work requirements. According to a September 6, 2012 Congressional Research report, "the Administration of President George W. Bush made a legislative proposal to create new 'superwaiver' authority that would, among other things, have allowed for the waiver of the federal TANF work participation standards. That proposal passed the House three times between 2002 and 2005." The legislation passed by the Republican-controlled House in those three instances and that allowed for a much broader waiver of federal TANF work participation standards are:"1. H.R. 4737 (107th Congress), Section 701, which passed the House on May 16, 2002 with 214 Republican votes (Roll Call Vote #170)"2. H.R. 4 (108th Congress), Section 601, passed the House on February 13, 2003 with 219 Republican votes (Roll Call Vote #30)"3. H.R. 4241 (109th Congress), Section 8601, passed the House on November 18, 2005 with 217 Republican votes. (Roll Call Vote #601)"In 2005, the broader waiver was supported by 29 Republican Governors, including then-Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney."And this Congress, on June 7, 2012, the Republicans on the Committee on Education and the Workforce unanimously voted in favor of another waiver, included in H.R. 4297 that would permit TANF money to be spent in the WIA program without carrying over any work requirements, thereby allowing a complete elimination of any work requirements."Thus, the Obama administration did not dilute the work requirements, but on three occasions Republican-led Congresses did vote to dilute the work requirements, and earlier this year Republicans on the Committee on Education and the Workforce unanimously voted to allow an elimination of the work requirements altogether."Moreover, the Secretary's authority to offer states the option to apply for such a waiver is expressly granted within statutory law, under TANF Section 1115."The current HHS waiver is narrower than these Republican waiver proposals, and has greater potential for achieving improved employment outcomes."For these reasons, I opposed the resolution."# # #
09.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement in opposition to H.R. 6365:"The bill offered by the Republican leadership today does nothing to stop sequestration and if enacted would actually make cancelling the sequester more difficult. The bill requires that in order to cancel the sequester for one year, Congress either enact legislation that complies with the draconian reconciliation instructions passed earlier this year or pass alternate legislation that cuts spending by the same amount of the sequester. The bill explicitly prohibits Congress from considering any new revenue to cancel the sequester, such as allowing all or some of the Bush-era tax cuts to expire as currently scheduled. In essence, the bill has no effect unless subsequent legislation is passed. Of course that subsequent legislation could be passed without even passing H.R. 6365. Insofar as the bill has no effect, the House Republicans have wasted yet another day of the few remaining that Congress will be in session before the November election in order to debate a nonsensical bill that does nothing to actually cancel the sequester."# # #
09.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on a new report issued by the Center for American Progress, a Washington, DC based think-tank, highlighting the impact sequestration will have on military families and specifically cuts to Impact Aid:"Impact Aid is a vital federal program that provides critical funding to school districts impacted by the loss of property taxes due to tax-exempt military installations located near or within the school district. Sequestration cuts to Impact Aid will be devastating to local school districts in my congressional district. According to this analysis from the Center for American Progress, Hampton Roads' schools could lose at least $1.32 million in Impact Aid funding. This would further tighten local school budgets, potentially leading to teacher layoffs and resulting in larger class sizes and less attention on the needs of individual students. Congress must prioritize cancelling the sequester before considering any extension of the Bush-era tax cuts, which will cost approximately $4 trillion over the next ten years."The full analysis by the Center for American Progress can be accessed online at: https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/budget/news/2012/09/12/37518/military-families-whacked-by-sequestration-2/# # #
09.12.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the deadly attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya:"I join the President, Secretary of State Clinton and my colleagues in Congress in strongly condemning the heinous attack on our consulate in Benghazi Libya, which has claimed the lives of four Americans, including our Ambassador to Libya, Christopher Stevens. Service to our nation comes in many forms, and these Americans were serving in one of the most precarious and important ways – advancing our nation's ideals of freedom and liberty through diplomacy. My condolences and prayers go out to each of their families."# # #
08.29.2012	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement in response to local news reports on comments he made regarding sequestration's effects on the Federal Aviation Administration and its potential impact on airports:"The report authored by Scott Lilly at the Center for American Progress on the potential negative effects of sequestration on the FAA and airports is an accurate assessment of a possible outcome if sequestration is not avoided. The American Association of Airport Executives has even confirmed that Scott Lilly's analysis is a possibility if the sequester is not cancelled. Just as the Defense cuts would have a devastating impact on Hampton Roads, so would the non-defense cuts – not only to the FAA but to all aspects of the Federal government."That is why it is imperative that we work to avoid sequestration immediately and why I have offered an effective strategy to deal with the crisis – Congress must first cancel the sequester before extending any expiring tax cuts. If all of the Bush-era tax cuts expire at the end of the year as they are currently scheduled to do, the sequester would not be necessary."Before leaving Washington for the August recess and political conventions, the House voted to extend all of the Bush-era tax cuts at a cost of $4 trillion over ten years and the Senate voted to extend only the Bush-era tax cuts for that portion of income under $250,000 at a ten-year cost of approximately $3 trillion. Congress should prioritize cancelling the sequester rather than extending tax cuts. If we can come up with $3 trillion or $4 trillion for tax cuts, we obviously should be able to come up with $1 trillion to cancel the sequester. If other Members of Congress have a better idea, they should say so now, with numbers, not with vague language suggesting that we promise to reduce the size of government with unspecified cuts. Otherwise, the devastating consequences of the sequester will have to be suffered."I fully assume the sequester will not be necessary because I believe Congress will eventually prioritize its cancellation over extending expiring tax cuts. Nevertheless, elected officials have a responsibility to be open and honest about their proposal to cancel the sequester because it will be so damaging to our economy, national defense, and other vital services of government."# # #
08.22.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced today that he will host a town hall meeting on Medicare and Budget issues. The meeting will give an overview of the Medicare program and provide an opportunity for constituents to ask questions. This event is open to the public. Seating will be limited.Medicare and Budget Town HallAn Achievable Dream Middle & High SchoolMonday August 27, 20125720 Marshall AvenueNewport News, VA 236056:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.# # #
08.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced today that his office is now accepting applications for nominations for eligible high school students in the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia wishing to attend one of our nation's five service academies.Each year hundreds of young men and women are chosen to fill positions at each of our nation's service academies. Students can receive nominations from the Vice President of the United States, their United States Senator, or their Representative in the U.S. House of Representatives. Students can also pursue a military-service-connected nomination. Due to the competitive nature of the nomination process, students are encouraged to pursue multiple routes to securing a nomination.The service academies provide a full four-year scholarship, which is valued at more than $150,000. After four years of college-level education and training, cadets or midshipmen are commissioned as junior officers in the appropriate branch of the military and commit to serve a minimum of five years."It is one of my greatest privileges as a Member of Congress to nominate the best and brightest students in my congressional district to attend one of our nation's service academies," said Rep. Scott. "I encourage all students wishing to serve their nation to consider applying for a nomination through my office."The deadline for nominations for Fall 2013 is Friday, November 16, 2012. For more information on the nomination process, eligibility or to receive an application, please visit www.bobbyscott.house.gov/serviceacademy. Students and parents can also call Congressman Scott's district office in Newport News at (757) 380-1000 or Richmond at (804) 644-4845 for more information.# # #
08.03.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Virginia) issued the following statement on H.R. 8, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act:"This legislation irresponsibly extends all the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003. I voted against this bill because we simply cannot afford to continue extending tax cuts and at the same time put Social Security, Medicare, and our nation's defense in jeopardy to pay for these cuts."Earlier this week, three Republican Senators were in Norfolk complaining about the negative effect that the 'Sequester' will have on our nation's defense and the Hampton Roads' economy. It will cost $1 trillion to offset the Sequester so our challenge is to find $1 trillion in deficit reduction in order to avoid the Sequester."However, today the Republicans who can't find $1 trillion to cancel the Sequester voted in favor of $4 trillion in tax cuts. I believe we should cancel the Sequester first and then if there is any money left over, we might be able to enjoy some tax cuts. But the extension of $4 trillion in tax credits makes the Sequester arithmetically unavoidable."# # #
07.30.2012	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement welcoming Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) to Hampton Roads and the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia:"I welcome Senators McCain, Graham and Ayotte to Hampton Roads. Our region is very proud of its military and shipbuilding heritage. My Senate colleagues are correct in their assessment that sequestration will be harmful to our national defense and especially our local economy, but I believe they have yet to answer an important question, namely what is the most appropriate proposal to fix this problem?"The President's FY 2013 budget proposes ending the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy, among other savings, as a path forward to stopping the sequester. This proposal would produce approximately $1 trillion in deficit reduction – enough to offset the entire sequester. My proposal is to let all the Bush-era tax cuts and the 2% payroll tax cut expire as currently scheduled. This would yield approximately $5 trillion – $4 trillion more than the sequester. In the first year, the additional revenue could be immediately put towards direct job creation, such as investments in transportation and infrastructure, to accelerate economic growth. It would also be more than enough to cancel the economically damaging sequester. These proposals put real numbers on line items, and do not hide behind poll tested talking points and generalities, such as 'reduce the size of government,' which do not propose any concrete solutions. We should all agree that it is more productive to offer specific solutions to the problem and work towards reaching a solution as soon as possible rather than just complain about the problem."There is a consensus that we need to achieve approximately $4 trillion in deficit reduction over the next decade, but many of my colleagues refuse to support any new revenues and demand that we achieve this level of deficit reduction solely through unspecified spending cuts that would 'reduce the size of government.' Well $1 trillion in spending cuts looks like the sequester that everyone agrees should be avoided. If $1 trillion in spending cuts through sequestration is too much to bear, then any suggestion to reduce the 'size of government' by $4 trillion in spending cuts is obviously absurd."The specific question my colleagues need to answer is whether they will support any meaningful solution to solve this mess or will they just continue to complain about the pending sequester."# # #
07.24.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee, will spend this week in Congress at several events on Capitol Hill focusing on effective methods of preventing youth violence in America's communities.Today at 3:00 p.m., Congressman Scott will join his colleague, Congressman John Conyers, who is the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and other experts for a briefing on predicting and preventing homicide and other violence. This briefing will be held in Room 2226 of the Rayburn House Office Building. For more information on this briefing, please click here.On Wednesday, July 24, 2012, the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security will hold a hearing at 10:00 a.m. on "Beyond the Streets: America's Evolving Gang Threat" in Room 2141 of the Rayburn House Office Building. For more information on this hearing, please click here.Later on Wednesday, Congressman Scott will join members of the Attorney General's Task Force on Children Exposed to Violence and other members of Congress and officials from the U.S. Department of Justice for a briefing on the issue, which will take place at 2:00 p.m. in Room 2237 of the Rayburn House Office Building. This Task Force was established by the Attorney General to address the rising epidemic of problems from children's exposure to violence.Congressman Scott is a recognized leader in addressing youth violence. He has sponsored H.R. 2721, the Youth PROMISE Act, which has been endorsed by over 250 local and national organizations representing a broad array of children and youth-oriented specialties including juvenile justice, mental health, civil rights, education, youth work, legal services, and faith communities. Under the Youth PROMISE Act, communities facing the greatest youth gang and crime challenges will be able to develop a comprehensive plan to address youth violence through a coordinated prevention and intervention response. Representatives from local law enforcement, the school system, court services, social services, health and mental health providers, foster care providers, other community and faith-based organizations will form a council to develop a comprehensive plan for implementing evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies. The plans can be funded up to four years. The act also enhances state and local law enforcement efforts regarding youth and gang violence. For more information on the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit: https://bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa."Addressing youth violence and reducing crime is not difficult if you use evidenced based approaches," said Congressman Scott. "During my more than 30 years of public service, I have learned that when it comes to crime policy, we have a choice - we can reduce crime or we can play politics. For far too long, Congress has chosen to play politics by enacting poll tested "tough on crime" slogans and sound bites whose impacts range from a negligible reduction in crime to an actual increase in crime. As a result, the United States now has the highest incarceration rate of any nation in the world, a rate so high that the Pew Research Center has calculated that it not only wastes money, it is counterproductive in the fight against crime. All the credible research and evidence shows that a continuum of evidenced-based prevention and intervention programs for at-risk youth will greatly reduce crime and save much more than they cost. I hope to highlight this approach to addressing crime this week in briefings and hearings."# # #
07.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, announced that he will be co-hosting a briefing with Congressman John Conyers, the Ranking Member of the Committee on the Judiciary, on predicting and preventing homicide and other violence. WHO: Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security; Congressman John Conyers, Ranking Member, Committee on the Judiciary; Dr. Robert John Zagar, PhD, MPH, a clinical psychologist, researcher, educator, economist, consultant and author of over 40 articles and books, including Predicting & Preventing Homicide: A Cost Effective Empirical Approach from Infancy to Adulthood;Professor Peter Scharf, EdD, Research Professor, Department of Global Health Systems and Development, Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, a researcher, consultant, and author or coauthor of 9 books and a number of journal articles;Professor Catherine Gallagher, PhD, Associate Professor and Director, Cochrane Collaboration College for Policy, Criminology, Law and Society, George Mason University, a researcher, consultant and author of several articles for journals and other publications; andSteve Trubow, Founder and head of Olympic Behavior Labs, a researcher and consultant.WHAT:Predicting and Preventing Homicide and Other Violence: A Cost Effective Empirical Approach Recent news reports are replete with accounts of murders and other violence by and against young people in some of our communities. For example, reports of homicides in Chicago this year surpass the number of U.S. troops killed in war torn Afghanistan. A recent report indicated that 228 have been killed in Chicago thus far this year while the number of U.S. troops killed in Afghanistan during the same time period was 144. https://www.presstv.ir/usdetail/246804.html. Rates of homicide and violence are also disturbingly high in New Orleans, Detroit, Philadelphia and other U.S. cities. Yet, in cities such as New York and Los Angeles, rates of homicide and violence are at record lows. https://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/07/02/chicago-murder-rate-surges-as-new-york-s-drops-to-record-low.html. Come hear from experts about why we are seeing these differences and how the violence can be stopped.WHERE: 2226 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DCWHEN: Tuesday, July 24, 2012 from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.# # #
07.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott voted No on H.R. 6079, which would repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. This was the 31st vote that the House of Representatives has taken since January 2011 to repeal all or some of the provisions of the healthcare reform law. Congressman Scott spoke in opposition to this latest repeal attempt on the House floor yesterday:"Mr. Speaker, two years ago we passed ObamaCare, and now the Supreme Court has ruled that it is, in fact, constitutional."Even after this ruling, some are ignoring the fact that these reforms are working. We know that there are children with preexisting conditions who now have insurance. We know that there are young adults who have had car accidents and their families did not have to go bankrupt for health care costs because they were able to stay on their parents' policies."We know that there are seniors who are receiving assistance when they fall in the doughnut hole. We know many people have discovered diseases when those diseases were in fact curable because they didn't have to save up for co-pays and deductibles for their annual checkup. We know that there are people with serious illnesses who no longer fear being kicked off their insurance plans in the middle of treatment when they need the coverage the most. And in 18 months, all Americans will be able to afford a comprehensive health care policy. All of this was done in a fiscally responsible way. And why would anyone want to take away these protections and leave people without health security?"Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this 31st attempt to turn the clock back on the advancements made under the Affordable Care Act."# # #
07.03.2012	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement upon learning of the passing of Virginia Senator Yvonne Bond Miller:"It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of my friend and colleague Senator Yvonne Bond Miller. Yvonne was a stalwart champion of civil rights and paved the way for others to follow not only with her words but with her actions. This is evidenced by the number of 'firsts' that can be attributed to her. Yvonne was the first African American woman to serve in the Virginia House of Delegates and the first African American woman to serve in the Virginia Senate. She was the longest serving woman in the Virginia Senate, where she ranked 3rd in overall seniority, and she was the first woman to ever chair a Senate Committee."Yvonne spent her life devoted to Virginia's children and youth. She began a longtime career in education teaching in the then-segregated Norfolk Public Schools. Later she joined the education faculty at Norfolk State, becoming a professor and head of the Department of Early Childhood/Elementary Education. Her legislative priorities similarly focused on our youngest citizens – ensuring that state education dollars were spent effectively and providing adequate social services, such as childhood obesity prevention, to students across Virginia."Yvonne was also a tireless advocate for reforming the way Virginia handles crime, introducing legislation on after school programs for at-risk youth and gang prevention, child-friendly visiting rooms in correctional facilities, and restoration of voter rights for non-violent felons."The citizens of the Fifth District and the entire Commonwealth have lost a dedicated public servant. My thoughts and prayers go out to Senator Miller's family and her staff."# # #
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03), a dedicated advocate of universal health care, released the following statement following the release of the U.S. Supreme Court's decision to uphold the nearly all the provisions of the Affordable Care Act:"I am pleased that today's U.S. Supreme Court decision leaves intact nearly all of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act, most importantly the "individual mandate." This law is a milestone towards expanding affordable health coverage to all Americans, regardless of age, income, or preexisting condition. Young Americans can continue to stay on their parent's polices until they are twenty-six, seniors will not be pushed back into the 'donut-hole', and health insurance companies will not be able to put a lifetime limit on your health coverage."This is a win for Americans across the country. While the debate over the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act has been divisive, as we begin seeing more of the provisions come into effect, more Americans will realize how important this law is and how it helps them, their families, and their neighbors."Due to the Affordable Care Act, 7,200 young adults in my district now have health insurance. In addition, 6,000 seniors in my district are currently receiving prescription drug discounts worth a total of $3.5 million, an average discount of $580 per senior. The law banned insurance companies from establishing lifetime coverage limits for 200,000 residents. These are all forward-thinking and necessary reforms. The United States currently spends more money on health care than any industrialized nation; it is imperative that we continue to improve the quality of the health care that we provide in this country."The legal challenges have focused primarily on the "individual mandate" provision. During the past 2 years, I have maintained that this "mandate" is in fact simply a tax measure. This is the same differential that occurs when someone receives a tax credit for having a solar panel – those with a solar panel get a tax credit and pay slightly lower taxes than those without. This is not a "mandate" to get a solar panel. The so-called "individual mandate" is the equivalent of not receiving a tax credit for having insurance. If you carry insurance, you will pay less in taxes. If you don't have insurance, your tax liability will slightly increase. Today, the Supreme Court, using the same logic, ruled that this tax measure is constitutional. If, on the other hand, the Court had ruled it unconstitutional, the same logic would have put all tax credits, as well as Social Security and Medicare, in jeopardy."I will continue to fight efforts to repeal this legislation, which provides access to affordable health coverage not only to those in Virginia's 3rd Congressional District, but to all Americans."# # #
06.27.2012	The Daily Press: A defense spending crisis in January? Think summerby Hugh Lessig, June 24, 2012Automatic cuts in U.S. defense spending will take effect in January 2013 if Congress does nothing about it. That's what it says on paper.In reality, the drag on the defense industry is already in the works, portending serious consequences for Hampton Roads and Virginia into the summer and fall, analysts and elected officials say.A recent survey of smaller businesses engaged in ship construction, maintenance, repair and supply found that many are already contemplating layoffs and cutbacks. The prospect of an 11th-hour deal around Christmas would provide little comfort to companies that must make key decisions in the coming weeks.Building a ship takes years, and so does the planning."If you need 20 tons of steel, you don't pick up the phone and it's delivered the next day," said Ashley Godwin, a senior defense adviser for the Shipbuilders Council of America. "It requires purchases well in advance."The burden falls heavier on small- and medium-sized businesses that don't have the financial flexibility or lengthy project lists of larger corporations, she said."The smaller companies, a lot of them go hand to mouth, month to month," she said. "The don't have the cash reserves and they have small work forces."The fallout from defense cuts will spread throughout the economy, said Barry DuVal, the former Newport News mayor and current president and CEO of the Virginia Chamber of Commerce. He's talked to smaller companies whose employees are in limbo, not sure what will happen."These people are not out buying automobiles or purchasing new houses," he said. "They're probably less interested in a vacation this summer. This sort of uncertainty creates a cloud on the economy, especially for states that are depending on defense spending."Big word, big impactThe current crisis is rooted in the Budget Control Act that President Barack Obama signed into law last year. It created a bipartisan committee to find an additional $1.2 trillion in savings over the next decade to reduce the budget deficit. The committee failed, so the law spells out mandatory, automatic cuts in defense and non-defense spending: $600 billion each over the next 10 years.That process is known as sequestration. If that's too much of a mouthful, consider the term used by Defense Secretary Leon Panetta before a Senate panel last week. The automatic cuts, he said, are a "meat ax approach."But so far in this bitterly contested presidential election year, Congress has failed to strike a deal to avoid the cuts.Republicans have refused to consider tax increases while Democrats are concerned about cutting entitlement programs. This week, the top Republican on the House Armed Services Committee released a video that painted the defense-cut fallout in stark terms and accused Democrats of blocking a solution.Rep. Howard "Buck" McKeon took aim at Obama and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, and said Republicans have put responsible plans on the table. At the same time, he said, Democrats have offered no plan of their own.The spot invoked the GOP's favorite son, Ronald Reagan, who advocated peace through strength, and interspersed archival black-and-white footage of ticker-tape parades, saying those who deserved a hero's welcome will instead receive pink slips."The time for guarded language," McKeon said, "has passed."Fair enough, says Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, D-Newport News.He agrees that sequestration would have a devastating impact on the military and defense industry. But he bristles at the GOP's insistence at extending the Bush-era tax cuts that are set to expire.$1 trillionIf Congress allowed the tax cut to expire on incomes over $250,000, it would generate nearly enough money — $1 trillion — to avoid sequestration, not only the cuts to defense, but the cuts to entitlement programs as well, Scott said.Eliminating all the Bush-era tax cuts would generate $4 trillion in savings over 10 years.Republicans want to keep the tax cuts in place, as do some Senate Democrats. But to Scott, it makes no sense to extend the cuts, reducing the flow of money to the treasury, then figure out how to deal with the $1.2 trillion in additional cuts through sequestration that no one wants to see."They are trusting the media not to notice that they are supporting a $4 trillion tax-cut extension," he said, "hoping that nobody notices while we suffer through and commiserate how hard it is to find a trillion dollars for the sequester."He said Republicans who rail against the size of government ought to spell out the consequences of that policy."Is the water too clean? Is the air too clean that we don't need to regulate air pollution? Should we cut back on consumer regulation?" He asked. "The thing that frustrates me is that everybody gets to say 'we need to reduce the size of government,' and reporters write it down as if they said something."Scott said no proposal for deficit reduction is popular. But given the furor over sequestration, he says the least unpopular choice would be allowing the tax cuts to expire on portions of income over $250,000, then plowing that money into public works programs to create jobs.That idea faces tough sledding with Republicans, who say taking money out of people's wallets is the last thing needed in this fragile economy. Democratic Sen Jim Webb of Virginia has a third course. He doesn't want to raise taxes on ordinary income. Rather, Congress should look at capital gains and dividends, where the most wealthy people make their money, according to a report this week in The Hill.1 million lost jobsThe National Association of Manufacturers released a study Thursday that paints a stark picture if the cuts go into effect. It used a multiplier model that factors how layoffs affect the rest of the economy – what DuVal was talking about when he referred to workers not buying cars and homes.By that yardstick, the cuts would cost more than 1 million private-sector jobs by 2014, including 130,000 manufacturing jobs. The unemployment rate would increase by 0.7 percent. The hardest-hit states would be, in order, California, Virginia and Texas.If the situation does not change, Virginia will lose nearly 115,000 jobs in 2014 alone, the study says. The industries hardest hit by sequestration also spell bad news for the Old Dominion.Aerospace, ships and boats and search/navigation equipment businesses top the list."We have aerospace in Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads, and we have ships and boats in Hampton Roads," said DuVal. "And the support of those is search and navigation. The gross number of jobs lost would have a devastating impact at a fragile time."
06.26.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down mandatory life without parole sentences for minors convicted of murder. In 2005, the Court held in Roper v. Simmons that it was "cruel and unusual punishment" prohibited under the 8th Amendment to the Constitution to sentence a minor to death, due to a minor's immaturity. In 2008 in Graham v. Florida, the Court held that it was also cruel and unusual to sentence a minor to life without the possibility of parole for a non-homicide case. In today's Miller v. Alabama case, the Court combined these holdings in Roper and Graham as the basis for concluding that mandating life without parole for juveniles, even in cases of homicide, is "cruel and unusual". Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, issued the following statement in reaction to today's decision:"This is another case in a series of cases in which the Supreme Court has applied the Constitution to require reasonableness and fairness to juveniles in the adult criminal justice system. For too long now, we have seen a steady march away from working with children through the juvenile justice system that was created for them in recognition of their immaturity. Instead, the federal and state governments have been trying and sentencing juveniles in the adult criminal system where the harsh, often mandatory, penalties created to address the worst adult offenders are applied without considering the characteristics of the offender or the facts and circumstances of the particular case. This decision, instead, places juveniles back in the realm of juveniles, requiring individualized considerations rather than mindless, sound bite-based policies that mandate harshness to the exclusion of all reasonableness."For many years, I have observed that mandatory minimum sentencing policies disrupt rational sentencing systems, discriminate against minorities, waste taxpayer money and often violate common sense. A recent example of what's wrong with mandatory minimum sentencing can be seen in the case of Marissa Alexander, a mother of three and a graduate student, who was sentenced to a mandatory minimum sentence of 20 years for discharging a firearm to warn off an abusive husband. She would have been sentenced to less if she had shot him and was charged with manslaughter."While the case today has not ruled out the possibility of a minor being sentenced to life without parole, such a sentence would have to reflect the application of common sense considerations of the characteristics of the minor and the facts and circumstances of the particular case."# # #
06.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court's decisions in Dorsey v. United States, No. 11–5683, and Hill v. United States, No. 11–5721:"Today's decisions determined that Congress intended to have the new 18 to 1 sentencing differential between powder and crack cocaine apply to cases that were pending for sentencing when the Fair Sentencing Act (FSA) passed on August 3, 2010, as opposed to applying the 100 to 1 sentencing differential in effect when the defendants' violation occurred. Under the 100 to 1 sentencing differential, selling 5 grams of crack cocaine resulted in a 5 year mandatory minimum sentence whereas selling 500 grams of powder cocaine would be required to trigger the same 5 year mandatory minimum sentence. Under the FSA, 28 grams of crack cocaine is now the threshold for a 5 year mandatory minimum sentence, reducing the ratio from 100 to 1 to 18 to 1."The Court's decision is good news. It is clear that Congress intended to stop the further imposition of unfair sentences upon enactment of the FSA. To continue allowing the imposition of sentences that had been declared unfair would make a mockery of the law and those being unfairly sentenced in the face of the change in law. Some courts had been imposing sentences pursuant to the old 100 to 1 differential while other courts had been using the new law as a basis for sentencing. The Supreme Court has made it clear that all sentences imposed after enactment of the Fair Sentencing Act should use the new law as the basis for sentencing."However, we still have more injustice to rectify regarding the unfairness in cocaine sentences. Many crack offenders are still serving mandatory 100 to 1 sentences that were imposed prior to the effective date of the FSA. These offenders remain in prison even though Congress has passed a law that has concluded that the 100 to 1 differential was not fair. I have introduced H.R. 2316, along with 10 cosponsors, which would permit the sentencing court to retroactively apply the FSA in appropriate cases."In addition, the FSA itself, while a tremendous improvement over the 100 to 1 disparity in cocaine sentencing between the crack and powder forms, still retains a scientifically unsupportable 18 to 1 disparity in sentencing between two forms of the same drug. To fully obtain justice, Congress must pass legislation that treats cocaine as cocaine, no matter the form it takes. I have therefore introduced H.R. 2242, along with 16 cosponsors, which will eliminate the different penalties for crack cocaine and powder cocaine, as well as eliminate mandatory minimum penalties for all cocaine offenses."Nevertheless, today's decision by the Supreme Court is another important step toward providing relief to those treated unfairly by crack sentencing laws and is consistent with Congressional intent."# # #
06.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee, announced that it will hold a hearing on Identity Theft and Income Tax Preparation Fraud on Thursday, June 28, 2012. This hearing is in response to a March 8, 2012 letter from Representatives Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), and Scott Rigell (R-VA) requesting the Subcommittee hold a hearing on tax preparation scams after numerous complaints about the tax preparation firm Mo Money Taxes."I am pleased Chairman Sensenbrenner has agreed to hold this important hearing," said Rep. Scott. "While it will not focus specifically on the firm Mo Money Taxes, this hearing is critical to Congress being able to review and improve applicable federal civil and criminal laws. The issues faced by my constituents in Richmond and Hampton Roads demonstrate that changes to the law or better enforcement of present law may be needed in order to deter and prevent these types of scams from happening in the future."The hearing will be held on Thursday, June 28, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. in Room 2141 of the Rayburn House Office Building. For more information regarding the hearing, such as names of witnesses as they are announced, please visit: https://judiciary.house.gov/hearings/Hearings%202012/hear_06282012.html.# # #
06.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the contempt citation issued against U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee today:"For the last 15 months, the Attorney General and the Justice Department have spent considerable time and resources responding to the Oversight and Government Reform Committee's inquiry into the gunrunning operation known as "Fast and Furious". The operation is very similar to a gunrunning program operated during the Bush Administration, apparently with the knowledge of then-Attorney General Michael Mukasey. Thousands of pages of documents have been provided by the Attorney General in response to requests, but the Committee continues to request more. Fortunately, the Committee has dropped its demand for documents the Attorney General was prohibited by law to disclose. However, the Committee has rejected all offers of the Attorney General for an agreement on additional information to be provided to the Committee, thereby refusing to allow the Attorney General to say "yes" to its requests. Instead, the Committee has now voted along partisan lines to hold the Attorney General in contempt of Congress for failure to provide more information, despite the fact that the President has legitimately exercised his right of executive privilege over the information requested."Regrettably, it is now clear that the politics of declaring the Attorney General in contempt of Congress is more important to the Committee's Majority than acquiring information to which it is entitled. This presents an unfortunate and unnecessary constitutional confrontation that reflects what's wrong with the priorities of the House of Representatives. This is nothing more than an effort to embarrass the Attorney General to score cheap political points in an election year."# # #
06.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) released the following statement recognizing today as Juneteenth, the oldest, nationally-celebrated commemoration of the end of slavery in the United States:"Juneteenth is marked each year on June 19th, when 147 years ago today, Union General Gordon Granger and 2,000 Union troops arrived on Galveston Island, Texas and finally enforced President Lincoln's 1862 emancipation proclamation, liberating the last remaining slaves. This event closed a dark chapter in American history that deprived freedom to millions but the fight for equality did not end there. A century later, millions marched on Washington for civil rights, bringing us closer to embodying the ideals embedded in our Constitution that all people are created equal."Despite all the gains we have made, we still have a long way to go towards equality for all Americans, regardless of race, color, religion, gender, or sexual orientation. It is my hope that as Americans commemorate and reflect this Juneteenth, we will recommit ourselves to the goal of equal rights and equal opportunity for all."# # #
06.15.2012	PARIS: From New York to Baghdad to Sydney, New Year's revelers welcomed 2008 with parties, fireworks and hopes for peace and prosperity.But reminders of violence were apparent as security was tightened in many nations.Fireworks were canceled in downtown Brussels, Belgium, where police detained 14 people Dec. 21 suspected of plotting to help an accused al-Qaida militant break out of jail.Festivities in Paris centered on the famous Champs-Elysees avenue and the Eiffel Tower, where about 4,500 police and 140 rescue officials patrolled the streets.In Thailand, an army spokesman said he believed that five bombs set off by suspected Muslim insurgents in a Thai-Malaysian border tourist town likely targeted New Year's revelers. The bombs, which wounded 27 people, exploded in the hotel and nightlife quarter of Sungai Kolok, spokesman Col. Akara Thiprote said.Baghdad witnessed something Iraq had not seen since before the invasion of 2003 — people publicly partying to welcome in a new year.The ballrooms of two landmark hotels — the Palestine and the Sheraton — were full of people for New Year's Eve celebrations. After years of car bombings, mortar fire and suicide attacks, Iraq's capital was sufficiently calm to warrant the two high-end parties in the once-posh hotels.Several European countries rang in the new year with new habits.The smoke-filled cafe became a thing of memory in France. Following up on a ban last year on smoking in many indoor locations, cigarettes were prohibited in dance clubs, restaurants, hotels, casinos and cafes.Fabienne Simon, a 27-year-old smoker, said the ban was "not that bad.""There is nothing better than to go to a nightclub, a coffee place where there are no cigarettes," she said. "You come out, it's great, you aren't smelling of cigarettes."Two European Union newcomers, Cyprus and Malta, started using the euro at the stroke of midnight. The Mediterranean islands, both former British colonies, were scrapping the Cyprus pound and Maltese lira to bring the number of countries using the shared currency to 15.In France, President Nicolas Sarkozy gave the first traditional New Year's greeting of his presidency, with a "message of hope, faith in life and in the future." In Russia, Vladimir Putin delivered the last New Year's Eve address of his eight-year presidency, boasting of economic improvements and claiming to have restored a sense of unity among Russians, who are likely to see him stay in power as prime minister after he steps down in a few months.In Moscow, thousands gathered in Red Square, watching a concert beneath the colorful onion domes of St. Basil's Cathedral, and fireworks above.An ailing Fidel Castro saluted the Cuban people for their "50 years of resistance" against the United States in a message that was read on state television. Though Cuba will mark the 50th anniversary of the Jan. 1, 1959, revolution that brought Castro to power a year from now, it is characterizing all of 2008 leading up to that date as the "50th year of the revolution."Along with the innovations, old traditions were maintained.More than a million revelers in New York's Times Square cheered at the 100th drop of a giant ball. A century ago the tradition began with a 700-pound ball of wood and iron, lit with 100 25-watt incandescent bulbs. This year's event featured an energy-efficient sphere clad in Waterford crystals, with 9,576 light-emitting diodes that generated a kaleidoscope of colors.In London, people gathered in Trafalgar Square and along the banks of the River Thames to watch a fireworks display and hear Big Ben — Parliament's iconic bell — welcome the New Year with 12 resounding bongs.Berlin held a massive fete: In a stretch leading from the city's famous Brandenburg Gate along Tiergarten park to the western part of town, officials set up three stages, 13 bands, a 40-yard tall Ferris wheel and over 100 beer stands and snack joints.In Vatican City, Pope Benedict XVI took a somber note, lamenting what he called the "trivialization" of sexuality and lack of faith among young people during a vespers' service in St. Peter's Basilica.China started its Olympic year with a New Year party including fireworks, singing and dancing put on by the organizers of the Summer Olympics.In Brazil, about 2 million people gathered at Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro, witnessing a fireworks display that lasted nearly 20 minutes. In Sao Paulo, South America's biggest city, local media said 2.3 million people celebrated at the Avenida Paulista, Brazil's financial center.
06.08.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday in the Committee on Education and the Workforce, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott offered three amendments to H.R. 4297, the Workforce Investment Improvement Act of 2012, to help foster job growth and opportunities for the long-term unemployed and for low-income and disconnected youth.The first Scott Amendment, which was adopted by voice vote, added the long-term unemployed to the list of groups that state and local workforce investment plans must address."The most recent Bureau of Labor Statistics data shows that the number of long-term unemployed rose from 5.1 million to 5.4 million," said Rep. Scott. "Additionally, a recent report by the Pew Charitable Trusts shows that persistent high long-term unemployment erodes critical jobs skills that can lead to lower earning potential for the individual and ultimately lower productivity for our nation's economy. These consequences of long-term unemployment will have profound negative impacts on families and our nation's future economic competitiveness. The Republican Majority has already cut federal unemployment benefits this year. It makes little sense to cut unemployment insurance and then fail to guarantee job training opportunities to the long-term unemployed so they can actually find a job. My amendment will ensure that these Americans are not left behind as our economy continues to recover."The second Scott Amendment would have authorized $1.5 billion for a new, one-year program for summer jobs and year-round employment for disadvantaged youth. This amendment was rejected along party lines by a vote of 15 to 23."Young people are experiencing the greatest challenges finding work in the current job market," said Rep. Scott. "Summer jobs help our youth get on the right path and stay on the right path. There is no shortage of demand for temporary summer positions, such as those at summer camps and community pools. Local communities, with relatively short lead time, put more than 300,000 youth to work during the summer of 2009 after the passage of the Recovery Act. My amendment would have reinstated this successful program from the Recovery Act to help boost our economic recovery. This amendment would also have created opportunities for year-round employment building upon summer job experience and providing the on-the-job work experience that youth need to advance in the workforce. In contrast, the bill proposed by the Republicans on the Committee offered no guarantee that summer jobs or other forms of youth employment will be made available with WIA funds. Making sure that youth, and particularly at risk-youth, have access to job-training programs ensures that we are giving them a chance to succeed and grow up to be contributing and productive members of society."The final Scott Amendment would have required at least 25% of the funds authorized by the bill to be allocated to youth program activities, of which at least 50% would have to be used to provide services to out-of-school youth. This amendment was rejected by a vote of 16 to 22."This amendment simply went a little further than the original bill in requiring that disadvantaged youth receive adequate training opportunities," said Rep. Scott. "It is imperative that we invest in our young people on the front end. Those who don't finish high school and go on to continue their education or get a job have a greater likelihood of becoming embroiled in the juvenile justice or criminal justice system. The correlation between employment opportunity and crime is not tenuous. The two systems are very much intertwined; approximately two-thirds of all prisoners are high school dropouts. My amendment would have ensured that funding provided by this bill was targeted to disadvantaged young people so they would not be left behind."For more information regarding H.R. 4297, the Workforce Investment Improvement Act of 2012, please click here.# # #
06.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement expressing his disappointment in Senate Republicans for voting to block the Paycheck Fairness Act from receiving an up or down vote. Similarly, last week, House Republicans voted unanimously against bringing the Paycheck Fairness Act to the House Floor."Equal pay for equal work is not simply a women's issue – it's a family issue. Women earn on average 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. When women bring home less money each day, it means families have less for their everyday needs."Democrats in Congress and President Obama are committed to equal pay for equal work. In January 2009, the Democratic Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which restored the right of many women to challenge unfair pay in court. But more work needs to be done. The Paycheck Fairness Act would provide a much-needed update to the 49-year-old Equal Pay Act to help close the wage gap by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. The Paycheck Fairness Act would ensure women start receiving the same legal remedies and protections against pay discrimination currently provided to protect against pay discrimination based on race and ethnicity."Despite yet another road block to getting this important legislation passed, I will continue to fight for equal pay for women."# # #
05.30.2012	Mandatory minimum sentences have been studied extensively and have been found to distort rational sentencing systems, to discriminate against minorities, waste money, and to violate common sense. And to add insult to injury, studies have shown that mandatory minimum sentences fail to reduce crime. Mandatory minimum sentences, based merely on the name of a crime, remove sentencing discretion from the sentencing commission and the judge. Regardless of the role of the offender in the particular crime, the lack of a criminal record, or the facts and circumstances of the case, the judge has no discretion but to impose the mandatory minimum set by legislators long before the crime has been committed. Even if, after hearing all the facts at trial, everyone involved in a case - the arresting officer, prosecutor, judge and victim - believe that the mandatory minimum would be an unjust sentence for a particular defendant, it still must be imposed. Families Against Mandatory Minimums (FAMM), the American Bar Association, the Judicial Conference of the United States, and many other major organizations focusing on criminal justice oppose mandatory minimum sentences. The problems with mandatory minimum sentences can be seen in cases such as the Marissa Alexander case where on Friday, May 11, 2012, she was sentenced to a 20 year mandatory minimum sentence for firing a gun to ward off her abusive husband with no intent of shooting him. We saw the same mindless application of mandatory minimums in the cases of 17 year old Genarlo Wilson, and 18 year old Marcus Dixon, who were sentenced to 10-year mandatory minimums, in separate cases, for engaging in consensual sex with their 15 year old girlfriends. Mandatory minimums should be eliminated to allow judges to sentence offenders based on the facts and circumstances of the case, and the offender’s role and criminal record. The first step in ending them is to stop Congress and state legislatures from passing new ones.Rep. Bobby Scott is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee. For additional information:Report: Cruel and Unusual: U.S. Sentencing Practices in a Global ContextNew York Times: A Tough Judge's Proposal for Fairer Sentencing
05.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) joined Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and 52 other Members of Congress in sending a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director Edward DeMarco highlighting their concerns with the implementation of the Hardest Hit Fund (HHF) and the latest version of the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP 2.0).The effects of the recession continue to linger for homeowners, many of whom struggle to keep afloat amidst underwater mortgages. Recent reports have shown that government recovery programs such as the Hardest Hit Fund and the Home Affordable Refinance Program, both intended to stave off foreclosure and help struggling homeowners get back on their feet, have barely used their allotted funding.The need to correct underperforming housing programs comes on the heels of news that after receiving $66.5 million as part of a national $25 billion mortgage settlement with five major banks for foreclosure fraud, the Virginia General Assembly diverted $59 million to local governments, leaving only $7.5 million for Virginia homeowners."We need to make sure government aid is reaching eligible homeowners quickly and appropriately," said Rep. Scott. "I hope the Treasury Department will take immediate action to improve the implementation and oversight of these critical assistance programs so that they actually help homeowners recover from the lingering effects of the deepest recession since the Great Depression."A digital copy of the letter can be accessed by clicking here.# # #
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) issued the following statement after voting No on H.R. 4310, the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA):"I support a strong national defense and our men and women in uniform, but unfortunately I could not in good conscience support the House-version of the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. H.R. 4310 failed to realistically address the pending sequestration of Defense spending scheduled to take effect in January 2013, and it failed to remove the dangerous detention provisions enacted last December in the FY12 NDAA."I opposed an amendment adopted by the House that replaces the Defense sequester by assuming enactment of the FY13 Republican Budget and subsequent reconciliation bill. This would only further squeeze other vital functions of government and lead to cuts in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. Budgeting is about choices and this amendment, like the Republican Budget, chooses to further cut programs that support America's middle class and our most vulnerable citizens, while at the same time also extending trillions of dollars in tax cuts that primarily benefit the wealthiest Americans. I believe we should allow these tax cuts to expire first before we even consider cutting Defense, Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid."I supported an amendment offered by House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith, which would have removed the detention provisions from the FY12 NDAA to guarantee that the U.S. government would not be able to indefinitely detain persons arrested on U.S. soil without a charge or a trial. Instead the House adopted an amendment that only affirms a citizen's constitutional right to challenge the legality of their detention, but does nothing to actually remove these provisions from the FY12 NDAA."Finally, in an effort to improve the bill and promote American jobs, House Democrats in their final opportunity to amend the bill, offered a motion that would have required all U.S.-flagged military ships be repaired in U.S. ports, with appropriate exemptions for national security and urgent repairs. I voted in favor of this amendment which would have enhanced our national security, promoted our highly-skilled shipbuilders in Hampton Roads, and ultimately saved the American taxpayers money. We should be utilizing the best workforce in America to help maintain and repair the mightiest and most advanced naval fleet in the world. Unfortunately, all but two House Republicans voted against this commonsense amendment."# # #
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) yesterday joined veterans of the civil rights movement, voting rights advocates and leaders in the U.S. House of Representatives in sponsoring legislation to strengthen federal law on voting rights.Over the past few years, new measures have been enacted in states across the country –including Virginia – that would make it harder for millions of eligible voters to register or vote. Just six months from an historic election, Democratic lawmakers vowed they would not sit idly by as these unprecedented laws try to turn back the clock and erect barriers to voting for military, disabled, minority, young, elderly and low-income Americans."The right to vote is a fundamental right that determines the makeup and direction of our government." said Rep. Scott. "It is imperative that we ensure that every eligible voter is given the opportunity to vote, free from unnecessary barriers and schemes. The Voter Empowerment Act will ensure that the people can make their voices heard at the ballot box."The Voter Empowerment Act (H.R. 5799) will modernize voter registration, ensure equal access to the ballot box for all Americans, and prohibit deceptive practices and voter fraud that discourage people from exercising their constitutional right to vote. The legislation contains three main sections: improving access to the ballot, protecting the integrity of voting systems, and ensuring accountability in elections. A summary of the Voter Empowerment Act can be accessed by clicking here and the text of the bill can be accessed by clicking here.The Voter Empowerment Act is the product of collaboration between lawmakers, civil rights experts, and advocacy groups. Members of Congress are currently planning a series of events across the country to rally support from the American people to urge Congress to pass the Voter Empowerment Act.# # #
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) issued the following statement upon learning of U.S. Attorney General Holder's decision to have the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) standards apply to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) immigration detention facilities as well as other federal, state and local prisons and jails:"I am pleased to see the decision by the Attorney General to apply the PREA standards to immigration detention facilities that are under the authority of the DHS. This action is consistent with the intent of PREA because these facilities were under the direct authority of the Department of Justice as PREA was being developed, so they were understood to be covered by it. Immigration enforcement operations, including detention facilities, were subsequently placed under DHS."I am also pleased to see that the Department is issuing the general standards for implementation of PREA and that through an executive memorandum issued today, President Obama is directing that all other federal executive departments and agencies apply the PREA standards to all facilities they administer, adult and juvenile, whether administered by the government or by a private organization on behalf of the government. The process of developing and issuing the standards has taken much longer than we had hoped it would take when we passed PREA on a strong, bi-partisan vote in both chambers of Congress in 2003. So I am relieved that we are finally prepared to enforce meaningful reforms in the nation's prisons, jails and detention facilities to better ensure that the scourge of rape and sexual abuse in these facilities is prevented."# # #
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) will announce the winners of the 19th Annual Third Congressional District Art Competition at two upcoming award receptions in Newport News and Richmond. Each year, the Third Congressional District Art Competition is open to all High School students in the Third Congressional District of Virginia.An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of young people. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Congressman Scott has participated every year he has served in Congress.This year's first place winner will receive a scholarship of $3,000 and will attend a reception in honor of all the winners nationwide in Washington, DC. The first place winning entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the primary tunnel connecting the United States Capitol Building to the Cannon House Office Building for one year, where it will be seen by thousands of people who visit the U.S. Capitol.Congressman Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate, a t-shirt and various other prizes.The award receptions will be held on:Saturday, May 19, 2012, 4:00 PM to 5:00 PMDowning-Gross Cultural Arts Center2410 Wickham Avenue, Newport News, VA 23607Tuesday, May 22, 2012, 5:30 PM to 6:30 PMBlack History Museum and Cultural Center of Virginia00 Clay Street, Richmond, VA 23219# # #
05.10.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives considered H.R. 5652, the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act of 2012, which replaces sequestration (automatic across the board spending cuts) for 2013. Sequestration was authorized by the Budget Control Act of 2011 and was triggered last November when the so-called Super Committee failed to report a plan to reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion over the next decade. Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement in opposition to the legislation:"Balancing the budget requires making tough choices. The bill considered by the House today chooses to cut vital services, such as Meals on Wheels, Medicaid for seniors in nursing homes and low income children, and nutrition programs, instead of choosing to allow tax breaks for millionaires to expire. That's just not right. We should not balance our budget on the backs of our most vulnerable when we have yet to ask those that benefited the most from tax breaks and bailouts to contribute." # # #
04.30.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - This past week, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) and other House Democrats introduced H.R. 5186, the Halt Index Trading of Energy Commodities (HITEC) Act, which would help hand back control of investments in oil and other energy commodities to airlines, trucking companies and other legitimate investors, and help dull the expensive impact speculators are having on our oil and other energy prices.The legislation would bar Wall Street speculators from investing in financial products if they include energy, and it would phase out oil and other energy commodities from current index funds. This legislation would put more control back into the hands of companies and investors who have a real stake in the price of oil for their businesses. In addition to this legislation, Congressman Scott has taken various other actions to address this issue, including asking Attorney General Eric Holder to investigate manipulation of oil and gas markets and asking the President to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve."Each week I return home and talk to my constituents throughout Hampton Roads and Richmond, and I hear that one of their major concerns is high gas prices," said Rep. Scott. "Higher prices at the pump are straining the budgets of hardworking families, not only in my district but across the nation. There is, unfortunately, no quick fix to this problem, and we cannot simply drill our way to lower prices since oil is priced and sold on the global market. Washington can, however, immediately address one of the major contributors to recent spikes in prices by reigning in the reckless and overly aggressive speculation in the oil and gas market on Wall Street. That is why I have joined Congressman Ed Markey, the lead sponsor of the bill, and other House Democrats in sponsoring the Halt Index Trading of Energy Commodities Act. I have also asked Attorney General Eric Holder to task the Department of Justice's recently reconstituted Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group with investigating manipulation in the oil and gas market. Finally, I have also urged the President to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to provide immediate short term relief at the gas pump for hardworking families."For more information about the Halt Index Trading of Energy Commodities Act, please visit the Committee on Natural Resources - Democrats website at: https://democrats.naturalresources.house.gov/. For the text of the letter to Attorney General Holder, please click here. For the text of the letter to President Obama, please click here.# # #
04.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement on H.R. 4628, the Interest Rate Reduction Act, considered in the House of Representatives today:"I strongly support keeping student interest rates low so that we do not burden America's young people with additional college debt. Unfortunately, the bill considered in the House today pays for a one year extension of current interest rates with deep cuts to the Prevention and Public Health Fund, which supports vital preventive health care services in our communities, especially for women and children. Since its creation, the Fund has invested millions in state and local public health infrastructure to prevent chronic illnesses, provide immunizations, and better detect and respond to infectious disease outbreaks, potentially saving millions in health care costs."Republicans have not supported maintaining low interest rates. Nearly half of the Republican conference opposed lowering the rates in 2007 when the Democratic Congress passed the College Cost Reduction Act, and just last month they passed the Republican Budget, which assumed that student loan interest rates would rise to 6.8 percent in July. Now that it has become politically imperative to maintain the low interest rates, Republicans are using this moment to undermine important health care initiatives enacted in the Affordable Care Act. In fact, they repeal over $12 billion worth of preventive health care funding, when only $6 billion is needed to offset the cost of a one year extension of current interest rates. Instead of attacking preventive health programs that support women and children, Congress should instead pay for this extension by repealing the billions of dollars of taxpayer subsidies given away to the oil and gas industry."# # #
04.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the Federal raid of Mo Money Taxes' headquarters in Memphis, Tennessee:"In February, I called on the federal government to immediately investigate Mo Money Taxes when I first learned of the numerous complaints from my constituents in Hampton Roads. I was assured by the Department of Justice that federal law enforcement agencies would be doing everything in their power to appropriately investigate this business to ensure that there would be no more victims. While it is generally the practice of federal law enforcement agencies not to publicly comment on ongoing investigations, the raid in Memphis of Mo Money Taxes' headquarters shows that a robust federal investigation is underway."# # #
04.06.2012	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement after a Navy jet crashed into a Virginia Beach apartment complex: "My office has been informed of the jet crash in Virginia Beach today. While information is still developing, my thoughts and prayers are with all those impacted. I will work closely with Congressman Rigell to assist in any way possible."###
04.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) today addressed the 2nd Annual Summit on Preventing Youth Violence in Washington. The Summit was sponsored by the National Forum on Youth Violence Prevention, which was established at the direction of President Barack Obama to build a national conversation concerning youth and gang violence to increase awareness, drive action, and build local capacity to more effectively address youth violence through comprehensive planning. In addition to Congressman Scott, Attorney General Eric Holder, Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun Donovan, and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan also addressed the summit.Congressman Scott, the only member of Congress to address the summit, emphasized in his remarks that the most effective way to reduce crime is to directly invest in young people before they get into trouble."Prevention and early intervention strategies have been proven time and time again to effectively reduce crime and save money," said Congressman Scott. "That is why I have introduced the Youth PROMISE Act, which will target resources to communities facing the greatest youth gang and crime challenges to develop a comprehensive response to youth violence through a coordinated prevention and intervention program. Today, the summit heard from several mayors who have implemented similarly targeted programs that have exceeded expectations, dramatically reduced youth violence and crime, and saved money. Unfortunately, too many local governments continue to face significant budget shortfalls and these types of programs are often the first to be cut. I am pleased that the Obama Administration continues to draw attention to this critical issue and continues to highlight the fact that targeted, evidence based prevention and early intervention programs are the most effective way to address youth violence and crime."For more information about the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit: www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa. For more information about the National Forum on Youth Violence Prevention, please visit: www.findyouthinfo.gov/collaboration-profiles/national-forum-youth-violence-prevention.# # #
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the House Republican Budget, H. Con. Res. 112, by a vote of 228 to 191 (Roll Call No. 151). Voting No, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement:"The budget passed by the House today is not a credible plan to reduce our deficit. The fine print of the Republican Budget includes unspecified instructions to the Ways and Means Committee to find $4 trillion in new revenues and unspecified instructions to the Appropriations Committee to find spending cuts in the range of almost a $1 trillion. In light of the fact that the Super Committee failed to find $1.2 trillion in cuts or revenues, it is unlikely that anybody will figure how to fill this $5 trillion hole in the Republican Budget. And to add insult to injury, the Republican Budget only reduces our long term debt by completely dismantling the Medicare guarantee, forcing seniors to contribute more to their health care expenses. This is neither a credible nor a responsible plan to reduce our deficit."Last night, the House of Representatives considered several alternative budgets to the Republican Budget, including one offered by the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) of which I was the primary author. The CBC Budget reduced the deficit over the next decade an additional $769 billion compared to the Republican Budget, without jeopardizing Social Security, turning Medicaid into a block grant or dismantling the Medicare guarantee. During this budget debate, the fundamental choice has been between millionaires and Medicare. The Republican Budget chose millionaires. We chose Medicare."While the CBC Budget received the support of a majority of the House Democratic Caucus, the amendment failed by a vote of 107-317 (Roll Call No. 144). To read more about the CBC Budget Alternative, click here. To watch Congressman Scott speak in favor of the CBC Budget during last night's floor debate, click here.# # #
03.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – On Wednesday, March 27th, 2012, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) received the National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education's (NAFEO) Congressional Champion Award. This award was given to honor Scott's commitment to and support for our nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and Predominantly Black Institutions (PBIs)."Since its founding in 1969, the National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education and its member colleges and universities have been committed to advocating on behalf of our Nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities and, more recently, Predominantly Black Institutions," said Rep. Scott. "I am honored to receive the Congressional Champion Award from a group of educators who share my commitment to strengthening our nation's HBCUs and PBIs. Together, we will continue to work to improve these institutions so they may continue to educate our future generations."# # #
03.24.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, the Ranking Democratic Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security issued the following statement regarding the Trayvon Martin case:"The reported circumstances surrounding the death of Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Florida, are disturbing. From the reports, I have two concerns. One is the questionable shooting death of an unarmed teenager on a public street. The second is the bizarre law enforcement response to the questionable shooting. Added to the concerns are indications that race (the shooter is White and the victim is Black) may have been a factor in both the shooting and the decision not to prosecute."Fortunately, it is now reported that the Department of Justice will be conducting an investigation into the matter to determine if federal civil rights laws have been violated. Also, it has been reported that the Florida Governor has appointed a new prosecutor to investigate the matter and that there is a pending Grand Jury investigation. I am hopeful that through these federal and state activities, the family and friends of Trayvon Martin will see the criminal justice system functioning and that the public will be provided a basis upon which to regain confidence in the criminal justice system in Sanford, Florida. And while nothing can ever make the family members whole for their lost, in addition to the criminal justice system doing its part, the civil justice system should also be an avenue of some vindication to them. In the final analysis, in addition to learning what happened in this case, we need to focus attention on evaluating how we can prevent similar tragedies in the future."# # #
03.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bobby Scott announced today that he will host a panel discussion on Monday, March 26, 2012 to highlight the need for more opportunities, mentoring, intervention, support and education for America's youth. This panel is part of a series of briefings Congressman Scott is hosting to urge Congress to pass the Youth PROMISE Act.Joining Congressman Scott for the discussion will be:Hill Harper: actor (CSI: NY), author of bestselling books Letters to a Young Brother and Letters to a Young Sister, philanthropist, and founder of Manifest Your Destiny, a nonprofit organization that works to empower underserved youth;John Prendergast: author, activist and co-founder of the Enough Project, a nonprofit human rights organization affiliated with the Center for American Progress. Prendergast co-authored the book Unlikely Brothers with his mentee;Michael Mattocks: co-author of Unlikely Brothers and mentee of John Prendergast;Dr. Catherine Gallagher: Director of the Cochrane Collaboration College for Policy & Associate Professor of Criminology, Law and Society at George Mason University;Dr. Jorja Leap: Adjunct Associate Professor of Social Welfare at UCLA and author of Jumped In;Bobby Kipper: former Newport News police officer, founder of the National Center for the Prevention of Community Violence, and author of the bestselling book No Colors; andFrank Carrillo: restorative justice activist and student. The discussion will be from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Monday, March 26, 2012 in Room 2141 in the Rayburn House Office Building and will be open to the general public, congressional staff, members of Congress, and the media.The Youth PROMISE Act:Preventing Youth Violence and Reducing Incarceration through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention, Support and EducationMonday, March 26, 20123:00 - 5:00pm2141 Rayburn House Office Building# # #
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott announced that a new analysis shows that thousands of people in the Third Congressional District of Virginia are already benefiting from the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act was signed into law two years ago and many of its most important provisions are already in effect. Congressman Scott, an ardent supporter of universal health care, held a community forum last Thursday in Richmond to discuss with constituents how the Affordable Care Act can benefit Virginia families and what can be expected in the next few years as health care reform continues to be implemented."Residents of my district – ranging from young adults to senior citizens – are all already receiving critical benefits from the new health care law," Rep. Scott stated.A new analysis prepared by the Minority staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee provides estimates by congressional district of the number of people benefiting from the new law. The analysis of the Third Congressional District of Virginia shows that the health care law has already allowed over 7,000 young adults to remain on their parent's policy and has provided $3.5 million worth of discounts for Medicare beneficiaries who fell into the Part D prescription "donut hole." In addition almost 500 small businesses have received a tax credit for the health coverage that they provide to their employees."I know that as key provisions of the health care law continue to be implemented, Americans will continue to see how they are personally benefiting from this landmark law," Rep. Scott added. "Although there are efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, we cannot move backwards. We cannot push seniors back into the 'donut hole' or kick young adults off their parents' policies. Health care reform is working to expand affordable coverage to all Americans, and I will continue to fight for its full implementation."# # #
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON, DC –Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) has announced the beginning of the Nineteenth Annual Third Congressional District High School Art Competition for 2012. The Third Congressional District Art Competition of Virginia is open to all High School students (grades 9-12) residing in the Third Congressional District of Virginia.An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Representative Scott has participated every year that he has served in Congress.This year acceptable entries of the contestants may include, but are not limited to: paintings, drawings, and photography. The first place winner will receive a scholarship and travel to DC to attend the Congressional Reception in honor of all the winners nationwide. The first place entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year, where it will be seen by tens of thousands of people who visit the U.S. Capitol.Representative Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate and various other prizes at two upcoming receptions in the Third Congressional District.All entries are due in Congressman Scott's office by Friday, April 20, 2012. The Richmond metropolitan area entries will go to 400 N. Eighth Street, Suite 430, Richmond, Virginia 23219. Entrants living on the Peninsula will take their work to the Scott office at 2600 Washington Avenue, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607. Students living in Norfolk or Portsmouth will take their entries to the Wilder Center on the campus of Norfolk State University – Thursday afternoons only from 3-5 PM, at 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, VA 23504 Room 140.If you have any questions regarding this year's art competition, please contact Representative Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
03.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – On March 10, 2012, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott was inducted into the National Black Law Students Association's Hall of Fame at their 44th annual National Convention and Awards Gala. Other inductees included Judge Robert Bell, Chief Judge, Maryland Court of Appeals, and Elaine R. Jones, former president and director-counsel of the NAACP's Legal Defense Fund. Past inductees include Harvard Law Professor Charles Ogletree and Theresa Cooper, the first woman national chair of the National Black Law Students Association. "I am honored to be inducted alongside Chief Judge Bell and Elaine Jones, and to follow in the footsteps of Professor Charles Ogletree and Theresa Cooper," said Rep. Scott. "The National Black Law Students Association is an important student organization advocating for and promoting the needs and goals of young African Americans pursuing a legal education in order to effectuate change in their communities. These young men and women give me great pride and hope for the future of our nation's legal profession." # # #
03.10.2012	VIRGINIA BEACH, VA – Today the Hampton Roads Congressional delegation – all of whom are members of the Congressional Chinese Drywall Caucus – announced legislation that will prevent hazardous Chinese drywall from being imported into the United States and ensure that existing drywall is properly disposed of so that it does not enter the recycling stream.Flanked by local residents suffering with the toxic substance in their homes, Representatives Scott Rigell (VA-2); Bobby Scott (VA-3); Randy Forbes (VA-4); and Rob Wittman (VA-1) spoke at a press conference Saturday morning, saying that while their work to hold China accountable for the damages already caused by the toxic product is not done, this bill is a tremendous step toward protecting future homeowners from the devastating physical and financial damage caused by the imported material."This is the right step toward preventing this material from coming backin to the United States," Rigell said. "Thousands of American homeowners have suffered from the effects of toxic Chinese drywall. Families have been driven from their homes and faced financial hardship due to the health and home safety concerns this toxic product has created. Some have faced bankruptcy. Many have faced foreclosure. It's time for the government of China to require these manufacturers to submit to the jurisdiction of U.S. courts and make these victims whole.""I commend Congressman Rigell for introducing this bill to prohibit the importation of this toxic drywall into the United States while also ensuring that what has been imported is disposed of in an environmentally responsible way," said Scott. "Too many families in Hampton Roads have experienced serious health complications and complete financial ruin due to the installation of this hazardous material in their homes. While this is an important step forward in limiting this from happening again, we still have more work to do to hold these foreign manufacturers accountable and make these families whole.""The conditions as a result of this contaminated drywall are not the fault of the homeowners, many of whom have suffered great hardship as a result of the tainted drywall," said Forbes. "The responsibility and the burden of this rests on the Chinese manufacturers. It is critical that the Secretary of State insist that these companies be held accountable for the effects of their hazardous product – not only for the homeowners affected, but to make clear to the Chinese that product safety issues are simply unacceptable.""Homeowners affected by toxic drywall have faced catastrophic health problems and financial losses without recourse from those responsible," Wittman said. "Together, we will continue to take every opportunity to urge the President and senior administration officials to pressure the Chinese government to bring their manufacturers to the table and hold them accountable. I'm pleased to join with my colleagues today working to ensure others do not fall victim to toxic drywall."Contaminated drywall manufactured in China has been discovered in nearly 4,000 homes across America. The drywall releases toxic gasses into the indoor atmosphere of the homes and has been linked to adverse health conditions and home safety hazards. Many families have consequently moved out of their homes and faced financial hardship as they have tried to avoid foreclosure on a home that is uninhabitable.Some residents in the Hampton Roads area have been struggling for more than three years, including Colleen Stephens, who has led efforts to bring to light the physical, financial, and emotional hardship caused by the dangerous homebuilding material."Unfortunately, to date, the American families that have already had their health, homes, and financial well being-destroyed have not found relief from this disaster," said Stephens. "Congressman Rigell, in drafting this legislation, gives us hope that at some point our government will stand up for the victims of Chinese drywall. We believe that Congressmen Rigell, Wittman, Scott, and Forbes understand that this is only the first step in the legislative process to assist the families that have already been impacted and to help protect Americans from future toxic imports."The legislation expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State should insist that the government of China force manufacturers to submit to the jurisdiction of U.S. courts and comply with any decisions issued by the courts for homeowners with contaminated drywall. Further, it declares Chinese-manufactured drywall to be a banned hazardous product in accordance with the Consumer Product Safety Act.The bill also allows the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) the flexibility to exempt manufacturers that it certifies as producers of non-hazardous drywall; requires the CPSC to promulgate regulations on the disposal of Chinese drywall; and to create a standard test to identify such drywall.The Chinese Drywall Caucus has been active in seeking justice for the victims of Chinese drywall. The Caucus has asked President Obama's Administration, including the U.S. Trade Representative, to take up the issue on behalf of Americans, and has requested hearings to address ways to alleviate some of the financial burdens on the affected families.# # #
03.09.2012	Washington Lawyers Committee Offers Pro Bono Legal Assistance to Affected CustomersWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), and Scott Rigell (R-VA) sent a letter to House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) urging the subcommittee to hold a hearing on the interstate activities of the tax preparation firm "Mo Money."Additionally, the Washington Lawyers Committee has written to Representative Scott regarding pro bono legal assistance for Mo Money customers.The text of both letters is below:March 8, 2012Dear Chairman Sensenbrenner:We write representing Congressional Districts in three states to request a hearing into the interstate activities of the tax preparation firm "Mo Money." We believe that the firm has demonstrated that its operations pose a continuing threat to order and justice across the nation. Many customers have been left in desperate straits, such as their electricity being turned off, that they thought they would be avoiding through their anticipated refunds. Many customers of "Mo Money" have complained to our offices about problems they have encountered in their dealings with the firm in recent weeks. Customers have complained that they assigned their refund from the IRS to Mo Money and that checks from Mo Money containing their refunds would then "bounce," and Mo Money has not made good on the bounced checks. Other complaints include that they never received a refund at all, although the IRS records reflect that refunds were sent to Mo Money pursuant to the customers' assignments; that Mo Money deducted additional fees from the refund check to which the customer had not agreed; and that Mo Money submitted tax returns to the IRS that were not authorized by the customer.Accordingly, we request that the Committee hold a hearing regarding customers' complaints about Mo Money to bring greater attention to the problems citizens are encountering with the company. This will encourage greater caution to others and expeditious resolution of claims against the firm. Below is a sampling of articles and reports describing the problems the company's practices have created.In view of the gravity of these allegations and the number of people affected, we urge you to schedule a hearing soon to address this serious matter.Sincerely ROBERT C. "BOBBY" SCOTT Member of CongressSTEVE COHENMember of Congress BENNIE THOMPSONMember of Congress SCOTT RIGELLMember of Congress March 6, 2012The Honorable Robert C. ScottU.S. House of Representatives1201 Longworth House Office BldgWashington, DC 20515Re: Tax preparation scams potentially targeting minority communitiesDear Representative Scott:The Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs ("the Committee") has recently become aware of serious allegations of possible civil rights violations and other unlawful practices in connection with tax preparation services offered in Virginia and elsewhere. Our research indicates that a number of the affected individuals, many of whom appear to be minority group members, may live in your congressional district.As part of its longstanding commitment to providing pro bono legal assistance in cases raising similar issues, I want to offer our organization's services to assist individuals who may be the victims of these questionable practices and who may be in need of representation. Any individuals who believe they may be in need of our services should feel free to contact our office directly at (202) 319-1000. For more information about the Committee and its programs please refer to our website at www.washlaw.org.If you have any questions concerning the Committee's work or ways we might be of assistance, please feel free to contact me or members of the Committee's staff. We can be reached at the address below or at WLC@washlaw.org.Very truly yours,Roderic V.O. Boggs# # #
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) announced today that he will be holding a community forum in Richmond to discuss the Affordable Care Act on Thursday, March 15, 2012.Congressman Scott will be joined by Ms. Joanne Grossi, Regional Director at the Department of Health and Human Services and Ms. Jill Hanken, Health Attorney at the Virginia Poverty Law Center. Ms. Grossi will provide information on the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that are already in effect and what the public can expect in the next few years. Ms. Hanken will provide insight on what is happening at the state level in regards to implementing the Affordable Care Act. They will be joined by constituents who have already benefited by the health reform law. This event is open to the public. Seating will be limited.Affordable Care Act ForumMarch 15, 2012General Assembly BuildingIntersection of Ninth St. & Broad St.Senate Room ARichmond, Virginia 232196:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m.# # #
03.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the passing of New Jersey Congressman Donald Payne:"It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of my friend and colleague Congressman Donald Payne. Don was one of Congress' strongest voices for America's students and always fought to make our public schools more successful and to make college more affordable. As an expert on foreign policy, he visited the far reaches of Africa on numerous occasions and helped educate our colleagues on the serious issues facing that continent, such as addressing the Tuberculosis, Malaria and HIV/AIDS epidemic, advancing democracy and human rights, and stopping the genocide in the Sudan. The citizens of New Jersey and the American people have lost a dedicated public servant. My thoughts and prayers go out to Congressman Payne's family and his staff."# # #
03.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) and Congressman Steve Cohen (TN-09) met with a senior Justice Department official to follow up to their February 7, 2012 letter to Attorney General Eric H Holder, Jr., requesting his office's assistance in addressing the problems their constituents are having with the Mo Money tax preparation firm.In late January of this year, both members' Congressional offices began to receive complaints from constituents regarding Mo Money. Complaints alleged:• bounced checks issued by Mo Money for tax refunds;• failure by Mo Money to provide refunds the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) had sent it for constituents who had filed their taxes through the company; and• excessive fees deducted by the company from refunds, and other problems.Despite complaints to the IRS, state and local law enforcement, and other government offices, these problems remain unresolved."We were assured by the Justice Department that they take these reports seriously and have conveyed our constituents' concerns to officials at the other appropriate government agencies such as the IRS, the recently established Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the FBI, and the Federal Trade Commission," said Congressman Scott. "While we are anxious to see immediate recovery for our constituents of the money they are owed, we understand that issues of possibly criminal, as well as, civil liability will take some time to sort out. In the meantime, we have been assured that the federal agencies will do everything in their power to assure that those citizens victimized are made whole and that there are no more victims.""There is no room in Memphis or anywhere else in our country for tax scams that prey on the poor and middle class," said Congressman Cohen. "The U.S. Department of Justice has assured us that they take the complaints circulating throughout Memphis about possible scams and delayed tax refund returns seriously and have shared the information we provided with the relevant government agencies. While the investigation will take some time, I have the utmost faith in the Department of Justice, the IRS, and the other federal agencies. In the meantime, I urge citizens to visit the IRS' website at www.irs.gov to learn about the IRS Free File service or to get a list of IRS-approved Free File companies. These are tough economic times and citizens should be diligent about how they file their tax returns and who they trust to help them."# # #
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Virginia) issued the following statement on H.R. 3630, the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011:"I supported the two month extension in December so that Congress would have more time to develop a proposal that responsibly pays for the full year extension of the payroll tax cut. Unfortunately, I have to oppose this bill because it is not paid for. This bill adds $101.1 billion to the deficit in fiscal year 2012 alone, it cuts billions from preventive health programs, it scales back unemployment insurance at a time when too many Americans cannot find jobs, it fails to find a long term solution for Medicare physician reimbursement rates, and it unfairly makes federal employees the only Americans responsible for shouldering part of the cost of this extension."Budgeting is about making difficult choices and once again this Congress is failing to make those choices. This December we will face the expiration of both this payroll tax cut and the Bush-era tax cuts. If we continue down this path and fail to make the unpopular decision to let all these tax cuts expire or offset them in a fair and responsible way, we will have to pay for these policies with deep cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, Defense, and other vital functions of government that Americans depend on."# # #
02.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the Defense Department's decision to withdraw its proposal to move a nuclear aircraft carrier from Naval Station Norfolk, Virginia to Naval Station Mayport, Florida:"I am pleased that the Department of Defense has finally heeded the advice of the Hampton Roads Congressional Delegation with regards to having a redundant East Coast homeport for nuclear aircraft carriers. At a time when the Department of Defense is facing tough fiscal constraints, spending upwards to $1 billion for a redundant homeport would not be a prudent use of taxpayer funds. Today's announcement is a tremendous victory both for sound fiscal planning and especially the citizens of Hampton Roads."# # #
02.07.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Democratic Member on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, issued the following statement on the numerous complaints of an alleged tax preparation scam throughout Hampton Roads, Virginia:"As tax season approaches, I implore taxpayers to be aware of tax preparation scams that usually include egregious fees and clearly take advantage of taxpayers who seek assistance filing their state and federal income taxes. After learning about the numerous complaints and media reports of one company operating throughout Hampton Roads denying or delaying tax refunds to their customers, I am asking the U.S. Department of Justice to investigate this matter. I also encourage taxpayers to visit the IRS's website at www.irs.gov to learn about the IRS Free File service or to get a list of IRS-approved Free File companies."Click here to read Congressman Scott's letter to Attorney General Holder.# # #
02.04.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives, in order to cover up the cost of the Bush-era tax cuts, considered a bill that would alter how the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) analyzes fiscal and economic impacts of legislation pending before Congress. In opposition to H.R. 3582, the Pro-Growth Budgeting Act, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement:"Today the House considered legislation that will not create any jobs or reduce the budget deficit but will instead force the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office to use accounting gimmicks to cover up the true cost of extending the Bush-era tax cuts. CBO has estimated that extending the Bush-era tax cuts will add $4 trillion to the deficit over the next decade, and the Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that a long term extension will reduce economic growth by up to 1.6 percent by 2020. H.R. 3582 would require CBO to adopt a baseline that would already include the cost of permanently extending the Bush-era tax cuts, and thus, any analysis of the economic impact of any legislative proposal would have to be relative to this new baseline. Under this scheme, if the House considered a long term extension of the Bush-era tax cuts, an economic analysis of such a proposal would show no adverse economic or fiscal impact. Requiring CBO to base projections on unproven economic theories and philosophy, instead of traditional arithmetic, will suggest that unaffordable tax cuts have no adverse effect on the budget and will only make our deficit and economic situation much worse than it is now."# # #
01.29.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement following Defense Secretary Leon Panetta's press conference previewing the Fiscal Year 2013 Defense Budget:"I was pleased to hear that the Fiscal Year 2013 Defense Budget will maintain the Navy's current aircraft carrier fleet at 11 ships and enhance the Virginia-class submarine program. However, I am concerned with the Secretary's announcement that the President will request a Base Realignment and Closure process so that the Defense Department can meet the spending caps enacted in the Budget Control Act of 2011. Unfortunately, these cuts are a predictable consequence of passing and extending unaffordable tax cuts. Budgeting is about making difficult choices. If we want to continue to extend the Bush-era tax cuts, we will have to pay for them with cuts in Social Security, Medicare, and other vital functions of government, including defense. If we choose to end these tax cuts, it is unlikely that a new round of base closings or any of these other cuts would be necessary."# # #
01.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Members of Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott's District Office staff will hold satellite office hours to assist constituents living in New Kent and Charles City Counties on February 7, 2012 and Prince George and Surry Counties on February 8, 2012 at the following locations:New Kent CountyTuesday, February 7, 2012 – 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.County Administration Building12007 Courthouse CircleNew Kent, VirginiaCharles City CountyTuesday, February 7, 2012 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.County Administration Building10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, VirginiaPrince George CountyWednesday, February 8, 2012 – 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.County Administration Building6450 Administrative DrivePrince George, VirginiaSurry CountyWednesday, February 8, 2012 - 10 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.Surry County Community Center205 Enos Farm DriveSurry, VirginiaThe Congressman's primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Congressman Scott's staff also holds weekly satellite office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the L. Douglas Wilder Center at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott's website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov.# # #
01.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) released the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union Address to a joint session of Congress:"Our economy has added a total of 3.2 million private sector jobs over the last 22 months, but the President and Congressional Democrats realize that we must do more to create jobs and accelerate our economic recovery. The wealthiest Americans have seen their bank accounts and stock portfolios continue to grow despite the economy, while too many American families have seen declining housing values, their incomes eroded, and are struggling to make ends meet in the wake of the deepest recession since the Great Depression."Tonight, I believe the President laid out a strong blueprint that will ensure the long term success of our economy and better address economic inequality by calling for a greater emphasis on American manufacturing, American energy, and investment in the skills and competitiveness of the American workforce."# # #
01.24.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on his position on H.R. 290 and H.R. 2070:"Today the House considered two unnecessary bills, again wasting the American people's time. Instead of focusing on jobs and our economic recovery, Republican leadership brought to the floor two bills that would seek to undermine the religion clauses of the First Amendment to the Constitution."The first bill, H.R. 290, the so-called War Memorial Protection Act, is an unnecessary attempt by Congress to authorize the use of religious symbols on government memorials or monuments honoring U.S. veterans. Current law requires a delicate balance in determining the government's appropriate use of religious symbols; the symbols must not make it appear that the government endorses religion over non?religion or advances one particular religion over another. The fact is that each display must be considered on a case-by-case basis. If a particular display meets the constitutional requirements, then it will be found constitutional and the bill is unnecessary. If a display does not meet the constitutional requirements, then it will be found unconstitutional, and this bill will not overcome that finding. In summary, for each display considered in the future, the bill is either unnecessary or powerless to overcome a constitutional violation."The House Natural Resources Committee acknowledged in its report to the House that the legislation is in response to a 9th Circuit Court decision that held a government display of a lone 43?foot tall cross violated the Establishment Clause of the Constitution. This bill will not change that decision; that display, found to favor one religion, will remain unconstitutional even with this legislation."Moreover, government selected religious symbols on war memorials are problematic. Members of our Armed Services come from many different religions and some do not ascribe to any religion at all. In fact, according to a recent report, nearly one-third of all members of the armed services identify as non-Christian. We should not dishonor their service by excluding them from or offending them by a display that may not represent them and their beliefs. Finally, this bill does not affect military headstones which may display the personal religious conviction belonging to the fallen soldier."The second bill, H.R. 2070, the World War II Memorial Prayer Act of 2011, directs the Secretary of the Interior to install a plaque or inscription containing the prayer proferred by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on June 6, 1944, the morning of D-Day at the World War II memorial in Washington, DC. The Commemorative Works Act (CWA) is the law that sets forth the requirements for development, approval, and location of new memorials and monuments in the District of Columbia. The current design of the World War II monument was selected as part of an open, national competition, and each stage of the design process was approved by the Commission of Fine Arts and the National Capital Planning Commission in a public hearing, allowing for input from the general public and veterans. The National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission and the American Battle Monuments Commission, charged by Congress with designing and building the monument, oppose altering the memorial. Congress should not override the CWA to assert control over content and artistic design. Even worse, Congress should not use the memorial to play politics and assert a religious message by a religious majority. Members of many diverse religions and no religion at all served the U.S. honorably in World War II to defend the freedoms that we hold dear. We should not dishonor their service or their memories by supporting this legislation."Unfortunately, the House adopted H.R. 290 by voice vote.H.R. 2070 passed the House by a recorded vote of 386-26 (Roll Call No. 8).Both bills will be sent to the Senate for consideration. # # #
01.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.J. Res. 98, relating to the disapproval of the President's exercise of authority to increase the debt limit pursuant to the Budget Control Act of 2011. A vote in favor of the resolution was a vote against increasing the debt ceiling. Voting against the resolution, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement:"This attempt to derail the increase in the debt ceiling will only lead to the same type of uncertainty that caused the downgrade in the credit rating of the United States last August. Increasing the debt ceiling is simply an acknowledgement of money that has already been spent. Failing to increase the debt ceiling will not result in reduced spending, but will severely harm our economy by forcing a default on our obligations. For example, a default would result in increased interest rates for all borrowers in our economy, and an increase in interest rates as low as one percent would cost American taxpayers approximately $100 billion a year. The House of Representatives should be focused on working on legislation that will actually balance the budget and support and grow our economy instead of wasting time considering this resolution of disapproval."# # #
01.12.2012	RICHMOND, VA – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) joined First Lady Michelle Obama at Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) where she announced a new initiative to train more civilian and military doctors to diagnose and treat returning veterans for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and traumatic brain injury (TBI). This effort will be led by the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) and the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine (AACOM). Congressman Scott issued the following statement following the First Lady's announcement:"The First Lady's announcement reflects how truly committed the Obama Administration is to our veterans, especially those returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan who have been deeply affected by PTSD and TBI. I am pleased that the First Lady took the time to visit with veterans at the Richmond Polytrauma Rehabilitation Center at the Hunter Holmes McGuire V.A. Medical Center. She then made this announcement at one of the nation's leading universities for medicine, the Medical College of Virginia at Virginia Commonwealth University. This new initiative will engage medical schools across the nation, including MCV at VCU here in Richmond and Eastern Virginia Medical School in Norfolk, to train the next generation of medical experts in diagnosing and treating PTSD and TBI. Our nation owes these men and women a tremendous debt of gratitude, and we must ensure that they have access to the best medical care available. I look forward to working with the Administration in ensuring that this initiative is a success."# # #
01.05.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Although the House of Representatives remains out of session, Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) returned to Washington to work and discuss solutions to create and grow jobs with his House Democratic colleagues and leaders at the White House. This morning, the Congressman attended a White House panel discussion on the President's Summer Jobs+ Initiative, a new call to action for businesses, non-profits, and government to work together to provide pathways to employment for low-income and disconnected youth in the summer of 2012."I commend the President for launching this new collaborative effort to get businesses, non-profits and government agencies focused on providing summer job and internship opportunities to low-income and disconnected youth," said Rep. Scott. "As confirmed by several young people who spoke at today's event, these opportunities can and do make a tremendous difference in the lives of young people. A summer job or internship can push a young person towards college or towards the workplace and give them the encouragement they need to succeed. While I continue to be disappointed in the leadership of the House of Representatives for failing to act on major components of the President's American Jobs Act, I am pleased to see President Obama taking action without waiting for Congress."Businesses, non-profits, government agencies and young people can get connected with the Summer Jobs+ initiative online at www.dol.gov/summerjobs/. # # #
12.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives blocked an up or down vote on the Senate's bipartisan bill that would have extended for two months the payroll tax holiday and federal unemployment insurance and also delayed Medicare payment cuts to doctors in order to give Congress more time to work on a full year solution. Supporting the Senate's compromise bill, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement:"My Republican colleagues in Congress believe that this bill will create uncertainty for families, doctors, and businesses, and they cite this uncertainty as one of their primary reasons to reject this legislation. They fail to recognize, however, that by rejecting this bill, this uncertainty will now begin not in two months, but in less than two weeks. A bipartisan majority of the Senate and the Democrats in the House agree that the best chance for a full year solution was to pass this two month extension during which we will continue to address the controversial issues that we have been unable to solve despite years of trying. Instead, the Republican-controlled House believed that blocking this extension will somehow force a full year solution in the next ten days. We will soon see which side is correct."While I have long preferred alternatives to the payroll tax cut, such as a tax rebate or some other direct payment to working Americans, the payroll tax holiday benefits working Americans and stimulates the economy. Economists have said that not extending the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance will have a significant negative impact on the economy. By blocking this bill, 160 million Americans will face a $1000 tax hike, 2.2 million Americans will lose their unemployment benefits, and 48 million seniors may lose access to their doctors. Passing the bipartisan Senate bill is the only way to guarantee certainty for the American people."# # #
12.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the conference report on the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act. Voting No on final passage, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement:"I support a robust national defense and I support our men and women in uniform but I ultimately had to oppose the conference report. The bill includes detention provisions that will allow the indefinite military detention without charge or trial of anyone, including U.S. citizens, accused or suspected of involvement with terrorism. These seemingly unconstitutional provisions have been rightly criticized by senior defense and national security officials as well as retired military leaders and counterterrorism professionals. Congress should provide the President with the tools to combat terrorism, but these tools must be within the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. "Various current and former administration officials, as well as military personnel, voiced similar concerns. Some of these are listed below.Secretary Panetta“I am convinced we all want the same result- increased flexibility for our national security professionals in the field to detain, interrogate and prosecute suspected terrorists. The department has substantial concerns, however, about the revised text.”FBI Director Mueller“This legislation may call into question the FBI’s continued use or scope of its criminal investigative or national security authorities.”Lawrence Wilkerson, a retired U.S. Army colonel who served as State Department chief of staff in the Bush administration"By limiting the use of the traditional criminal justice system -- and, specifically, the unparalleled experience and talent of the FBI and other domestic law enforcement officers -- the defense bill could actually weaken our counterterrorism efforts."In a Letter Signed by 26 Retired Generals and Admirals“Our leaders are constantly striving to make America more secure, but in doing so, we must be careful not to overreact and overreach, resulting in policies that will do more harm than good.” ###
12.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03,) Ranking Member of the House The Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, issued the following statement following the President's address to a joint session of Congress:"I was deeply saddened to hear about today's shooting at Virginia Tech, a campus that has already been wrought with grief and worked hard to restore a sense of normalcy and safety to its community. Incidents like this highlight the need for a National Center for Campus Public Safety, the subject of H.R. 2342, the CAMPUS Safety Act of 2011. This National Center for Campus Public Safety would train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information. My thoughts are with the victims' families and all those affected by this terrible tragedy." # # #
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the November 2011 Jobs Report that showed the private sector added 120,000 jobs and the national unemployment rate fell from 9% to 8.6%:"Today's jobs report marks the 21st consecutive month of private sector job growth; however, continued layoffs by state and local governments remain a significant drag on our economy. Additionally, the drop in the national unemployment rate is largely due to the fact that many people have become discouraged and have stopped looking for work. On average, there are four unemployed Americans for every one job opening and no job is going unfilled."Congress must do more to accelerate job growth. The most immediate and positive thing we can do for the economy this month is extend federal unemployment benefits, which are scheduled to expire at the end of the year. These benefits have been judged by economists as one of the most positive methods to stimulate the economy and, more importantly, they keep millions of American families out of poverty. Millions of Americans, who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own and have been actively looking for work for months, are relying on Congress to act. As the holiday season approaches, this is the least we can do."# # #
11.23.2011	RICHMOND, VA – Congressmen Eric Cantor (VA-07) and Bobby Scott (VA-03) today joined community volunteers at the Central Virginia Food Bank. FeedMore and the Federation of Virginia Food Banks invited the Congressmen to volunteer and help raise awareness about hunger in our local communities.Congressman Cantor said, “In these tough economic times, it is more important than ever for us to work together to prevent hunger in our local communities. Today, I was privileged to join my good friend Bobby Scott and the many people who contribute to the success of FeedMore and the Central Virginia Food Bank. The work done by Fay Lohr and her team provides critical food and nutrition services for children, families, and seniors who are in need. I thank all those who have given generously with their time, resources, and food donations, and encourage others to give what they can this holiday season and throughout the year. Together, we can help feed more families and improve the lives of the entire Richmond community.”Congressman Scott said, "The Central Virginia Food Bank changes people's lives and provides meals to those who would otherwise have to go without. This is all made possible by the generous donations of time, money, and food from the people right here in the greater Richmond community who understand that caring for one another should be our number one priority. This service is especially important during the Thanksgiving holiday. I'm pleased to be joining my friend and colleague Eric Cantor in giving back to our community and I encourage all that are willing and able to give to your area food bank."Gayle Haglund, FeedMore's Chief Philanthropy Officer said, “This is an important time of year for FeedMore. It’s a time when people focus on the important things in their lives, including food and gathering with loved ones. It’s also a time to be thankful for all of the help and awareness we receive about the issue of hunger, so we’re grateful to have Congressman Cantor and Congressman Scott here to help us do that. Hunger is not a far-away problem, yet it has such far-reaching consequences. As we prepare for Thanksgiving, their visit reminds us that just as hunger impacts a diverse population in a wide variety of situations, it is also a challenge that will require all of our solutions.” ###
11.17.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the Fiscal Year 2012 Department of Agriculture and Related Agencies Appropriations bill:"While I supported the bill because it funds vital functions of the federal government, I am concerned that it included a provision that limits the Department of Agriculture's ability to make much needed changes to school lunch standards to improve the overall nutritional value of what is served in public school cafeterias. Studies have consistently shown that better nutrition leads to improved concentration, school performance, and positive behavioral outcomes. Congress should be more focused on the needs of our children and not the needs of particular interest groups."# # #
11.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today on Congress' vote on H. Con. Res. 13, a resolution reaffirming "In God We Trust" as the official motto of the United States and supporting and encouraging the public display of the national motto in all public buildings, public schools, and other government institutions:"Today we face the highest deficit in U.S. history; an unemployment rate of 9.1% and a growing number of people losing access to unemployment insurance each day; schools that lack the resources to give our students a proper education; 17.2 million households that are food insecure; and children who by the very circumstances of their birth are injected onto a Cradle to Prison Pipeline. Instead of facing these challenges and creating jobs to help American people make sure they have a roof over their head and food on their table, we are debating whether or not to affirm and proliferate a motto that was adopted in 1956 and is under no threat of attack. In addition to diverting attention away from substantive issues, the resolution is unconstitutional."When we were sworn in as Members of Congress, we took an oath to uphold the Constitution. This resolution is inconsistent with that oath and therefore I voted 'no' on the resolution."In addition, Congressman Scott's statement from the Judiciary Committee markup on the resolution earlier this year contains a legal analysis and is below. # # # Remarks of Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" ScottRegardingH. Con. Res. 13, Reaffirming "In God We Trust" as the official motto of the United States and supporting an encouraging the public display of the national motto in all public building, public schools, and other governmental institutionsJudiciary Committee MarkupMarch 17, 2011 Mr. Chairman, I come from a State that has a long tradition of supporting religious freedom. In fact, it was Thomas Jefferson of Virginia who wrote the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, which predates the First Amendment to the Constitution. So it is the First Amendment to the Constitution by which we should judge the constitutionality of this resolution.The Establishment Clause of the First Amendment states that "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion." This clause not only prohibits the government from establishing an official religion, but also prohibits the government actions that unduly favor one religion over another. It also prohibits government from unduly preferring religion over non-religion, or non-religion over religion.For more than 50 years, the Supreme Court has used three interrelated tests to analyze alleged violations of the Establishment Clause. Those are the endorsement test, the coercion test, and the Lemon Test. H. Con. Res. 13 fails all three.Under the endorsement test, we must ask whether the resolution is an unconstitutional endorsement of one view of religion over another. In fact, it is. First, it prefers religion over non-religion, and that is a violation. Further, it endorses a specific type of religion, monotheism, over other religions, again a violation. In 1992, Justice O'Connor stated that the government's endorsement of a religion "sends a message to nonadherents that they are outsiders, not full members of the political community, and an accompanying message to adherents that they are insiders, favored members of the political community."[1] The fact is that the U.S. is comprised of people of many faiths and those who do not believe in religion, as is each person's right. The passage of this resolution would send a message to the American people that our government favors religion, and specifically one religion over another, in violation of the endorsement test.H. Con. Res. 13 also fails the coercion test, which examines whether individuals are coerced into being exposed to a religious message. In this case, the resolution supports and encourages public display of the national motto in all public buildings, public schools, and other government institutions. As the Supreme Court explained in 1987, "the Court has been particularly vigilant in monitoring compliance with the Establishment Clause in elementary and secondary schools. Families entrust public schools with the education of their children, but condition their trust on the understanding that the classroom will not purposely be used to advance religious views that may conflict with the private beliefs of the student and his or her family. Students in such institutions are impressionable and their attendance is involuntary."[2] Similarly, people who are compelled to visit government buildings to transact government business, such as obtaining a passport or Social Security card and so forth, are forced to visit the public buildings which their hard-earned taxpayers' dollars paid for, and they will be forcibly subjected to the religious sentiment.The third test, Mr. Chairman, is the Lemon test, which was derived from the 1971 Supreme Court case Lemon v. Kurtzman[3], which held that there is a violation of the Establishment Clause when there is no secular or non-religious purpose to legislation. The resolution on its face demonstrates that there is no secular or non-religious purpose and therefore it is unconstitutional.In the past, during a very similar debate in which we were discussing the constitutionality of the phrase "under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance, I indicated that I agreed with the dissent in the case of Newdow v. U.S. Congress[4], and the operative language that I agreed with was:"Legal world abstractions and ruminations aside, when all is said and done, the danger that 'under God' in our Pledge of Allegiance will tend to bring about a theocracy or suppress someone's belief is so minuscule as to be de minimis. The danger that phrase represents to our first amendment's freedoms is picayune at best."Judges, including Supreme Court Justices, have recognized the lack of danger in that and similar expressions for decades, if not for centuries."[5]Now, thus, the language in the national motto in itself may be de minimis, but this resolution is not.Today we face the highest deficit in the United States' history, an unemployment rate around 9%, children who by the very circumstances of their birth are automatically injected into the Cradle-to-Prison Pipeline, and a natural disaster in Japan, including the possibility of an imminent nuclear disaster. Instead of facing these realities or dealing with these difficult issues, instead of helping American people make sure they have a roof over their head and food on their table, we are debating whether or not to affirm and proliferate the motto that was adopted in 1956 and is under no threat of attack. Mr. Chairman, this resolution cannot be considered de minimis.The problem on relying on that principle and enacting this resolution is that the actions may do more harm than good. The de minimis principle is precarious at best. It is easily undermined by the fact that we spend the time we are spending on this resolution and the emphasis we have placed on the importance of the resolution. The importance that we have fixed to this resolution by holding this markup and having the debate increases the magnitude of the attention we give to the issue and subverts the argument that the resolution might be considered de minimis and, in fact, increases the constitutional vulnerability of the resolution.Mr. Chairman, the resolution fails all three Establishment Clause tests and cannot be considered de minimis. We therefore, by supporting this passage, violate the Constitution of the United States. When we were sworn as Members of Congress, we promised to uphold the Constitution. Supporting this resolution violates that oath, and for those reasons, and because we have other business to conduct, I hope the resolution is defeated.__________[1] Newdow v. U.S. Congress, 292 U.S. 597, 606 (1992) (quoting Lynch v. Donnelly, 465 U.S. 668, 687-688 (1984) (O'Connor, J., concurring)).2 Edwards v. Aguillard, 482 U.S. 578, 583-84 (1987).3 Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S. 602 (1971).4 Newdow v. U.S. Congress, 292 F.3d 597 (9th Cir. 2002).5 Id. at 613.
11.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after attending the Oval Office proclamation signing which designated Fort Monroe in Hampton, Virginia a national monument:"I was honored to attend today's ceremony in the Oval Office with the President as he exercised his authority under the Antiquities Act to designate Fort Monroe a national monument. Like similar protections for the Statue of Liberty, the Colonial National Monument and the Grand Canyon, today's action by the President preserves another great American landmark for future generations. I am grateful for the President and his Administration for recognizing the historical importance of Fort Monroe and the economic opportunities this will bring to the City of Hampton and the Commonwealth of Virginia."# # #
10.30.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on the White House announcement that President Obama will sign a proclamation on Tuesday, November 1, 2011 designating Fort Monroe in Hampton, Virginia a national monument:"This announcement is wonderful news for Fort Monroe, the City of Hampton, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and our nation. This is a culmination of the hard work of the citizens of Hampton Roads, conservation groups, the Hampton City Council, Governor Bob McDonnell, the Virginia Congressional Delegation, and most of all Hampton's Mayor Molly Ward."The history of Fort Monroe is older than that of the United States and the story of this fort is the story of our nation. The first English settlers to arrive in the Americas established a fortification at Old Point Comfort in 1609, the forerunner to the current day Fort Monroe. In 1619, the first Africans arrived at Old Point Comfort, marking the beginning of slavery in America."During the Civil War, nearly 250 years after the birth of slavery, Fort Monroe was witness to the end of slavery. Three enslaved African-Americans escaped and made their way to the Union Army-controlled Fort Monroe seeking their freedom. Gen. Benjamin Butler issued an order at Fort Monroe classifying all slaves who reached Union lines as contraband of war, and as such, free men. It was with this action that slavery was first abolished. Fort Monroe, built on the land where slavery first arrived in America, was now known as 'Freedom's Fortress.'"After the Civil War, Fort Monroe remained a critical military asset supporting and training the United States Army until its closure in September of this year. As our nation remembers the 150th anniversary of the start of the Civil War and prepares to commemorate Veterans Day, this action by the President will ensure that the role of Fort Monroe is preserved in the story of America for future generations. I look forward to joining the President on Tuesday for this momentous occasion."# # #
10.29.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement on today's approval by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia of the settlement between the Department of Agriculture (USDA) and plaintiffs in the Pigford II class action lawsuit:"This is an important final step in a long road to justice for the thousands of Black farmers that were discriminated against by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. I want to commend John Boyd, President of the National Black Farmers Association, for his tenacity in advocating for justice for these farmers and bringing their plight to my attention and the attention of my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus. Without the support of the CBC leading the way in calling for hearings, introducing and fighting for the passage of legislation to correct this injustice, this long overdue settlement would not have been possible. The work of Secretary Vilsack and Attorney General Holder in reaching this settlement and finally having it approved by a federal judge should also be recognized."# # #
10.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Social Security Administration announced a Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) of 3.6% for Social Security beneficiaries in 2012. This is the first increase for beneficiaries in two years. Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) released the following statement:"The statutory calculation that Social Security is required to use to determine the COLA has not produced an increase in two years, largely due to the weak economy. However, seniors have still had their budgets stretched by the rising cost of medical care, food, and housing. Today's announcement will give millions of seniors much needed relief but there remains an ongoing debate in Washington on the future of Social Security. I am committed to protecting Social Security for present and future beneficiaries. Congress should be working to strengthen Social Security, not attempting to cut benefits to help offset unaffordable tax cuts. Social Security has been keeping its promise to our seniors for seventy-five years and I will keep fighting to ensure we continue to keep that promise."For more information about the 2012 Cost-of-Living Adjustment for Social Security beneficiaries, please visit: www.socialsecurity.gov/cola.# # #
09.22.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced today that he will host a town hall meeting on the budget deficit and job creation in Norfolk on Monday, September 26, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. Joining Congressman Scott to discuss these issues will be Michael Cassidy, CEO and President of The Commonwealth Institute for Fiscal Analysis, a nonprofit think tank based in Richmond focused on providing independent research, analysis and public education on budget and tax issues."The Budget agreement enacted last month cut the deficit by $1 trillion through spending caps but mandated an additional $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction through a Joint Select Committee," said Rep. Scott. "We do not yet know what programs will be cut or if new revenue will be raised. The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction's recommendations will have to be voted on by both the House and the Senate by December 23, 2011. Additionally, the President has recently submitted his recommendations on how to further reduce the deficit and his proposal to get Americans back to work. The town hall meeting will give me an opportunity to discuss the budget deficit and job creation proposals with my constituents and to hear their concerns."The town hall will be held in Norfolk's City Council Chambers in City Hall located at 810 Union Street in Downtown Norfolk. For more information about this event, please contact the Congressman's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
09.22.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), the top Democrat on the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-MI), and Reps. Edolphus Towns (D-NY), Steve Israel (D-NY), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), and Jared Polis (D-CO) introduced the Housing Opportunities Made Equal (HOME) Act in order to extend critical federal civil rights protections to individuals, regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or familial status, disability, or source of income. Today, many in the LGBT community, many people paying rent with government housing vouchers, and numerous others routinely experience housing discrimination by landlords, banks, and real estate professionals."LGBT Americans, non-traditional families, and the disabled should not be subjected to housing discrimination at the hands of the unscrupulous or bigoted," said Nadler. "This legislation will ensure that the Fair Housing Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act are actually protecting ALL Americans and guaranteeing people of any sexual orientation, gender identity, marital and familial status, and source of income the right to the housing they choose.""We can't win the fight for equal housing opportunities without the HOME Act and its greater protections against housing discrimination," Conyers said. "I am pleased to introduce this bill with my colleagues as it will further the cause of the original Fair Housing Act and the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King in promoting integrated communities.""Fair housing must be a right for all Americans," said Towns. "It is therefore necessary that it be reflected in the laws that govern our nation. I fully support the Housing Opportunities Made Equal (HOME) Act which in effect will protect the rights of LGBT Americans as well as others who deserve equal protection under the law, regardless of their source of income. In New York City, over 101,000 families benefit from the Section 8 Choice Voucher program. This bill would protect each of those families against unfair discrimination in the rental market.""In these tough economic times, the last thing that anyone should have to worry about when applying for a loan or filling out an apartment application is discrimination because of their sexuality orientation, gender identity or family status," said Israel. "I'm proud to join my colleagues in introducing the Housing Opportunities Made Equal (HOME) Act.""For over 40 years, the Fair Housing Act has protected Americans from housing discrimination, but some groups not specifically mentioned in the Act still face discrimination," said Scott. "The HOME Act builds upon the Fair Housing Act by prohibiting housing discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, source of income, or marital status. This is a long overdue reform that will ensure access to affordable housing to millions of Americans. This is the right thing to do and now is the right time to act.""I have always committed myself to fighting discrimination wherever it occurs," said Hastings. "The need for equal housing opportunities knows no boundaries and it is high time that the Fair Housing Act ensured that regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status, all Americans are afforded the right to fair housing.""We applaud Senator Kerry and Representative Nadler for their efforts to bring the Fair Housing Act into the 21st Century," said Shanna L. Smith, National Fair Housing Alliance President and CEO. "These much-needed changes to the Act reflect our nation's commitment to creating stronger, more diverse and inclusive neighborhoods. Housing discrimination is wrong and runs counter to the American spirit of opportunity. It's time we leave intolerance and bigotry in America's dark history of senseless exclusion and instead continue to march on the path to equality."The HOME Act would amend the Fair Housing Act by prohibiting discrimination in the sale or rental of housing, the financing of housing, and in brokerage services on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, source of income, or marital status. The Act would also amend the Fair Housing Act's definition of "familial status" in order to more accurately reflect contemporary family arrangements – expanding the term to include "anyone standing in loco parentis" of one or more individuals who are not 18 years of age, thus providing non-traditional families with equal protection.The Act would prohibit discrimination in lending on the basis of actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity. It would make clear that a seller or landlord has an ongoing obligation to refrain from engaging in housing discrimination, even after the purchase or the lease is signed. This will address cases like Bloch v. Frischholz, in which a condo association in Chicago prohibited a Jewish family from posting a mezuzah in accordance with their religious beliefs.The Fair Housing Act, Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act, has protected people living in America from housing discrimination since 1968, when it passed in the immediate aftermath of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assassination. Under the Act, it is illegal to discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, disability, or familial status. The Act also mandates that the federal government promote integrated communities.While these measures were an important first step in the fight for equal housing opportunities, they have been thus far inadequate in keeping relevant with the times. People who are not currently protected by the Fair Housing Act regularly face open discrimination in the housing market. Landlords, real estate agents, and mortgage lenders often offer housing on different and discriminatory terms to LGBT individuals. LGBT individuals and non-traditional families also face harassment and potential violence. Home seekers who intend to pay for housing with government assistance face similar discrimination. People with disabilities too often face physical barriers when seeking a place to live. It is this gap in the law, the lack of accountability, and discrimination that the HOME Act wishes to address.Text of the bill is attached as a PDF. Senator John Kerry (D-MA) today introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate.# # #
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03), Ranking Member of the Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the Georgia state Board of Pardons and Paroles' denial of clemency for death-row inmate Troy Davis:"It is tragic that under our current system of law the fact that there is no credible evidence that Troy Davis is guilty of murder is insufficient to stop his execution. Since his conviction, seven of the nine witnesses in the case against Davis have recanted, and one of the others is suspected of being the actual perpetrator, while no physical evidence has tied Davis to the crime. Under the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, the burden is on the defendant to prove actual innocence by 'clear and convincing evidence.' This standard is more stringent than preponderance of the evidence and so a defendant demonstrating that he is probably innocent will not meet this burden. Lack of evidence of guilt is not affirmative evidence of innocence. Troy Davis demonstrated that the evidence against him left serious reasonable doubt of his guilt, but unfortunately, he has apparently been unable to prove with clear and convincing evidence that he is actually innocent. There is something fundamentally wrong with our system when someone may be put to death when the evidence we have available today casts serious doubt about his guilt." # # #
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-Va.), and House Judiciary Committee Member Hank Johnson (D-Ga.) wrote a letter to the Georgia State Board of Pardons and Paroles urging them to reconsider the decision to conclude Troy Davis' death penalty clemency hearing. Mr. Davis' defense team was unable to finish presenting evidence in support of his request for clemency. Specifically, Mr. Davis' defense team wished to present the testimony of an expert on eyewitness identifications, a critical aspect of Mr. Davis' request which turned on the fact that several eye witnesses at his trial had since recanted their testimony."Since 1973, more than 135 individuals on death row have been exonerated based on their innocence." Conyers said. "There is overwhelming evidence that casts doubt on Troy Davis's conviction. Before Mr. Davis is executed, the Georgia State Board of Pardons and Paroles should consider re-opening Mr. Davis' clemency hearing because the defense team was unable to present all evidence establishing his innocence.""Under the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, the burden is on the defendant to prove actual innocence by 'clear and convincing evidence,'" Scott said. "This standard is more stringent than preponderance of the evidence and so a defendant demonstrating that he is probably innocent will not meet this burden. Lack of evidence of guilt is not affirmative evidence of innocence. Despite the fact that Troy Davis demonstrated that the evidence against him left substantial reasonable doubt of his guilt, the District Court found that he was unable to prove with clear and convincing evidence that a jury would not convict him, based on the available evidence. Similarly, the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles did not find the evidence compelling enough to grant clemency, even though they did not hear all of the evidence. There is something fundamentally wrong with our system when someone may be put to death when the evidence we have available today casts serious doubt about his guilt.""As a criminal defense attorney, judge and member of the House Judiciary Committee, it disturbs me to my core that an unnecessary and unjust killing may take place," Johnson said. "If we execute a man despite new evidence that casts doubt on his guilt, it shakes the public's faith in the integrity of justice in Georgia."Previously, Representatives Conyers, Scott, and Johnson wrote Chatham County District Attorney Larry Chisolm urging him to drop the death warrant against Mr. Davis and support his appeal for clemency in light of the substantial doubt surrounding his guilt. A copy of this letter can be found at the following link: https://democrats.judiciary.house.gov/sites/democrats.judiciary.house.gov/files/JudMembers4Davis110916.pdfThe letter to the Georgia State Board of Pardons and Paroles follows below.Chairman James E. DonaldGeorgia State Board of Pardons & Paroles2 Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, SESuite 458, Balcony Level, East TowerAtlanta, Georgia 30334RE: Troy Anthony Davis Pending Execution Scheduled for September 21, 2011Dear Chairman Donald and Members of the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles:We are writing to urge you to reconsider your decision to conclude Troy Davis' clemency hearing on September 19, 2011. It is our understanding that Mr. Davis' defense team was unable to finish presenting its evidence in support his request for clemency.We understand that, due to time constraints, the Board was unable to hear from Dr. Jennifer E. Dysart, an expert on eyewitness identifications. We attach the letter written by the Innocence Project, which elaborates the myriad reasons that Dr. Dysart's testimony is critical. As you are well aware, the only evidence linking Mr. Davis to the crime is eyewitness testimony. Given the gravitas of the task with which you were charged, and what the research tells us about this type of evidence, we urge you to give new consideration to concluding Mr. Davis' hearing without hearing from this critical expert.Sincerely,John Conyers, Jr., Ranking MemberRobert C. "Bobby" Scott, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland SecurityHank Johnson, Member # # #
09.12.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – As students across the nation begin another school year, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will host a press conference with campus safety advocates to call for passage of H.R. 2342, the CAMPUS Safety Act. The bill is also timely because September is National Campus Safety Awareness Month.The CAMPUS Safety Act will create a National Center for Campus Public Safety (the "Center"), to be administered through the U.S. Department of Justice's Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. The Center will train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information. Congressman Scott has introduced the CAMPUS Safety Act in the last three Congresses and it passed the House of Representatives overwhelmingly in the 110th and 111th Congresses. Who: Congressman Bobby Scott;Congressman Elijah Cummings;Members of the VTV Family Outreach Foundation, created by a majority of the families and survivors directly impacted by the April 16, 2007 tragedy at Virginia Tech;Members of the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators;Members of Security On Campus, Inc. What:Press Conference Calling for Passage of the CAMPUS Safety Act Where: 2226 Rayburn House Office Building When:Thursday, September 15, 2011 at 11:00 A.M. # # #
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement following the President's address to a joint session of Congress:"The President took a step in the right direction tonight by proposing a plan that will put people back to work and provide assistance to the long term unemployed. However, some provisions in the President's plan will be less effective than others, and it appears these less effective provisions may be necessary to attract Republican support. I believe the most important thing Congress can do right now to get Americans back to work is to make targeted investments in our nation's infrastructure. The President's plan begins to make these investments."# # #
08.23.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement about the earthquake that struck the Third District and other parts of the Mid-Atlantic region earlier today:"I'm grateful that the impact of the earthquake seems to be minimal. All preliminary reports indicate that there were no major accidents, injuries or fatalities. We're in the process of communicating with each of the jurisdictions in the district to further assess the situation. I hope that everyone makes it home safely today and remains safe throughout the evening."Due to the earthquake, my Washington, D.C., Newport News, and Richmond offices are closed. In addition, the telephone town hall that was scheduled for this evening has been canceled; an announcement will be made when it is rescheduled."# # #
08.22.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced today that he will host a tele town hall meeting on the recent Budget agreement on Tuesday, August 23rd at 7:00 P.M.Residents of Virginia's Third Congressional District can participate in the tele town hall from the comfort of their own home by calling the toll free number 1-877-229-8493 and inputting, when prompted, the conference ID code 18507 followed by the # sign.Congressman Scott will give brief remarks at the beginning of the call and then take questions from residents on the call. If you need additional information, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News Office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
08.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today on the helicopter crash in eastern Afghanistan that occurred during an overnight military operation: "This helicopter crash in Afghanistan marks the single deadliest event in our decade-long presence in Afghanistan, killing 31 U.S. service members and seven Afghan troops. Early reports suggest that this was an intentional act by insurgents to shoot down the Chinook helicopter, making this not only a tragedy but a vicious massacre. Early reports also suggest that many of those involved in this operation – and killed – were Navy SEALS based out of Hampton Roads. "Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line every day to protect and defend the United States and our democratic way of life. They do this out of love for our nation and the strong sense and desire to protect and defend it just as those who came before them. They, and their families, make sacrifices every day to protect the values that we hold dear and make the world a safer place. Today, the 31 U.S. troops who died made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our country. We owe these service members, and their families, a tremendous debt of gratitude. Our fallen heroes leave behind a safer and freer nation because of their ultimate sacrifice. "Words cannot express the deep sorrow and sadness that we feel as a result of this brutal act and excessive loss of life. But our service members have not died in vain. Their courage and sacrifices will never be forgotten by a grateful nation that will honor and remember the heroic actions of these brave Americans. "I also offer my condolences for their Afghan counterparts. "My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of the fallen, and I commend our military on its strength and perseverance in protecting and defending our democratic way of life." # # #
08.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement after voting No on S. 365, the Budget Control Act of 2011:"This budget deal is completely irresponsible and only begins to offset the $800 billion in tax cuts Congress extended last December, much of which benefits that portion of a taxpayer's income in excess of $250,000."The deal contains spending caps and leaves the details to the Appropriations Committee and this new Joint Committee on Debt Reduction, but we already know what will have to be cut and we have a general idea of the magnitude. Annualized, the original version of the Republican Continuing Resolution (CR) in the House contained $100 billion in cuts and over 10 years that adds up to $1 trillion. The CR made deep cuts to the safety net, including Low Income Heating Assistance, Community Action Agencies, Community Health Centers, the Woman, Infant and Child Nutrition program, and Legal Aid. It also cut important investments in our nation, including NASA, Head Start, TRIO, immunizations, AmeriCorps, Job Training, and High Speed Rail. And it cut general vital functions of government, such as Air Traffic Controllers, COPS and Firefighter grants, FBI, Clean Water Grants, FEMA, assistance to small shipyards, OSHA inspections, Border Security, National Parks, and Food Inspectors."To add insult to injury, the last section of the deal ends Federal subsidized student loans for graduate students and ends repayment incentives for students to pay back their loans on time and on schedule. Sadly, even with all these harmful cuts, the estimated savings of this deal only pay for half of the cost of extending all of the Bush-era tax cuts for another decade. If we insist on extending the Bush-era tax cuts at a cost of $4 trillion over 10 years, cutting Social Security and Medicare and other programs supporting our nation's safety net, investments in our future and other traditional functions of government will be necessary."We are asking low income families, seniors, children, beneficiaries of government programs, and graduate students to help pay for extending tax cuts for millionaires. That's just not right and we should have never gotten to this point. We should have been more responsible last December and been honest with the American people about the true cost of these tax cuts."# # #
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott announced today that he will host a Job Fair at Norfolk State University's New Student Center on Tuesday, August 9, 2011 from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. A diverse group of employers, including the Federal government, local municipal governments, and private companies, will be represented at the fair. There will also be several workshops which will give attendees tips on how to write resumes and pointers on how to polish their interviewing skills."Our economy is still slowly recovering from the worst recession since the Great Depression and unemployment remains high," said Rep. Scott. "This Job Fair will provide an excellent opportunity for citizens of the Third Congressional District to meet and visit with area employers who are hiring."Norfolk State University is located at 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia 23504. The New Student Center is located on campus off Gym Road. For more information, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. # # #
07.26.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Tomorrow, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will join U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan and several key stakeholders to discuss higher education modeling and simulation programs, identify program needs and identify ways to support the fields' further development. The conversation will open with brief remarks from Education Secretary Arne Duncan and Congressman Scott on the importance of this burgeoning field. Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education, Eduardo Ochoa, and former Hampton University Chief Information Officer and current Deputy Assistant Secretary for Higher Education Programs, Dr. Debra Saunders-White, will also address the group.Congressman Scott is a member of the bipartisan Congressional Modeling and Simulation Caucus, which is chaired by Congressman Randy Forbes of Virginia. In the 110th Congress, Congressman Scott, with the support of the Modeling and Simulation Caucus, authored legislation to: (1) establish a Modeling and Simulation Higher Education Taskforce at the Department of Education; and (2) authorize a competitive grant program to help colleges and universities create, expand and enhance their modeling and simulation curriculum. The provisions of this bill were ultimately included in the Higher Education Opportunity Act, signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2008. While authorized, Congress has yet to appropriate the necessary funding to implement these provisions.The meeting will provide opportunities for experts in the field to share information with each other and the public on best practices in the field of modeling and simulation. A number of experts from academia, including representatives from Old Dominion University's Virginia Modeling, Analysis and Simulation Center and Eastern Virginia Medical School, and other officials will lead panel discussions focusing on supporting modeling and simulation programs to build a strong, well-educated workforce and military.WHO:U.S. Secretary of Education Arne DuncanU.S. Rep. Bobby ScottWHAT:Meeting with modeling and simulation stakeholdersWHERE:Lyndon Baines Johnson Department of Education buildingBarnard Auditorium400 Maryland Ave. S.W.Washington, D.C.WHEN:9 a.m.-noon on Wednesday, July 27, 2011 # # #
07.25.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) announced today that members of his District Office Staff will hold office hours in New Kent County on August 2nd, in Charles City and Prince George Counties on August 3rd, and in Surry County on August 10th at the following locations:New Kent CountyTuesday, August 2, 2011 – 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.County Administration Building12007 Courthouse CircleNew Kent, VirginiaCharles City CountyWednesday, August 3, 2011 – 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.County Administration Building10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, VirginiaPrince George CountyWednesday, August 3, 2011 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.County Administration Building6450 Administrative DrivePrince George, VirginiaSurry CountyWednesday, August 10, 2011 - 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Surry County Community Center205 Enos Farm DriveSurry, VirginiaThe Congressman's primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. In addition, Congressman Scott's staff also holds office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M. at the L. Douglas Wilder Center at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott's website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov. # # #
07.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, sent the following letter to his House colleagues urging them to oppose H. J. Res. 1, the so-called Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution.Below is the full text of Congressman Scott's letter and his factsheet on the Balanced Budget Amendment:July 14, 2011 Don't Get Tricked By the Title!Oppose H. J. Res. 1 - The Balanced Budget Amendment Dear Colleague:Next week, the House is expected to consider H. J. Res. 1, the so-called Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. I implore you to please read the provisions of the amendment and don't get tricked by the title.The discussion about this proposed amendment to the Constitution has totally been about the title of the amendment and not about its provisions. Incredibly, the provisions of this amendment do not require a balanced budget and actually will make it more difficult for future Congresses to balance the budget. Furthermore, the amendment jeopardizes Medicare and Social Security by allowing cuts in these programs with a simple majority while requiring a two-thirds vote to save these programs with new taxes.I encourage you to review the attached fact sheet on the provisions of H. J. Res. 1 before you decide how to vote on this proposed amendment to our Constitution.Sincerely,/S/ROBERT C. "BOBBY" SCOTTMember of Congress # # #
07.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott received the Friend of the National Parks Award from the National Parks Conservation Association. The National Parks Conservation Association presented this award to Members of Congress whose votes on park issues in the 111th Congress (2009-2010) upheld the standards and integrity of the National Park System or protected the parks from harm. The award is a 19" x 27" framed reproduction of an art-deco color poster of Acadia National Park, in the style of those produced in the 1930s for the National Park Service by the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration."I am honored to receive this award from the National Parks Conservation Association," said Rep. Scott. "From public lands to important historical sites, I am committed to protecting and preserving our nation's natural and historical treasures for the next generation of Americans. I look forward to working with the National Parks Conservation Association on important issues in 112th Congress, including the designation of historic Fort Monroe as a National Park."For more information on the Friends of the National Parks Awards, please click here.# # #
07.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – The House Judiciary Committee today passed the Business Activity Tax Simplification Act, H.R. 1439, which was introduced by Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Bobby Scott (D-VA). This legislation clarifies the confusion surrounding when a state can levy business activity taxes on out-of-state businesses.Over the past several years, a growing number of states have sought to collect business activity taxes from businesses in other states. The problem is that different states use different standards for determining what constitutes sufficient contacts with a state to justify taxation. As a result, businesses have shied away from expanding their presence in other states for fear of exposure to further taxation."This legislation sets specific guidelines for when an out-of-state business may be charged a tax for doing business in a state," Goodlatte said. "Just because a website can be accessed by consumers in a certain state, doesn't mean that state should be able to collect taxes from the website owner. This legislation focuses on allowing the Internet and the commerce that it facilitates to expand, by eliminating excessive taxes that harm on-line growth."The nexus provisions are necessary, common-sense clarifications that will benefit states and businesses by eliminating gray areas and establishing 'bright lines' regarding what constitutes a physical presence," Goodlatte said. "This legislation is a priority for businesses of all sizes because it will ensure that businesses are not subject to double taxation at the state level, which will ultimately facilitate the continued growth of e-commerce, job creation and the overall strength of the American economy. Small businesses will be particularly helped with this bill because they do not have the resources to hire teams of lawyers to fight aggressive state taxation."There are countless examples of aggressive state actions and positions against out-of-state companies. For example, some states take the position that a business whose trucks pass through the state six or fewer times in a year – without picking up or delivering goods – has sufficient connections with the state to justify imposing business activity taxes on that company. Other states assert that having a website on a server in the state creates a sufficient connection to justify imposing these taxes. Additionally, some states believe that registering to do business in a state, or listing a phone number in a local phone book in that state is a sufficient connection to justify taxation."I commend my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee for favorably reporting the Business Activity Tax Simplification Act," said Scott. "Businesses should be responsible for paying taxes to states where they do business; however, BATSA would ensure fairness, minimize costly litigation for both state governments and taxpayers, reduce the likelihood of a business being 'double-taxed' on the same income, and create a legally certain and stable business environment. Most importantly, the bill would ensure that businesses continue to pay business activity taxes to states that provide them with direct benefits and protections.""The Business Activity Tax Simplification Act" will be referred to the full House for further consideration. # # #
07.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) celebrated the 45th anniversary of the implementation of Medicare – the largest source of healthcare coverage in the nation. On July 30, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson signed Medicare into law. However, it wasn't until July 1, 1966 that enrollees were first entered into the program. Since that time, Medicare has provided an important safety net to America's seniors and people with disabilities."The median income for seniors is just over $19,000 a year, which is barely enough to make ends meet," said Rep. Scott. "Medicare provides seniors with healthcare coverage they would not otherwise be able to afford. In fact, before Medicare, one-half of America's seniors were uninsured. Thankfully, the Medicare program has allowed these seniors to get the coverage they deserve, for 45 years and counting."The Affordable Care Act, passed last year, made many important improvements to the Medicare program by taking steps to close the donut hole and providing for free preventive care. The law also extended the solvency of Medicare, which would have gone broke by 2016 without reform. Recently, the Republican-controlled House passed a budget proposal that would dismantle Medicare and replace it with a voucher system that would only cover a fraction of the actual cost of care. The proposal would shift costs to seniors, people with disabilities, and their families, more than doubling beneficiary costs by 2022."We can't afford to go backwards," said Rep. Scott. "Healthcare reform made great strides in improving the Medicare program, and we must continue to go forward to ensure that our children and grandchildren have access to this successful program."Rep. Scott added, "We all know that the U.S. is facing difficult economic times and as a country we have tough decisions to make. The deficit must be addressed. However, it should be done in a way that protects the health and vitality of our citizens. We should not balance the budget on the backs of our nation's seniors and must vulnerable."# # #
06.24.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-3), along with original cosponsors Congressmen Ron Paul (R-TX-14), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI-14), Roscoe G. Bartlett (R-MD-6), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL-23), and Keith Ellison (D-MN-5), introduced the Fair Sentencing Clarification Act of 2011. The purpose of this legislation is to clarify that the amendments made by the Fair Sentencing Act are to be applied to pending cases and retroactively to cases that are no longer pending. The Fair Sentencing Clarification Act was also introduced in the 111th Congress.Last year, Congress passed, and the President signed, the Fair Sentencing Act (FSA), which reduced the 100-to-1 sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine in federal law to 18-to-1. Before the FSA, it took only 5 grams of crack cocaine to trigger a 5-year mandatory minimum sentence, but for powder cocaine it took 500 grams to trigger the same 5-year mandatory minimum sentence. The FSA moved the threshold amount of crack for a 5-year mandatory minimum sentence from 5 grams to 28 grams and makes a similar reduction to an 18-to-1 ratio for the ten-year mandatory minimum.The Fair Sentencing Clarification Act would allow all offenders, regardless of when they were arrested or convicted, to receive the benefit of the changes that Congress made in the FSA."There is absolutely no reason that individuals sentenced under the old crack cocaine laws should not receive the benefit of the FSA," stated Representative Scott. "Congress has acknowledged that the 100-to-1 disparity was fundamentally unfair and had a racially disparate impact. People sentenced under the old law should not be required to serve out sentences imposed as a result of what Congress has now recognized to be an unjust law."Rep. Scott is the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and also sits on the House Education and Workforce Committee.# # #
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-3) introduced the Center to Advance Monitor and Preserve University Security (CAMPUS) Safety Act. The purpose of this legislation is to enable institutions of higher education to easily obtain the best information available on how to keep college campuses safe and how to best respond in the event of a campus emergency. The CAMPUS Safety Act was also introduced in the 110th and 111th Congresses; it passed the House of Representatives overwhelmingly in 2008 and 2009.The CAMPUS Safety Act of 2011 will create a National Center for Campus Public Safety (the "Center"), to be administered through the U.S. Department of Justice's Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. The Center will train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information."Over the past few years, we have seen too many tragedies occur at our colleges and universities, such as the disastrous events that occurred at Virginia Tech and Northern Illinois University," stated Rep. Scott. "Unfortunately, because these events were the first of their kind for the schools, the Administrators were not fully knowledgeable about how best to respond. The recent shooting near Old Dominion University in my congressional district further illustrates the need for Congress to pass this bill."Rep. Scott is the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and also sits on the House Education and Workforce Committee. # # #
06.17.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, June 21, 2011 from 3:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. in 2226 Rayburn House Office Building, Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-3), along with Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (MI-14), Jerrold Nadler (NY-8), Barney Frank (MA-4), and Melvin L. Watt (NC-12) will host a press conference in honor of the 70th anniversary of President Roosevelt issuing Executive Order 8802 and calling for President Obama to restore religious liberty protections in employment law.On June 25, 1941, with the U.S. poised to go to war, President Roosevelt signed Executive Order 8802 in response to the efforts of A. Philip Randolph and other civil rights leaders to acquire fair employment practices for Black workers at defense plants. This marked the first time ever that presidential action was taken to prohibit employment discrimination by private employers operating federal contracts and served as the birth of fair employment practices in the United States. Virtually every president expanded upon equal opportunity employment practices, and discrimination was illegal for over 60 years. Then, on December 2, 2002, President George W. Bush signed Executive Order 13279, which effectively rolled back civil rights to exempt religious organizations acting as government contractors and providing government programs with taxpayer money from the prohibition on religious discrimination. On the eve of the 70th anniversary of Executive Order 8802, it is time to correct this injustice.A press conference will be held on Tuesday, June 21st at 3:00 p.m. and will feature Members of Congress, leading civil rights advocates and religious leaders: WHO:Members of CongressHilary Shelton, Director, NAACP Washington BureauRabbi David Saperstein, Director, Religious Action Center of Reform JudaismRev. Dr. Paul L. Brown, Sr., African American Ministers In ActionBarbara Arnwine, Executive Director, Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law WHAT: Press ConferenceAny media with cameras are asked to pre-set at 2:30 p.m. WHEN: Tuesday, June 21, 2011, 3:00 p.m. WHERE: 2226 Rayburn House Office BuildingA briefing entitled "Celebrating 70 Years of a Civil Rights Milestone & A Call to Restore Religious Liberty Protections" will follow the press conference from 3:30 - 5:00 p.m. in the same room. The briefing is open to Members of Congress, staff and the public. # # #
06.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Bobby Scott, teamed with the full Virginia delegation, including Senators Jim Webb, Mark R. Warner, and Representatives Frank Wolf, Jim Moran, Bob Goodlatte, Eric Cantor, Randy Forbes, Rob Wittman, Gerry Connolly, Scott Rigell, Robert Hurt, and Morgan Griffith in applauding the announcement by Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus that the USS Arlington will be commissioned at Naval Station Norfolk, Virginia. The announcement follows a letter sent by the delegation last week to Secretary Mabus over concerns the USS Arlington would be commissioned outside the Commonwealth."We applaud the Navy's responsiveness and decision to commission the USS Arlington in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Commissioning the ship in Virginia is the appropriate way to honor the bravery and sacrifice of the thousands of local police officers, fire fighters, Pentagon employees, emergency first responders and all who lost their lives on September 11, 2001," the delegation stated. "We look forward to the ceremony honoring the commissioning of this world-class vessel."The USS Arlington is the third in a series of San Antonio-class amphibious transport docks named in honor of the heroes and victims of 9/11. The Navy has set an anticipated date for the commissioning ceremony in early 2012. # # #
06.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) marked the 10 year anniversary of President George W. Bush signing the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act into law by issuing the following statement:"Ten years ago today, one of our nation's biggest fiscal disasters was signed into law – the first round of Bush Tax Cuts. I opposed these cuts in 2001 and again last December – when they were extended for an additional two years – by pointing out that our nation simply cannot afford them. Had Congress been more responsible in 2001 and come together to shore up Medicare and Social Security and pay down the national debt, our nation would be in a much better fiscal situation today. Instead, we more than doubled the national debt and squandered a projected $5.6 trillion ten year surplus, which was sufficient to pay off the debt held by the public by 2008. In order to partially pay for their reckless policies, the Republicans are now proposing to repeal Medicare and sabotage Medicaid. If we're going to get serious about reducing our budget deficit, ending these irresponsible tax cuts must be on the table." # # #
06.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives considered H.R. 1954, a bill to increase the statutory debt limit. Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) voted in favor of H.R. 1954 and issued the following statement with regard to his vote:"I support a clean debt ceiling increase because it is the responsible thing to do. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has warned that a failure to raise the debt limit by the time the Treasury Department has exhausted its current options to avoid default would 'at minimum' lead to 'an increase in interest rates, which would actually worsen our deficit and would hurt all borrowers in the economy.' A one percent increase in interest rates would cost the taxpayers approximately $100 billion a year. Increasing the debt limit is simply an acknowledgement of money that has already been spent. The United States Government pays its bills and always has. We should not jeopardize the full faith and credit of the United States."Every budget alternative presented before the House last month required an increase in the statutory debt limit. The Republican Budget as passed by the House proposes to end Medicare as we know it and still requires an additional $1.9 trillion in borrowing authority in Fiscal Year 2012 and $8.8 trillion over the next decade. The Congressional Black Caucus budget, of which I was the primary author, required an additional $1.7 trillion in Fiscal Year 2012 and $7.7 trillion over the next decade. So no matter the plan, we must increase the debt ceiling to avoid economic catastrophe."# # #
05.26.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the House Committee on Education and the Workforce marked up H.R. 1891, the Setting New Priorities in Education Spending Act, a bill introduced by Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) that would eliminate 43 education programs that provide important services to students such as literacy enrichment, curriculum enhancement, and dropout prevention. Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) offered an amendment to restore the dropout prevention services that the legislation proposes to cut. Below is Congressman Scott's prepared statement for the introduction of the amendment:"Mr. Chairman, the United States is currently facing a dropout crisis. Despite this reality, H.R. 1891, the Setting New Priorities in Education Spending Act proposes to cut three essential dropout prevention programs from the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. That is why today I am offering an amendment ¬– along Congressman Hinojosa and Congressman Grijalva – that will restore the dropout prevention services that those programs provide."Each year, approximately 1.23 million high school students fail to graduate with their peers – representing one-third of all high school students nationwide. The statistics are worse for high school students of color. Nearly half of the nation's African-American students and Latino students fail to graduate from high school with their peers."The dropout crisis that the United States is facing can be traced to a small percentage of the nation's high schools. Nearly 2,000 high schools – roughly 12 percent of all high schools in the United States – produce about half of the nation's dropouts. At these high schools, the number of seniors is routinely 60 percent less than the number of freshmen three years earlier. These so called "dropout factories" disproportionately fail high school students of color. Almost half of the nation's African-American students and nearly 40 percent of the nation's Latino students attend these high schools, while only 11 percent of White students do."Sadly, these dismal statistics are just the beginning of the story."The employment prospects for high school dropouts are bleak. Research shows that high school dropouts are much more likely to be unemployed than students who complete high school. Research also shows that high school dropouts who do find employment are much more likely to work at unskilled jobs that offer little opportunity for upward mobility, with their earning potential essentially remaining stagnant throughout their lifetime."Although obtaining a high school diploma is an important first step to becoming a productive member of the American workforce, it is increasingly not enough. According to recent studies, in a few years, two-thirds of all jobs and 90 percent of the fastest growing and best paying jobs will not only require a high school diploma but will also require at least some post secondary education. That means, that the employment prospects for high school dropouts are becoming even bleaker."The dropout crisis that the United States is facing negatively impacts the nation's global competitiveness. In today's global economy, one of the major competitive advantages the United States now enjoys is a relatively well-educated workforce. The United States cannot compete with wages in other countries. In addition, locating a business in the United States does not offer a major competitive advantage either. As a result of technology and overnight shipping services, businesses do not have to be near their customers, and workers do not have to be near their co-workers. Consequently, addressing the dropout crisis now will increase the United States' global competitiveness later."Addressing the dropout crisis now will also decrease future societal costs. Research shows that high school dropouts are more likely to commit crimes and more likely to become a teen parents. Therefore, addressing the dropout crisis now will significantly decrease societal costs such as incarceration, welfare, and public housing later."The amendment that I am offering will restore essential services that help retain students who are at risk of dropping out ¬– services such as strengthening teacher effectiveness, making education more relevant for students, and ensuring that every student has a personal relationship with school personnel."The amendment also restores summer enrichment services. We know that students who have something constructive to do over the summer are less likely to commit crimes and more likely to retain the information they learned during the school year. Most importantly, we know that students who have something constructive to do over the summer are less likely to drop out."There are dropout prevention services that are successful. Those services should be expanded. There are also dropout prevention services that are unsuccessful. Those services should be cut."Mr. Chairman, for these reasons I am offering this amendment to restore the dropout prevention services that the "Setting New Priorities in Education Spending Act" proposes to cut. This amendment specifically restores dropout prevention services that are not duplicative and authorized in other sections of ESEA. Dropout prevention services ensure that the nation's high school students – and the nation itself – succeed."Therefore, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment."# # #
05.18.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – On Monday, May 23, 2011 from 3 to 5 p.m. in 2226 Rayburn House Office Building, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-Virginia) will host a policy briefing inspired by the recent NAACP report, "Misplaced Priorities: Over Incarcerate, Under Educate." The report explains that the over incarceration of non-violent offenders is a counterproductive approach to crime policy that erodes state budgets at the expense of state public education systems. As a result, the over incarceration of non-violent offenders undermines the promise of our youth.The briefing, titled "The High Price of Misplaced Priorities: How Over Incarceration and Under Education Undermine the PROMISE of Our Youth," will feature a five-member panel of leading education, justice, and civil rights advocates: Steven C. Teske, Judge, Juvenile Court of Clayton County (Ga.)Teske will discuss the community-driven process he spearheaded in Clayton County (Ga.) to reform the local juvenile justice system. Hilary O. Shelton, Director and Senior Vice President for Advocacy, NAACP Washington BureauShelton will broadly discuss the findings of the NAACP's recent report "Misplaced Priorities: Over Incarcerate, Under Educate." Matt Cregor, Assistant Counsel of the Education Practice, NAACP Legal Defense FundCregor will discuss the NAACP Legal Defense Fund's efforts through the Dignity in Schools Campaign to dismantle the school-to-prison pipeline by pushing for alternative discipline methods to be used in public schools. Eric Cadora, Director, Justice Mapping CenterCadora will present the Center's "Justice Atlas of Sentencing and Corrections," and interactive mapping tool that shows the concentrated pockets of criminal justice activity in 22 states. Michael D. Shields, Director of the Office of School Safety and Security, Chicago Public SchoolsShields will discuss the Chicago Public School's efforts to reduce violence that occurs within and beyond school grounds."There needs to be a paradigm shift in the way America deals with at-risk youth," said Congressman Scott. "The over incarceration of youth for non-violent, drug- related offenses is counterproductive. Those that are incarcerated will eventually be replaced by newcomers, leaving communities no less vulnerable to crime. I hope this briefing will illustrate how alternative strategies to incarceration, such as educational supports and community-based prevention and intervention programs, can be used to move youth from the cradle-to-prison pipeline to the cradle-to-college or cradle-to-workforce pipeline."For more information, please contact Kamara Jones at (202) 225-8351 or by email at kamara.jones@mail.house.gov. # # #
05.10.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Representative Bobby Scott (D-VA) released the following statement today in reaction to legislation offered by Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) that would gut unemployment benefits for millions of displaced workers. Representatives Lee and Scott have requested that Chairman Camp support their bill, HR 589, to extend aid for unemployed workers who have exhausted their benefits. HR 589 currently has 80 co-sponsors in the House."Instead of acting on our bill to extend aid to unemployed workers who have exhausted their benefits, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Camp wants to gut unemployment benefits and deny millions of jobless workers the means to help make ends meet. As we face an unemployment rate of 9 percent nationwide, an unemployment rate for teenagers three times as high as the national average, and an economy where there are 4.4 unemployed workers for every available job opening, it is simply wrong to propose a bill that would further penalize unemployed workers across the country."# # #
05.09.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) will announce the winners of the Eighteenth Annual Third Congressional District Art Competition at an upcoming award reception in Newport News. Each year, the Third Congressional District Art Competition is open to all High School students in the Third Congressional District of Virginia.An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of young people. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Representative Scott has participated every year he has served in Congress.This year's first place winner will receive a scholarship of $1,500 and will attend a reception in honor of all the winners nationwide in Washington, DC. The first place winning entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the primary tunnel connecting the United States Capitol Building to the Cannon House Office Building for one year, where it will be seen by thousands of people who visit the U.S. Capitol.Representative Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate, a t-shirt and various other prizes.The award reception will be held on:Saturday, May 14, 2011 at 3:30 p.m.Downing Gross Cultural Arts Center2410 Wickham Avenue, Newport News, VA 23607Please RSVP by Thursday, May 12, 2011 by contacting Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
05.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Rob Wittman (VA-1), Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-3), and Andy Harris (MD-1) today announced the launch of the Congressional Chesapeake Bay Watershed Caucus, as they addressed a meeting of the Chesapeake Bay Commission in Washington, D.C. The Caucus will serve as an informal group of members dedicated to restoration of the Chesapeake Bay, including issues related to water quality, conservation, resource management, recreation and economic development, as well as educating other Members of Congress on these issues. The formation of the Caucus serves to continue and enhance the previous work of the Chesapeake Bay Congressional Task Force. "It is important that we come together for the future of the Chesapeake Bay," Wittman said. "One of the most critical resources in this region, the Bay demands our attention and common sense action to preserve it for future generations. Bay states are historically, economically and culturally tied to the waters of the Chesapeake Bay; its restoration is one of my highest priorities. This Caucus brings together multiple partners to chart a path forward in Congress for the Bay." "The Chesapeake Bay is a critical natural resource for the economy, culture, and heritage of its watershed states. The Congressional Chesapeake Bay Watershed Caucus continues the work of the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Task Force – fostering cooperation and collaboration between members of the Bay states and educating people across the country on the vital importance of protecting this national treasure. I look forward to working with Co-Chairs Wittman, Scott, and Harris to advance policies to safeguard the Bay," said Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). "The Chesapeake Bay is one of America's greatest treasures," said Rep. Bobby Scott. "Since my days in the Virginia House of Delegates, I have been committed to the restoration and conservation of the Bay. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Caucus in ensuring that the Bay has the necessary resources and support from Congress so that the next generation of Americans will be able to enjoy this precious natural resource." "The Chesapeake Bay and it's precious waterways are the signature of our great state," said Rep. Andy Harris (MD-01). "I am proud to co-chair the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Caucus and look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on finding common sense solutions to protect our Bay." # # #
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement regarding the death of Osama Bin Laden:"I am proud of our intelligence community and our men and women in uniform who have put an end to Osama Bin Laden's reign of terror. I am especially proud that many of those involved in this operation are Navy SEALS based out of Hampton Roads. I also commend the President and his Administration for making this a top priority."It is my hope that this victory will provide some comfort to the families of those victims of his decades of terrorist acts all over the world, especially the victims of the embassy bombings of the late 1990s, the attack on the Norfolk-based USS Cole in 2000, and the 9/11 attacks in 2001. We also need to honor and remember the thousands of men and women who have given their lives over the last decade fighting terrorism and their families."The threat of terrorism against our nation and our allies obviously continues despite last night's victory but today we all should commend the heroic actions of these brave Americans."# # #
04.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of Larry Dillard, Communications Director and lifelong friend:"It is with profound sadness that I announce the passing of Laurence ("Larry") Dillard, my longtime Communications Director, trusted advisor and childhood friend, who died tonight at Sentara CarePlex Hospital in Hampton, Virginia."There are no words to describe the profound loss and sorrow that pervades all those who had the good fortune to know Larry. He will be remembered as a tireless worker, devoted friend and mentor to many. Larry was a passionate history buff, avid Yankees fan, fountain of knowledge, skillful diplomat and the consummate spokesperson. He will be thought about often and sorely missed."My deepest sympathy and prayers are with his family at this difficult time."***Larry was on a historical tour of Fort Monroe in Hampton, Virginia Tuesday morning with Congressman Scott and Senator Mark Warner when he suddenly fell ill and was taken to a nearby hospital.# # #
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) offered its substitute budget amendment to the Republican Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2012. CBC Chairman Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) and Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), Chair of the CBC's Budget Taskforce, offered the substitute amendment on behalf of the Caucus. Below is Congressman Scott's statement, as delivered on the House floor, in support of the CBC Budget:"Madam Chair, the Congressional Black Caucus has a long history of submitting fiscally responsible budget alternatives regardless of who may be sitting in the White House or which party holds the majority in Congress. This year's budget alternative continues this long tradition by putting forth a plan that significantly reduces our deficit over the next decade while increasing economic opportunities and promoting job creation in every corner of our society."Unlike the Republican budget, the CBC budget brings the deficit to 1.4 percent of GDP by 2015, better than so-called primary balance, which was the goal of the President's fiscal commission, and it achieves primary balance even earlier than the commission itself. While I commend the Republican chairman of the Budget Committee for proposing a budget that reduces our long-term debt, he only achieves this by shifting medical costs to lower-income Americans and seniors."The CBC budget is much more responsible. Our budget makes tough choices, but unlike the Republican budget, it doesn't jeopardize Social Security, undermine Medicaid by turning it into a block grant, or shift Medicare costs to seniors by creating a voucher program that doesn't keep pace with medical inflation. Our budget protects these vital programs, and compared to the Republican budget, it has $1.3 trillion more in deficit reduction over the next decade."The CBC budget proposes responsible revenue increases by closing corporate loopholes and preferences, deterring aggressive stock speculation – which helped contribute to the 2008 financial crisis – and ensuring that the wealthiest Americans who benefited most from the tax cuts and bailouts in the last decade pay their fair share."Now, with the additional revenues and assuming some of the cuts proposed in the President's budget, the CBC budget uses 80 percent of the additional revenue for deficit reduction, and then invests the rest to: protect from making the cuts in our safety net programs, like WIC or Community Health Centers; avoid cuts in investments in our future like Head Start, Pell Grants, high-speed rail and NASA; reduce cuts in critical functions like clean water, FBI agents and food inspections; and has more for national defense, homeland security and our veterans. Our budget also fully funds an additional 14 weeks of emergency unemployment benefits for those who have exhausted their benefits, often referred to as the 99ers."Now, Madam Chair, the CBC budget protects our social safety net. It invests in our future. It maintains essential services in national security. It does all of this and has more deficit reduction than the underlying Republican budget. So we have a choice. We can have lower deficits and a better future, or we can have tax cuts for multi-millionaires and oil companies."I urge my colleagues to make the right choice and support the Cleaver amendment."# # #
04.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) continued the fight to pass HR 589, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Expansion Act. Reps. Scott and Lee met today with Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA), and discussed the possibility of bringing HR 589 to the House floor for a vote.The Act extends emergency benefits to long-term unemployed workers by providing 14 weeks of emergency unemployment benefits to people who, while actively searching for employment, have exhausted all their benefits yet are still unemployed. Introduced in early February, HR 589 has not been considered by the Ways and Means Committee, the Committee with sole jurisdiction over the bill. The House Leadership has also not exercised its power to bring the bill directly to the floor of the House. Reps. Scott and Lee recently wrote a letter to the House Republican leadership on the issue, and that letter led to today's meeting."In the past, Congress has designated unemployment insurance as emergency spending and has extended the program when the national unemployment rate is higher than 7.2%," said Rep. Scott. "Now we are at 8.8% nationally and for every new job opening there are almost 5 people who are unemployed. For the millions that are left behind, this assistance is desperately needed. Furthermore, last December we passed a tax package with about $42 billion in tax cuts for multimillionaires without requiring an offset. Now we are paying for this choice, and we are not prioritizing the assistance that families need. This is the message that we conveyed to Speaker Boehner and Leader Cantor.""We had a productive meeting with the Speaker and the Majority Leader to discuss this critical issue of providing aid for long-term unemployed workers," said Representative Barbara Lee. "With almost 5 unemployed workers for every available job, it would be unacceptable to allow millions of displaced workers who have exhausted their benefits to have no safety net to help make ends meet. Speaker Boehner encouraged us to work with the House Ways and Means Committee to move this bill forward, and while we will certainly do so, we maintain that these long term unemployed workers deserve a floor vote now. Frankly, where there is a will there is a way, and we hope that the Republican leadership will show some serious will to move this vital effort forward. ###
04.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on his No vote on H.R. 1473, the Continuing Resolution for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2011:"I voted No on the Continuing Resolution to fund the federal government for the remainder of FY 2011 because cuts to the social safety net, investments in our future, national security and other necessary functions of government will not balance our budget," said Rep. Bobby Scott. "Had we not passed tax cuts for multi-millionaires last December, we wouldn't need to try to balance our budget on the backs of the most vulnerable today."###
04.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) introduced the "Every Student Counts Act," legislation that would reduce the high school dropout rate and prioritize high school graduation for all of America's students. Rep. Scott first introduced the bill in the 110th Congress and his hope is that it will be included in congressional efforts to reform education.Attaining a high school diploma is a student's first step toward becoming an educated member of the American workforce. According to the 2008 Department of Labor report entitled "America's Dynamic Workforce," by 2016 almost 90 percent of the fastest growing and best paying jobs in the United States will require at least some postsecondary education. And yet, approximately one in three students who enter ninth grade each year fails to graduate from high school four years later. For students of color the statistics are even worse. Almost half of Black and Latino students who enter the ninth grade fail to graduate from high school four years later.In addition, nearly 2,000 high schools – roughly 12 percent of all secondary schools in the United States – produce about half of the nation's dropouts. In general, the number of seniors in these so called "dropout factories" is routinely 60 percent or less than the number of freshmen three years earlier. Additionally, these schools produce almost three-fourths of black dropouts and two-thirds of Hispanic dropouts nationwide."The current high school accountability system is failing our students and undermining our future as a globally competitive nation. The major advantage America has in the global economy is an educated workforce. We can't allow – or afford – any of our nation's high students to dropout and not reach their full potential," Rep. Scott said.The Every Student Counts Act will prioritize graduation for all of our nation's high school students by:• Creating a consistent and accurate calculation of graduation rates across all fifty states to ensure comparability and transparency;• Focusing school improvement activities on all students and closing achievement gaps by requiring that graduation rate calculations be disaggregated by race, ethnicity, gender, disability status, migrant status, English proficiency, and status as economically disadvantaged for both accountability and reporting purposes;• Ensuring that graduation rates are a significant factor in determining AYP in addition to test scores;• Implementing aggressive, attainable, and uniform annual growth requirements as part of AYP to ensure consistent increases in graduation rates for all students;• Giving credit to schools, districts and states for eventually graduating students who take longer than four years to graduate while maintaining the primacy of graduating the great preponderance of all students in four years;• Providing incentives for schools, districts and states to create programs to serve students who have already dropped out of school or are over-age or under credited; and• Providing technical assistance to schools, districts and states in their efforts to collect and streamline graduation data.Ultimately, the Act will ensure consistent increases in graduation rates for all of the nation's high school students by meeting annual, research-based benchmarks with the long-term goal of reaching a national graduate rate of 90 percent. The Every Student Counts Act builds on the National Governors Association's Graduation Rate Compact that was signed by all 50 of the nation's governors in 2005."In order to keep our economy strong we must invest in the education of all of our children. If we cut the high school dropout rate in half, new graduates can contribute billions of dollars to our gross national product and at the same time create tens of thousands of jobs. Education and a prosperous economy go hand-in-hand," said Congressman Rubén Hinojosa, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Training."With this bill, I hope that we can make great strides toward graduating more of America's students and preparing them to succeed in college, the workforce, the military, and ultimately in life," Rep. Scott concluded.The bill is also supported by 26 national and state education, civil rights, and advocacy organizations, including the Alliance for Excellent Education, America's Promise Alliance, American Association of University Women, American School Counselor Association, Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, Council of Administrators of Special Education, First Focus, Knowledge Alliance, Learning Disabilities Association of America, League of United Latin American Citizens, National Association of School Psychologists, National Association of Secondary School Principals, National Association of State Directors of Career Technical Education Consortium, National Association for the Education of Homeless Children and Youth, National Collaboration for Youth, National Council of La Raza, National Council for Learning Disabilities, National Indian Education Association, National PTA, Project GRAD, Public Education Network, School Social Work Association of America, Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC), Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages, United Way Worldwide, and Youth Service America.The list is expected to grow.###
04.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) has announced the beginning of the Eighteenth Annual Third Congressional District High School Art Competition for 2011. The Third Congressional District Art Competition of Virginia is open to all High School students (grades 9-12) residing in the Third Congressional District of Virginia.An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Representative Scott has participated every year that he has served in Congress.This year acceptable entries of the contestants may include, but are not limited to: paintings, drawings, and photography. The first place winner will receive a scholarship and travel to DC to attend the Congressional Reception in honor of all the winners nationwide. The first place entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for an entire year, where it will be seen by tens of thousands of people who visit the U.S. Capitol.Representative Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate, a t-shirt, and various other prizes at two upcoming receptions in the Third Congressional District.All entries are due in Congressman Scott's office by Friday, April 15, 2011. The Richmond metropolitan area entries will go to 400 N. Eighth Street, Suite 430, Richmond, Virginia 23219. Entrants living on the Peninsula will take their work to the Scott office at 2600 Washington Avenue, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607. Students living in Norfolk or Portsmouth will take their entries to the Wilder Center on the campus of Norfolk State University – Thursday afternoons only from 3-5 PM, at 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, VA 23504 Room 140.If you have any questions regarding this year's art competition, please contact Representative Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.###
02.09.2011	About half of 3,900 JFCOM jobs in Southeast Virginia to be preservedRICHMOND, VA & WASHINGTON, DC – Governor Bob McDonnell, Virginia’s two U.S. Senators and four members of southeastern Virginia’s delegation to the U.S. House of Representatives issued the following statements today after the U.S. Department of Defense released final plans to disestablish Joint Forces Command (JFCOM) and restructure and realign many of its critical functions.Last August, U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates proposed the complete elimination of JFCOM as part of a broad plan to reduce defense spending and promote greater Pentagon efficiency. JFCOM employs about 5,800 military and civilian workers and private contractors, and about 3,900 of these employees work at facilities in Norfolk and Suffolk. Today’s announcement preserves about half of those 3,900 jobs, with the transformation expected to take about one year to complete.Over the past six months, Virginia’s congressional delegation, Governor McDonnell, and other state and local elected officials worked closely and met with the Department of Defense and Joint Forces Command to ensure the command’s closure would not degrade the military’s joint training, operations, and war-fighting capabilities. Additionally, Governor McDonnell and members of the delegation met in November with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and Admiral Mike Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. A comprehensive business case was developed in an attempt to preserve JFCOM’s core military functions determined to be critical for satisfying enduring operational and national security requirements.As a result of this bipartisan effort, the Pentagon’s final plan released today retains several of JFCOM’s unique functions and missions that were developed over many years to improve the way each branch of the armed forces operate and fight together as part of a joint force. The Defense Department’s reorganization plan preserves and refocuses the cutting-edge modeling and simulation expertise that has developed around JFCOM’s campus in Suffolk.In addition, state officials announced today that Virginia has been awarded a $500,000 grant from the Defense Department’s Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA), which is the Pentagon’s primary source for assisting communities that are adversely impacted by base closures, realignments, and contract or program cancellations. These funds will be used to establish a Workforce Transition Center in Suffolk, providing a “one-stop-shop” to allow displaced JFCOM workers to access a broad range of resources and assistance available from local, state, federal and nonprofit organizations.Statements from the Governor and members of the Virginia congressional delegation can be found below.Governor Bob McDonnell: “In August, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates announced his unilateral decision to close the Joint Forces Command. Since that time, we have worked in concert with our congressional delegation and a team of volunteer retired senior officers to retain as many positions, and command functions, in Hampton Roads as was possible. This effort has been marked by bipartisan cooperation in the pursuit of the best possible outcome for both our national security interests and the citizens of the Commonwealth. Today’s announcement demonstrates that our work has produced some positive results in the face of steep odds. While Joint Forces Command will still close, we were successful in retaining 50% of the Command’s positions in the region. Further, the new “Joint Staff South” will be led by a two-star Admiral, and we are making every effort to ensure that a significant amount of the currently occupied office space will either be retained by the Command, or occupied by other National Security and Defense organizations.“We remain disappointed in the final decision to close the Joint Forces Command. That decision will cost a number of Virginians their jobs, and we are committed to utilizing every resource and taking every possible step to help these individuals and their families in this trying time. The impact of the closing will be felt throughout the regional and state economy, and our cooperation across party and governmental lines must continue in order to help our citizens navigate the difficulties ahead. However, I do believe the worst case scenario has been avoided. Many jobs have been retained. I thank all the local, state and federal officials along with our volunteer team of experts who have worked with us in this effort, and look forward to our future work to ensure that Virginia’s historic partnership with the United States military remains strongly in place.”U.S. Sen. Jim Webb (D-VA): “I support, as a general principle, Secretary Gates' efforts to achieve efficiencies and cost savings in the Department of Defense. Following intense, bipartisan efforts, my concerns about the lack of consultation and cooperation in responding to legitimate requests for information and analytical data have largely been met. JFCOM’s most important functions have been preserved to sustain our military’s joint warfighting capabilities and many highly-skilled employees will continue to perform their critical duties.” U.S. Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA): “As our nation grapples with its unsustainable deficits and debt, the Hampton Roads region and the Commonwealth as a whole inevitably will be confronted with additional efforts to reduce military and federal spending. I believe this effort helped us design a workable model going forward. Our elected leadership worked as a strong, bipartisan team, partnering with local officials and reaching-out to key retired military officials in Hampton Roads to push-back with facts and logic. I am extremely pleased that the Pentagon ultimately agreed with our strong business and national security arguments that JFCOM’s modeling and simulation investments and infrastructure provided a capability that simply doesn’t exist anywhere else in the U.S. military today.“While the coming months could be difficult for many families, it is important to point out that this collaborative, bipartisan effort saved more than half of the JFCOM-related jobs that were targeted for elimination just six months ago. We will continue to work in partnership with state, regional and local officials, and other community and non-profit organizations, to help affected workers access needed services and training as they make the transition to other opportunities and jobs.”Rep. Rob Wittman (R-1): “Going forward, it will be important for the Department of Defense to show a roadmap and a plan of what functions are moving, what people are moving, and how that will be implemented to ensure core capabilities of JFCOM are not simply cast aside. It is critical we don’t lose the knowledge and expertise of these men and women. Furthermore, the DoD has to date failed to provide the strategic analysis leading up to this decision to close JFCOM, and I remain disappointed that DoD has yet to be forthright with this evidence to provide critical insight as to why the decision was made. As the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, I will continue to press DoD for answers and hold them accountable for their decisions.” Rep. Scott Rigell (R-2): “The lack of transparency throughout this entire process is troubling. While I appreciate and fully support cutting waste and inefficiencies in every area of government, the Pentagon thus far has failed to provide the detailed analysis and supporting documents that support the dismantling of JFCOM, making it impossible to determine if its dismantling is justified. I therefore continue to question the wisdom of a move of this magnitude because of these unknowns, including its impact on the essential mission that the command provides to our troops serving in harm’s way.” Rep. Bobby Scott (D-3): “While it is disappointing that Joint Forces Command will be disestablished, I am pleased that the Defense Department recognized the importance of JFCOM’s modeling and simulation functions and the need for most of that mission to remain in Hampton Roads.”Rep. Randy Forbes (R-4): “This is a sad day for Hampton Roads and for our national defense. While Virginians will see the economic impact immediately, the strategic harm caused by the abandonment of military jointness will be a weakening agent to our military capabilities for decades. I will continue to work with our delegation to lessen the impact of these actions. I also join, however, with 37 Members of Congress from 22 different states, including 32 Members of the Armed Services Committee, who have registered their strong concern over the closure of JFCOM as well as the secrecy, speed, and stonewalling that has come to characterize Pentagon’s standard operating procedure. As Chairman of the Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee, I intend to continue closely scrutinizing and shedding light on what I believe to be a dismantling not just of one of our nation’s 10 combatant commands but a critical cornerstone of U.S. military strength.”###
02.09.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on Senator Jim Webb’s decision to not seek another term in the United States Senate:“Jim Webb has been a close friend and colleague during his tenure in the United States Senate. I had the privilege of working with him on his greatest legislative achievement, the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill, as well as efforts to bring more attention to the issue of over incarceration in our nation. While I respect his decision to retire, Virginia is losing a very skilled and disciplined legislator in the United States Senate.”# # #
02.09.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of Virginia Supreme Court Justice Leroy Hassell:“It was with great sadness that I learned of Virginia Supreme Court Justice Leroy Hassell’s passing. I was a member of the Virginia Senate when he was appointed to the Virginia Supreme Court by then-Governor Gerald Baliles and had the privilege of supporting his election by the General Assembly in 1990. A Norfolk native who went on to attend Harvard Law, Justice Hassell became Virginia’s first Black chief justice in 2003. With this loss, there will be a significant void to fill on the Virginia Supreme Court. My thoughts and prayers go out to the Hassell family and his colleagues on the Court.”###
02.09.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) and Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-09) introduced legislation in the 112th Congress to expand unemployment compensation for those hardworking Americans who lost their jobs during the historic economic recession and have exhausted their unemployment compensation benefits. The legislation – Emergency Unemployment Compensation Expansion Act – will add 14 additional weeks of unemployment compensation to Tier 1, making it available to all unemployed persons regardless of the unemployment conditions in their state.Congressman Scott and Congresswoman Lee introduced a similar version of the legislation at the end of the 111th Congress, but it did not reach the House floor for a vote. Congressman Scott and Congresswoman Lee are re-introducing the legislation in hopes that it will receive the bi-partisan support necessary to help those unemployed Americans most in need.Here is some important information about the legislation:Provides 14 additional weeks of emergency unemployment compensation to Tier I.Adding these 14 extra weeks to Tier 1 makes them available for all those who are chronically unemployed, and not just those who are currently collecting unemployment benefits from a “high unemployment state.”The additional benefit will be available for all unemployed persons who have exhausted their benefits as well as those who will be unemployed this year.This unemployment compensation expansion is similar to the expansion that was passed and signed into law in November 2009 which provided an additional week of benefits to Tier II.“The Great Recession has been devastating for so many American families,” Rep. Scott said. “Not only will this legislation help these hardworking Americans make ends meet, it will stimulate the economy. According to the Center for American Progress’s recent report on the impact of the recession, economists estimate that the U.S. economy grows by $1.61 for every dollar the government spends on unemployment compensation because unemployed persons usually spend all of their benefit payments quickly. Put simply, unemployment compensation is one of the most efficient and effective ways to stimulate the economy.”“Millions of workers across the nation, many of whom live in my district, are experiencing a true state of emergency, said Representative Barbara Lee. “Our bill would ensure these long-term unemployed workers get the long overdue assistance they need to support their families, make ends meet and contribute to our economy. The Republican leadership has given a lot of lip service to creating jobs for our working class, but they have yet to even produce a plan. Now they have a chance to support emergency relief to millions of working class people who can contribute to our economy as they fight to support their families. I call on Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor to bring this to a vote on the House floor as soon as possible”###
02.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Barbara Lee and Congressman Bobby Scott will join Gregg Rosen of the American 99ers Union and Dr. Heidi Shierholz of the Economic Policy Institute (EPI) to introduce The Emergency Unemployment Compensation Expansion Act, legislation to extend emergency benefits to long-term unemployed workers. Many of these long-term unemployed workers, known as 99ers, have exhausted their benefits and need this assistance to support their families, make ends meet and contribute to our economy. The bill would provide 14 weeks of emergency unemployment benefits to people who have exhausted all their benefits and are still unemployed. WHO: Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-09)Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03)Gregg Rosen, Co-Founder, American 99ers UnionDr. Heidi Shierholz, Economist, Economic Policy InstituteWHAT: Press ConferenceWHEN: Wednesday, February 9, 2011, 9:45 a.m.Any media with cameras are asked to pre-set at 9:15 a.m.WHERE: Capitol Visitors Center, HVC Room 200# # #
01.08.2011	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - Congressman Bobby Scott released the following statement in response to the shooting attack on Arizona Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords."My heart and prayers go out to the Giffords family and to the families of her staff and other victims of this horrendous and senseless act. She is a tireless advocate for her constituents – as the event she was conducting today indicates."# # #
12.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, the Senate passed H.R. 6412, the “Access to Criminal History Records for State Sentencing Commissions Act of 2010,” by unanimous consent, readying the bill to be signed into law by the President. This bill, introduced by Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, was passed by the House of Representatives on December 9, 2010 and will make an important change to the law to allow state sentencing commissions direct access to the national database of criminal history record information maintained by the U.S. Department of Justice. State commissions will receive the same type of access to this information already afforded to the United States Sentencing Commission.Sentencing commissions need the criminal history records maintained at the national level, which includes records of federal offenses and offenses committed in other states. If a state commission has access only to the records of offenses committed in its own state, it lacks the information about offenders it needs to make important policy recommendations and to evaluate the recidivism of offenders who may commit crimes out of state. Providing state sentencing commissions with direct access to national criminal record systems will improve the administration of justice by:Enhancing the effectiveness of sentencing decisions and program placements for individual offenders, based on complete and accurate criminal history information; and Improving evaluation research on sentencing outcomes and program effectiveness, based on large numbers of offenders, in order to better inform policy makers. After Senate passage of H.R. 6412, Congressman Scott stated, “This bill will allow state sentencing commissions access to information they need to develop more accurate and effective sentencing policies. I applaud the cooperation of colleagues on both sides of the aisle which made quick enactment of this important legislation possible.”Richard Kern, Ph.D., Director of the Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission stated, “Congressman Scott’s leadership in the passage of H.R. 6412 is greatly applauded by the many sentencing commissions across the nation. In Virginia, the research work of our sentencing commission has been severely constricted due to a lack of legal access to out-of-state criminal history information. Virginia is bordered by five states and the District of Columbia and, as such, this increases the likelihood that offenders may have criminal records outside of Virginia. Consequently, Virginia judges, legislators, and other policy makers may make major decisions based on inaccurate/incomplete information on the convicted felon population. This groundbreaking legislation championed by Congressman Scott will make the important work of all sentencing commissions more accurate and, in turn, make all of our citizens safer.”# # #
12.17.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Barbara Lee, Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott introduced legislation to provide an expansion of unemployment benefits that will assist those Americans who have exhausted their benefits. This benefit will be available to all unemployed persons, regardless of the unemployment conditions in their state.“The economic downturn has been devastating for all of us – however, it has been particularly devastating for those who for the past two years have been out of work known as the 99’ers,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. “While the tax plan that was signed by the President today will provided additional unemployment benefits for many Americans, the 99’ers were left out of that bill. That is why it is important that we put in place a safety net for those still looking for work. We cannot and will not allow our fellow Americans to fall by the wayside. Congressman Scott and I plan to continue to push for passage of this legislation because it is simply the right thing to do.”“Unfortunately, the Congressional Black Caucus’s alternative which would have provided this needed assistance was not considered on the House floor last night,” said Rep. Scott. “Instead the House passed a package that adds almost $900 billion to the nation’s deficit but does little to help those Americans who are chronically unemployed. This legislation will assist those who have exhausted their benefits by adding an additional 14 weeks of benefits. Not only does this legislation help people who are struggling to find work and make ends meet, it provides direct stimulus to the economy, as these benefits are turned around quickly and injected back in the economy. ”Provisions of the bill include:This section provides 14 additional weeks of emergency unemployment compensation in Tier I.This additional benefit will be available for those who have exhausted all their benefits (99ers and other exhaustees) as well as those who will be unemployed this year.This expansion is similar to the expansion in November 2009 which provided an additional week of benefits to Tier II.Adding these extra weeks in Tier I makes them available for all chronically unemployed and not only those currently collecting unemployment benefits from a “high unemployment state”.# # #
12.17.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement upon Congress passing H.R. 4853, the tax cut compromise reached by the President and Congressional Republicans:“As the 111th Congress winds to a close and families across America are struggling this holiday season, I am deeply disappointed that one of our last acts was to pass an irresponsible bill that, in the long run, will only hurt hardworking Americans and their families.“This bill adds more than $800 billion to the deficit over two-years – more than the cost of TARP and more than the cost of the Stimulus Bill. It costs about the same over two years as the 10-year cost of the Health Care Reform bill, which we paid for.“Next year, when the 112th Congress convenes, one of our first priorities will have to be addressing the national debt. By passing this package, we will essentially have to cut Social Security, let Medicare wither on the vine, cut federal college student aid programs, and gut the Education and Labor Departments in order to pay for this. In fact, we know that’s the plan of the incoming House Republican Majority – all you need to do is look at the so-called Road Map for America’s Future, introduced by the incoming Republican Chairman of the Budget Committee.“The nation’s fiscal crisis did not happen overnight; it is the result of several years of fiscal irresponsibility. In the six years that the Republicans held both Congress and the White House, they enacted $1.3 trillion in tax cuts in 2001 and another $350 billion in 2003 without offsets. They created a trillion dollar prescription drug entitlement program without paying for it. We also shouldn’t forget that they financed two wars overseas with borrowed money.“In 2003, I asked the question: How bad does it have to get before we start doing something about this ever-growing deficit? There is an old adage “If you don’t change direction, you will eventually get to where you are headed.” We are headed towards fiscal disaster.“It is my hope that in 2011, Congress will work to seriously tackle fiscal responsibility without placing more burdens on hardworking Americans and their families. But because of the passage of this tax cut package, that work will be significantly more difficult. Nevertheless, I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to help put our nation back to work and back on track toward a healthy and prosperous future.”Below is a statement Congressman Scott issued seven years ago on the State of the Fiscal Nation:10.01.03 | Unhappy Fiscal New Year:Congressman Scott Speaks Out at the State of the Fiscal NationWASHINGTON, DC – Today, October 1, marks the beginning of a new fiscal year for the federal government. While the marking a new year is usually call for celebration, this one rings in more bad news. On this occasion, Representative Scott released the following statement:“In a few days, we will have the final numbers for the fiscal year that just ended. Though we do not know the exact figures, we do know that the deficits, the shortfall, will be record-breaking and around $400 billion. That sum means that over one-third of the 2003 federal budget outside of Social Security (and the post office) was financed with borrowed money. That kind of borrowing is devastating to our fiscal health, our economy, and our future ability to meet our nation’s needs and obligations, especially Social Security and Medicare,” said Rep. Scott. “Unfortunately, we cannot be heartened with the beginning of a new year. In fact, we enter fiscal year 2004 knowing that we are going to end it with a deficit that is even worse than the 2003 record-setter. We also know there are more proposals on the horizon to extend and expand the policies that got us into this mess in the first place. If they pass, things will be even worse. And there is no relief in sight for our workers who lost their jobs, retirees who lost their retirement, and children who need hands up for their future.”“Throughout 2003, I have been asking, ‘How bad does it have to get before we start doing something about this ever-growing deficit?’ If we do not change direction, we are going to end up where we are headed. We are creating a budget structured around borrowing. Just this week, the prestigious Financial Times has reported that credit rating agencies around the world are beginning to question our good standing because of the deficits we are running. It is time, today, with the start of the new fiscal year, to make tough choices. We need a resolution saying that we have seen that the tax cuts do not work. They are ruining our country. They are killing our jobs. We need to stop this nonsense and get back on the road to fiscal responsibility,” said Rep. Scott.# # #
12.16.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement regarding his opposition to H.R. 4853, the tax cut compromise reached by the President and Congressional Republicans:“While I support the extension of the emergency unemployment benefits, the bill considered by the House tonight will lead to some very difficult decisions when we finally decide to get serious about the budget deficit. However popular these tax cuts may be today, that popularity will pale in comparison to the anger at the deep cuts in popular programs we will need to make in order to pay for this bill.“This bill adds more than $800 billion to the deficit over two-years – more than the cost of TARP and more than the cost of the Recovery Act. It costs about the same over two years as the 10 year cost of the Health Care Reform bill, which we paid for.“We need to make tough, unpopular choices to reduce the deficit – obviously letting tax cuts expire would be unpopular. But when we ever decide to get serious about the deficit, we will find that the realistic alternatives are even more unpopular. We already know how the incoming Republican Majority will address the deficit – all you need to do is look at the so-called Road Map for America’s Future, introduced by the incoming Republican Chairman of the Budget Committee. By starving Social Security and the rest of the Federal Budget of revenue by passing this package, we will essentially have to adopt the Republican plan and cut Social Security, let Medicare wither on the vine, cut federal college student aid programs, and gut the Education and Labor Departments in order to pay for this.“We cannot add more than $800 billion to the deficit through tax cuts and tell the American people with a straight face that they won’t have to sacrifice anything in the future to balance the federal budget. If we didn’t have the political will to end the Bush-era tax cuts tonight, we certainly won’t have the political will to do it two years from now during a presidential election.”# # #
12.15.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives today passed S. 30 – the Truth in Caller ID Act – by voice vote, clearing the way for the President to sign it into law. This bill includes provisions concerning caller ID spoofing based on a bill (H.R. 1110) sponsored by Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, which was passed by the House earlier this year. The just-passed bill establishes criminal penalties for transmitting misleading or inaccurate caller identification information in order to defraud, cause harm, or wrongfully obtain anything of value. This practice is known as caller ID spoofing.“After years of working on legislation to prohibit caller ID spoofing, I am pleased that the House and Senate have finally passed legislation making this practice illegal,” said Congressman Scott. “As technology continues to advance at a rapid pace, Congress must remain diligent to ensure that such advances do not threaten an individual’s ability to protect his or her personal information from fraud.”Over the last few of years, spoofing technology has become readily available, either through the purchase of Internet telephone equipment or through websites specifically set up to spoof. For example, Voice-Over-Internet-Protocol (VOIP) equipment can easily be configured to replace caller ID information with information of the user’s choosing, so that the person on the receiving end of the call will see the false caller ID information.Since caller ID spoofing can make a call appear to come from any phone number, it has the ability to mislead consumers into divulging personal and private information to the spoofer, under the mistaken belief that it is a legitimate call. For example, a spoofer may trick someone into providing bank account information by masking the caller ID information with that of a prominent bank. These types of professional deceptions can damage credit and cause financial ruin for those targeted.Spoofing can also invade the privacy of those individuals whose caller ID is misused by others to mask fraudulent calls. For instance, one of the witnesses at the hearing on a similar bill in the 109th Congress was Phil Kiko, the House Judiciary Committee's Chief Counsel at the time, who had been a victim of such caller ID spoofing. A spoofer made harassing late night phone calls using Mr. Kiko’s caller ID information, making it appear that Mr. Kiko was making the harassing phone calls. While he had not suffered a theft of any money or tangible property, and was not directly harassed by the person who used his caller ID, Mr. Kiko and his family members were understandably irritated by numerous calls from people who were calling him as a result of his caller ID information appearing on their caller ID systems.The Truth in Caller ID Act makes these practices a crime.# # #
12.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement following the ruling of Judge Henry E. Hudson of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia regarding the individual coverage requirement in the Affordable Care Act:“I disagree with the ruling issued today in Virginia that finds part of the Affordable Care Act to be unconstitutional. Opponents of reform have filed more than 20 legal challenges, the majority of which have already been summarily dismissed. Additionally, two federal courts have issued thoughtful rulings finding that the Affordable Care Act is indeed constitutional. There will undoubtedly be more challenges to reform. However, I am confident that health insurance reform will continue on its course and that its constitutionality will be upheld in subsequent courts so that Americans will continue to reap the benefits of reform.”# # #
12.10.2010	Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) are overwhelmingly opposed to the President’s compromise with Republicans on extending all of the Bush-era tax cuts for two years. While we are an ideologically diverse Caucus, the CBC has reached a consensus that we cannot support extending the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans; we can support moving forward on the following: A 13-month extension of Emergency Unemployment Insurance Benefits plus additional assistance for the chronically unemployed – those Americans who have been unable to find work for more than 99 weeks.A payroll tax holiday or equivalent payment, such as a tax rebate check, with guarantees that Social Security will not be deprived of revenue.Targeted tax relief through a 2-year extension of the Bush-era tax cuts for hardworking middle- and low-income families and extending the enhanced provisions included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit, and the American Opportunity Tax Credit.The CBC proposal will cost less than half of the President’s proposed trillion dollar compromise, and create virtually the same number of jobs. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus are keenly aware of the day-to-day struggles of hardworking American families and the unemployed. In the long-run, we believe permanently extending the Bush-era tax cuts will add trillions of dollars to our national debt thus jeopardizing the fiscal solvency of the United States Government. This nation has difficult decisions to make in the years ahead and the CBC believes that vital programs, such as public education funding, financial aid for students to go to college, child nutrition programs, Veterans benefits, Social Security and Medicare, will all be put at risk if we permanently extend all of the Bush-era tax cuts. We believe the benefits of these vital programs to all Americans, especially to middle- and low-income Americans, far outweigh any tax cut. It will take strong political will to make the tough choices necessary to bring our fiscal house in order. One such choice the Caucus made was to consider and reject support for the proposed reduction in the estate tax, which has a two year price tag of $60 billion and only benefits the wealthiest 2% of American families. Rejecting that choice is particularly timely in light of the recent defeat of a $250 payment to struggling Social Security recipients who are going another year without a Cost-of-Living-Adjustment. As we move ahead on ways to accelerate our economic recovery and balance our budget, the CBC stands ready to assist the President in a meaningful and responsible way.
12.07.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott sent the following letter to House Democratic Leadership regarding extending the Bush-era Tax Cuts:December 7, 2010 The Honorable Nancy PelosiSpeakerH-232 The CapitolWashington, DC 20515The Honorable Steny HoyerMajority LeaderH-107 The CapitolWashington, DC 20515The Honorable James ClyburnMajority WhipH-329 The CapitolWashington, DC 20515Dear Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer and Majority Whip Clyburn:Although I appreciate the sentiments of Congressman Peter Welch’s letter regarding not compromising on the tax cuts for the top 2%, I did not sign on to his letter because I am opposed to any extension of the Bush-era tax cuts. Any extension of these tax cuts will continue the reckless fiscal course of the previous Administration that is the primary culprit of our current fiscal crisis.I have attached my full statement regarding the Bush-era tax cuts. I hope that you will seriously consider my views as the House prepares to consider the recently announced compromise on a temporary extension of the Bush-era tax cuts.Very truly yours,/S/ ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTTMember of CongressEnclosurePDF Copy of LetterEnclosure | Scott: Ending All Bush-era Tax Cuts Will Bring Budget Near Balance in Four YearsWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, a member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement on the Bush-era tax cuts: “The House Budget Committee, the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, and other reputable organizations have all recently identified the budgetary goal of “primary balance.” The federal budget would be determined to be in primary balance when the revenue collected by the Federal Government would pay for all Federal Government outlays, excluding net interest payments on the national debt. In his Executive Order creating the bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, President Obama tasked the Commission to propose “recommendations designed to balance the budget, excluding interest payments on the debt, by 2015.”[i] Achieving primary balance in four years would allow Congress and the President to focus their efforts on truly addressing the long-term structural imbalances in the federal budget. As the charts below show, using Congressional Budget Office (CBO) data[ii], if we allow all of the Bush-era tax cuts to expire as scheduled, the federal budget would be close to primary balance in 2014.“It is important to use CBO data; using Office of Management and Budget (OMB) data is not as good a standard. OMB factors in the President’s policy proposals that are not yet enacted into law. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office is required by law to factor in only current law into its baseline, not policy assumptions or legislative proposals that may or may not become law, and therefore is a better basis for budgetary policy making.“The fact remains that extending the Bush-era tax cuts will cost the U.S. Treasury about $3.7 trillion in revenue over the next decade. Extending just the popular middle- and lower-income tax cuts will cost $3 trillion. It is hard to imagine that extending all of the tax cuts at a cost of $3.7 trillion is fiscally irresponsible, but extending $3 trillion worth of tax cuts is somehow fiscally sensible.“The co-chairs of the President’s Fiscal Commission just recently released a draft of recommendations to curtail the deficit. Their proposal includes spending cuts so draconian that they are likely to be summarily rejected by Congress. Their plan reduces the deficit by $3.8 trillion[iii] – almost exactly the cost of extending all the Bush-era tax cuts.“Fiscal responsibility in the federal budget requires making tough choices. If you cut one person’s taxes, then you must pay for those tax cuts by either increasing someone else’s taxes or by cutting spending. The proposal of the co-chairs of the President’s Fiscal Commission demonstrates the fiscal reality of extending the Bush-era tax cuts by listing the kinds of cuts that would be needed to pay for the extension.“Unfortunately, the Republican Party never attempts to tackle the tough choices. For the six years that the Republican Party held both chambers in Congress and the White House, they failed time and time again to make these tough choices. They enacted $1.3 trillion in tax cuts in 2001 and another $350 billion in 2003 without offsets. They created a trillion dollar prescription drug entitlement program without paying for it[iv]. We also shouldn’t forget that they financed two wars overseas with borrowed money.“Democrats can and have made these tough choices – most recently with the enactment of Health Care Reform[v], which provides the largest benefit to the middle class since the enactment of Social Security and at the same time is paid for, in fact the CBO projects that it will reduce the deficit by nearly $1.2 trillion over the next two decades[vi]. In 1993, Democrats passed the 1993 Clinton Budget[vii] that led to a record number of jobs created, almost quadrupled the Dow Jones Industrial Average and was on schedule to pay off the entire debt held by the public by 2008[viii]. That budget passed without a single Republican vote in either the House or the Senate.“We need to make tough, unpopular choices – obviously letting tax cuts expire is unpopular. But when we ever get serious about the deficit, we will find that the realistic alternatives are even more unpopular."And while we have to be sensitive to the fact that we are still in an economic recovery, the additional revenue from a return to the Clinton-era tax rates could be directed immediately towards job creation through investments in direct job programs, such as highway and public transit construction jobs, summer jobs programs, and the AmeriCorps program. Such targeted, temporary job creation spending will not only accelerate the recovery, but the influxes in spending in these areas can be ended a lot easier than reductions in individual income tax rates.“If we don’t have the political will to end the Bush-era tax cuts now, we certainly won’t have the political will to do it during a presidential election if this Congress enacts a two-year extension of all the rates. Accordingly, the reasonable choice Congress should make now is to allow the Bush-era tax cuts to expire as scheduled at the end of this year and try to restore fiscal sanity to our nation’s capital.”Chart 1:Chart 2:Note: These charts show the deficit impact, in billions of dollars (chart 1) and as a percentage of GDP (chart 2), compared to Primary Balance (outlays excluding net interest payments on the debt) of the 4 primary options with regards to the Bush-era tax cuts. They are:Bush-Era: Extend all Bush-era 2001-03 tax cutsObama: President Obama’s proposal – extend Bush-era tax cuts for that portion of all taxpayers' income under $200k/ $250kS-PAYGO: Statutory PAYGO’s (“S-PAYGO”) current policy tax exceptions – which accommodate President Obama’s proposals, but with only 2 years of AMT and estate tax reliefTax Cuts Expire: Let all Bush-era tax cuts expire (CBO Baseline Data) [i] Executive Order 13524 -- National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform (Section 4), The White House, 18 February 2010 (https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/executive-order-national-commission-fiscal-responsibility-and-reform).[ii] The Budget and Economic Outlook: An Update, Congressional Budget Office, August 2010 (pg 2) (https://cbo.gov/ftpdocs/117xx/doc11705/08-18-Update.pdf).[iii] National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, Co-Chairs’ Proposal (Slide 11) (https://www.fiscalcommission.gov/sites/fiscalcommission.gov/files/documents/CoChair_Draft.pdf).[iv] Fully implemented 10-year cost (https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/budget/fy2011/assets/33_1.pdf)[v] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (Public Law 111-152).[vi] Cost estimate of H.R. 4872, Reconciliation Act of 2010, Congressional Budget Office, 20 March 2010 (pg 12) (https://cbo.gov/ftpdocs/113xx/doc11379/AmendReconProp.pdf).[vii] Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-66)[viii] The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2002-2011, Congressional Budget Office, January 2001 (pg 2) (https://cbo.gov/ftpdocs/27xx/doc2727/entire-report.pdf). # # #
11.30.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3), voted today in favor of H.R. 4783, a bill to provide $1.15 billion to fund the final settlement of decades of widespread and rampant discrimination by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The bill passed 256 to152.In 1999, a federal judge approved a settlement agreement in a class action lawsuit (Pigford v. Glickman) filed by Black farmers alleging that the USDA discriminated against them in their applications for loans and other assistance. The judge ruled in the settlement that if claimants farmed between 1981 and 1996, and had filed a complaint of discrimination by July 1, 1997 and could prove the claim, they were eligible for monetary compensation.However, thousands of farmers failed to file a complaint by the July, 1997 cutoff date. Claims filed after the cutoff date were denied and received no opportunity to be judged on their merit. Congress authorized a cause of action for the late filing farmers, allowing them to have a “determination on the merits” of their discrimination claims.On February 18 of this year, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack announced that USDA had reached a settlement with the Pigford II claimants, conditional on the appropriation of $1.15 billion.“Had it not been for the insistency and consistency of John H. Boyd, President of the National Black Farmers Association, urging the branches of the U.S. government to right this injustice, none of it may have occurred. This bill voted on today will provide a final settlement for the Black farmers’ lawsuit. This settlement is long overdue.” said Rep. Scott.# # #
11.19.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. Scott (VA-3) made the following statement regarding the US Senate action today to provide $1.15 billion to fund the settlement of claims found to be meritorious in the pending discrimination law suit by Black farmers against the US Department of Agriculture. The settlement covers only those farmers who were left out of the original 1997 Pigford settlement.“I am pleased with the US Senate vote to fund the settlement. The House of Representatives has passed similar legislation three times in recent months, and I expect it to quickly approve the Senate bill upon our return after the Thanksgiving holiday. The opportunity for these farmers to get justice on their claims is long overdue and I am pleased to see the prospects that this matter will finally be resolved.”Representative Scott has led efforts in the House to get justice for these Black farmers on their long standing claims.# # #
11.17.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement on his position on the President’s veto of H.R. 3808, the Interstate Recognition of Notarizations Act of 2010:“I support the President's veto of H.R. 3808, and I will vote to sustain it.“On Monday, November 15th, I was on the House Floor when the House received formal notice of the President’s decision to veto H.R. 3808. At the request of the Majority Leader, I made the customary procedural motion that is regularly made upon receipt of veto messages from a President to schedule the consideration of the veto to a time certain. The question of consideration of the veto has been scheduled for a vote this afternoon. I will vote to sustain the President’s veto, and I fully expect the veto to be sustained by an overwhelming vote.”# # #
11.16.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, a member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement on the Bush-era tax cuts:“The House Budget Committee, the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, and other reputable organizations have all recently identified the budgetary goal of “primary balance.” The federal budget would be determined to be in primary balance when the revenue collected by the Federal Government would pay for all Federal Government outlays, excluding net interest payments on the national debt. In his Executive Order creating the bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, President Obama tasked the Commission to propose “recommendations designed to balance the budget, excluding interest payments on the debt, by 2015.”[i] Achieving primary balance in four years would allow Congress and the President to focus their efforts on truly addressing the long-term structural imbalances in the federal budget. As the charts below show, using Congressional Budget Office (CBO) data[ii], if we allow all of the Bush-era tax cuts to expire as scheduled, the federal budget would be close to primary balance in 2014.“It is important to use CBO data; using Office of Management and Budget (OMB) data is not as good a standard. OMB factors in the President’s policy proposals that are not yet enacted into law. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office is required by law to factor in only current law into its baseline, not policy assumptions or legislative proposals that may or may not become law, and therefore is a better basis for budgetary policy making.“The fact remains that extending the Bush-era tax cuts will cost the U.S. Treasury about $3.7 trillion in revenue over the next decade. Extending just the popular middle- and lower-income tax cuts will cost $3 trillion. It is hard to imagine that extending all of the tax cuts at a cost of $3.7 trillion is fiscally irresponsible, but extending $3 trillion worth of tax cuts is somehow fiscally sensible.“The co-chairs of the President’s Fiscal Commission just recently released a draft of recommendations to curtail the deficit. Their proposal includes spending cuts so draconian that they are likely to be summarily rejected by Congress. Their plan reduces the deficit by $3.8 trillion[iii] – almost exactly the cost of extending all the Bush-era tax cuts.“Fiscal responsibility in the federal budget requires making tough choices. If you cut one person’s taxes, then you must pay for those tax cuts by either increasing someone else’s taxes or by cutting spending. The proposal of the co-chairs of the President’s Fiscal Commission demonstrates the fiscal reality of extending the Bush-era tax cuts by listing the kinds of cuts that would be needed to pay for the extension.“Unfortunately, the Republican Party never attempts to tackle the tough choices. For the six years that the Republican Party held both chambers in Congress and the White House, they failed time and time again to make these tough choices. They enacted $1.3 trillion in tax cuts in 2001 and another $350 billion in 2003 without offsets. They created a trillion dollar prescription drug entitlement program without paying for it[iv]. We also shouldn’t forget that they financed two wars overseas with borrowed money.“Democrats can and have made these tough choices – most recently with the enactment of Health Care Reform[v], which provides the largest benefit to the middle class since the enactment of Social Security and at the same time is paid for, in fact the CBO projects that it will reduce the deficit by nearly $1.2 trillion over the next two decades[vi]. In 1993, Democrats passed the 1993 Clinton Budget[vii] that led to a record number of jobs created, almost quadrupled the Dow Jones Industrial Average and was on schedule to pay off the entire debt held by the public by 2008[viii]. That budget passed without a single Republican vote in either the House or the Senate.“We need to make tough, unpopular choices – obviously letting tax cuts expire is unpopular. But when we ever get serious about the deficit, we will find that the realistic alternatives are even more unpopular."And while we have to be sensitive to the fact that we are still in an economic recovery, the additional revenue from a return to the Clinton-era tax rates could be directed immediately towards job creation through investments in direct job programs, such as highway and public transit construction jobs, summer jobs programs, and the AmeriCorps program. Such targeted, temporary job creation spending will not only accelerate the recovery, but the influxes in spending in these areas can be ended a lot easier than reductions in individual income tax rates.“If we don’t have the political will to end the Bush-era tax cuts now, we certainly won’t have the political will to do it during a presidential election if this Congress enacts a two-year extension of all the rates. Accordingly, the reasonable choice Congress should make now is to allow the Bush-era tax cuts to expire as scheduled at the end of this year and try to restore fiscal sanity to our nation’s capital.” Chart 1:Chart 2:Note: These charts show the deficit impact, in billions of dollars (chart 1) and as a percentage of GDP (chart 2), compared to Primary Balance (outlays excluding net interest payments on the debt) of the 4 primary options with regards to the Bush-era tax cuts. They are:Bush-Era: Extend all Bush-era 2001-03 tax cutsObama: President Obama’s proposal – extend Bush-era tax cuts for that portion of all taxpayers' income under $200k/ $250kS-PAYGO: Statutory PAYGO’s (“S-PAYGO”) current policy tax exceptions – which accommodate President Obama’s proposals, but with only 2 years of AMT and estate tax reliefTax Cuts Expire: Let all Bush-era tax cuts expire (CBO Baseline Data)[i] Executive Order 13524 -- National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform (Section 4), The White House, 18 February 2010 (https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/executive-order-national-commission-fiscal-responsibility-and-reform).[ii] The Budget and Economic Outlook: An Update, Congressional Budget Office, August 2010 (pg 2) (https://cbo.gov/ftpdocs/117xx/doc11705/08-18-Update.pdf).[iii] National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, Co-Chairs’ Proposal (Slide 11) (https://www.fiscalcommission.gov/sites/fiscalcommission.gov/files/documents/CoChair_Draft.pdf).[iv] Fully implemented 10-year cost (https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/budget/fy2011/assets/33_1.pdf)[v] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (Public Law 111-152).[vi] Cost estimate of H.R. 4872, Reconciliation Act of 2010, Congressional Budget Office, 20 March 2010 (pg 12) (https://cbo.gov/ftpdocs/113xx/doc11379/AmendReconProp.pdf).[vii] Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-66)[viii] The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2002-2011, Congressional Budget Office, January 2001 (pg 2) (https://cbo.gov/ftpdocs/27xx/doc2727/entire-report.pdf).# # #
11.13.2010	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Today, Virginia Third Congressional District Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott reacted to the death of Rev. W. Henry Maxwell:“It is with sadness and a great sense of personal loss that I express my deepest condolences to the family and many friends of Rev. W. Henry Maxwell as we mourn his passing. He will be long remembered for his great ministerial, civic and legislative accomplishments and contributions. He will also be remembered for his friendship and love of us all.“Rev. Maxwell was a good friend and mentor to me. Many note that he followed me in the Virginia House and Senate. What many don’t know is that I followed him in becoming involved in community activities and politics. He was President of the Newport News NAACP Branch when I came back to Newport News after finishing law school. I followed him as Branch President in 1975. He ran for Newport News City Council in 1976. Though his bid was not successful, it served as a foundation for my successful bid for the Virginia House of Delegates a year later, with his coaching and assistance. When I was elected to the Virginia Senate in 1982, he was elected to the House of Delegates. We worked together on a number of successful legislative ventures such as Newsome House, the Virginia School at Hampton and Judicial Elections. He was an effective advocate for the poor and downtrodden. He was highly respected in the legislature for his high sense of morality and integrity, and was well liked by his colleagues for his friendly and caring demeanor toward all.“This community was blessed to have the benefit of this great Minister, Civic Leader and Legislator. May God bless his family and loved ones in their time of bereavement.”# # #
10.28.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Owen Picket, who represented the 2nd Congressional District of Virginia from 1987 to 2001:“The citizens of Hampton Roads and the Commonwealth of Virginia have lost a dedicated public servant,” said Rep. Scott. “I served with Owen in both the Virginia House of Delegates and in Congress. He was a true statesman and an effective legislator, who enjoyed great respect and admiration from both sides of the aisle. Even after leaving Congress nearly a decade ago, Owen remained an important voice on issues affecting South Hampton Roads and Virginia. This was exemplified by Owen’s recent appointment as co-chair of Governor McDonnell’s Commission on Military and National Security Facilities, which has been leading state efforts to save Joint Forces Command. His absence will certainly be felt.”# # #
10.26.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) lauded the release of data showing that 3,640 Medicare beneficiaries in the Third District of Virginia have already received $250 ‘donut hole’ checks this year.One of the immediate benefits of the health reform legislation signed into law in March is this assistance to seniors with high drug costs. This year, all seniors who have prescription drug expenses of $2,830 or more – and thereby enter the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ coverage gap – are receiving a one-time tax-free $250 rebate check to assist them with drug costs before a longer-term fix takes effect next year.Furthermore, an additional 2,560 seniors in Virginia’s Third District are expected to enter the donut hole before the end of 2010 and will also be receiving the $250 check. As a result, by the end of the year, a total of 6,200 seniors in the District will have received assistance to help cover the cost of their prescription drugs.“This is just one of the ways that the Affordable Care Act is already helping our seniors,” said Rep. Scott. “I am proud to have voted in favor of this historic reform that provides immediate relief for seniors, will close the prescription drug ‘donut hole’, and extend Medicare’s fiscal solvency by more than a decade. When opponents of reform talk about repealing this law, they are talking about repealing important provisions such as these. That would mean taking away this much needed relief for more than 6,000 seniors in the Third District of Virginia.”The checks are being mailed out every couple of weeks and do not require the completion of any additional paperwork. Nationwide, as of October 21, 2010, more than 1.8 million seniors had received the $250 rebate check. It is estimated that by the end of the year approximately 4 million seniors across the country will have received this assistance.For more information on how health insurance reform will help you and your family, please visit the website.###
10.26.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) once again received a perfect score of 100 percent on the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights’ Voting Record that was recently released. The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights is a coalition of more than 200 national organizations charged by its diverse membership to promote and protect the rights of all persons in the United States. Its Voting Record monitors Members of Congress’ votes on civil rights and human rights issues.For the 111th Congress, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights documented Congressional support for, or opposition to, bills containing important civil rights protections, hate crimes legislation, immigration legislation, economic recovery assistance, support for education, pay discrimination protection, health care reform, housing assistance and predatory lending protection, and other issues. Out of 435 members of the House of Representatives, 182 members received a perfect score of 100 percent. Rep. Scott also received a 100 percent during the 110th Congress.“Our civil rights are a fundamental principle to the American way of life,” said Rep. Scott. “I am committed to protecting and defending these rights for all people. I am proud that the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights’ Voting Record reflects this commitment.”# # #
10.26.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), a non-profit and non-partisan organization that advocates on behalf of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and their families, recently released their legislative scorecard for the 111th Congress listing Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott as a member of IAVA’s “A Team.”“I am honored to be listed on IAVA’s A-Team for my support of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and their families in the 111th Congress,” said Rep. Scott. “It is our solemn obligation as a nation to honor and care for our veterans when they return home from combat. Although we have made significant progress in the 111th Congress, the task of paying back our veterans and their families for their service and sacrifices will always continue to be a top priority.”IAVA cited Congressman Scott’s support for the following IAVA legislative priorities:Opposing Cuts to the Veterans Affairs Budget Preventing Veterans Homelessness (Homes for Heroes Act)Retroactive Stop Loss Payments (provision in the Supplemental Appropriations Act for FY 2009)Advanced Appropriations for V.A. Budget (Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act of 2009)Improving V.A. Care for Female Veterans (Women Veterans Health Care Improvement Act)Funding Veterans Priorities (FY2010 Department of Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act)Assisting Disabled Vets (Disabled Veterans Home Improvement and Structural Alteration Grant Increase Act of 2009)Mandatory in Person Mental Health Screenings (FY2009 Department of Defense Authorization Act)Protections for Deploying Servicemembers (Veterans’ Small Business Assistance and Servicemembers Protection Act of 2009)Improving Homeless Veterans Services (End Veteran Homelessness Act of 2010)Employment Protections for National Guard (National Guard Employment Protection Act of 2009)Supporting Veterans’ Caregivers (Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010)Ending Military Sexual Trauma (Homes for Heroes Act of 2009)Fully Funding the V.A. (FY 2011 Department of Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act)Cosponsorship of Disability Reform Legislation (H.R. 4121, H.R. 5549 and H.R. 5928)Cosponsorship of the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010 (H.R. 5933)Cosponsorship of Veterans Employment Legislation (H.R. 5120 and H.R. 5400) The report card can be accessed online at: https://iavaaction.org/report-card # # #
10.20.2010	CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA – This evening, Representative Bobby Scott (VA-3) will join best-selling author John Grisham and other experts at the Paramount Theatre in Charlottesville for the Legal Aid Justice Center’s event entitled “Dropped Out.” The event will examine the current dropout crisis, describe the perverse incentives that cause it, explain strategies to address it, and discuss ways for concerned community members to get involved.The evening’s events will include keynote address by Rep. Scott and a screening of the film “Pushed”, a student-produced documentary that highlights the effects of this crisis in our nation’s schools as seen through the eyes of students, parents and teachers in a Connecticut school division. The screening will be followed by a panel discussion including Rep. Scott, Dr. Rosa Atkins, Superintendent of Charlottesville schools, Dr. Dewey Cornell, UVA Education Professor, and a representative from the Legal Aid Justice Center.In his remarks, Rep. Scott will address the societal and economic implications of the dropout crisis, including juvenile delinquency and gang involvement. He will also discuss proposed legislative solutions, including the Every Student Counts Act and the Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention, Support and Education, or Youth PROMISE Act, two bills he has introduced in Congress.“When I use the term ‘dropout crisis,’ I don’t do so lightly,” Scott said. “America’s youth are dropping out of school at such an alarming rate that the results are catastrophic not for only dropouts, but also for communities and for the nation as a whole. We must take action to improve the future of these individual children and to preserve the American way of life.”The Legal Aid Justice Center provides legal representation for low-income individuals in Virginia. The Center is committed to providing a full range of services to its clients, including services that federal and state governments choose not to fund. The Center also sponsors the program “Just Children,” which works to improve Virginia’s public education, juvenile justice, and foster care systems. It engages in direct representation of clients, education and outreach, and advocacy efforts to improve the well being of children and youth. “Just Children” is a coalition partner in the Dignity in Schools Campaign, which works to ensure that children are treated with dignity and fairness in schools and to provide concrete alternatives to a culture of removal and punishment.The event begins at 7 p.m. at The Paramount Theater, 215 E. Main Street, Downtown Mall, Charlottesville, VA.# # #
10.14.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Bobby Scott (VA-3) has been named a “Champion for Children” by the First Focus Campaign on Children, a national, bi-partisan child advocacy group. The honor recognizes Rep. Scott as one of the most valuable leaders in the United States Congress for his priority and efforts to improve the well-being of children.Bruce Lesley, President of the First Focus Campaign for Children, explains why Congressman Scott received this honor. “Representative Scott has raised the profile of matters important to children in Congress and has served as a true leader on issues such as children’s health and juvenile justice. Children cannot vote, hold press conferences, or donate to political campaigns to thank the Members of Congress that support them and protect their interests. And because of that, we are presenting this award on behalf of children to recognize our nation's top public officials who take action to make them national priority. We look forward to working with Representative Scott to continue protecting America’s next generation of leaders.”Of the 100 members recognized by First Focus, Rep. Scott was listed in the top fifty awardees called the “Champions for Children” on account of their extraordinary efforts to protect and improve the future of America’s next generation. An additional 50 Members were awarded the “Defenders of Children” and have been recognized for their support of policies that advance the well being of children.“I thank the First Focus Campaign for Children for this honor and for making children a national priority. We must do all we can to protect our country’s most valuable asset, the children and future generations of the United States. Nothing is more important,” said Congressman Scott.In addition, Representative Scott has received numerous other accolades and commendations for his work on behalf of children. They include:May 2010, The American Academy of Children’s and Adolescent Psychiatry, Friend’s of Children’s Mental Health AwardMarch 2009, United States Student Association, Distinguished Education Ally in the House AwardAugust 2009, Reach Out and Read, Recognition of Support for Reading ProgramsDecember 2009, Center for Youth - Southwest Hampton Roads, "Leading By Example" Honoree2008, Virginia Peninsula Boys and Girls Club at its 21st Annual Steak & Burger Dinner, Honored for Continued Support for the Goals of The Boys and Girls ClubMarch 2003, Head Start Association (VaHSA), Recognition for Outstanding and Dedicated Service to Head Start Children, Parents, and Staff 2002, The Council of Chief State School Officers, Award for Representing Students, Parents, and Educators as a Member of the United States House of Representatives February 2002, The National Association of the Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors (NAADAC), 2002 Congressman of the Year AwardJanuary 2002, The Action Starts Here (TASH), Certificate of Recognition of Service to Children and Youth with Disabilities and their FamiliesJanuary 2001, The American Federation of Teachers, Quality Service AwardMarch 2000, The Children's Defense Fund, "Safe Start" Award1999, Child Welfare League of America, Congressional Advocate of the Year Award1998, Council for Exceptional Children 1998, Achievable Dream Academy, Awarded a Degree of Dreamers # # #
09.29.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5932, the “Organized Retail Theft Investigation and Prosecution Act of 2010, by unanimous consent. This bill will direct the Attorney General to establish an Organized Retail Theft Investigation and Prosecution Unit to combat the growing problem of organized retail theft. This is a bipartisan bill, introduced by Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, and cosponsored by Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr. (MI), Committee Ranking Member Lamar Smith (TX), and Committee Vice Ranking Member Bob Goodlatte (VA).These Members have long been committed to finding a way to do more to combat organized retail theft, in which sophisticated, multi-level criminal organizations steal large amounts of high value products, focusing on small and easily resalable items, and then resell the goods through a variety of means. This phenomenon harms retailers and, ultimately, consumers, who pay higher prices because of the losses to retailers and who sometimes undertake health risks by purchasing stolen items such as baby formula, which may not have been stored properly.Congressman Scott stated, “Organized retail theft rings often operate in multiple jurisdictions, making it difficult or impossible for state or local law enforcement agencies to investigate and prosecute them effectively. This bill responds to the need for a better coordinated and more concentrated federal effort to prosecute offenders and help states and localities combat this type of crime.”Chairman Conyers stated, “This bill is an important measure to fight crime that targets our business community. I’m pleased at the broad coalition of supporters calling for its enactment.”Ranking Member Lamar Smith said, “The vast marketplace on the Internet has made it increasingly difficult for law enforcement officials to identify and apprehend organized retail thieves. According to the FBI, organized retail theft costs businesses more than $30 billion in losses annually. By requiring the Attorney General to establish an investigative unit in the Justice Department dedicated to these cases, this bill cracks down on organized retail theft and protects American businesses.”Congressman Goodlatte stated, “Organized Retail Theft is a huge and growing problem in the U.S., costing businesses more than $30 billion in losses annually. Our bipartisan legislation is an important step in combating this widespread problem by creating an Organized Retail Theft unit within the Department of Justice which will ensure coordination among the FBI, ICE, U.S. Secret Service, and Postal Inspectors in all investigations.”H.R. 5932 is supported by a number of businesses and organizations, including the Coalition Against Retail Crime, the Food Marketing Institute, the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the Entertainment Merchants Association, the Retail Industry Leaders Association, the National Retail Federation, and eBay.# # #
09.28.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott announced today that members of his District Office Staff will hold office hours in Charles City, New Kent, Surry and Prince George Counties in October, November, and December.Congressman Scott’s staff will be available to assist constituents at the following locations, dates and times:Charles City CountyTuesday, October 5, 2010 – 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.Tuesday, November 9, 2010 – 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.Tuesday, December 7, 2010 – 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, Virginia 23030 New Kent CountyTuesday, October 5, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Tuesday, November 9, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Tuesday, December 7, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.County Administration Building12007 Courthouse CircleNew Kent, Virginia 23124Surry CountyWednesday, October 6, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Wednesday, November 3, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Wednesday, December 1, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Recreation Center205 Enos Farm DriveSurry, Virginia 23883 Prince George CountyWednesday, October 6, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Wednesday, November 3, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Wednesday, December 1, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.6450 Administrative DrivePrince George, Virginia 23875The Congressman’s primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. In addition, Congressman Scott’s staff also holds office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M. at the L. Douglas Wilder Center at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov.# # #
09.23.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Marking the sixth month anniversary of the signing of the Affordable Care Act, Rep. Scott announced that many important consumer protection features of health insurance reform are in effect as of today. Better known as the Patient’s Bill of Rights, these provisions seek to end insurance company abuses and put consumers and their doctors back in control of their own care.“The Patient’s Bill of Rights will outlaw once and for all the most egregious practices of the insurance industry,” said Rep. Scott. “For example, young adults now have the option to stay on their parents’ insurance until their 26th birthday. And those with private insurance will no longer risk losing their coverage when they get sick. That’s over 4.5 million Virginians alone who are now protected from insurance rescissions. These new provisions are the next step towards a healthier nation and will offer security and peace of mind for millions of families. I am proud to have supported them and happy to hear about all the people in my district that are already starting to benefit from these new policies.”For plan years beginning on or after September 23, 2010, all privately-insured Americans will have the following protections:Health coverage cannot be arbitrarily cancelled if you become sick. Children cannot be denied coverage due to a pre-existing condition.Children up to age 26 can stay on their parents’ health plan. Health insurance companies cannot put a lifetime limit on health coverage. Health plans’ annual limits are phased out over three years. New plans must offer preventive services without deductable or co-payments. Please find out more information on what the Affordable Care Act means for you and your family here.# # #
08.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Virginia Senators Jim Webb and Mark Warner and Congressmen Glenn Nye, Randy Forbes, Rob Wittman, and Bobby Scott today sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates calling into question the strategic and legal basis for his recommendation to eliminate the U.S. Joint Forces Command.“Alone among the U.S. combatant commands, JFCOM is uniquely organized and tasked to develop the joint training, doctrine, and capabilities needed to adjust to the demands of 21st-century combat operations,” the delegation contended. “Unlike the Defense Business Board’s [DBB] cursory review, several in-depth studies each assessed joint force effectiveness and requirements to improve combat capability, and all reached a different conclusion than the DBB. None of these comprehensive reviews recommended the elimination or realignment of JFCOM. On the contrary, they recommended placing increased emphasis on joint warfighting.”Citing the guidance of legal counsel, the delegation challenged the legality of Secretary Gates’ “apparent strategy to eliminate the command without complying with the provisions of Title 10 U.S. Code, Section 2687 or, alternatively, to propose the command’s elimination be considered as part of a Base Closure and Realignment (BRAC) process.” In the delegation’s view, eliminating the command would result in a number of substantial adverse consequences, including “…the future erosion of our military’s joint warfighting capabilities, the dismissal of thousands of highly skilled civilian federal employees and defense contractors, and a significant adverse economic impact in the Hampton Roads region.”The delegation called for Sec. Gates to conduct a more complete review of JFCOM’s mission and activities. “Any recommendation to close JFCOM should only be made as part of a BRAC or 10 USC 2687 process,” the Senate and House members said.The full text of the letter is below:Dear Secretary Gates,We write to express our deep disappointment and concern over your recommendation to President Obama to eliminate the U.S. Joint Forces Command. Should he approve your proposal, a number of substantial negative consequences will result, including the future erosion of our military’s joint warfighting capabilities, the dismissal of thousands of highly skilled civilian federal employees and defense contractors, and a significant adverse economic impact in the Hampton Roads region. Furthermore, we are deeply troubled by your lack of prior consultation with Congress on this matter and your apparent strategy to eliminate the command without complying with the provisions of Title 10 U.S. Code, Section 2687 or, alternatively, to propose the command’s elimination be considered as part of a Base Closure and Realignment (BRAC) process.Congress has played a leading oversight role to improve our military’s joint warfare capabilities dating to passage of the Goldwater-Nichols Department of Defense Reorganization Act of 1986. Congress was moved to act due to significant shortcomings in joint operations, training, doctrine, and communications revealed during U.S. military operations in the 1980s. Guided by the recommendations of the Packard Commission and a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Goldwater-Nichols bill resulted in the most significant reorganization of DoD since the National Security Act of 1947.JFCOM’s mission embodies all that Senator Goldwater, Congressman Nichols, and their colleagues envisioned nearly 25 years ago when they led the way to ensure that all branches of our armed forces would be able to fight as an integrated joint team when they go to war. Alone among the U.S. combatant commands, JFCOM is uniquely organized and tasked to develop the joint training, doctrine, and capabilities needed to adjust to the demands of 21st-century combat operations. The command also plays a key role in balancing joint warfighting programmatic requirements with the individual service programs advocated by each military department.We are also troubled that your recommendation appears to rely upon the findings of a recent Defense Business Board report. Although that report was wide-reaching in its scope, we question the thoroughness of its analysis of JFCOM, its functions, or its operations. According to JFCOM, the Board did not visit the command, request a briefing or any other information, or provide an opportunity to review and comment on the board’s findings and recommendations. As yet, we have received no detailed information on the basis for the board’s recommendation.All 24 official and ex-officio members of the board have had long, distinguished careers in the corporate world, including defense industries. Several are also members of defense advisory panels or have served as senior civilian officials in DoD or other federal agencies. Only a handful has actually served in uniform and, with the exception of one member, their military service occurred early in their lives. No board member has commanded forces in combat operations in Iraq or Afghanistan—where the imperative for seamless joint operations has been demonstrated repeatedly. Needless to say, it is deeply disturbing that that you would apparently act on a recommendation that reflects superficial research and a lack of analytical rigor.It is worth noting that the 2005 BRAC process reviewed and validated JFCOM’s mission and contributions to joint warfighting. The DoD panel reviewing the command also recommended that JFCOM purchase its leased spaces to support its permanent presence. As recently as October 2009, JFCOM opened a new 49,000-square-foot Joint Deployment Center and Maritime Operations Center that it shares with the Navy’s Fleet Forces Command. This state-of-the-art technological facility enables the two commands to direct maritime operations and collaborate with joint, interagency, and multinational partners as part of their respective missions.Unlike the Defense Business Board’s cursory review, several in-depth studies each assessed joint force effectiveness and requirements to improve combat capability, and all reached a different conclusion than the DBB. None of these comprehensive reviews recommended the elimination or realignment of JFCOM. On the contrary, they recommended placing increased emphasis on joint warfighting. One of the 2009 Quadrennial Roles and Missions Review’s primary objectives was to “improve the effectiveness of joint and interagency operations.” The 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review stated: “Perhaps more than ever before, the United States requires joint military forces able to function and succeed across a wide geographic and operational spectrum. Moreover, military forces must be capable of working effectively with a range of civilian and international partners.”Finally, we object to your plan to ignore the legislative intent associated with base closure and realignment limitations associated with Title 10 U.S. Code, Section 2687. This provision was established to ensure that Congress has sufficient time and opportunity to review DoD proposals that would result in the closure or realignment of significant military facilities. It also includes requirements intended to ensure that such decisions are made only after a comprehensive review of costs, impacts, and alternatives.Although compliance with 10 USC 2687 would result in only a few months’ delay in implementation of your recommendation to eliminate JFCOM, your closure strategy appears to have been crafted to avoid the need to comply with its statutory requirements. A clause in the section allows for workload reductions that do not count against the realignment limitation, but we are informed by legal counsel that the department’s reliance on it in this instance is clearly in violation of the legislative intent of this law. It would set the unacceptable precedent that DoD could close or realign any installation without compliance with the section. Furthermore, JFCOM occupies a major leased facility in Suffolk, Virginia, that should not be considered part of Naval Station Norfolk or any other military installation. Your JFCOM recommendation also would result in the closure of this facility, thus requiring compliance with 10 USC 2687.We recognize that the department has not, in recent history, applied 10 USC 2687 for base closures and realignments. Instead, the Congress and the department have reached major decisions on military installations through the Base Closure and Realignment (BRAC) process. BRAC was crafted to avoid political interference and to ensure that decisions are made only after complete and impartial reviews of impacts, costs, savings, and alternatives.As you know, the last BRAC round was conducted in 2005, and its actions are nearing completion next year. Eliminating the Joint Forces Command poses significant implications for the future conduct of joint operations, entails financial and personnel costs, and will result in a substantial adverse economic impact on the local community. We believe that your recommendation to close JFCOM would more appropriately be considered within the context of a BRAC process. We understand that you have “authorized each of the military departments to consider consolidation or closure of excess bases and other facilities where appropriate.” This guidance, coupled with the failure to adhere to the legislative intent of 10 USC 2687 and your intent to conduct base closures or realignments outside of the BRAC process, is cause for concern.We continue to support your efforts to reduce costs and eliminate waste and duplication within the Department of Defense. However, it is of the utmost importance that decisions relating to base realignments and closures are considered within an established and authorized process. As such, we urge you to conduct a more complete review of JFCOM’s mission and activities without a predisposed intent to close the command. Any recommendation to close JFCOM should only be made as part of a BRAC or 10 USC 2687 process.# # #
08.09.2010	NORFOLK, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott’s issued the following statement this afternoon at a press conference with Governor Robert F. McDonnell and Representatives Randy Forbes (VA-04), Robert Wittman (VA-01), and Glenn Nye (VA-02) following Defense Secretary Robert Gates’ announcement to eliminate Joint Forces Command in Norfolk:“Joint Forces Command is a critical command element of our nation’s military. JFCOM is the Defense Department’s premiere joint force trainer and has improved and expanded military readiness for decades. JFCOM helps ensure that DoD civilian personnel and members of all the branches of the armed services are working together towards one common goal – the defense of the United States.“Since its creation, JFCOM has led the way in joint training concept development and experimentation, which includes heavy use of modeling and simulation technology. Hampton Roads is the nation’s hub for modeling and simulation technology, and our military has benefited tremendously from effective utilization of this cost-saving technology – thanks in part to the efforts at JFCOM.“These critical functions provide continued American military superiority and many of JFCOM’s components will need to continue in some form regardless of this decision. It makes little sense to outright eliminate JFCOM, transfer the personnel dedicated to JFCOM’s mission, and create redundant missions elsewhere. In fact, many positions will not be eliminated at all but just reassigned elsewhere; and to the extent that positions are actually eliminated, there will be less coordination within the U.S. military – and that’s not how you save money.“As a member of the Budget Committee, I completely understand and appreciate the Secretary’s motivation to weed out wasteful spending at the Defense Department. If there are inefficiencies at JFCOM, as I am sure there are in the nine other commands, then those should and must be addressed appropriately. The issue of employing and becoming overly reliant on expensive private contractors is a problem not just at JFCOM but across the Defense Department and the rest of the federal government, and this is certainly an issue I would be interested in discussing solutions to. However, I do not believe completely eliminating a command responsible for ensuring better coordination amongst the military is the best way to reach the Secretary’s goal.“The Secretary’s office provided very little information on this decision prior to his announcement this afternoon. The decision did not go through the normal, thoughtful process that is used when bases are closed, nor was there any mention of this in the Quadrennial Defense Review, which outlines the Defense challenges for the next four years. With that in mind, I look forward to a full briefing by the Secretary’s office justifying this decision. I will work with my colleagues in the Hampton Roads congressional delegation to ensure that this decision is heavily scrutinized.”# # #
08.05.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the United States Senate’s confirmation of Elena Kagan as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States:“I congratulate Solicitor General Kagan on her confirmation to the United States Supreme Court. Her scholarship and her years of service and achievements as a United States Supreme Court Clerk, practicing attorney, law professor, Dean of the Harvard Law School and Solicitor General of the United States give her superb qualifications to serve on the nation’s highest court.” # # #
08.03.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama took the first step toward ending the unfair federal crack cocaine law by signing into law the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010.Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) led the effort in the House of Representatives to pass this historic legislation and has led the effort in the Congress to address the crack cocaine and powder cocaine sentencing disparity since his arrival. He issued the following statement in connection with the signing today:“This new law reduces the disparity in mandated sentencing between crack and powder cocaine from 100 to 1 to 18 to 1. My goal is to eliminate the disparity entirely, and this is good progress toward that goal.”“Under the previous law, selling 5 grams of crack cocaine resulted in a 5 year mandatory minimum sentence and 50 grams resulted in a 10 year mandatory minimum sentence. The legislation signed into law today results in 28 grams (about an ounce) of crack cocaine being the threshold for a 5 year mandatory sentence with 280 grams triggering a 10 year mandatory minimum sentence.”“Also, under the prior law, crack cocaine was the only illegal drug for which there was a mandatory minimum sentence for mere possession of 5 grams. The new law eliminates the 5 year mandatory minimum for merely possessing crack cocaine.”“Another important aspect of the bill signed into law today is that it represents a significant step toward reducing the impact of racial disparities in the federal criminal justice system. Although crack cocaine and powder cocaine are the same drug in different formations, more than 80% of people convicted of the more harshly sentenced crack cocaine offenses under the old law were African American. In contrast, only 27% of those convicted of powder cocaine offenses, which had much lower penalties for the same amount of the drug, were African American.”# # #
07.28.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, issued the following statement on passage of S. 1789, the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010:“Today, S. 1789, the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, historic bipartisan legislation, was passed by the House of Representatives. This bill will reduce the100-to-1 sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine in federal law to 18-to-1.“Under current law, it takes only 5 grams of crack cocaine to trigger a 5-year mandatory minimum sentence, but for powder cocaine it takes 500 grams to trigger the same 5-year mandatory minimum sentence. S. 1789 moves the threshold amount of crack for a 5-year mandatory minimum sentence from 5 grams to 28 grams and makes a similar reduction to an 18-to-1 ratio for the ten-year mandatory minimum.“Studies have shown that there are no pharmacological differences between crack and powder cocaine. Yet, crack offenders are serving extremely long sentences, while people who have committed more serious drug offenses, or serious violent crimes, are serving shorter terms. Kemba Smith, a college student in my Congressional District who had a very minor role in a crack conspiracy involving her boyfriend who was a drug dealer, was sentenced to 24 and 1/2 years and served 7 years before her sentence was commuted by President Clinton.“And the higher penalties for very small amounts of crack have the bizarre effect of punishing those lower in the drug distribution chain much more severely than the drug kingpins in the chain who distribute the larger amounts of powder from which the crack is produced.“The differences in penalties for crack and powder cocaine also have a disparate racial impact. More than 80% of people convicted in federal court for crack offenses are African American, while only 27% of those convicted of powder cocaine offenses are African American.“Although I think the fairest approach would be to totally eliminate the disparity between crack and powder cocaine, the bill we passed today represents substantial progress toward that goal.“I would like to thank Senator Durbin and Senator Sessions, as well as their colleagues on both sides of the aisle, for developing this successful bi-partisan compromise. I would also like to thank House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn for his tenacious efforts to get the bill scheduled for action in the House this week. And, I would like to thank House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, Rep. Maxine Waters, Rep. Mel Watt and Rep Charles Rangel for their long-standing dedication to addressing this unfairness between crack and powder cocaine penalties.“Further, I would like to thank the advocates and organizations that have worked tirelessly for many years to reform the federal crack cocaine law such as Wade Henderson, Nancy Zirkin and Lisa Bornstein from The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, Nkechi Taifa from The Open Society Policy Center, Laura Murphy and Jennifer Bellamy from the ACLU, Julie Stewart and Jennifer Stitt from Families Against Mandatory Minimums, Marc Mauer and Kara Gotsch from The Sentencing Project, Jasmine Tyler from the Drug Policy Alliance, Hilary Shelton with the NAACP and Bruce Nicholson with the American Bar Association.”# # #
07.26.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott submitted the following statement into the Congressional Record in honor of the 20th Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act:“Madam Speaker, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize and commemorate the twentieth anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).“In 1990, then-President George H.W. Bush signed the Americans with Disabilities Act into law. It was the most significant federal civil rights legislation since the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, both signed by President Lyndon Johnson. And overall it has been a tremendous success.“The ADA was enacted to protect individuals with disabilities from being discriminated against in employment, public entities and transportation, public accommodations, and telecommunications. It created a promise of inclusion and equal opportunity, so that all Americans can live up to their full potential, encouraging and enabling individuals with disabilities to participate in the social and economic fabric of American life. As a result of the ADA, millions more people with disabilities are working, living independently, and actively using public accommodations that so many of us take for granted.“But it was not the first legislation to do so.“Madam Speaker, in the early 1980's, when I was a member of the Virginia General Assembly, sixty-four disability organizations formed a coalition known as INVEST – INsure Virginians Equal Status Today – to pass a state statute in Virginia to protect individuals with disabilities from discrimination. I was a Member of the Senate Committee on General Laws, the Committee that considered the legislation, and we dealt with many of the central issues that needed to be addressed, such as what constitutes a reasonable accommodation. We worked through all of those issues, and the Virginians with Disabilities Act was signed into law by former Gov. Charles S. Robb in 1985.“Today the Act protects nearly one million residents of the Commonwealth of Virginia. This Act acknowledged that “it is the policy of the Commonwealth to encourage and enable persons with disabilities to participate fully and equally in the social and economic life …” and it protects Virginians with disabilities from discrimination in employment, education, housing, voting, and places of public accommodation. It preceded the federal Americans with Disabilities Act by five years, and many of the key concepts in the Virginia statute formed the basis of the ADA. The landmark Virginians with Disabilities Act is the Commonwealth’s commitment to encourage persons with disabilities to participate fully in the social and economic life of the Commonwealth.“Five years later, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 was enacted to protect all Americans against discrimination on the basis of disability.“Madam Speaker, I am proud that twenty years later we are able to look back upon the passage of the federal Americans with Disabilities Act and recognize the importance of this legislation and the changes it has made in American society. But our work is not yet done. The law is stable yet it cannot stand still; it must continue to evolve. On this 20th anniversary of the ADA, while we acknowledge the progress we have made, we must also examine the challenges that still remain. We must continue to revisit the ADA and to examine whether it is accomplishing its purpose to the fullest extent possible, and when we find that it is not, we must be willing to make the changes necessary to do so.“One recent example of this willingness occurred last Congress when we passed the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008, which was signed into law by President George W. Bush and became effective on January 1st, 2009. The ADA Amendments Act restored the ADA to Congress’ original intent by clarifying that coverage under the ADA is broad and covers anyone who faces unfair discrimination because of a disability, and it overturned several court decisions that held that people with disabilities would lose their coverage under the ADA simply because their condition is treatable with medication or can be addressed with the help of assistive technology.“That legislation was the direct result of the business and disability communities working together to rectify a problem that was created by the courts. It is my hope that this kind of commitment, determination and cooperation will continue into the future until we have broken down all barriers to individuals with disabilities.“Today, we break another barrier, because Congress has taken a step toward greater accessibility by making the House rostrum wheelchair accessible for the first time. I would like to recognize my friend and colleague, Congressman James R. Langevin, who today presided over the House Floor as Speaker Pro Tempore, as is his right and honor as a member of Congress.“It is my hope that we will continue to break down barriers in the Halls of Congress, on Main Street U.S.A., and throughout the world.”# # #
07.23.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Virginia Congressmen Randy Forbes, Glenn Nye, Rob Wittman, and Bobby Scott and Senators Jim Webb and Mark Warner released the following statement after reports that the Defense Business Board (DBB), the Pentagon’s independent board of economic and business advisers, is expected to recommend that Defense Secretary Robert Gates eliminate the Joint Forces Command:“The ability of our Armed Forces to operate jointly is one of the key components that sets our military apart from others across the world. Joint Forces Command was created for the specific purpose of leading our nation in joint training, development and experimentation. There may be merit in tightening the structure of various commands within the individual services that interact with the Joint Forces Command, but it is illogical for an independent Pentagon advisory board to recommend that we undo what our nation has worked so hard to achieve in military jointness over the past two decades. It goes without saying that we should achieve efficiency in our nation's defense budget, however doing it at the expense of the command that is leading the charge for the future of our military training efforts would be a step backward and could be harmful to the capabilities of the finest military in the world.”# # #
07.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Virginia Senators Jim Webb and Mark Warner and Congressmen Glenn Nye, Jim Moran, Randy Forbes, Bobby Scott, and Rob Wittman yesterday sent a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley and Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Norman Schwartz advocating the assignment of an additional F-22 Raptor squadron at Langley Air Force Base (LAFB). A decision by the Air Force is expected soon. “We believe that Langley Air Force Base is the best-value alternative for the Air Force and the taxpayer,” wrote the Senators and Congressmen. They stressed that such a move would be consistent with President Obama’s June 2010 memorandum to make better use of existing federal real estate and avoid redundant excess assets. At a time when Secretary Gates has directed the military departments to achieve more than $10 billion in programmatic savings, LAFB can accommodate the third squadron with minimal cost and personnel.Following last year’s decision to curtail acquisition at 187 F-22s, there were insufficient numbers for all bases scheduled to receive the aircraft. As a result, the Air Force initiated a study to determine how best to consolidate the F-22 fleet from four to three locations. The review is currently being conducted by a Senior Basing Executive Steering Group, which is expected to forward its recommendations to Air Force leadership this week. Three operational F-22 squadrons were originally slated for LAFB, and approximately $95 million was appropriated to construct three hangars specially designed for them. Due to reductions, only two of Langley’s new hangars currently house F-22 aircraft. The third will be vacated this September when an F-15 squadron is retired. Langley’s operational capacity and modern infrastructure would enable operations with a third F-22 squadron to commence almost immediately.The text of the letter is below:The Honorable Michael DonleySecretary of the Air Force1670 Air Force PentagonWashington, D.C. 20330General Norman Schwartz, USAFChief of Staff of the Air Force1670 Air Force PentagonWashington, D.C. 20330Dear Secretary Donley and General Schwartz,Our purpose in writing is to ask that Langley Air Force Base (LAFB), Virginia, be given all due consideration among the four candidate bases currently under consideration as recipients of an additional F-22 Raptor squadron. For a number of important reasons, we believe that Langley Air Force Base is the best-value alternative for the Air Force and the taxpayer.The need for an updated beddown plan for the F-22 is necessitated largely by the curtailment of the Raptor program at 187 aircraft. As you are aware, the original F-22A beddown structure for Langley AFB called for the assignment of three squadrons composed of 24 primary assigned aircraft (PAA). To implement this plan at LAFB, the Air Force was appropriated approximately $95 million to build the facilities necessary for squadron operations and support. These military construction projects included three fully mission capable aircraft hangars specifically designed for the F-22. Two of these hangars currently house F-22s. The third will be vacated this September following the retirement of an F-15 squadron, resulting in excess operational capacity and modern facilities. A number of additional projects will further improve LAFB’s ability to host a third squadron and should be considered during the rebasing review. The President’s fiscal year 2011 budget request included $8.8 million to build a Low Observable Hangar/Maintenance Facility. This project has already been approved by the Senate Committee on Appropriations and the House Military Construction and Veteran Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee and included in their spending bills. The House has also authorized and appropriated $3 million to purchase land in Langley’s “clear zone.” These land purchases will improve the air space quality and safety around LAFB. Additionally, $3 million has been authorized to provide shelters to protect the F-22s and enable maintenance on the ramp during inclement weather. Langley also hosts one of the most experienced Air National Guard squadrons in the nation. As members of the initial cadre of the first operational F-22 squadron and the first Guard unit to fly the F-22, the 192nd Fighter Wing’s operational achievements and depth of technical knowledge of the aircraft are unparalleled. The assignment of a third F-22 squadron will help to preserve that unit’s identity, sustain personnel retention, and expand leadership opportunities in ways that exist today in other states. Langley is uniquely poised to move into an Active Associate model to provide even more flexibility.With the importance of the Air Sovereignty Mission, Langley is well-positioned as an operational base with full command-and-control and mission-support facilities. Unlike other locations which are unable to conduct operational missions, Langley will not require additional construction or manning to make it an operational base. In short, owing to past investments, Langley is a “turn-key” installation that can commence operations with a third F-22 squadron almost immediately. We believe that President Obama’s June 10, 2010, memorandum titled, “Disposing of Unneeded Federal Real Estate – Increasing Sales Proceeds, Cutting Operating Costs, and Improving Energy Efficiency,” should guide your F-22 basing decision. The President’s memo states, “For decades, the federal government … has managed more real estate than necessary to effectively support its programs and missions. Both taxpayer dollars and energy resources are being wasted to maintain these excess assets …. Agencies shall also take immediate steps to make better use of remaining real property assets as measured by utilization and occupancy rates, annual operating cost, energy efficiency, and sustainability.” Secretary of Defense Gates has directed the Department of Defense and military departments to find savings of more than $10 billion in future budgets. He recently said, "Given America's difficult economic circumstances and parlous fiscal condition, military spending on things large and small can and should expect closer, harsher scrutiny.” Langley is ready now to accept a third operational F-22 squadron—a superb opportunity for the Air Force to demonstrate sound fiscal discipline by making better use of its existing facilities with attendant cost savings for the taxpayer.In closing, the consolidation of this critical national asset at one of the premier fighter bases in the Air Force would vastly improve efficiencies in maintenance and operations of the F-22 fleet overall, as well as allow Langley’s active and Air National Guard components to operate together more effectively in the performance of their homeland defense and overseas contingency missions. Thank you for your consideration of this request.Sincerely,Senator Mark WarnerSenator Jim WebbRepresentative Glenn NyeRepresentative James MoranRepresentative Randy ForbesRepresentative Bobby ScottRepresentative Rob Wittman# # #
07.12.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, will host a bipartisan forum on H.R. 2324, the Closing the Gun Show Loophole Act, on Wednesday, July 14, 2010, along with other cosponsors. Who:Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA)Representative Michael Castle (R-DE)Representative Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY)Representative Mike Quigley (D-IL) PanelistsKenneth E. Barnes, Sr., MS, Founder/CEO ROOT, Inc.Colonel Gerald Massengill, Sutherland, VALaurent F. Gilbert, Sr., Mayor, Lewiston, MEDaniel Webster, ScD, MPH, Professor and Co-Director, Center for Gun Policy and Research at John Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore MDTom Mauser, Littleton, COGerry Nunziato, Youngstown, OHColin Goddard, Richmond, VAChief Scott M. Knight, Chaska Police Department, Chaska, MNWhat:There are two systems for purchasing firearms in this country. One system involves those engaged in the business of selling firearms who obtain federal licenses and follow required procedures, including conducting background checks on firearms purchasers. The other system involves unlicensed individuals who claim not to sell guns as a business and who are, therefore, exempt from the procedures for licensees. Unlicensed individuals at gun shows can sell as many firearms as they wish without having to comply with the federal safeguards that apply to licensed firearms dealers and purchasers from them. They are not required to ask for identification, they cannot initiate a background check, there are no forms to fill out and no requirements to keep records of sales. This exemption of unlicensed sellers is called the "gun show loophole".This forum will examine the gun show loophole in detail and how H.R. 2324, the Gun Show Loophole Closing Act, will end this exemptionWhere:2141 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515When:Wednesday, July 14, 2010 at 2:00 P.M.# # #
07.08.2010	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) will tour Operation Smile in Norfolk at 10:00 am this morning.WHO: Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” ScottDr. Bill Magee, Co-Founder and CEO of Operation SmileWHAT: Congressman Scott will receive an update on Operation Smile activities; tour their current facilities; meet and thank their dedicated staff; and review plans for their new headquarters and educational center.WHERE: Operation Smile, 6435 Tidewater Drive, Norfolk, Virginia 23509WHEN: 10:00 A.M.# # #
07.02.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – On Tuesday, July 6, 2010, Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Virginia) will host a forum to promote the Youth PROMISE Act. The Youth PROMISE Act (H.R. 1064) was introduced in February 2009 by Representative Scott and Representative Mike Castle (R-Delaware).The community-based approach and focus of the Youth PROMISE Act will be the emphasis of the Tuesday evening forum at An Achievable Dream Middle & High School. The bill requires that all stakeholders in a community with an interest in the lives of juveniles to sit down together and form a Promise council. These stakeholders would include representatives from law enforcement, the school system, the local health and mental health service providers, juvenile courts and social services, faith based community, business interests, and parents and students. This council would be tasked to develop a comprehensive plan of evidence based practices tailored to that community with the goal of reducing juvenile crime and gang violence.In anticipation of the Youth PROMISE Act becoming law, this forum will start some of the necessary discussions that would be precursors to the founding of a Promise council. Joining Rep. Scott will be Bud Ramey of People to People, and Bobby Kipper, Director of the National Center for the Prevention of Community Violence.An Achievable Dream Middle & High School is located at 5720 Marshall Avenue, Newport News, Virginia 23605. The forum will begin at 6:00 p.m. For more information, please contact Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.For more information on the Youth PROMSIE Act, please visit: www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa.# # #
07.01.2010	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Senators Jim Webb and Mark Warner and Representatives Glenn Nye, Bobby Scott, Randy Forbes, and Rob Wittman advocated cancelling the Navy’s proposal to homeport a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at Naval Station (NS) Mayport, Fla., following Secretary of Defense Gates’ recent directive to the military departments to trim more than $10 billion in Department of Defense (DoD) from future budgets. The Virginia Members of Congress sent a letter today to Secretary of the Navy Ray Maybus in support of efforts to trim wasteful spending from the DoD budget. “We urge you to cancel the proposal to establish a duplicative and unnecessary nuclear-powered aircraft carrier homeport at NS Mayport and direct that programmed resources be allocated to other higher priority Navy requirements.”The Members continued: “In our view, cancelling this poorly justified scheme would yield 10 percent of the secretary’s required savings.”Webb, Warner, Nye, Scott, Forbes, and Wittman stressed that such a move would also be consistent with President Obama’s June 2010 memorandum to make better use of existing federal real estate, avoid redundant excess assets, and save $3 billion in spending on federal property. The Members also noted that the Navy has consistently acknowledged that there is a low risk that Hampton Roads would be closed by a natural disaster or other event, undercutting the rationale for creating a second carrier homeport on the East Coast.They suggest that federal dollars should be spent building two or three additional Littoral Combat Ships for homeporting at Mayport and properly maintaining and recapitalizing the Navy’s four aging and increasingly antiquated naval shipyards.A copy of the letter to Secretary Mabus follows.July 1, 2010The Honorable Ray Mabus Secretary of the U.S. Navy 1000 Navy Pentagon Washington, DC 20350-1000Dear Secretary Mabus:We write today in support of your efforts to trim wasteful spending, improve use of taxpayer dollars, and “make every dollar count” for our Navy’s most critical programs and force structure requirements.Secretary of Defense Gates recently said, “Given America’s difficult economic circumstances and parlous fiscal condition, military spending on things large and small can and should expect closer, harsher scrutiny.” He has directed the military departments to find savings of more than $10 billion in Department of Defense (DoD) future budgets. During your review of the Navy’s spending plans, we urge you to reconsider the Navy’s proposal to homeport a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at Naval Station (NS) Mayport, Fla. In our view, cancelling this poorly justified scheme would yield 10 percent of the secretary’s required savings. In today’s increasingly constrained fiscal environment, we simply cannot afford to build redundant nuclear-support infrastructure without a demonstrably higher level of risk to warrant an investment of this magnitude.Our concerns regarding growing cost estimates for the project are shared by the House Committee on Armed Services (HASC). Its report accompanying the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 states, “… the estimates for the costs of homeporting a nuclear aircraft carrier at Naval Station Mayport continue to rise and may cost as much as $1 billion in military construction and recurring operation and maintenance costs.” Accordingly, the committee directed the Government Accountability Office to conduct an audit of all costs associated with the NS Mayport conversion, stating, “The committee is concerned that the full costs associated with the proposed second East Coast homeport for a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier have been underestimated, introducing a measure of budgetary risk and potential shortfalls in future year’s defense budget submissions.” Finally, the report expressed concern that “implementation … would require maintenance teams from other nuclear-powered aircraft carrier homeport locations to be sent to NAVSTA Mayport temporarily to support maintenance requirements, potentially at significant additional cost.”We believe that President Obama’s June 10, 2010, memorandum titled, “Disposing of Unneeded Federal Real Estate – Increasing Sales Proceeds, Cutting Operating Costs, and Improving Energy Efficiency” should guide your reevaluation of the Mayport homeporting plan. The President’s memo states, “For decades, the federal government … has managed more real estate than necessary to effectively support its programs and missions. Both taxpayer dollars and energy resources are being wasted to maintain these excess assets … . Agencies shall also take immediate steps to make better use of remaining real property assets as measured by utilization and occupancy rates, annual operating cost, energy efficiency, and sustainability.” The Navy already has excess nuclear-support shore infrastructure for the nuclear fleet of today and tomorrow. Building redundant infrastructure in Mayport that will only be manned when a carrier is in homeport directly contradicts the President’s policy guidance.The President’s memorandum also directs that, "In total, agency efforts required by this memorandum should produce no less than $3 billion in cost savings by the end of fiscal year 2012, yielded from increased proceeds from the sale of assets and reduced operating, maintenance, and energy expenses from disposals or other space consolidation efforts, including leases that are ended.” We find it ironic that the Navy is advocating an expensive and unnecessary military construction project at the same time that the Obama administration seeks to save $3 billion in spending on federal property. Indeed, cancelling the Mayport homeporting proposal would satisfy nearly one-third of the president’s goal of saving $3 billion.Adm. Roughead recently asserted, “The biggest question for all of us is, what are we willing to afford? Certainly, no navy today can afford to spend its way out of this challenge. We have to think our way out, and we have to maintain affordability.” Given the Navy’s significant shortfalls in shipbuilding, the procurement of strike-fighter aircraft, and the recapitalization of its aging shore infrastructure, we are confident your reevaluation of the Mayport homeporting scheme will reveal it is simply not affordable.While we fully support the Navy’s need to sustain the viability of NS Mayport and its adjoining ship maintenance and repair industrial base, we believe that homeporting non-nuclear ships, such as Littoral Combat Ships, would cost far less, pose fewer logistical and operating challenges, better match required ship maintenance with industrial base capabilities in the region, and be more responsive to the operational needs of the U.S. Southern Command.At the recent Naval War College’s Current Strategy Forum, you said, “Both the President and the Secretary of Defense have made it clear that we’ve got to do a better job of managing those tax dollars. There are no sacred cows, and everything is on the table as we review every dollar we spend and how we spend it … . Every dollar wasted is a dollar we can’t spend protecting our Sailors and our Marines. Every dollar wasted is a dollar we can not spend building the fleet that we need. And every dollar wasted is a dollar we can’t spend defending this country."In the current budget environment, you have the difficult task of eliminating lower priority projects and programs that are not well-justified by a rigorous risk-based, cost-benefit analysis. The Navy has consistently acknowledged that there is a low risk that a catastrophic event could close Hampton Roads. This risk assessment undercuts the Navy’s rationale for seeking to create an alternative East Coast homeport for nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. For this reason, the “opportunity cost” of spending up to $1 billion at NS Mayport for carrier homeporting will unavoidably divert funds from far more important requirements. As you said, “Every dollar wasted is a dollar we can not spend building the fleet that we need.”Mr. Secretary, we appreciate the challenges you face. At the end of fiscal year 2009, the Navy had a $3 billion funding shortfall for sustainment, repair, and modernization projects at the four naval shipyards. In December 2009, the Navy’s total shore infrastructure backlog had reached $36.6 billion. Furthermore, despite your goal of a fleet composed of 313 combat ships, the Navy is today at only 70 percent of that number. The Congressional Budget Office’s May 2010 analysis of the Navy’s long-range shipbuilding plan projects costs that are 37 percent higher than the Navy’s estimates for the plan’s final 10 years.Your comments at the Current Strategy Forum are fitting: "In the end, it’s about using our resources a lot more wisely. Because the long-term ability of the Navy and Marine Corps to support America’s broader foreign policy objectives, to remain the strategic leader in the world ... depends on our ability to adequately resource our fleet."Any decision to expend scarce resources to homeport a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at NS Mayport must be considered within this context. Is it more important to create a duplicative, expensive homeporting capability than it is to build two or three additional Littoral Combat Ships? Is it more important to build redundant nuclear maintenance facilities at NS Mayport than it is to properly maintain and recapitalize the Navy’s four aging and increasingly antiquated naval shipyards?We think not and hope that you will share our convictions. For these reasons, we urge you to cancel the proposal to establish a duplicative and unnecessary nuclear-powered aircraft carrier homeport at NS Mayport and direct that programmed resources be allocated to other higher priority Navy requirements.Sincerely,Senator Jim WebbSenator John WarnerRepresentative Glenn Nye Representative Bobby ScottRepresentative Randy ForbesRepresentative Rob Wittman Copy to: The Hon. Robert Gates, Secretary of DefenseAdmiral Gary Roughead, Chief of Naval OperationsThe Hon. Robert Work, Under Secretary of the Navy# # #
06.30.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the conference report to H.R. 4173, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, by a vote of 237 to 192 (Roll Call No. 413). The measure must still be passed by the Senate before it goes to the President’s desk. Voting in favor of the conference report, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement:“Today, the House has taken a giant step forward in closing the loopholes and regulating the reckless behavior that brought about the financial crisis of 2008. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act brings common sense regulation to every step in the chain of events that brought down our financial system to ensure that the abuses of the past will not be repeated. I voted in favor of this bill to bring accountability to Wall Street – accountability that was absent previously and led to the economic collapse that cost our nation millions of jobs and trillions of investment dollars.”For more information about the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, please click here.# # #
06.02.2010	HAMPTON, VA – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement after touring the Hampton Veterans Medical Center this morning:“I appreciate Director Seekins and the staff of the Hampton V.A. Medical Center for providing me the opportunity to visit with and thank our veterans for their service to our nation. I saw firsthand that the doctors and nurses here are truly committed to providing the best care possible to our veterans.“Over the last three years, Congress has approved landmark budget increases to the V.A. – providing an additional $23 billion to help our veterans receive health care and other benefits that they deserve and have earned with their service to our nation. Much of the funding increase expanded mental health services, increased access to dialysis, and improved physician recruitment.“In addition to increases in annual appropriations funding for the V.A., the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act included $1.4 billion for medical facility upgrades. There are currently four constructions projects at the Hampton V.A. that were made possible by the Recovery Act. These include expanding the Spinal Cord Injury Center and other facility upgrades. Today’s tour allowed me to see firsthand how these Recovery Act funds have created jobs and are being used to improve veterans’ health care.“I am pleased to see that the Hampton V.A. is making tremendous strides to ensure that any veteran that enters this hospital receives optimal care, and I commend them for their dedication to this effort. However, my office stands ready to assist any veteran that encounters any difficulties in accessing the care that they deserve.”# # #
05.20.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – On Wednesday, May 26, 2010, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott will host the premiere of a “viral video” urging support and passage of the Youth PROMISE Act. The premiere will take place at the South Orientation Theatre in the Capitol Visitor Center at 6:00 p.m.The Youth PROMISE Act is comprehensive legislation that will provide much-needed federal resources to communities to implement evidence- and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and juvenile crime at the local level. Over the last year and a half, the Youth PROMISE Act, sponsored by Congressman Scott, has been cosponsored by 235 members of the House, 15 members of the Senate, and endorsed by over 250 organizations. In the House, the bill was reported favorably out of the Judiciary Committee in December 2009. Capitalizing on this momentum, people from all walks of life have come together to tape a short web video sharing their personal stories as to why Congress must pass the Youth PROMISE Act this year. The video is designed to be shared and distributed on various social media platforms, such as Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and Google Buzz, to enhance awareness of the act and continue to build support outside the halls of Congress. Video participants include Media Mogul Russell Simmons; Actress Robin Wright; Newark, NJ Mayor Cory Booker; NFL Hall of Famer Jim Brown; Pro-Skateboarder and MTV personality Rob Dyrdek; and Lawyer and TV Personality Star Jones. Many of the video’s participants will be joining Congressman Scott and other advocates at Wednesday’s premiere. At the premiere, attendees will also have the opportunity to tape a message in support of the Youth PROMISE Act for future web videos.To RSVP for the premiere, please contact Christian Haines in Congressman Scott’s Washington Office at (202) 225-8351. For more information on the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit: bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa.# # #
05.12.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Jim Webb and Mark Warner and Rep. Bobby Scott announced today that Portsmouth’s Lakeview Elementary School has received a $3.7 million federal stimulus grant to address air quality issues believed to have contributed to an increase in asthma among students. The poor air quality at Lakeview Elementary has been traced to excessive humidity and related mold issues, and this grant will fund replacements of the building’s roof, ceilings, windows, doors and the HVAC system.According to the Virginia Asthma Coalition, Portsmouth ranks 5th highest among localities in the Commonwealth in primary diagnoses of asthma, and incidents of asthma among elementary school students in Portsmouth have increased 25% over the past two years. When completed, this upgrade also is expected to save Portsmouth City Schools more than $6,000 a year in projected energy costs.“In the near-term, this project will help put people to work and help Portsmouth Public Schools save on energy costs,” Senator Mark R. Warner said. “More importantly, over the long-term, this project will result in a safer, healthier learning environment for Lakeview’s nearly 600 students, its faculty and staff.”“This economic recovery grant is good news for the Portsmouth community,” said Senator Jim Webb. “The $3.7 million investment in Lakeview Elementary will put people to work, cut down on future energy costs, and provide a healthy learning environment for Lakeview’s students.”“The Hampton Roads community is again positively benefiting from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act,” said Rep. Bobby Scott. “This Recovery Act grant will put people back to work, save Portsmouth Public Schools and taxpayers money in energy costs every year, and most importantly it will improve air quality for hundreds of students at Lakeview. Had it not been for the Recovery Act, this vital project may have continued to be delayed because of tough local and state budget constraints. I thank the Obama Administration for awarding this grant to the City of Portsmouth.” # # #
05.11.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott announced today that members of his District Office Staff will hold office hours in Charles City and New Kent Counties on June 1st and in Prince George and Surry Counties on June 2nd.Congressman Scott’s staff will be available to assist constituents at the following locations and times:Charles City CountyJune 1, 2010 – 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, Virginia 23030 New Kent CountyJune 1, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.County Administration Building12007 Courthouse CircleNew Kent, Virginia 23124 Surry CountyJune 2, 2010 – 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.Administrative Building45 School StreetSurry, Virginia 23883 Prince George CountyJune 2, 2010 – 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.6450 Administrative DrivePrince George, Virginia 23875The Congressman’s primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. In addition, Congressman Scott’s staff also holds office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M. at the L. Douglas Wilder Center at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov.# # #
05.10.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – On President Obama’s nomination of Solicitor General Elena Kagan to the U.S. Supreme Court, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, issued the following statement:“President Obama has nominated an accomplished, well qualified individual to replace Justice John Paul Stevens on the Supreme Court. From Associate White House Counsel in the Clinton Administration to Dean of Harvard Law School to Solicitor General of the United States, Ms. Kagan has a long and distinguished career in law and public service. Throughout her career, she has won the respect and admiration of her colleagues for her knowledge of jurisprudence and public policy.“If confirmed by the Senate, Ms. Kagan will be the first Supreme Court Justice without prior judicial experience since Lewis Powell and William Rehnquist were nominated by President Nixon. Her experiences off the bench will bring a unique set of skills and add a new level of diversity to the Court. I commend the President for nominating a fine American to our nation’s highest court and I look forward to learning more about Solicitor General Kagan’s views as the Senate Judiciary Committee begins the confirmation process.”# # #
05.05.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) will announce the winners of the Seventeenth Annual Third Congressional District Art Competition at upcoming awards receptions in Newport News and Richmond. Each year, the Third Congressional District Art Competition is open to all High School students in the Third Congressional District of Virginia.An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Representative Scott has participated every year he has served in Congress.This year’s first place winner will receive a scholarship of $1,500 and will attend a reception in honor of all the winners nationwide in Washington, DC. The first place winning entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the primary tunnel connecting the United States Capitol Building to the Cannon House Office Building for one year, where it will be seen by thousands of people who visit the U.S. Capitol.Representative Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate, a t-shirt and various other prizes at two upcoming awards receptions in the Third Congressional District.The award receptions will be held on:Saturday, May 8, 2010 from 2:00pm to 3:00pmDowning Gross Cultural Arts Center2410 Wickham Avenue, Newport News, VA 23607 Saturday, May 22, 2010 from 1:00pm to 2:00pmBlack History Museum and Cultural Center of Virginia3 Clay Street, Richmond, VA 23219Please RSVP to Michelle Dale in Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
04.20.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement today on the passing of Dr. Dorothy I. Height: “Today, our nation mourns the loss of one our most influential civil rights leaders, Dr. Dorothy I. Height, a native of Richmond, Virginia. Dr. Height spent the better part of her lifetime working to ensure that others would have the freedom to accomplish their dreams. As the only woman in the inner circle of leaders of the Civil Rights Movement, her presence provided the much needed female perspective on decisions made in the struggle to achieve equal rights for all Americans.Even though she was on the dais with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. as he delivered his “I Have a Dream” Speech in 1963, her integral role in the movement was not always known to the general public. That role was finally recognized nationally when President Clinton Awarded her the Medal of Freedom in 1994 and Congress awarded her the Congressional Gold Medal in 2004. “Dr. Height was an outspoken advocate for racial and gender equality both before and after the Civil Rights Movement. Her life of social activism spanned eight decades. From working as a caseworker with the New York City Welfare Department to her four decades as president of the National Council for Negro Women to serving as national president of Delta Sigma Theta, Dr. Height’s life has touched countless Americans. Political leaders and heavyweights, such as Eleanor Roosevelt and Presidents Eisenhower and Johnson, regularly sought out her counsel and wisdom. Today’s loss is a heavy one. America owes Dr. Height a heavy debt of gratitude for her lifetime of selfless service to her fellow citizens. Our nation is a better place because of her. She will be greatly missed.” # # #
04.16.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Following the release of the report entitled “Campus Attacks: Targeted Violence Affecting Institutions of Higher Education,” by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Secret Service, and U.S. Department of Education, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, issued the following statement:“In the three years since the tragedy at Virginia Tech, the annual number of incidences of violence on college campus has increased. This is unfortunate given that there is a wealth of information available to help college campuses prevent such violence and effectively respond in the event that it does occur. The Center to Advance Monitor and Preserve University Security (CAMPUS) Safety Act does just that. Identical bills under this title passed the House of Representatives unanimously in both the 110th and 111th Congresses. Unfortunately, the bill lingered in the Senate in the 110th Congress and did not pass and the current bill is on its way to incurring the same fate. It is my hope that this new report will convince my Senate colleagues to quickly act on this legislation.”The report can be accessed online at: https://www2.ed.gov/admins/lead/safety/campus-attacks.pdfH.R. 748, the CAMPUS Safety Act will create a National Center for Campus Public Safety (the “Center”), which will be administered through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. The Center will train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information.# # #
04.12.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott announced today that members of his District Office Staff will hold office hours in Prince George County, Charles City County, and New Kent County on Thursday, April 22nd.Congressman Scott’s staff will be available to assist constituents at the following locations and times:Prince George County11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.6450 Administrative DrivePrince George, Virginia 23875Charles City County11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, Virginia 23030New Kent County1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.County Administration Building12007 Courthouse CircleNew Kent, Virginia 23124The Congressman’s primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. In addition, Congressman Scott’s staff also holds office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M. at the L. Douglas Wilder Center at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov. # # #
03.31.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s decision to allow oil and natural gas drilling off Virginia’s coast: “I am very concerned with the President's announcement to go forward with the previous Administration’s flawed lease sale plan for Virginia. Any lease sale that is to take place off Virginia’s coast should consider the same environmental concerns as those that have apparently protected the West Coast from new exploration. The Commonwealth’s beaches and the Chesapeake Bay should not be put at risk while the public may only enjoy negligible benefits. This plan should also not jeopardize the critical military training that takes place in the Virginia Capes Operation Area. “Any plan that allows offshore oil exploration cannot ignore the significant economic benefits the Commonwealth now enjoys from our beaches, recreational boating and fishing, commercial waterman activities, and the presence of the world’s largest naval base. Furthermore, this nation should be focusing its future energy strategy on clean, renewable sources of energy, not on fossil fuels.”# # #
03.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to expand his constituent services to rural areas of the Third Congressional District, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott announced today that members of his District Office Staff will hold office hours in Prince George County and Surry County on Wednesday, April 7th from 2:00 P.M. to 4:00 P.M.Congressman Scott’s staff will be available to assist constituents at the following locations:Prince George County6450 Administrative DrivePrince George, Virginia 23875Surry CountyAdministrative Building45 School StreetSurry, Virginia 23883The Congressman’s primary District Offices in Newport News, located at 2600 Washington Ave, Suite 1010, Newport News, VA 23607, and Richmond, located at 400 N. 8th Street, Suite 430, Richmond, VA 23219, are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. In addition, Congressman Scott’s staff also holds office hours in Norfolk every Thursday from 3:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M. at the L. Douglas Wilder Center at Norfolk State University, 700 Park Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.For more information, please contact the Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 or the Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845 or visit Congressman Scott’s website at www.bobbyscott.house.gov.
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3590, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010.H.R. 3590 passed by a vote of 219 to 212 (Roll Call No. 165) and will be sent to President Obama’s desk.H.R. 4872, which makes improvements to H.R. 3590 as enacted, passed by a vote of 220 to 211 (Roll Call No. 167) and will be sent to the Senate for further consideration. Senate Majority Leader Reid has indicated that H.R. 4872 will be passed in the Senate without amendment. In addition to health care insurance reform, the Reconciliation Act will also make post-secondary education more affordable. “This landmark legislation will provide better security for those who have health insurance,” said Rep. Scott. “Insurance companies will no longer be able to unjustifiably increase rates, discriminate based on gender or salary, or drop coverage when it is needed the most. It also provides affordable coverage for those who do not have insurance now, including those who have been denied coverage due to pre-existing conditions. “These reforms will also significantly reduce the costs of insurance for small businesses. “The bill is fully paid for; in fact it will yield savings which will help balance the budget.” For more information on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 please click here. # # #
03.19.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – After reviewing the text of H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 and the Congressional Budget Office’s analysis of the cost savings, Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) has decided to support this legislation. The legislation is the culmination of many months of work to make health care more affordable and accessible.Health care costs are rising, faster than inflation or wages. In addition, 14,000 people are losing their insurance each day. Policies are often cancelled or benefits rescinded when people get sick and need the coverage the most. People with pre-existing conditions are routinely denied coverage. Small businesses have been hit the hardest, and employees in small businesses pay an average of 18% more in premiums than those in large firms for the same benefits.Rep. Scott released the following statement:“This legislation is a win for American families, small businesses, seniors, and children, and it is a win for American taxpayers. It will provide access to insurance for 32 million Americans, end arbitrary rate hikes, and eliminate discrimination based on pre-existing conditions. It offers relief to those who need it most by providing a $250 rebate for Medicare Part D beneficiaries who fall into the “donut hole”; tax credits for small businesses; an option for youth up to age 26 to remain on a parent’s policy; elimination of lifetime and annual caps on coverage; preventive care without co-pays; and caps on out-of-pocket expenses. Moreover, the bill is fiscally responsible, reducing the nation’s deficit by over $1.3 trillion in the first 20 years.“This is a historic step in improving health insurance coverage for Americans and controlling costs. This is an important step, but it will not be the only one. We will continue to work to increase access and affordability. But this legislation puts us on a new path where the American people will no longer be at the mercy of an unregulated health insurance industry.”The final text of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and the Reconciliation Act are available on Congressman Scott’s website and can be accessed by clicking here.# # #
03.02.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott announced today that he will host a Job Fair at the Hampton Roads Convention Center on Monday, March 8, 2010 from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Over sixty employers, including the Federal government, local municipal governments, and private companies, will be represented at the fair. There will also be several workshops which will give attendees tips on how to write resumes and pointers on how to polish their interviewing skills.“Since the enactment of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act last year, Congress and the Obama Administration have brought the economy back from the brink,” said Rep. Scott. “Although the Recovery Act has created more than 1 million jobs, unemployment still remains high. This Job Fair will provide an excellent opportunity for citizens of the Third Congressional District to meet and visit with area employers who are hiring.”The Hampton Roads Convention Center is located at 1610 Coliseum Drive, Hampton, Virginia 23669. For more information, please contact Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
02.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs announced today that the Hampton Veterans Affairs Medical Center will receive additional funds for targeted upgrades and improvements through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The additional funds will allow the hospital to replace fire alarm and nurse call systems at the medical center. “These additional funds for the Hampton V.A. Hospital will go along way towards enhancing and improving the benefits our veterans have earned,” said Congressman Scott. “In addition, these Recovery Act funds will benefit the local Hampton Roads economy by providing local veteran-owned small businesses with much needed work.”The $1.5 million project will pay for upgrades to fire alarm and nurse call systems in a number of patient care areas at the Hampton VA Medical Center. The contract was awarded to Adira Construction, Inc., a small, Veteran-owned business in Chesapeake, Va. In addition, the Hampton Medical Center will complete an electrical upgrade project estimated at $6.2 million.Another provision of the law allowed VA to hire nearly 2,300 benefits claims processors, an important move that will reduce the time Veterans wait for a decision on claims for compensation and pensions, education and home loan guaranty benefits.Companies interested in VA-related contracts can get information at www.va.gov or by calling Centralized Acquisition at (757) 722-9961, ext. 3113.# # #
02.19.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) is leading a Congressional Delegation to Haiti today, to review and assess the needs of the on-going humanitarian operation there. Other members in the delegation are Representatives Michael Burgess (R-TX-26), Dennis Kucinich (D-OH-10), Michael Capuano (D-MA-8), and Gwen Moore (D-WI-4). “This trip will provide an important opportunity for five Members of Congress to witness the ongoing relief efforts in Haiti,” said Rep. Scott. “Americans have donated hundreds of millions of dollars to charities and thousands of American civilian and military personnel are on-the-ground assisting the Haitian people. The trip will allow us to assess what else Congress can to do to support the recovery in Haiti.”The website for more information on what can be done to help the victims of the earthquake is www.usaid.gov. U.S. efforts are being coordinated through the United States Agency for International Development in cooperation with other federal, state, and local agencies. Haitian citizens in the U.S. attempting to contact relatives can call 1-888-407-4747. # # #
02.18.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the announced settlement in the Black Farmers Lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Agriculture:"I applaud President Obama, Attorney General Holder and Secretary Vilsack for finally bringing to an appropriate resolution the long legacy of shame in this country's treatment of Black farmers. This settlement fulfills the legislative framework we passed last Congress, with then Senator Obama's help, to allow Black famers left out of the original Pigford discrimination settlement an opportunity to have their claims heard on the merits. Now Congress, which made a down payment on the settlement last Congress, must do its part in appropriating the funds needed to assure that this matter can be completed in a just manner."Earlier today, President Barack Obama issued the following statement on the settlement:“My Administration is dedicated to ensuring that federal agencies treat all our citizens fairly, and the settlement in the Pigford case reflects that commitment. I applaud Secretary Vilsack for his efforts to modernize operations at the USDA, as well as the work of the Justice Department in bringing these long-ignored claims of African American farmers to a rightful conclusion. I look forward to a swift resolution to this issue, so that the families affected can move on with their lives.”# # #
01.30.2010	WASHINGTON, DC - Hampton Roads' Congressmen Glenn Nye (VA-02), Rob Wittman (VA-01), Randy Forbes (VA-04), and Bobby Scott (VA-03) issued the following statement concerning the 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). "There have been conflicting news reports about the contents of the upcoming QDR, and it would be inappropriate to comment on specific provisions of the document until it is formally released to Congress with the Department of Defense budget request."The Navy has never demonstrated a clear strategic rationale for spending up to $1 billion to create a redundant East Coast homeport at a time when other crucial priorities are going unfunded."This is the beginning of the process, and the QDR is just one planning document that Congress will evaluate as we develop the Fiscal Year 2011 defense authorization and appropriations bills."As members of the bipartisan Hampton Roads delegation, we look forward to working together to thoroughly review all of our critical national security priorities, and making sure we spend our defense dollars wisely and responsibly."Nye, Wittman and Forbes are members of the House Armed Services Committee, which is responsible for passing the annual Defense Authorization bill. Scott is a member of the House Budget Committee.# # #
01.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott released the following statement today in response to the Earthquake in Haiti:"My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims of this horrible tragedy, their friends and families. Across this country and the world, people are ready and willing to help. At this stage, the information on the ground is still unknown, and until authorities can get a grasp on what is needed, "in kind" donations have been discouraged. "For more information on what you can do to help the victims of the earthquake, you can go to www.usaid.gov. The United States efforts are being coordinated through the United States Agency for International Development in cooperation with other federal, state, and local agencies. Haitian citizens in the U.S. attempting to contact relatives can call 1-888-407-4747." # # #
12.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-3) introduced H.R. 4326, the Attorney-Client Privilege Protection Act. House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI-14) and the Committee's Ranking Minority Member, Lamar Smith (R-TX-21), cosponsored the bill together with Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY-8), William Delahunt (D-MA-10), Daniel Lungren (R-CA-3), and Howard Coble (R-NC-6). This bill is designed to address the government's use of what are called "coercive waivers" to gain access to privileged communications that otherwise would remain private and protected under the doctrine of attorney-client privilege. In 2008, the Department of Justice issued new guidelines to address many of the prior concerns about placing corporate defendants at greater risk of prosecution if they seek to rely upon their attorney-client privilege. However, these guidelines do not govern agencies outside that Department, and the bill's sponsors believe the entire Executive Branch should be bound by a uniform policy in this area. This bill is introduced to impose such a uniform policy. "The federal government needs to have a uniform policy respecting the attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine, which are fundamental to our system of justice and must not be eroded," stated Congressman Scott. "The bill we have introduced will establish such a policy for all federal departments and agencies." "The government should not coerce any organization to waive its attorney-client privilege. I'm pleased at the bipartisan support for this bill," said Committee Chairman Conyers."The Justice Department's 2008 guidelines have proven to be an appropriate and workable balance between federal investigative authority and corporate attorney-client privilege," stated Ranking Member Lamar Smith. "Congress must ensure that the same rules apply to all federal agencies to provide uniformity to federal investigations."# # #
12.17.2009	RICHMOND, VA - Congressmen Eric Cantor (VA-07), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), and J. Randy Forbes (VA-04), sent a letter yesterday to Gale D. Rossides, Acting Assistant Secretary, Transportation Security Administration, requesting reimbursement to the Capitol Region Airport Commission for the installation of the TSA's explosive detection system at the Richmond International Airport (RIC). In addition, the Congressmen are asking to be briefed by the TSA on the status of its reimbursement program and timeframe for paying back RIC. This is not the first request made to the TSA requesting reimbursement by members of the Virginia Congressional Delegation.Cantor and Scott made the following comments: "The Richmond International Airport plays a vital role to the Greater Richmond economy," said Cantor. "RIC took it on good faith that the TSA would be true to their word and reimburse RIC for their investment in a state-of-the-art baggage security system. Five years later, that pledge has not been met. It's time that the TSA pay back Richmond Airport." "Richmond International is long overdue for a reimbursement from the TSA for federally mandated improvements the airport incorporated in its improvement plans. Congress has authorized the TSA to provide this reimbursement. I will continue to work with my colleagues that represent the Richmond area in Congress to ensure that Richmond International finally gets this reimbursement," concluded Scott. Full letter is below. Please click here for a PDF copy. ### December 16, 2009 The Honorable Gale D. RossidesActing Assistant SecretaryTransportation Security Administration601 South 12th StreetArlington, VA 22202Dear Assistant Secretary Rossides:We are writing to urge the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to reimburse the Capital Region Airport Commission for the installation of the TSA's explosive detection system (EDS) at the Richmond International Airport.In 2004, the Richmond International Airport was planning to rebuild its terminal, including the baggage system. We understand that the TSA asked Richmond to construct the TSA's in-line explosive detection system while the airport was reconstructing the baggage system. Although the TSA did not have funds available at the time, it advised Jon Mathiasen, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Capital Region Airport Commission, that the TSA would include the airport's funding request in future budget deliberations. The Richmond Airport agreed to cooperate with the TSA, built the TSA's system, and completed the work in 2007, more than two years ago.Despite the Richmond Airport's repeated requests, the TSA has still not provided reimbursement. In an October 5, 2007 letter to Mr. Jon Mathiasen, the TSA stated that it would establish a timeframe for its reimbursement program in early Fiscal Year 2008. The TSA did not do this. In a May 7, 2008 letter to Mr. Mathiasen, the TSA stated that it planned to establish a timeframe in Fiscal Year 2009. In an October 15, 2008 letter to Jon Mathiasen, the TSA stated that it was "actively working" on a reimbursement program. Fiscal Year 2009 has ended, yet the TSA has neither reimbursed the Richmond Airport nor advised the Richmond Airport of when it will be reimbursed.As the TSA has acknowledged, the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 gave the TSA the authority to reimburse the Richmond Airport. During the past several years, Congress has provided the TSA substantial funding for EDS installation work. Thus, the TSA has had both the authority and the funding to reimburse Richmond.The Richmond Airport worked in partnership with the TSA to support the TSA's baggage screening program and the TSA has benefitted from the airport's efforts for more than two years without paying for Richmond's work. We urge the TSA to resolve this matter by reimbursing the Richmond Airport without further delay. We also request a briefing from the TSA on the status of its reimbursement program and the timeframe for reimbursing the Richmond International Airport. We appreciate a prompt response to this request. Thank you. Sincerely,/S/ Eric Cantor (VA-07)Member of Congress /S/Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03)Member of Congress /S/Randy Forbes (VA-04)Member of Congress
12.16.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1110, the "Preventing Harassment through Outbound Number Enforcement Act of 2009" or "PHONE Act", a bill sponsored by Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-3) by a vote of 418 to 1 (Roll Call No. 986). The PHONE Act would provide federal criminal penalties for certain types of caller ID spoofing, which occurs when a caller uses a false caller ID during a telephone call in order to hide the caller's true identity. The bill would prohibit the use of false caller ID information in order to wrongfully obtain anything of value. The bill would also prohibit the use of a person's caller ID without their consent and with the intent to deceive the recipient of the call. The bill would not affect legitimate business or personal disguise of one's true caller ID. Use of a single number or name for multiple callers, "Private Caller", or other disguises where there is no purpose to wrongfully obtain something of value from the person called or where it is not a knowing use of an actual person's caller ID with intent to deceive another, would continue to be legal."This bill is an important means of preventing identity theft and ensuring the privacy of our citizens while allowing continued disguises of a caller's identity for privacy or other legitimate purposes," said Congressman Scott. In recent years, spoofing has become more commonplace, leading to increased security vulnerabilities and identity theft. Spoofing technology has become readily available, either through the purchase of Internet telephone equipment or through Web sites specifically set up to spoof. Because caller ID spoofing can make a call appear to come from any phone number, it has the ability to cause fraud, damaged credit and financial ruin. Call recipients sometimes divulge personal and private information to the spoofer, under the mistaken belief that it is a legitimate call. # # #
12.16.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - On Saturday, the New Kent County, Virginia Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) awarded Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-3) with the Congressman of the Century Award. According to the New Kent NAACP, the award was given to Rep. Scott "As Congressman Of The Century For Your Contribution To Equality And Justice For All Americans."The NAACP, the nation's oldest, largest and most widely recognized grassroots-based civil rights organization, is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year."I am honored to receive this prestigious award from the NAACP. The goals I have accomplished in my public service career are due in part to the hard work and dedication of the NAACP in this Congressional district and beyond," said Rep. Scott. The award was presented to Rep. Scott at the New Kent County NAACP Annual Dinner Saturday night, December 12, 2009, by Branch President Ed Pollard. # # #
12.02.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House Judiciary Committee held a markup of H.R. 1064, the Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention, Support, and Education Act, referred to as the Youth PROMISE Act. The Committee voted to report the bill favorably to the whole House of Representatives by a vote of 17-14. The Youth PROMISE Act provides federal resources to implement evidence- and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and juvenile crime at the local level. It is supported by a bi-partisan coalition of 232 House members and almost 250 national and state juvenile justice, civil rights, education and religious organizations."Today we have come one step closer to helping communities implement evidence-based strategies to address youth violence problems," said Rep. Scott. "With its vote today, a majority of the Judiciary Committee members supported a bill that will reduce crime and save money, and provide our children with the resources and opportunities they need to get on the right track early and stay there. It is my hope that this bill will continue to move through the House and become law so that we can provide our youth with a path that leads to college and the workforce, and not one that leads to gangs, crime, and prison."The bill will next be considered by the House Education and Labor Committee, which shares jurisdiction over the legislation with the Judiciary Committee.# # #
12.01.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement on President Obama's announcement of his strategy for the War in Afghanistan:"I voted in favor of the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists resolution to go after Al Qaeda - the perpetrators of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on our nation. The previous Administration got dangerously off track and diverted our attention and resources into Iraq despite the fact that it had no weapons of mass destruction, no connection to 9/11 and posed no imminent threat to the United States. Still, we managed to virtually eliminate Al Qaeda's presence in Afghanistan insofar that published reports indicate there are fewer than 100 Al Qaeda operatives left in Afghanistan, and the vast majority of Al Qaeda's remaining operatives in the region are now in Pakistan. "After exhaustive consideration, President Obama articulated his view that the status quo is not sustainable. His belief is that in order to preserve our national security, we need to send an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan."Members of Congress owe it to the American people to give President Obama's plan comparable time and consideration before deciding whether a stable Afghanistan is a reasonably achievable objective and whether or not an escalation of our troop levels is necessary to accomplish that goal."# # #
11.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-3) attended the groundbreaking of the new Simonsdale Elementary School in Portsmouth. Simonsdale Elementary has been serving the Simonsdale community since it first opened in 1946, and today it educates approximately 315 students from pre-Kindergarten through sixth grade."I believe the best way we as a nation can invest in our communities and in our future is by investing in the education of our children," said Rep. Scott. "By giving our students a strong foundation, a quality education, and making sure they are on track to either complete college or to get a good job, we help to ensure that they will have a productive future. Today's groundbreaking for the new Simonsdale Elementary School is a symbol of that kind of investment."Funding for the construction of the new school comes from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), which funds shovel-ready projects to help boost the economy. Simonsdale Elementary received a no-interest $18 million bond. "The funding made available for this project is a reflection of our federal-level commitment to our economic recovery," concluded Rep. Scott. "It will help create jobs, and it will improve the learning environment for our school children."Portsmouth Schools is one of 30 school divisions in Virginia recognized by the Virginia School Boards Association as a certified green school division, meaning that its schools engage in practices to improve energy efficiency and protect the environment. The new Simonsdale Elementary will be its first entirely energy-efficient "green school" and has been designed to satisfy the requirements of Silver LEED Certification, the recognized standard for measuring building sustainability in the U.S. The "green school" plans include a geothermal heating and cooling system, a green roof to reduce storm-water runoff and help protect the Chesapeake Bay, and a steel frame to better insulate the building.The new two-story school building, which will have a view of the Western Branch of the Elizabeth River, will include a gymnasium and rooms to accommodate art, music and science education. It will serve the old Simonsdale population as well as children from Olive Branch Elementary, a neighboring school. The new Simonsdale Elementary is expected to open to students in 2011. # # #
11.24.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. J. Randy Forbes, Glenn Nye, Bobby Scott, and Rob Wittman, who represent the Hampton Roads region, sent a letter to President Barack Obama in support of Gov. Tim Kaine's request for federal assistance for localities in Virginia that received damage from the Nor'easter that occurred from November 11-15, 2009.Gov. Kaine sent a letter this past Friday requesting relief for residents to both the Small Business Administration and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Virginia did not qualify for individual aid partly because eighty percent of the damage was covered by insurance.In the letter to President Obama the Congressmen state that "We have seen the storm damage first-hand, and it has been devastating for many communities in the Hampton Roads region of Virginia...In fact, some communities have experienced flooding that is worse than the flooding during Hurricane Isabel in 2003."Specifically the lawmakers support the Governor's requests that:1) The Small Business Administration makes emergency low-interest loans available to homeowners and renters in the affected areas because the uninsured damage caused by the storm was not severe or widespread enough for Virginia to qualify for The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)'s Individual Assistance program.2) That FEMA Public Assistance covers eligible costs for damage to public infrastructure, debris removal and related emergency services.3) The release of Hazard Mitigation Assistance for all Virginia localities, which would help local and state governments take actions to reduce the impact of future disasters.Click here to read the full letter.# # #
11.19.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - On November 19, 2009 Chairman George Miller (CA-07), along with Representatives Bobby Scott (VA-3), Dale Kildee (MI-05), Chaka Fattah (PA-02), Danny Davis (IL-07), Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15), Raul Grijalva (AZ-07) and David Loebsack (IA-02) introduced the Graduation for All Act of 2009 (GFA). This legislation creates a three year renewable competitive grant to turn around our nation's lowest performing middle and high schools, and it includes provisions taken from Rep. Scott's Every Student Counts Act (ESCA, H.R. 1569). The provisions from ESCA will require high schools to set ambitious graduation rate goals, and they provide a strong incentive for high schools to dramatically increase their graduation rates. Additionally, GFA also includes a graduation rate calculation taken from ESCA that accurately counts students who drop out of high school. "This legislation will make a strong investment in education, intervention services and resources that are critical to addressing the dropout crisis and turning low performing schools into high achieving schools," said Rep. Scott. "I am particularly pleased that in order to renew their grant, schools will be required to demonstrate decreased discipline referrals and significantly increased attendance, proficiency, and graduation rates by the end of the initial grant period.""Congressman Scott and I know that we can't continue to fail our students, our communities and our nation by allowing this dropout crisis to persist," said U.S. Rep. George Miller (D-CA), chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee. "This bill takes a comprehensive approach to end this epidemic to ensure every student in this country graduates high school prepared to succeed in college and in life."GFA provides targeted support for schools with low graduation rates and high dropout rates. Schools will be able to use funds for proven intervention strategies and programs that increase graduation rates. It also funds initiatives that raise the percentage of students attending and completing college from low-income and underrepresented communities such as dual enrollment programs or early college high schools.The legislation ensures low-income and minority students and students with disabilities are not taught at disproportionate levels by inexperienced, unqualified and out-of-field teachers. It also ensures that students will be engaged in their education and inspired to achieve academic excellence, and it promotes increased engagement of parents and the community.For more information on the Graduation for All Act of 2009, please click here.# # #
11.16.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) will host U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan for a visit to An Achievable Dream (AAD), a Newport News public school, on Friday, November 20, 2009. Secretary Duncan and Rep. Scott will begin with a tour of AAD's elementary school, where they will observe students and teachers in various classrooms. Following the tour, Secretary Duncan and Rep. Scott will hold a roundtable discussion at AAD's middle and high school, where they will discuss ways to improve No Child Left Behind and promote dropout prevention with educators, students and parents. "We are honored to have Secretary Duncan visit Newport News and An Achievable Dream," stated Rep. Scott. "An Achievable Dream is an outstanding model of success, and it demonstrates how all children can excel when they are given the tools and opportunities to succeed. It is a model that may be replicated in other school systems across the country."A quality education for all children has been one of Rep. Scott's top priorities throughout his career in elected office. Currently, he is a member of the House Committee on Education and Labor and is the sponsor of a bill to promote dropout prevention across America called the Every Student Counts Act (H.R. 1569)."This is also a tremendous opportunity to share ideas on ways to work together to improve No Child Left Behind and reduce the dropout crisis in America. I look forward to hearing from educators, students and parents and to our discussion with the Secretary," Rep. Scott said."Congressman Scott has been a tireless advocate for our nation's school children and I applaud his years of leadership on education issues in the Congress. I'm looking forward to visiting with him and learning more about what local schools are doing to boost student achievement," stated Secretary Duncan. The tour will begin at 12:00 p.m. at AAD's elementary school located at 726 16th Street in Newport News. The roundtable discussion will take place at 1:00 pm at AAD's middle and high school located at 5720 Marshall Avenue in Newport News. Press is invited.# # #
11.07.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, by a vote of 220-215 (Roll Call No. 887). The legislation will lower health care costs, provide access to care for 36 million Americans, and provide a public option for consumers to help encourage competition among insurers and drive health costs down."I am proud to vote in favor of historic health insurance reform legislation that gives Americans more choice in their health insurance options and gives security to those who have currently have coverage," said Rep. Scott. "Since 1987, the average family health insurance policy has risen from 7% of median family income to 17%. Sky-rocketing health care costs are hurting families and forcing businesses to cut or drop health benefits. Americans are losing coverage at a rate of 14,000 a day. Continuing on this path is not an option."Rep. Scott continued, "Both Democrats and Republicans agree that expanding coverage and lowering costs are central tenants of reform. We also agree that people should not be denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions. But implementing these changes requires us to make tough choices, including mandates and subsidies and other measures that will actually make affordable health care available for millions of Americans. And though Republicans support expanding coverage and bringing down health care costs, they are not willing to offer a bill that will actually achieve these goals or address these priorities. They have been unable to provide a viable alternative that reduces the number of uninsured, increases accessibility of health care, controls skyrocketing costs, or addresses the denial of coverage based on pre-existing conditions. The Affordable Health Care for America Act makes the tough choices and addresses all the priorities that we know are essential to expanding care and lowering costs. This legislation will put us on a new path where health care will be affordable to all and not just a luxury for some."For more information on the Affordable Health Care for America Act, please click here.# # #
10.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House Judiciary's Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security held a hearing on "Racial Disparities in the Criminal Justice System." Several leading criminal justice experts including Barry Krisberg, President of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency, Marc Mauer, Executive Director of The Sentencing Project and Wayne McKenzie, Director of the Prosecution and Racial Justice Program at the Vera Institute of Justice testified about the on-going racial disparities that exist in the justice system.In the United States, Blacks, Hispanics and Native Americans are overrepresented at every stage of the criminal justice system compared to Whites. Racial disparities increase rather than diminish as offenders move further into the system. Several of today's witnesses testified that racial disparities are exacerbated by "tough on crime" policies such as mandatory minimum sentencing and school zone drug laws which have lead to disproportionate numbers of African Americans being incarcerated in this country.Congressman Bobby Scott, Chairman of the Subcommittee, noted "the tragedy is that the money being spent to lock people up could be used for more productive purposes such as keeping young people out of trouble. There has never been a greater need to invest in our youth and prevent crime from happening." In response to the need to invest in young people, the Crime Subcommittee reported the Youth PROMISE Act to the full Committee. The Youth PROMISE Act, introduced by Congressman Scott, will provide local communities with the resources to implement evidence and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and crime.# # #
10.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement on Interior Secretary Ken Salazar's announcement of approving the construction of the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial on the National Mall: "I am very pleased with Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar's announcement approving the construction of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial on the National Mall today. This marks a giant step in erecting a lasting monument for Dr. King on the National Mall. It is my hope that this monument will be a site for generations of visitors from around the world to come to Washington and celebrate the achievement of civil rights through nonviolent means. The building of this memorial has been a long time coming and it will be a historic day when construction is complete. I want to congratulate Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity for its leadership in the construction of this monument." # # #
10.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03), along with Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (MI-14) and Representatives Steve Cohen (TN-09), Mel Watt (NC-12), Bill Delahunt (MA-10), Linda Sanchez (CA-39) and Hank Johnson (GA-04), introduced the Civil Access to Justice Act of 2009. The main purpose of this legislation is to reauthorize the Legal Services Corporation Act, which has not been reauthorized by Congress since 1977. A companion bill was introduced by Senator Tom Harkin (IA) earlier this year."I am pleased to introduce this bill which will, for the first time in over 30 years, reauthorize the Legal Services Corporation statute," Rep. Scott stated. "The Legal Services Corporation provides local organizations with funds to provide low-income people with legal representation. Although the program is still useful to those it serves, it needs to be reauthorized to address current needs. Over 30 years ago, I was the founding Chairman of the Board of Peninsula Legal Aid Center, Inc, so I am aware of the need for resources to make a legal services program fully operational. In this bill, we are seeking to ensure that the Legal Services Corporation has the resources required to help those in need."The Civil Access to Justice Act makes several changes to the Legal Services Corporation (LSC) statute that will administer the program more efficiently and effectively. First, the bill increases the yearly authorization to $750 million, which matches the amount (adjusted for inflation) appropriated in 1981, the high-water mark for LSC funding. LSC's current $390 million appropriation is well below the amount needed to adequately fund the program.Additionally, the bill lifts most of the restrictions placed on the program through past appropriations bills, including collecting attorneys' fees, permitting legal aid attorneys to bring class-action suits, and allowing lobbying with non-federal funds. In the spirit of compromise, the bill does maintain the prohibition on abortion related litigation and incorporates some limits on whom LSC-funded programs can represent, including prisoners challenging prison conditions and people convicted of illegal drug possession in public housing eviction proceedings. The bill also provides for more effective administration of LSC.Overall, the Civil Access to Justice Act will ensure that those who need civil legal representation will receive them. # # #
09.24.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the Hampton Roads Congressional Delegation teamed up to advocate for maintaining the permanent force structure of 11 aircraft carriers. Congressmen Wittman, Nye, Scott and Forbes sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, citing concern over recent reports suggesting that Pentagon officials are contemplating a reduction in the nation's aircraft carrier fleet as part of the upcoming Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR).In the letter, the Congressmen cited their support of Secretary Gates' recommended changes to future aircraft carrier construction schedules and his reiteration of the requirement for an 11 carrier force structure until at least 2040 as part of his presentation of the Fiscal Year 2010 DOD Budget Rollout.The Members further noted that, "in recent years, Congress has approved several requests by the Navy for legislative relief in the deactivation and retirement of aging aircraft carriers. These requests led Congress to revise the original 12 carrier minimum and include the current 11 carrier minimum in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007. However, we strongly believe that any further reductions below the current statutory minimum are not in our best national security interest."Congressman Rob Wittman, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee and is the Ranking Member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, said: "Our current carrier structure allows us the agility to maintain a worldwide presence and react efficiently to threats as they develop. Further reductions in carriers would hinder our reaction speed and place an increased burden on our sailors and marines around the globe."Congressman Glenn Nye, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the House Veterans Affairs Committee, said: "Here in Hampton Roads, we understand the crucial role of aircraft carriers in keeping our country safe and protecting American interests abroad. We cannot afford to limit our ability to respond to new and uncertain threats, assist in humanitarian missions, or to support our troops in harms' way."Congressman Scott said: "The strategic cost associated with these proposed reductions outweigh any anticipated savings and in today's climate, we should not take this risk."Congressman Forbes said: "The Aircraft carrier has been the foundation of our national strategy and one of the most effective tools in protecting our national interests across the globe.Reducing our carrier force would only remove vital security options and opportunities from the table. Perhaps even more concerning though, is that the Administration is considering these reductions without a long-term shipbuilding plan or certification that the budget will meet that plan, and therefore allowing the budget to drive our defense strategy."###Click here toview a PDF version of the letter sent by Congressmen Wittman, Nye, Scott and Forbes.
09.18.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement regarding his vote on the motion to recommit H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act:"Yesterday, the Republican minority proposed a motion to recommit H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act to insert the ‘Defund ACORN Act' into the underlying bill. Although the intentions of the Defund ACORN Act may have merit, I voted against the motion to recommit because I believe the act as written constituted a bill of attainder, which is expressly prohibited by Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution which states, "No bill of attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.""The Supreme Court in Cummings v. Missouri (1867) defines a bill of attainder as ‘a legislative act which inflicts punishment without a judicial trial.' The Court further expounded on the meaning of bills of attainder in U.S. v. Lovett (1946) stating, ‘Legislative acts, no matter what their form, that apply either to named individuals or to easily ascertainable members of a group in such a way as to inflict punishment on them without a judicial trial, are bills of attainder prohibited by the Constitution.' The Defund ACORN Act denies federal funds to any organization currently under federal indictment for certain crimes and any organization that employs a person indicted for these crimes. If this broad language had been the extent of the Act, ACORN could have been denied funds, and the Act would not have been a bill of attainder. However the bill went further by specifically naming ACORN as an organization to be punished under the Act, without any finding of fact. By these standards, I believe the Defund ACORN Act constitutes a bill of attainder, and Congress does not have the constitutional authority to pass such a bill."The Framers of the Constitution agreed that Congress should not have the power to single out any individual or group of individuals and punish them. While I agree with many that certain ACORN chapters have been recently exposed engaging in despicable behavior, I believe the prosecution of and punishment for any laws broken by ACORN is the duty of law enforcement and our judicial system. To have the U.S. House of Representatives circumvent that process, or to superimpose themselves into it for political purposes, is to undermine the constitutional freedoms afforded all Americans."###
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009 (SAFRA), which makes the single largest investment in Pell grants and student loans in history and provides resources to other education programs. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 253 to 171 (Roll Call No. 719). Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) voted in favor of the legislation."This bill will help more children arrive ready for kindergarten, give more students opportunities to attend college, and provide workers with new skills to match the needs of our business community," said Rep. Scott. "I am particularly pleased that programs that help students complete college, such as the TRIO programs, will also benefit from this bill." The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009 reforms the system of federal student loans to save taxpayers $87 billion dollars over the next ten years. The savings are derived by eliminating the Federal Family Education Loan Program through which the government pays subsides to private lenders. Instead, all federal student loans will originate from the Federal Direct Loan program. Seventy Seven billion dollars will be invested back into education programs and the remaining $10 billion will go to the Treasury Department to help reduce the Federal deficit.The legislation increases the maximum Pell Grant from $5,350 in 2009 to $5,550 in 2010 and $6,900 in 2019 and continues the interest rate reduction on federal student loans enacted in 2007. Additionally, the legislation provides funds on a competitive grant basis to programs that are proven to increase the number of students accessing and completing their post-secondary education such as the TRIO programs (including Upward Bound and Student Supportive Services). Moreover, the bill invests over $2.55 billion in Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Serving Institutions over a period of ten years.The bill also ensures that the next generation of students will enter kindergarten with the skills they need to succeed in school by creating an Early Learning Challenge Fund grant. This grant program will help increase the number of low-income children entering kindergarten by reforming the early learning system for children from birth through age five. Furthermore, it will establish a system of research-based programs and measures for addressing early learning environments, the quality of early education staff, research based curricula and program effectiveness.# # #
09.11.2009	HAMPTON, VA - Three Hampton Roads members of Congress are teaming up to make the case that Langley Air Force Base would make an ideal home for an additional squadron of F-22s, as well as a future base for F-35s and other emerging Air Force missions.In a letter to Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley, Congressmen Glenn Nye, Rob Wittman, and Bobby Scott urge the Air Force to take advantage of the "unique capabilities that are currently based at LAFB," and to ensure that "those assets are fully utilized." The bipartisan letter notes the recent decline in economic impact from Langley, calling it a "troubling trend" that is directly linked to personnel and force structure reductions in recent years.The letter continues: "While our concerns about the economic impact of such changes on the region are significant, we recognize and appreciate that both the Air Force and the Department of Defense are faced with enormous challenges in the current budgetary environment. However, we also believe that LAFB and the personnel stationed there represent uniquely capable assets... and should be more fully utilized." Congressman Glenn Nye, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the House Veterans Affairs Committee, said: "Langley Air Force Base is not only an important part of our community in Hampton Roads, but it is also a key strategic asset to our national security. It makes sense for Langley to be the home base for additional F-22s, and when the F-35 comes online, Langley should be a top candidate for one or more squadrons. This is not a partisan issue, and I will continue working closely with the entire Hampton Roads delegation to advocate for Langley Air Force Base."Congressman Rob Wittman, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee and is the Ranking Member on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, said: "Langley Air Force Base has great potential to take on additional emerging joint and primary missions with its unique capabilities and strategic mission. I am pleased that we are able to have a continuing dialogue with the Secretary of the Air Force and this letter serves as follow up to our last meeting regarding force structure adjustments and the potential economic impact to Langley Air Force Base and the Hampton Roads region."Congressman Scott said: "Ensuring that Langley maintains a robust force structure is not only vital to Hampton Roads but to the strategic goals of the Air Force. On issues of vital importance to our region, the Hampton Roads delegation has a long history of working together. I look forward to working with Congressman Nye and Congressman Wittman on this important issue."The full text of the letter from Congressmen Nye, Wittman and Scott is attached below, and can be found online at https://nye.house.gov/sites/bobbyscott.house.gov/files/migrated/uploads/091109_Langley_Letter.pdf--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- September 11, 2009The Honorable Michael B. DonleySecretary of the Air Force1670 Air ForceThe PentagonWashington, DC 20330-1670Dear Secretary Donley,Earlier this summer, Langley Air Force Base (LAFB) officials released an analysis of the economic impact of the base in the Hampton Roads community. Although the study indicates that LAFB contributes $1.2 billion to the local economy, this total is 25 percent less than the last reported impact of $1.6 billion in 2005. Needless to say, this is a troubling trend that is directly linked to a number of personnel and force structure reductions that have occurred at LAFB over the past several years. On behalf of our constituents who live and work on and around Langley, we write to request your assistance in addressing a number of our concerns about the current and future role of the base.It is our understanding that the reduction in economic impact of LAFB is largely connected to reductions in the number of jobs at the base. Not only did the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round have personnel impacts, but in 2006, the Program Budget Decision (PBD) 720 eliminated 630 jobs at the installation, and in 2008, the AEF Center moved to Texas taking 250 jobs with it. We are also aware that upcoming changes will have additional consequences on LAFB's personnel, including force structure adjustments in FY10 that will close the F-15 squadron at LAFB and cut an additional 399 military jobs, as well as 2012 staff reductions of approximately 360 jobs to establish Global Strike Command.While our concerns about the economic impact of such changes on the region are significant, we recognize and appreciate that both the Air Force and the Department of Defense are faced with enormous challenges in the current budgetary environment. However, we also believe that LAFB and the personnel stationed there represent uniquely capable assets to the Air Force, the Department of Defense, and the nation, and that those assets can and should be more fully utilized.First, we ask that you consider the benefits that would result from basing an additional squadron of F-22s at LAFB. During the 2005 BRAC round, LAFB was ranked as one of the two best Air Force installations in the Fighter Mission Compatibility Indices (MCI). Although LAFB currently hosts two squadrons of F-22 Raptors, the installation has specific capacity for an additional squadron of Raptors, particularly after the F-15 squadron is decommissioned. While we recognize that the Department of Defense intends to procure only 187 F-22s, basing an additional squadron of F-22s at LAFB could provide significant benefits to the Air Force. Not only would additional aircraft at LAFB provide the associated Air National Guard unit with additional platforms with which to carry out the east coast air sovereignty mission, but increasing the number of squadrons at LAFB could result in efficiencies in maintenance and operations of the overall F-22 fleet. We hope you will take this into consideration as the Air Force works through force structure adjustments in the coming months.Additionally, although we recognize that the F-35 Lightning II is still a few years from becoming a widespread Air Force asset, we hope that you will recognize that LAFB's range access and MCI ranking make the installation a good candidate for F-35 basing as well. LAFB's close proximity to ranges at Patuxent River and in the Virginia Capes offshore area provide nearly unparalleled training opportunities for units based at the installation. We also note that future basing of Navy F-35s at Naval Air Station Oceana and aircraft depot maintenance activities at NAS Oceana may provide an opportunity to realize additional joint efficiencies for F-35s at LAFB. In light of these benefits, as well as those of encouraging joint F-22/F-35 training and maintenance activities through co-location, we urge you to consider LAFB for combined F-22/F-35 basing at the appropriate time.Finally, we urge you to consider LAFB for the beddown of other emerging Air Force missions, such as irregular warfare squadrons, cyber-operations and training, unmanned systems, Project Liberty and other Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaisance aircraft, and research and development activities that could leverage the co-located assets of NASA Langley Research Center. We believe that various existing activities at Langley Air Force Base provide solid foundations for the successful beddown of any of these missions at the installation.For example, LAFB currently hosts the Global Cyberspace Integration Center (GCIC), a function that could provide significant support and leverage to cyber-operations units and integration efforts between air and cyberspace platforms. Similarly, ongoing activities at LAFB to analyze imagery could be leveraged to develop an imagery analysis "schoolhouse," an action that could rapidly reduce existing shortfalls of qualified analysts. Emerging regional activities associated with unmanned systems of all types provides additional synergy and may be complementary to the recently released Air Force Flight Plan.We hope that you appreciate that we are aggressive advocates of the unique capabilities that are currently based at LAFB, and our interests are that those assets are fully utilized. We look forward to your response, and to working with you in the future to ensure that - as you once wrote to USAF personnel around the world - "the Air Force will continue to provide world's finest air, space and cyber power."Respectfully yours,Glenn Nye Bobby Scott Robert WittmanMember of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress# # #
09.02.2009	Click Here to download Congressman Bobby Scott's presentation on H.R. 3200, the America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009.
08.26.2009	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) announced today that he will be holding community forums in the 3rd Congressional District to discuss health care reform in the week leading up to Congress returning from its August Recess.Tuesday, September 1, 2009Newport News Health Care Community Forum7:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.Downing-Gross Cultural Arts Center2410 Wickham Avenue, Newport News, VA 23607Congressman Scott will do a brief presentation on H.R. 3200, the America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009. Afterward the Congressman will take questions from the audience. This event is open to the public. Seating will be limited.Wednesday, September 2, 2009WTKR News Channel 3 Health Care Reform Forum with Rep. Bobby Scott7:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.WTKR News Channel 3720 Boush Street, Norfolk, VA 23510WTKR News Channel 3 has invited Congressman Scott to participate in a televised forum on health care reform at their studios in Downtown Norfolk. The forum will be broadcast live on Wednesday, September 2, 2009 from 7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on WTKR and will continue streaming live on WTKR's website until 8:30 p.m. For more details on this event, please visit WTKR's website. Seating will be limited.Thursday, September 3, 2009Richmond Health Care Community Forum 7:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.General Assembly BuildingHouse Room D910 Capitol StreetRichmond, VA 23219Congressman Scott will do a brief presentation on H.R. 3200, the America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009. Afterward the Congressman will take questions from the audience. This event is open to the public. Seating will be limited.For more information on these events, please contact Congressman Scott's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
08.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott issued the following statement today on the passing of Senator Edward M. Kennedy:"Today our nation has lost one of its greatest public servants. Throughout his more than four decades in the United States Senate, Senator Kennedy was a champion for the American people. His legislative legacy includes the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Early Head Start Program, the State Children's Health Insurance Program and raising the federal minimum wage for millions of American workers."Last year, in spite of his personal health challenges, Senator Kennedy worked tirelessly to elect Barack Obama our nation's 44th President, because he felt President Obama embodied the same spirit, hopes and dreams that the Kennedys have represented for over a generation. His absence on Capitol Hill will be especially felt as Congress and President Obama work towards one of his most important life goals - providing affordable access to health care for all Americans. I offer my condolences to Senator Kennedy's wife Vicki, my friend and colleague Congressman Patrick Kennedy and the entire Kennedy family."# # #
08.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott addressed the Virginia Retail Loss Prevention Conference in Norfolk, Virginia last Thursday, August 20, 2009 concerning his efforts to focus attention on the issue of Organized Retail Crime. "Organized Retail Crime is a growing problem that puts consumers at risk and costs retailers billions of dollars," said Scott. "Congress is examining this problem and considering ways to effectively deter its growth and to protect consumers from harm." Scott, who is the Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, said that the Subcommittee is developing a hearing for this fall which will focus on federal law enforcement's role in combating Organized Retail Crime and what they can do in the future to focus more attention and resources on this problem.Organized Retail Crime involves sophisticated criminal networks made up of many individuals who steal large quantities of goods from retailers and sell the goods for profit though pawn shops, flea markets and increasingly on the Internet. Experts estimate organize retail crime losses in the tens of billions of dollars annually.When stolen goods are mishandled or altered, the health and safety of end users can be jeopardized. In most cases, consumers are unaware of the unlawful source of the products purchased from anonymous sellers. This is of particular concern when sensitive items such as baby formula, diabetic test strips and over the counter medicine is involved. Recent investigations have uncovered sensitive health and beauty items stored at high temperatures damaging the safety and reliability of the product.Scott has introduced H.R. 1166, the "E-Fencing Enforcement Act of 2009" which would impose reasonable duties on online marketplaces with respect to goods sold by high volume sellers when there is reason to believe items listed for sale were unlawfully acquired.At the conference in Norfolk, Scott praised those in attendance, including merchants, law enforcement, and retail loss prevention professionals for their dedication to combating retail crime. Mr. Scott commended the efforts of organizations such as the Retail Alliance, and the Coalition Against Retail Crime, who have focused much needed attention on the problem of Organized Retail Crime.# # #
08.14.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on potential Guantanamo Detainee Trials in Newport News, Virginia:"In a nation of laws, those accused of crimes, including war crimes, are entitled to be heard on the accusations. Our courts have ruled that this principle applies to those held at Guantanamo, so it is necessary to conduct trials for the detainees. Decisions about the manner, nature and conduct of the trials, including where they are to be held, are within the discretion of the Executive Branch agencies charged with enforcing the laws that apply in these cases."Issues of security for the trials, and for all those associated with and affected by them, including the public in the areas near the trials, is of paramount importance and must be fully addressed. To be assured that all security issues are being addressed regarding the prospects of such trials in the areas that may be affected in or near the Third Congressional District, I have asked the Department of Justice to provide me with information to show that the Department is aware of all the issues, and is making all considerations necessary to fully address them, including the sensitive issues associated with the Northrop Grumman Shipyard."# # #
08.06.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the United States Senate's confirmation of Sonia Sotomayor as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States:"I congratulate Judge Sotomayor on her confirmation. Based on her legal and judicial experience, I am confident she will uphold the Constitution of the United States. She will bring a thoughtful approach and important diversity to the Court." # # #
07.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today's significant House Judiciary Committee vote on H.R. 3245, the Fairness in Cocaine Sentencing Act of 2009, will address a twenty year injustice in federal sentencing law. The bill is sponsored by Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott and 32 other members. The bill equalizes the penalties for crack and powder cocaine at the current powder cocaine penalty level. Under current law, those convicted of possessing 5 grams of crack receive the same 5-year mandatory minimum sentence as those convicted of selling 500 grams of powder cocaine; this is referred to as the "100-1 disparity". H.R. 3245 eliminates the disparity."I am very pleased to see this bill pass out of the Judiciary Committee. It will correct a long-standing injustice in our federal criminal justice system. Many have worked hard to get us to this point, including John Conyers, Jr., Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Maxine Waters, Mel Watt, Sheila Jackson-Lee and Charles Rangel, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Many individuals representing national, state and local organizations have also worked hard on this issue, especially Nkechi Taifa of the Open Society Institute, Julie Stewart, Mary Price and Jennifer Stitt of Families Against Mandatory Minimums, Bruce Nicholson of the American Bar Association, Hilary Shelton of the NAACP Washington Bureau, Wade Henderson of the Leadership Council for Civil Rights and Jasmine Tyler of the Drug Policy Alliance to name a few", noted Congressman Scott.The bill eliminates the "100 to 1" disparity by repealing separate references to crack cocaine in the criminal code.Congressman Scott stated that "this legislation will free judges from the frustration of having to sentence crack offenders to a grotesquely unfair sentence for a minor amount of crack cocaine."H.R. 3245 passed out of the Judiciary Committee by a 16-9 vote. The bill now awaits action in the full House. A bill is also being developed in the Senate.###
07.15.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Bobby Scott (D-VA-03) and Rob Wittman (R-VA-01) received a commitment from Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee Acting Chairman Ed Pastor (D-AZ-04) to help restore full funding to the Thomas Jefferson Lab’s 12 GeV continuous electron beam facility upgrade in Newport News, Virginia. As reported by the House Appropriations Committee, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, would reduce funding to the Jefferson Lab project $10 million below the Obama Administration’s request for Fiscal Year 2010.Below is the transcript of the discussion between Representatives Scott, Wittman and Pastor on the floor of the House of Representatives:Mr. Scott. “Mr. Chairman, I, along with my colleague from Virginia, Mr. Wittman, would like to briefly discuss the importance of fully funding the Thomas Jefferson Lab’s 12 GeV upgrade.“This important project received accelerated funding in the Recovery Act and is already providing an economic boost to the Hampton Roads region of Virginia. It is vital that this project receive the Administration’s full request of $22 million. If full funding is not in place for the upcoming fiscal year, due to the stringent controls on how Recovery Act funds are spent, there is little flexibility for the Lab to meet the needs of the construction project without costly schedule delays, or potential elimination of physics-related work“I hope that the gentleman from Arizona will work with me and Congressman Wittman to ensure that this important project is funded at the Administration’s request for Fiscal Year 2010.“I now yield to the gentleman from Virginia, Mr. Wittman.Mr. Wittman. “I rise in support and to echo the remarks of my colleague from Virginia, Mr. Scott.“The Thomas Jefferson Lab is a world leader in nuclear physics research and education. The lab is currently in the midst of a major upgrade to their Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility.“The accelerator upgrade will significantly expand the facility’s research potential and will lead to a greater understanding of atomic particles, the building blocks of all matter. Research at Jeff Lab will continue to expand our knowledge of nuclear physics that lead to many exciting scientific advances.“I respectfully request that the gentleman from Arizona would work to fully fund this vitally important project at Jefferson Lab.Mr. Pastor. “I thank my good friends from Virginia for raising this important issue.“The gentlemen make a persuasive case that the Administration’s request for the $22 million for the Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility is merited.“You have my personal commitment to work with you going forward to see that this project receives the funding it needs and deserves.“I yield back to my good friend from Virginia.Mr. Scott. “Mr. Chairman, I commend my good friend the gentleman from Arizona for this appropriation, and I thank him for his willingness to work with me and Mr. Wittman on this important issue.”###
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 by a vote of 219 to 212 (Roll Call No. 477). Voting in favor of the legislation, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement:“For the last eight years we had an administration that refused to take action on climate change. Today, Congress and President Obama accepted the overwhelming scientific consensus that climate change exists and have decided to do something about it.“The American Clean Energy and Security Act will ensure our carbon emissions are reduced over 80% by 2050 compared to 2005 levels, a benchmark which the scientific community agrees will be necessary to curb climate change. This legislation will also ensure that the United States will make an effective transition to a clean energy economy and achieve energy independence. By investing billions in clean energy technology, this bill will create new jobs and ensure that the United States will be the world’s leader in the clean energy industry, while guaranteeing that American consumers are protected from energy price increases.”# # #
06.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – In reaction to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision this morning regarding Northwest Austin Municipal Utility District Number One v. Holder, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement:“I am relieved that today’s U.S. Supreme Court decision leaves intact Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. The decision validates the hard work of Congress, on a bi-partisan basis, in establishing the continuing need for the Section 5 requirements. Section 5 protects voters by requiring that voter jurisdictions with a documented history of discriminatory voting practices submit planned changes in their election laws or procedures to federal officials or judges for prior approval. This provision has proven to be necessary to ensure that voting procedures and rules won’t be enacted to improperly restrict the right and ability of citizens to vote.”###
06.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD) introduced President Obama’s statutory “pay-as-you-go” legislation in the House today, H.R. 2920. He was joined at a press conference by OMB Director Peter Orszag, House Education and Labor Committee Chairman George Miller (CA-07), House Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt (SC-05), Rep. Baron Hill (IN-09), Rep. Peter Welch (VT-AL), Rep. Allen Boyd (FL-02), and Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03) to discuss the importance of passing this legislation.“I am pleased that we have introduced statutory PAYGO in the House, taking a major step toward restoring a policy that turned deficits to record surpluses,” said House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer. “Democrats are committed to fiscal responsibility, and this PAYGO bill will help us make the choices necessary to invest in critical programs and cut wasteful spending. I look forward to working with the President and our Members to get a strong bill signed into law soon.”“PAYGO is the mechanism that will force us to reach an agreement on paying for health care reform so that we have the best possible insurance system that last well into the future. Liberals and conservatives alike are embracing PAYGO because it will make our nation stronger,” said Rep. George Miller, chairman, House Education and Labor Committee.“Statutory PAYGO works because it reins in new entitlement spending and new tax cuts,” said Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt. “Both tend to be long lasting – easy to pass, hard to repeal. By insisting on offsets and deficit neutrality, PAYGO buffers the bottom-line. Its terms are complex, but at its core, it is a common-sense rule that everyone can understand: when you are in a hole, stop digging.”“We have real momentum now in enacting statutory PAYGO legislation. The President has put his words into action, and those gathered here will continue to work for this shared goal of seriously addressing our long-term fiscal health,” said Rep. Baron Hill (D-IN), Blue Dog Co-Chair for Policy.“A good idea without a way to pay for it is wishful thinking. A good intention without fiscal discipline is a daydream,” Rep. Peter Welch said. “Middle class families work hard to pay their bills. The federal government has a responsibility to do the same.”“Our federal government cannot continue to live outside its means and put our national security at risk by relying on foreign creditors to pay for our priorities,” said Congressman Allen Boyd (D-North Florida). “Reinstituting PAYGO discipline into law is one proven effective tool to rein in spending and draw down the debt, and this bill sends a clear message to the American people that the Democrats in the House are serious about restoring fiscal responsibility to the federal government. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to advance this top Democratic priority.”“It is critical that we reverse the irresponsible fiscal policies of the past eight years,” said Rep. Bobby Scott, a member of the House Budget Committee. “If we do not get the budget in order now, we will not have the resources to fund Social Security, Health Care Reform and education in the future.”###
06.12.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Senate amendment to H.R. 1256, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act by a vote of 307 to 97 (Roll Call No. 335). The bill was passed first in the House on April, 2, 2009, was subsequently passed in the Senate, and will now go to President Obama to be signed into law.Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) voted in favor in the legislation citing its broad, bipartisan support and concerns about the effects an unregulated tobacco industry has on public health.“I support FDA regulation of tobacco products and I cosponsored the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, to ensure that each person is given the right to decide whether he or she wants to use tobacco products while acknowledging the need to prioritize public health,” said Rep Scott. “FDA regulation will establish guidelines so that children, who are not yet mature enough to make decisions regarding tobacco use, will not be targeted in marketing efforts and that consumers will be provided with accurate and scientifically grounded information regarding tobacco products.”The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act is supported by more than 1,000 public health, faith and other community organizations including the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, American Heart Association, American Lung Association, and Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. Furthermore, this legislation is supported by Altria Inc. Group and its tobacco operating companies (including Philip Morris USA Inc., U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company, and John Middleton Co.).# # #
06.12.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, the Youth PROMISE Act (H.R. 1064/S. 435), introduced in the House of Representatives by Representatives Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Mike Castle (R-DE) and in the United States Senate by Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME), received it’s 150th House co-sponsor. In the month since advocates for the bill held a Youth PROMISE Act Advocacy Day on the hill, the bill has picked up 65 co-sponsors, including 11 additional Republican members.The Youth PROMISE Act provides federal resources to implement evidence- and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and crime at the local level. It is supported by over 200 national and state juvenile justice, civil rights, education and religious organizations.Rep. Scott stated that “more members are realizing that the Youth PROMISE Act makes sense and is consistent with the research on effective crime prevention and intervention. As Congress works to rid our communities of youth violence and to be faithful stewards of the taxpayer’s money, it is my hope that more of my colleagues will support this legislation to both prevent crime and save money.”For more information on the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit: https://www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa.# # #
05.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – On Thursday, May 29, 2009, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) was awarded with the 2009 Public Service Award from Society for Prevention Research at their 18th Annual Meeting in Washington, DC.Throughout his career Rep. Scott has championed the use of effective prevention practices, culminating with H.R. 1064, the Youth PROMISE Act. The Youth PROMISE Act provides federal resources to implement evidence- and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and crime at the local level. It is supported by over 200 national and state juvenile justice, civil rights, education and religious organizations, and has 116 co-sponsors in the House of Representatives.Founded in 1991 the Society for Prevention Research seeks to advance science-based prevention programs and policies through empirical research. The international membership of the organization comprises scientists, practitioners, advocates and administrators, and policy makers who are dedicated to the use of science to address problems, issues and challenges pertaining to the prevention of social and public health issues.The Public Service Award is given to an individual or team of individuals in recognition of extensive and effective advocacy, including dissemination and diffusion, for prevention science and science/research-based programs. Previous award recipients have included Senator Tom Harkin, Governor Tom and Mrs. Michele Ridge, and the William T. Grant Foundation senior program.For more information on the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit: https://www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa.# # #
05.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - On President Obama's nomination today of U.S. Appeals Court Judge Sonia Sotomayor, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-3) issued the following statement:"President Obama appears to have selected a well qualified and highly experienced candidate for a position on the U.S. Supreme Court. Currently a Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which sits in New York, Judge Sotomayor has strong academic credentials and extraordinary judicial and life experiences when compared to other Supreme Court Justices, past and present. She served five years as a local prosecutor in New York, seven years as a trial attorney with a law firm, six years as a U.S. trial court and 11 years as a U.S. appellate court judge. As a former prosecutor, litigator, U.S. trial court and current U.S. appellate court judge, Judge Sotomayor brings more federal judicial experience to the Supreme Court than any justice in 100 years, and more overall judicial experience than anyone confirmed for the Court in the past 70 years. In fact, she will be only Justice on the court with any trial court experience. This is important since trial court is where you learn the practical applications of the law."In addition to her more than three decade distinguished career in nearly every aspect of the law, having grown up in a single parent Hispanic household (her father died when she was 9) in public housing in New York City, and then having graduated with high honors from both Princeton University and the Yale Law School, Judge Sotomayor's life is an extraordinary American story."Judge Sotomayor was nominated to the U.S. district court by President George H.W. Bush and to the Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals by President Bill Clinton. This suggests a judicial temperament that will likely be moderate. I suspect her decisions on the U.S. Supreme Court will not satisfy completely neither those who wish to see a more conservative, nor those who wish to see a more liberal, philosophy than reflected by the decisions of Supreme Court Justice Souter whom she will replace."# # #
05.14.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, the Youth PROMISE Act (H.R. 1064/S. 435), introduced in the House of Representatives by Representatives Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Mike Castle (R-DE) and in the United States Senate by Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME), received it’s 100th House co-sponsor this week.In the last two weeks, the cities of Pasadena, CA, Philadelphia, PA, Pittsburgh, PA, and Richmond, VA joined the list of cities endorsing the Youth PROMISE Act and encouraging its passage. They join Los Angeles, CA, Newport News, VA, Hampton, VA, and Santa Fe County, NM as localities that have realized that the best way to deal with the problem of youth violence is to empower localities to implement evidence-based programs that have been proven to prevent crime.Rep. Scott stated that "these localities recognize that the Youth PROMISE Act makes sense, comports with the research on adolescent brain development, as well as the research on effective crime prevention and intervention, and will yield tremendous savings, according to both financial and life quality measures. We hope that all concerned about saving children and communities from the ravages of gangs and violence will ask their Congressional representatives to support this vital legislation to prevent crime."For more information on the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit: https://www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa.# # #
05.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) will announce the winners of the Sixteenth Annual Third Congressional District Art Competition at upcoming receptions in Newport News and Richmond. The Third Congressional District Art Competition was open to all High School students in the Third Congressional District of Virginia. An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Representative Scott has participated every year he has served in Congress.This year’s first place winner will receive the Artistic Honors Scholarship of $1,500 from the Savannah College of Art and Design and will attend a reception in honor of all the winners nationwide in Washington, DC. The first place winning entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the primary tunnel connecting the United States Capitol Building to the Cannon House Office Building for one year, where it will be seen by thousands of people who visit the U.S. Capitol.Representative Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate, a t-shirt and various other prizes at two upcoming receptions in the Third Congressional District.The closing receptions will be held on:Saturday, May 9, 2009 at 2:00pmDowning Gross Cultural Arts Center2410 Wickham Avenue, Newport News, VA 23607Saturday, May 23, 2009 at 1:00pmBlack History Museum and Cultural Center of Virginia3 Clay Street, Richmond, VA 23219Please RSVP to Michelle Dale in Congressman Scott's Newport News office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
05.04.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, the Youth PROMISE Act (H.R. 1064/S. 435), introduced in the House of Representatives by Representatives Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Mike Castle (R-DE) and in the United States Senate by Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME), receives a major boost from localities, juvenile justice advocates and Hollywood.The Youth PROMISE Act has been endorsed by localities throughout the country, including the City of Los Angeles, California; the City of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; the County of Santa Fe, New Mexico; the City of Pasadena, California; the City of Newport News, Virginia; the City of Norfolk, Virginia; and the City of Hampton, Virginia. Resolutions endorsing the Youth PROMISE Act are also currently pending before the City of Portsmouth, VA and the City of Richmond, VA and several mayors from around the country have written letters of support.These important endorsements precede a week of events on Capitol Hill in support of the Youth PROMISE Act.On Wednesday, May 6, 2009 at 6:00 p.m., Representatives Bobby Scott and Mike Castle will host a screening of the film “Crips & Bloods: Made in America” in the South Orientation Theatre at the Capitol Visitor Center. Also attending the screening will be the film’s director, Stacy Peralta, producers Baron Davis and Cash Warren, and Los Angeles City Councilmember Tony Cárdenas. Because space is limited, RSVP for the screening is required. Please call Representative Scott’s Washington Office at (202) 225-8351 to RSVP.On Thursday, May 7, 2009 at 10:00 a.m., Representative Scott will speak at a forum in support of the Youth PROMISE Act, hosted by a coalition of advocate organizations, on Capitol Hill (location TBD).For more information on the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit: https://www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa.# # #
04.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Last year, Congress enacted the new GI Bill for the 21st Century (the “Post-9/11 GI Bill”), which was introduced in the Senate by Senator Jim Webb and in the House by Representatives Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Harry Mitchell (D-AZ). The 21st Century G.I. Bill restores the promise of a full, four-year college education for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, making them part of the economic recovery.The new G.I. Bill program takes affect on August 1, 2009, and on May 1, 2009 veterans can begin to apply for a certificate of eligibility for the new college benefits at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs website https:/www.gibill.va.gov/.Generally, the measure provides up to four years of education benefits at a college or university for individuals with at least 90 days of active duty service on or after September 11, 2001 who have been honorably discharged from service. The benefits are correlated on a sliding scale to years served and to receive full benefits, you must have served on active duty for three years. This program will pay for:<!--[if !supportLists]-->· tuition and fees of up to the maximum in-state tuition and fees at a public institution in your state;<!--[endif]--><!--[if !supportLists]-->· a monthly housing allowance at the location of the school, based on the Basic Allowance for Housing for an E-5 with dependents; and <!--[endif]--><!--[if !supportLists]-->· an annual books and supplies stipend of up to $1,000. <!--[endif]-->These benefits are generally payable for up to 15 years following release from active duty.Click here to download the V.A.'s pamphlet on the new G.I. Bill.# # #
04.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement regarding the April 26, 2009 shooting at Hampton University:“I was saddened to hear about the recent shooting at Hampton University. I would like to extend my deepest sympathies to the victims and their families. This incident is a clear indicator of the need for an information source campuses can access to learn best practices and techniques to keep our campuses safe and how to respond in the event of a campus emergency.”“In the wake of the tragedies of Virginia Tech and Northern Illinois University, I, along with Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX), introduced H.R. 748 the CAMPUS Safety Act of 2009, to create a National Center for Campus Public Safety. The Center will train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information. This bill has already passed the House of Representatives and I strongly urge my Senate colleagues to quickly consider the CAMPUS Safety Act. This bill is supported by the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators. ”Rep. Scott is the Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and also sits on the House Education and Labor Committee. Rep. Gohmert is the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security.# # #
04.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed S. Con. Res. 13, the conference agreement which establishes the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2010, by a vote of 233 to 193 (Roll Call No. 216). Voting in favor of the resolution, Representative Bobby Scott (D-VA-03), a member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement:“The conference agreement reached by the House and the Senate will put our nation back on a path of economic prosperity and fiscal responsibility,” said Rep. Scott. “This budget is a long-term economic plan that includes targeted investments that will create new jobs, help transform our economy with clean American energy, prepare our students for the jobs of the 21st century and reform our healthcare care system to make it affordable for more American families and small businesses.”# # #
04.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Bobby Scott signed a letter, along with other colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee, to Attorney General Eric Holder requesting that he “... appoint a special counsel for the investigation and possible prosecution of any violations of federal criminal laws related to the interrogations of detainees in the effective custody or control of the United States in connection with counter-terrorism operations or armed conflicts in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.” Memos released by the Obama Administration last week reflect the Bush Administration’s legal justifications for its use of various “enhanced interrogation” techniques, including slamming of detainees into walls, stress positions, confinement in boxes, sleep deprivation and water boarding.Rep Scott issued the following statement explaining his reason for signing the letter:“Torture is never justified in a civilized society and use of these techniques appear to show that torture was used. The military acknowledged that torture is not justified as a policy when it held people accountable for inflicting torture at Abu Graib prison. And the FBI appears to have refused to participate in “enhanced interrogation” techniques because of its apparent view that these practices were illegal."Some suggest that torture can be justified if ‘it worked’. That explanation has the same complications as an insanity defense – you have to first admit that you did it."Of course, a major problem with justifying torture because it worked is the fact that you have to start torturing someone before you know whether or not it will work. And despite the claims by former Vice President Cheney that it worked, most reports suggest that there is no conclusive evidence that that torture did work. Moreover, even if it did work to get some information deemed useful, there are reports of many cases in which the victim of torture had no meaningful information to provide."Furthermore, the torture appears to have been more counterproductive than useful, because it became a rallying cry for recruitment of new terrorists and discouraged some of our allies from cooperating with our military efforts. It also undermined our ability to promote international standards of decency."And even if the justification were based on an emergency after Sept 11th, that doesn't explain continuing the practice for years thereafter."The legal memoranda purporting to justify torture seem to have been designed not to provide solid legal opinions, but legal cover for those who knew they were breaking the law. And no one has tried to use the "following orders" defense in over half a century. Obviously, if legal memos were drafted and followed in good faith, it would be impossible to prove criminal intent, but if there were no good faith involved, the fact that some were just following an order known to be illegal would not be a defense."We should hold ourselves accountable to the same policies on torture to which we seek to hold other countries. What would our reaction be if Iran announced it was going to subject the reporter recently convicted of spying to what is condoned in the U.S. legal memo's in order to get her to admit she was a spy?"With all these questions and suspicions of possibly serious violations of law, an investigation seems clearly warranted. Congressional proceedings would not be a proper vehicle through which to try to evaluate the issues, as they would likely devolve into a contentious display of partisan perspectives, and furthermore, we have no ability to actually try a criminal case. A special counsel can investigate and work through the issues to come up with an appropriate determination of whether anyone engaged in serious criminal activity for which prosecution is warranted."# # #
04.23.2009	RICHMOND, VA - Congressman Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Congressman Eric Cantor (VA-07) sent a joint letter today to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood in support of the Federal Railroad Administration’s inclusion of the Southeast Rail Corridor in the Department of Transportation’s recent announcement of a High-Speed Rail Strategic Plan. Both Members of Congress agree that a high-speed rail line between Richmond and Washington, D.C. will provide a sensible and viable solution to the Richmond region’s transportation challenges while creating jobs and billions of dollars in economic development. (Read Full Letter Attached & Below)***MEDIA ADVISORY***Congressmen Scott and Cantor will be joined by Mayor Dwight C. Jones and representatives from Virginians for High Speed Rail and the Greater Richmond Chamber of Commerce tomorrow, Friday, April 24, 2009, at 10:30 AM at the Main Street Station in Richmond, Virginia, to both thank the administration for the inclusion of Southeast Rail Corridor in its strategic plan, and also to call upon Virginia to submit requests and plans through competitive grants to ensure the implementation of this important project. WHO:CONGRESSMAN ERIC CANTOR (VA-07)CONGRESSMAN BOBBY SCOTT (VA-03)MAYOR DWIGHT C. JONESDANIEL PLAUGHER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, VIRGINIANS FOR HIGH SPEED RAILKIM SCHEELER, PRESIDENT, GREATER RICHMOND CHAMBER OF COMMERCEWHAT:PRESS CONFERENCE ON HIGH-SPEED RAILWHEN:TOMORROW, FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 200910:30 A.M.WHERE:MAIN STREET STATION1500 EAST MAIN STREETRICHMOND, VA 23219# # # Letter to Secretary LaHood: April 23, 2009Ray LaHood, SecretaryU.S. Department of Transportation1200 New Jersey Ave, SEWashington, DC 20590Secretary LaHood:We write to you today to support the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) inclusion of the Southeast Rail Corridor in the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) recent announcement of a High-Speed Rail Strategic Plan. As you may know, the existing rail between Washington, D.C. and Richmond, Virginia is of great economic importance throughout our region and we commend DOT’s prompt attention towards establishing final guidance for competitive grants to improve this corridor.The Richmond area is a major economic hub in the Commonwealth of Virginia - home to seven Fortune 500 companies, over 20,000 small businesses, and rated 7th on the Forbes list of top 200 “Best Places for Business and Careers.” There is no doubt that proximity to our nation’s capital plays a major role in the success of our region. Each year, over 5.7 million people visit the Richmond area, generating $1.8 billion for our local economy. However, the transportation corridor between Washington, D.C. and Richmond is widely known as one of the most congested transportation corridors in the country.High-speed rail provides a sensible and viable solution to our region’s transportation challenges. It is estimated that creating a high-speed railway through Virginia will generate as many as 185,500 jobs, as much as $21.2 billion in economic development, and pull nearly 6.5 million cars off the road annually. Providing a high-speed rail service from Washington, D.C. to Richmond will drive economic development throughout our region for many years to come.Private industry has demonstrated an overwhelming interest to partake in high-speed rail, best gauged by a request for proposals, required by the Railroad Safety Enhancement Act of 2008 (P.L. 110-432), which required DOT to seek projects for the financing, design, construction, operation, and maintenance of a high-speed intercity passenger rail system operating within Federally designated high-speed rail corridors. We applaud FRA’s efforts to build on this recent undertaking.As you continue to establish final guidance for a competitive bidding process for high-speed rail projects, we wish to call your attention to the importance of a Washington, D.C. to Richmond line. We believe it is truly an investment in our economic future.Sincerely, Rep. Bobby Scott Rep. Eric CantorMember of Congress Member of Congress
04.16.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, April 17, 2009 at 10:00 a.m., Representative Bobby Scott will hold a press conference at the Southeastern Tidewater Opportunity Project (STOP), Inc. to discuss the impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act on local Community Action Agencies (CAAs) in Hampton Roads. The press conference will take place at 2551 Almeda Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia 23513.Rep. Scott will be joined by the CEOs from the three local CAAs in Hampton Roads: Edith Jones, CEO of STOP, Inc; Reba Bolden, Executive Director of Williamsburg/James City County Community Action Agency; and Wendell Braxton, Executive Director of the Office of Human Affairs, based in Newport News.The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is an unprecedented effort to jumpstart the American economy, create or save millions of jobs, and ensure the United States will continue to thrive in a 21st century economy. The Recovery Act targets $787 billion towards Education and Job Training, Health Care, Science and Technology, Transportation and Infrastructure and tax cuts for low and moderate income families, seniors and veterans. Local Community Action Agencies will receive additional funds through the Recovery Act to develop and expand current programs in three major areas – weatherization assistance, Head Start and youth employment programs. The CAAs will receive an estimated $10 million dollars in additional funding over the next three years to weatherize approximately 700 homes for low-income individuals and families. Increased Head Start funding will enable the CAAs to expand educational offerings to more than 1,000 preschoolers, and family members.New Community Service Block Grant funding will allow the CAAs to hire more than 600 youth in a Summer Youth Employment Program, as well as provide opportunities for approximately 100 adults to receive job training in areas where they can be assured of sustained employment.The CAAs are gearing-up to put their new and expanded programs into operation by June 1, 2009.# # #
04.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) will host two Town Halls in Henrico and Norfolk on the Fiscal Year 2010 Federal Budget next week.Last week, the House of Representatives and Senate passed Congressional Budget Resolutions, which allocate budget authority to the Congressional authorizing and appropriations Committees for the upcoming fiscal year that begins on October 1, 2009. The Town Hall will be an opportunity for Rep. Scott to brief constituents on the budget and answer their questions and concerns.“The budget directly impacts the lives of every American citizen,” said Rep. Scott. “We began the year with record budget deficits, record job losses and the economy in distress. President Obama and Congress are working to put our economy back on track and to return to fiscal responsibility. The budget passed by the House last week does just that.”The Henrico Town Hall will be held on Monday, April 13, 2009 at 6:30 p.m. at the Henrico Theatre. The Henrico Theatre is located at 305 East Nine Mile Road, Highland Springs, Virginia 23075.The Norfolk Town Hall will be held on Tuesday, April 14, 2009 at 6:30 p.m. at Norfolk’s City Council Chamber. The City Council Chamber is located at Norfolk City Hall, 810 Union Street, 10th Floor, Norfolk, Virginia 23510.For more information, please contact Rep. Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.# # #
04.06.2009	NEWPORT NEWS, VA – This afternoon, Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott will host a forum to promote the Youth PROMISE Act. The Youth PROMISE Act (H.R. 1064) was introduced in February by Rep. Scott and Representative Mike Castle (R-Delaware).The community-based approach and focus of the Youth PROMISE Act will be on display this Monday afternoon when Rep. Scott holds a forum on the Youth PROMISE Act at the Cavalier Manor Recreation Center in Portsmouth at 2:00 pm. In attendance will be: school board members and other elected officials, law enforcement officers, representatives from the Boys and Girls Clubs and other social service organizations, health and mental health providers and community-based organizations, including faith-based organizations.The Youth PROMISE Act provides federal resources to implement evidence- and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and crime at the local level. It is supported by over 200 national and state juvenile justice, civil rights, education and religious organizations.The Cavalier Manor Recreation Center is located at 404 Viking Street, Portsmouth, Virginia 23701. The forum will begin at 2:00 p.m. For more information, please contact Rep. Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.For more information on the Youth PROMSIE Act, please visit: https://www.bobbyscott.house.gov/ypa. ###
04.02.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives today considered the Congressional Black Caucus Substitute Budget Amendment to the Fiscal Year 2010 Budget Resolution.CBC Chairwoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA) offered the substitute amendment on behalf of Caucus. The CBC budget builds upon the historic investments made by the President’s Budget and the Democratic Budget, which mirror the same priorities of the Congressional Black Caucus and the Democratic Caucus at large.“President Obama’s budget is a welcomes shift in priorities away from the failed policies of the previous administration,” said Chairwoman Lee. “The CBC budget complements the President’s budget by focusing attention on those most in need.”By investing in education, health care, clean energy, transportation, and our veterans, the President’s Budget and the Democratic Budget are excellent blueprints to continue our economic recovery and return to fiscal responsibility.However, the CBC Budget builds on these investments by immediately repealing the 2001 and 2003 Bush-era tax cuts that benefit the wealthiest Americans and shifts those savings towards Education, Health Care, Job Training, International Aid, Justice, Transportation, and Veterans.“The CBC Budget adopts the successful economic policies of the 1990s, which eliminated the deficit and created surpluses sufficient to pay off the national debt and save Social Security,” said Rep. Scott. “This same economic policy created a record number of jobs. The CBC Budget rejected the Bush-era economic policies that eliminated surpluses, created deficits, and produced the worst job performance since the Great Depression. President Obama’s budget is good, but the CBC Budget invests more in national priorities and still has smaller deficits than the Democratic budget.”Over five years compared to the Democratic Budget, the FY 2010 CBC Budget invests an additional:$18 billion on Healthcare;$17 billion on Education, Job Training and Social Services; $8 billion on Transportation and Infrastructure; $5.5 billion on Justice; $5 billion on International Affairs; and $4.5 billion on Veterans Benefits and Services. The CBC Budget also reduces the Federal Budget deficit by $67.2 billion over five years compared to the Democratic budget. These smaller deficits save the American tax payers nearly $7 billion in net interest on the national debt between 2010 and 2014.The CBC Budget Substitute Amendment failed by a vote of 113 - 318 (Roll Call 190).###Click here to access a breakdown of the FY2010 Congressional Black Caucus Budget.
04.01.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Bobby Scott will be hosting two workshops to provide an overview of the grant opportunities and assistance provisions contained in The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and how local groups can benefit from this landmark legislation. These workshops will be geared towards informing local nonprofit organizations, community groups, and faith groups of the grant opportunities that are available to them through this Act. The workshops will also include summaries of small business assistance provisions, aimed at helping small business in a struggling economy.The workshops will be held at the following times and locations:Tuesday, April 7, 20091:30 p. m. to 3:30 p. m. The Murray Center455 E. Brambleton AvenueNorfolk, VA 23510Tuesday, April 14, 20092:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.W. Henry Maxwell Family Life Center50 Maple AvenueNewport News, VA 23607These events will include representatives from the Department of Education, the Department of Energy, the Small Business Administration, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Each representative will give a summary of opportunities pertaining to their subject matter and be available to answer your questions.###
03.31.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - On Thursday, March 26, 2009, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott received the Congressional Champion Award from the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators (IACLEA). According to IACLEA, the award was given to Rep. Scott “for his strong and steadfast leadership and support for campus public safety in Congress.” Rep. Scott introduced the Center to Advance Monitor and Preserve University Security (CAMPUS) Safety Act which will create a National Center for Campus Public Safety. This bill was passed out of the House of Representatives on February 4, 2009.IACLEA advances campus public safety for its more than 1,200 educational institution members and 2,200 individual members by providing educational resources, advocacy, and professional development services. IACLEA is led by a Board of Directors and managed by a professional staff with headquarters in West Hartford, CT.“I am honored to receive the Congressional Champion Award from the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators,” commented Rep. Scott. “Over the past few years, we have seen numerous tragedies occur at our colleges and universities, including the disastrous events that occurred at Virginia Tech and Northern IllinoisUniversity. I am committed to ensuring that our schools have the best information available on how to keep our campuses safe and secure. A National Center for Campus Public Safety could provide the best practices and models to inform schools on how to respond in the event of a campus emergency. Our students deserve to learn in an environment without the fear of violence. It is my pleasure to work with IACLEA as we strive to keep our campuses safe.”###
03.27.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – On Monday, March 23, 2009, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott received the Distinguished Education Ally in the House award from the United States Students Association. As a Member of the Education and Labor Committee, Rep. Scott has been a leader in the House on many education initiatives.The United States Students Association (USSA) is the country's oldest and largest national student-led organization. It develops current and future leaders and amplifies the student voice at the local, state, and national levels by mobilizing grassroots power to win concrete victories on student issues. USSA believes that education is a right and should be accessible for any student regardless of their socio-economic background and identity.“I am honored to have been recognized as a Distinguished Education Ally in the House by the United States Students Association,” commented Rep. Scott. “I look forward to working with the United States Student Association in the future to ensure that every American child have the opportunity to go to college.”Scott record on education issues:Post-9/11 G.I. Bill, original House sponsor of Senator Webb's Post-9/11 G.I. Bill, the largest increase in education benefits since World War II, bill was signed into law on June 30, 2008.Leader in several Education bills which significantly increased Pell Grants, lowering student loan interest rates, and eliminated the Absolute Priority conditions imposed Upward Bound programCAMPUS Safety Act, Chief sponsor, bill passed 110th & 111th Congress by the House of Representatives, now awaiting action in the SenateYouth PROMISE Act, to promote prevention and early intervention initiatives to reduce youth violenceIndividuals with Disabilities Education ActLead Sponsor of Modeling and Simulation Act, signed into law as a part of the Higher Education Act
03.24.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – On Monday, March 23, 2009, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott received the Distinguished Education Ally in the House award from the United States Students Association. As a Member of the Education and Labor Committee, Rep. Scott has been a leader in the House on many education initiatives.The United States Students Association (USSA) is the country's oldest and largest national student-led organization. It develops current and future leaders and amplifies the student voice at the local, state, and national levels by mobilizing grassroots power to win concrete victories on student issues. USSA believes that education is a right and should be accessible for any student regardless of their socio-economic background and identity.“I am honored to have been recognized as a Distinguished Education Ally in the House by the United States Students Association,” commented Rep. Scott. “I look forward to working with the United States Student Association in the future to ensure that every American child have the opportunity to go to college.”Scott record on education issues:21st Century G.I. Bill of Rights, original House sponsor of Senator Webb's G.I. Bill of Rights for 21st century, the largest increase in education benefits since World War II, bill was signed into law on June 30, 2008.Leader in several Education bills which significantly increased Pell Grants, lowering student loan interest rates, and eliminated the Absolute Priority conditions imposed Upward Bound programCAMPUS Safety Act, Chief sponsor, bill passed 110th & 111th Congress by the House of Representatives, now awaiting action in the SenateYouth PROMISE Act, to promote prevention and early intervention initiatives to reduce youth violenceLead Sponsor of Modeling and Simulation Higher Education Grant Act, signed into law as a part of the Higher Education Act
03.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) and Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) re-introduced the "Every Student Counts Act" to prioritize graduation of all of our nation's high school students and help reduce the high school dropout rate. Nearly 2,000 high schools - roughly 12 percent of all secondary schools in the United States - produce about half of the Nation's dropouts. These so called "dropout factories" produce almost three-fourths of black dropouts and two-thirds of Hispanic dropouts. Additionally, the number of seniors in these schools is routinely 60 percent or less than the number of freshmen three years earlier."The current high school accountability system is failing our students and our future as a nation. Almost one-third of all high school students in the United States fail to graduate with their peers and the numbers are worse for minorities as compared to non-minority students. Nationally, almost half of Black students do not graduate from high school and students with disabilities have the lowest four year graduation rates in the nation," said Rep. Scott."One of the greatest educational challenges we face is bringing down the dropout rate, especially for minorities and children with disabilities," said Senator Harkin. "As children drop out, they face a lifetime of fewer opportunities and lower earnings. Economically, our nation cannot afford to lose one million students each year. Morally, we cannot allow children to continue to fall through the cracks. This legislation puts us on the right track towards turning back the tide of high school dropouts."The Every Student Counts Act will bring meaningful accountability to America's high schools by requiring a consistent and accurate calculation of graduation rates across all fifty states to ensure comparability and transparency. The legislation builds on the National Governors Association's Graduation Rate Compact, which was signed by all 50 of the Nation's governors in 2005.Under the Every Student Counts Act, graduation rates and test scores are treated equally in Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) determinations. Moreover, the Every Student Counts Act would require high schools to have aggressive, attainable and uniform annual growth requirements as part of AYP. This will ensure consistent increases to graduation rates for all students by meeting annual, research-based benchmarks with the long-term goal of reaching a 90 percent graduation rate. The bill would also require the disaggregation of graduation data by subgroup to make certain that schools are held accountable for increasing the graduation rate for all of our students and require that school improvement activities focus on closing any achievement gaps. Recognizing that some small number of students take longer than four years to graduate, the bill will give credit to schools, school districts and states for graduating these students while maintaining the primacy of graduating the great preponderance of all students in four years. The Every Student Counts Act will provide incentives for schools, districts and states to create programs to serve students who have already dropped out and are over-age or under credited. Some credit has to be given to those who get a GED and also those who take more than one or two years and maybe even three years longer than others to graduate. If no credit is given, the school system has no incentive to continue these important programs. Rep. Rubén Hinojosa, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Higher Education, Lifelong Learning, and Competitiveness and an original cosponsor of the bill, commented: "I applaud Rep. Scott for all the work he has done to combat our nation's alarmingly low high school graduation rates. Now, more than ever, the standard must be that every student graduates, prepared for a postsecondary education and the 21st century workplace. The Every Student Counts Act will ensure that we are well on our way toward achieving that goal.""It is my hope that with this bill, we can make great strides toward graduating more of America's students and preparing them to succeed in college and the workforce," concluded Rep. Scott.The Every Student Counts Act was re-introduced in the House with 16 original co-sponsors. The bill is also supported in the 111th Congress by 30 national and state education, civil rights, and advocacy organizations, including National Parent Teacher Association, United Way, America's Promise Alliance, National Association of Secondary School Principals, and National Association of State Boards of Education, among others. That list is expected to continue to grow this Congress.###
03.16.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) attended President Obama's announcement on plans to unlock credit for American Small Businesses, which was held today at the White House. The President announced immediate action to ensure that credit - the lifeblood of America's small business and its economy - gets flowing again to entrepreneurs and business owners. "American entrepreneurship and America's small businesses will help drive our economic recovery," said Rep. Scott. "I commend the Obama-Biden Administration for taking the needed steps to thaw the credit market for small businesses. Small businesses desperately need access to credit to make payroll, purchase new equipment, expand their operations, and create jobs. The plan announced by the President today to expand lending by the Small Business Administration will ensure that small business have the tools necessary to lead the way towards economic recovery."Key components of the President's announcement:Details of a New Effort to Unlock the Frozen Credit Markets for Small Business Lending: The President and Secretary of Treasury announced details of a new and aggressive effort to unlock frozen credit markets for the Small Business Administration's major programs - the 7 (a) program and the 504 program. The 7(a) program allows small business owners to get loans of up to $2 million dollars with a substantial government guarantee. The 504 program is designed to provide a guarantee on up to $4 million in financing for major economic development projects that can be crucial for job growth and community development.Raise Guarantees to Up to 90 Percent in SBA's 7(a) Loan Program: The purpose of the 7(a) loan program is to provide a government guarantee that reduces the risk lenders face when they make loans to borrowers who cannot find credit elsewhere. But during the current recession, the guarantees - up to 85 percent for loans below $150,000, and up to 75 percent for larger loans - have not been large enough to give banks the confidence they need to make these loans during current economic conditions. As part of its implementation of the Recovery Act, the SBA today announces: An Increase in Maximum Loan Guarantees to 90 Percent: Beginning today, any lender who participates in the 7(a) program can request a guarantee from the SBA of up to 90 percent for each loan. This temporary increase in guarantees will provide banks with the greater confidence they need to extend credit during the current recession. A Confidence Boost Lenders Need to Extend Credit: Together with the new efforts by Treasury to unlock frozen credit markets, a community bank will be able to provide 7 (a) business loans knowing they will have a 90% guarantee and that they will be able to sell that loan, so that they have more liquidity - more capital - to make even more loans. Temporarily Eliminate SBA Loan Fees to Reduce the Cost of Capital Elimination of Borrower and Lender Fees for 504 Loans: On any new 504 applications submitted beginning today, SBA will eliminate fees charged to lenders and processing fees charged to borrowers. As a temporary provision authorized by the Recovery Act, these measures will reduce costs to both borrowers and lenders participating in the 504 program, which has a demonstrated record of supporting community development and creating jobs.Elimination of Up-Front Fees for 7(a) Loans: For any new 7(a) loan, the SBA will temporarily eliminate the up-front fees that lenders pass along to borrowers. These fees - which go up to 3.75 percent for larger loans - increase the cost of borrowing for small businesses and make it more difficult for them to access the credit they need to expand or make new investments. For more information, please visit: https://www.whitehouse.gov.(####)
02.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - This morning, President Obama submitted an overview of his Fiscal Year 2010 Budget. The President's full line-by-line budget is expected to be released in late March. Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03), a member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement in regards to the President's budget: "I commend the President for submitting a responsible budget that paints an honest picture of our current fiscal situation. This is a credible plan to reduce the deficit in half within the next four years, create jobs and invest in our future. The President's budget reduces the deficit by calling for the restoration of statutory pay-as-you-go budgeting that was implemented during the Clinton Administration. These budgeting rules led to a balanced budget in the late 1990s."In addition, the President makes important investments in education, healthcare, infrastructure, and our veterans. I was specifically pleased to see that in the overview President Obama renews NASA's commitment to aeronautics research, which will directly impact NASA Langley in Hampton. While the specifics of the President's budget will not be available until late next month, this budget blueprint is an important first step towards getting our fiscal situation under control. As the Budget Committee begins work on the congressional budget resolution, I look forward to working with the Obama Administration to implement these important priorities."-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------The President's Overview of the Fiscal Year 2009 Budget can be accessed online at:https://www.gpoaccess.gov/usbudget/fy10/pdf/fy10-newera.pdf(####)
02.25.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott made the following statement regarding shipbuilding and the upcoming Fiscal Year 2010 budget."There have been a number of stories circulating in the press on funding for defense programs in the upcoming budget. Given that Congress doesn't expect to receive the details of the President's budget until March or April this year, these stories amount to a lot of speculation. While overall defense spending has grown dramatically in the last 8 years, funding for shipbuilding has not seen similar increases. In fact, since 2001, the Department of Defense's top line budget (excluding supplementals) has increased by 80.8% while the Navy's new ship construction budget has increased only 12.2%. In order to meet the Navy's stated requirement of a 313 ship fleet, our nation will need to build an average of at least 12 ships per year going forward. Today's Navy fleet has only 283 ships, so we clearly have some work to do. As Congress prepares to consider the Fiscal Year 2010 budget, I look forward to working with the Obama Administration to ensure that there is sufficient funding for submarines, aircraft carriers, and other warships. Our nation and our navy deserve no less."(####)
02.24.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Virginia Third District Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott made the following comments on the announcement of the retirement of Virginia House of Delegate member Kenneth Melvin: "Delegate Kenneth Melvin has built a reputation as a great man of integrity, a diligent legislator and a dedicated public servant for the people of the 80th legislative district of Virginia. For 23 years, Ken Melvin has done his best to make state government work for all the people of Virginia. I have known him for 30 years. We worked together on many issues while I served in the Senate of Virginia and have continued to do since I became a Member of Congress."You could not find a stronger partner, and for those on the wrong side of an issue from him, a stronger adversary than Ken Melvin."Delegate Melvin had many significant accomplishments as a legislator. His legislation, the Family Access Medical Insurance Security Act, which established health care insurance to assist the Commonwealth's most vulnerable citizens-the children of Virginia- is an example of one of the very positive highlights of his distinguished career.His leadership and legislative negotiating skills will be sorely missed and difficult to replace."(####)
02.20.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - On Friday, February 20, the Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunity Mentoring, Intervention, Support and Education, or Youth PROMISE Act, introduced by Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security of the House Judiciary Committee, was endorsed by the Los Angeles City Council.In a 12-0 vote, the Council passed Resolution #08-0002-S60 sponsored by Former L.A. Chief of Police and Eighth District City Councilman Bernard Parks and Former State Assemblyman and current Sixth District City Councilman Tony Cárdenas. "While we are finding solutions to this economic crisis, we cannot forget about our children who are most vulnerable to crime," said Cardenas. "Mothers and fathers are leaving their children at home to work more hours and more jobs just to make ends meet. I urge Congress to pass the Youth PROMISE Act to help strengthen gang prevention and intervention before the economy gives these kids more of a reason to choose violence."The City Council vote was the culmination of Rep. Scott's trip to Los Angeles. During his trip, Rep. Scott visited juvenile detention facilities, job training and placement centers, alternative schools, and met with public defenders, educators, social service providers, and county executives. These visits highlighted the holistic approach to crime prevention at the heart of the Youth PROMISE Act.The community-based nature of the Youth PROMISE Act will be on display this Monday morning when Rep. Scott holds a briefing on the Youth PROMISE Act at the Richmond Redevelopment Housing Authority's Calhoun Community Center at 9:30 am. In attendance will be: school board members and other elected officials, law enforcement officers, representatives from the Boys and Girls Clubs and other social service organizations, health and mental health providers and community-based organizations, including faith-based organizations.The Youth PROMISE Act provides federal resources to implement evidence- and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and crime at the local level. It is supported by over 200 national and state juvenile justice, civil rights, education and religious organizations.The Calhoun Community Center is located at 436 Calhoun Street, Richmond, Virginia. The briefing will begin at 9:30 a.m.(####)
02.19.2009	LOS ANGELES, CA - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security of the House Judiciary Committee, is in Los Angeles, California this week to promote H.R. 1064, the Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunity Mentoring, Intervention, Support and Education, or Youth PROMISE Act. Congressman Scott and Congressman Mike Castle (R-DE-AL) introduced the Youth PROMISE Act last week with 69 original co-sponsors in the U.S. House of Representatives. Companion legislation (S. 435) has been introduced in the United States Senate by Senators Robert Casey (D-PA) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME).Today at 5:00 p.m., Rep. Scott will attend a public hearing of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gang Violence and Youth Development of the Los Angeles City Council, chaired by Former State Assemblyman and current Sixth District City Councilman Tony Cárdenas. This hearing is supported by 50 agencies endorsing the Youth PROMISE Act, including non-profits, universities, service providers, and governmental entities. The hearing will provide the public an opportunity to address the importance of the Youth PROMISE Act.On Friday at 10:00 a.m., Rep. Scott will present testimony to the Los Angeles City Council on the Youth PROMISE Act, during a session where the Council will debate a resolution sponsored by Councilman Cárdenas supporting the Act. The Council is expected to approve the resolution.While in the Greater Los Angeles area, Rep. Scott will also visit juvenile detention facilities, job training and placement centers, alternative schools, and he will meet with public defenders, educators, social service providers, and county executives. These visits highlight the holistic approach to crime prevention at the heart of the Youth PROMISE Act.The Youth PROMISE Act provides federal resources to implement evidence- and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and crime at the local level. Under the Youth PROMISE Act, communities facing the greatest youth gang and crime challenges will each form a local council with representatives from law enforcement, court services, schools, social service organizations, health and mental health providers and community-based organizations, including faith-based organizations. The council will then develop a comprehensive plan for implementing evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies targeting young people at-risk of becoming involved, or who are already involved in, gangs or the criminal justice system.The Youth PROMISE Act is supported by over 200 national and state juvenile justice, civil rights, education and religious organizations, including Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, the Children's Defense Fund, the American Bar Association, the Parents and Teachers Association, the National Education Association, National Juvenile Defender Center, the Justice Policy Institute, the NAACP Washington DC Office, the American Psychological Association, the Coalition for Juvenile Justice, and the Campaign for Youth Justice, among others.(####)
02.18.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - On Friday, February 13, 2009, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) and Congressman Mike Castle (R-DE-AL) re- introduced the Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunity Mentoring, Intervention, Support and Education, or Youth PROMISE Act. The Youth PROMISE Act was re-introduced with 69 original co-sponsors in the House, 58 more than last year when introduced. Companion legislation was also introduced in the US Senate by Senators Robert Casey (D-PA) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME).The Youth PROMISE Act implements the best policy recommendations from crime policy makers, researchers, practitioners, analysts, and law enforcement officials from across the political spectrum concerning evidence- and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and crime. Under the Youth PROMISE Act, communities facing the greatest youth gang and crime challenges will each form a local council called a Promise Coordinating Council ("PCC"). The PCC will include representatives from law enforcement, court services, schools, social service organizations, health and mental health providers and community-based organizations, including faith-based organizations. The PCC will then develop a comprehensive plan for implementing evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies. These strategies will target young people who are at-risk of becoming involved, or who are already involved in, gangs or the criminal justice system to redirect them toward productive and law-abiding alternatives."During my more than 30 years of public service, I have learned that when it comes to crime policy, we have a choice - we can reduce crime or we can play politics," Mr. Scott said. "For far too long, Congress has chosen to play politics by enacting "tough on crime" slogans whose impacts range from a negligible reduction in crime to an increase in crime. As a result, the United States now has the highest average incarceration rate of any nation in the world and the cost of incarceration in this country has risen to over $65 billion a year. All the credible research and evidence shows that a continuum of evidenced-based prevention and intervention programs for at-risk youth, , will greatly reduce crime and save much more than they cost. This is what the Youth PROMISE Act will do," Scott added.The bill also provides for law enforcement support through "Youth Oriented Policing Services" (YOPS), and a victim/witness assistance program. New provisions of the Youth PROMISE Act this year provide additional grants to high intensity gang localities to reduce or alleviate the effects of gang violence, and grants to localities to fund police and community collaborative programs to provide crime prevention, research, and intervention services designed to prevent crime by at-risk youth and youth gang members."I have long believed that the best way to reduce violence in this country is through prevention, and the Youth PROMISE Act does just that," said Rep. Castle. "We must engage youth in positive ways through education, after school programs, sports, as well as family and community support to keep kids away from the dangers of gangs and other violent activities."The Youth PROMISE Act was supported last Congress by over 200 national and state juvenile justice, civil rights, education and religious organizations, including Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, the National Juvenile Defender Center, the Justice Policy Institute, the NAACP Washington DC Office, the Coalition for Juvenile Justice, and the Campaign for Youth Justice, among others. We expect that list to continue to grow this Congress.(####)
02.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report on H.R. 1, the American Recovery & Reinvestment Act. The conference report was agreed to by a vote of 246 to 183 (Roll Call No. 70). The Senate is expected to vote on the conference report later today before it goes on to President Obama for his signature.The conference report on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will create and save 3.5 million jobs; help state and local governments with their budget shortfalls to prevent deep cuts in basic services such as healthcare, education, and law enforcement; cut taxes for hard working families; and invest in the long-term health of our economy. In addition, the legislation provides for unprecedented transparency and accountability so that Americans will know that their tax dollars are being invested responsibly and efficiently. Americans will be able to track every penny spent under the authority of the legislation on the internet at www.recovery.gov.Voting in favor of the legislation, Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement:"A staggering 3.6 million Americans have lost their jobs since this recession began," said Rep. Scott. "The sobering reality of our current situation is the culmination of the failed economic policies that this nation had to endure for eight years under the Bush Administration. No bill is perfect, but the legislation passed by the House today will help jumpstart our economy by providing tax relief for hardworking American families, helping millions of students pursue a post-secondary education, modernizing our crumbling infrastructure, helping states and localities meet their budget shortfalls, and expanding and improving access to healthcare. The economy shrank by 4% in the last quarter of 2008. Urgent and targeted action is needed to stabilize our economy and the legislation passed today will do just that. "Representative Scott will host two events in the Third Congressional District on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act on Tuesday, February 17, 2009. At 10:00 a.m., Representative Scott will brief local government officials on the provisions of the legislation that will impact the Commonwealth of Virginia and its localities. The briefing will be held at the Downing Gross Cultural Center located at 2410 Wickham Ave in Newport News.At 6:30 p.m., Representative Scott will host a town hall meeting with a panel of experts to discuss the green jobs and clean energy provisions of the legislation. The town hall will be held at the Adult Career Development Center located at 119 West Leigh Street in Richmond.(####)
02.12.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott announced today that he will host a meeting with local government officials on Tuesday, February 17th to brief them on important provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 that will directly benefit localities in Hampton Roads. The final version of the legislation is expected to pass Congress by the end of the week and be signed into law by President Obama soon after."Local governments are facing tough budget choices in the months ahead due to our struggling economy," said Rep. Scott. "President Obama and Congress have crafted a plan to help stimulate the economy by investing in infrastructure, education, healthcare and clean energy. Tuesday's meeting will be an opportunity to brief local officials in my district on what is in the final bill and how the plan affects Virginia."The meeting will be held on Tuesday, February 17th at 10:00 a.m. at the Downing Gross Cultural Center, 2410 Wickham Ave, Newport News, Virginia. For more information, please contact the Congressman's Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.(####)
02.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will host a Town Hall meeting on Green Jobs and Clean Energy in Richmond. The town hall will be an opportunity to educate and inform citizens on new opportunities in a 21st century "green" economy. President Barack Obama's American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan makes substantial investments in green jobs and clean energy.Congressman Scott will be joined by a panel of experts and business leaders on green jobs and clean energy. The panel will include Mr. Karl Bren, founder of Green Visions Consulting; Mr. Michael Schewel, Chair of the Corporate Development Department at McGuireWoods and former Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade; Mr. Glen Besa, Director, Virginia Sierra Club; Dr. Thad Williamson, Professor of Leadership Studies, University of Richmond; and Dr. James Wetzel, Professor of Environmental Economics, Virginia Commonwealth University."Our economy is struggling and President Obama and Congress are making long overdue investments in preparing America for the 21st century economy," said Rep. Scott. "This town hall will be an excellent chance for constituents of the third district to hear from experts and business leaders and learn about green jobs, clean energy and how this growing industry will transform our economy and create new jobs."The Town Hall will take place on Tuesday, February 17, 2009 at 6:30 p.m. at the Adult Career Development Center, 119 West Leigh Street, Richmond, Virginia 23220. For more information, please contact Congressman Scott's Richmond District Office at (804) 644-4845.(####)
02.04.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 748, the CAMPUS Safety Act of 2009, a bill to create a National Center for Campus Public Safety. The legislation was introduced last week by Representatives Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) and Louie Gohmert (R-TX).The CAMPUS Safety Act of 2009 will create a National Center for Campus Public Safety, which will be administered through the U.S. Department of Justice's Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. The Center will train campus public safety agency personnel, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information."After the tragedies at Virginia Tech and Northern Illinois University, I commend the House for passing this important bill that will help keep our college campuses safe," stated Rep. Scott. "The National Center for Campus Public Safety is designed to enable our colleges and universities to easily obtain the best information available on how to keep their campuses safe and how to respond in the event of a campus emergency. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly on this important legislation."Rep. Scott is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the Committee on the Judiciary and also sits on the Committee on Education and Labor.(####)
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The goal of the legislation is to stabilize the American economy and save and create three to four million jobs. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 244 to 188. Voting in favor of the legislation, Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement: “Our economy desperately needs a jumpstart after eight years of the failed economic policies of the Bush Administration that resulted in the worst job growth since the Great Depression,” said Rep. Scott. “President Obama and Congress must act quickly to stabilize our economy. The legislation passed by the House provides for long overdue investments in modernizing our infrastructure, improving education, expanding access to healthcare and transitioning to clean energy. The federal government cannot idly sit by as our nation dives deeper into a recession. If enacted quickly and implemented responsibly, this legislation will help save and create millions of jobs and help stabilize our economy.” A summary of the legislation can be accessed here: https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/legislation?id=0273(####)
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The goal of the legislation is to stabilize the American economy and save and create three to four million jobs. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 244 to 188.Voting in favor of the legislation, Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement:"Our economy desperately needs a jumpstart after eight years of the failed economic policies of the Bush Administration that resulted in the worst job growth since the Great Depression," said Rep. Scott. "President Obama and Congress must act quickly to stabilize our economy. The legislation passed by the House provides for long overdue investments in modernizing our infrastructure, improving education, expanding access to healthcare and transitioning to clean energy. The federal government cannot idly sit by as our nation dives deeper into a recession. If enacted quickly and implemented responsibly, this legislation will help save and create millions of jobs and help stabilize our economy."
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) and Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX-1), re-introduced the Center to Advance Monitor and Preserve University Security (CAMPUS) Safety Act. The purpose of this legislation is to enable our institutions of higher education to easily obtain the best information available on how to keep our campuses safe and how to respond in the event of a campus emergency.The CAMPUS Safety Act of 2009, identical to the CAMPUS Safety Act of 2008, will create a National Center for Campus Public Safety (the “Center”), which will be administered through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. The Center will train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information. “Over the past few years, we have seen numerous tragedies occur at our colleges and universities, including the disastrous events that occurred at Virginia Tech and Northern Illinois University,” stated Rep. Scott. “Unfortunately, because these events were the first of their kind for the schools, the Administrators were not fully knowledgeable about how to respond.” "It is important that while we remember those who were lost or impacted during the recent tragic attacks on our college campuses, we must also take steps to prevent future incidents,” said Rep. Gohmert. “Equipping our higher institutions to be prepared in such extreme emergencies is in the best interest of our students, school staff, and our communities, and this bill will help us to carry out that priority of providing for their safety."Rep. Scott is the Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and also sits on the House Education and Labor Committee. Rep. Gohmert is the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security.(####)
01.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House of Representatives considered House Joint Resolution 3, relating to the disapproval of obligations under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act requires the President to notify Congress of his intent to use the second phase of funding – totaling $350 billion – for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Former President Bush notified Congress on behalf of President Obama last week. In order to block the funds, the House and the Senate must pass a joint resolution disapproving of the distribution of the second phase of funds within fifteen days of the notification. H.J. Res. 3 passed the House by a vote of 270 to 155 (Roll Call No. 27). Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott issued the following statement after voting in favor of the joint resolution: “Today’s vote in the House has no meaning since the Senate already failed to pass a similar resolution last week and therefore the $350 billion will be available for distribution. Nonetheless, I disapprove of releasing another $350 billion for the failed Troubled Asset Relief Program. “The first $350 billion of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, distributed by the Bush administration, was not used as it was originally intended. Additionally, the previous administration failed to limit the use of funds for payment of dividends and excessive salaries, and did virtually nothing to help mitigate foreclosures and keep Americans in their homes. “Earlier this week, the House passed H.R. 384, the TARP Reform and Accountability Act, which would provide for increased oversight of how the remaining TARP funds are used and ensure that at least $40 billion of the remaining funds would be used to assist homeowners in foreclosure. Unfortunately the Senate has indicated that it will not take up this legislation. However, I do hope and expect that the Obama administration will see the legislation as a guide for the use of remaining TARP funds and will use the funds more effectively than the previous administration.”(####)
01.14.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement regarding the United States Navy’s Record of Decision to Homeport a Nuclear-Powered Aircraft Carrier at Naval Station Mayport, Florida: “The Navy’s decision makes no sense. The cost of this relocation is estimated to fall somewhere in the range of $600 million to $1 billion. The Federal budget faces an estimated $1.2 trillion deficit for Fiscal Year 2009 even before Congress enacts President-elect Obama’s Economic Recovery Package. This is not a wise investment on the part of the Navy. Naval Station Norfolk has been the East Coast home to Nuclear-Powered Aircraft Carriers for over 45 years. The Navy did not see this relocation as necessary during the height of the Cold War and there is no strategic advantage to this relocation today. I look forward to working with the entire Virginia Congressional Delegation and the new Administration to resolve this issue.”(####)
01.14.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) voted in favor of H.R. 2, a bill that reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP): “Today the US House made a positive step in the goal of covering all of our nations’ children with health insurance. This re-authorization secures the coverage of 7 million children already covered by SCHIP, and provides the resources needed to cover 4 million more children who are currently eligible for SCHIP but for whatever reason do not have coverage. This is a good first step, but obviously more is needed. “Aside from covering all of the uninsured children in America, we must make sure that the coverage provided is worthwhile. The SCHIP Reauthorization Act gives states the option of including many provisions in their programs that I believe should be mandatory if we seriously want to provide meaningful coverage. These include minimum Early Periodic Screening Diagnosis and Treatment (EPSDT) benefits, the coverage of low-income pregnant women, express lanes to eligibility, 12-month continual enrollment periods, and the option for families who are low-income, but above a state’s threshold to buy-in to SCHIP.”(####)
01.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 11, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, by a vote of 247 to 171 (Roll Call no. 9). The legislation would clarify that every paycheck or other compensation resulting from an earlier discriminatory pay decision constitutes a violation of the Civil Rights Act. Representative Scott’s floor statement in support of the legislation is below: “Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. This legislation reverses the Supreme Court’s decision in Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., in which the Court ruled that workers filing suit for pay discrimination must do so within 180 days of the decision to discriminate against them. After 180 days from the initial decision to discriminate, the employer could continue its discriminatory practices and the employee would no longer have any legal remedy. “Prior to the Supreme Court decision, employees could file suit against employers who were guilty of discriminatory pay practices within 180 days of any discriminatory act – not just the initial decision to discriminate – so that each paycheck in which women were paid less than men for performing the same job would restart the 180 day time period. The Supreme Court’s ruling in Ledbetter v. Goodyear changed this, so that now, if the discrimination is not discovered within the 180 days, employers are allowed to continue to discriminate. The fact is that many women, like Lilly Ledbetter, do not learn about the discrimination until much later. “So under the Supreme Court decision, these women have no remedy under civil rights laws. This bill corrects the injustice, and it does so without making a so-called dramatic change. Most of the country operated under this policy anyway. “And also, the bill retains the two year limit on past wages that can be paid, so the burden of proof remains on the plaintiff. So any delay which erodes evidence would place a higher burden on the plaintiff. There is no incentive to delay bringing suit. “Madam Speaker, this is a common sense application of what everyone thought the law was anyway. I commend Chairman Miller for bringing this bill to the floor and urge my colleagues to support it."(####)
12.19.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) delivered this week’s Congressional Black Caucus Message to <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />America. To listen to the message, please click here.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Transcript of Congressman Scott’s message: “Hello. This is Congressman Bobby Scott, of Virginia’s Third Congressional District, speaking to you today on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus. Five months ago, I discussed with you the Youth PROMISE Act, a bill I introduced to address youth crime by investing in research-based prevention and early intervention programs for at-risk youth. I would now like to update you on the status of the bill and our plan to enact the Youth PROMISE Act into law. “Our first step in passing the Youth PROMISE Act was to stop competing bad legislation from becoming law during this Congress. We defeated the other youth gang bill, which included many of the same old slogans and rhymes that may sound good but do nothing to reduce crime and may actually increase crime. As a result of years of slogans, the United States now incarcerates a higher portion of its population than any country on Earth by far. It’s so bad that the Children’s Defense Fund calls the prison situation a ‘Cradle to Prison Pipeline.’“The Youth PROMISE Act would use a fraction of the money spent on jails and prisons for investments in proven, cost-effective programs to help our young people before serious crimes are committed. “The City of Richmond, Virginia recently spent $2.5 million on such programs, and the result was a 40% drop in the crime rate. Compare that to the $90 million the city and state now spend on jails and prisons for Richmond and you can see how cost-effective the Youth PROMISE Act could be on a nationwide scale. With this kind of evidence, why would anyone reject cost-effective investments in children and choose instead to wait until they commit a crime and then spend more money on jails and prisons. “As we approach the 111th Congress and the administration of President-elect Barack Obama, it is my belief that if you encourage your elected officials to support sensible crime policy, we will be able to pass the Youth PROMISE Act and make a serious investment in the lives and futures of our nation’s youth. Our children are counting on your help. “This is Congressman Bobby Scott on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus.” (####)
12.17.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) received an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU), in honor of his “exemplary service to the <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Commonwealth of Virginia and the United States of America.” The honorary degree was awarded Saturday at VCU’s winter commencement at the school’s Siegel Center in Richmond, VA. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Congressman Scott was invited to be the commencement speaker and offered words of hope and encouragement to the graduating students. The degree was awarded at the conclusion of his remarks by VCU President Eugene P. Trani. The citation reads: Robert C. Scott, through your resolute and exemplary service to the Commonwealth of Virginia and the United States of America, as a distinguished member of the Virginia General Assembly and the U.S. House of Representatives for over three decades, you offer an inspiring model of leadership for tomorrow’s leaders to emulate. Through your elected positions and your service in the military, you have dedicated a majority of your life to the improvement and safety of our nation. Your outstanding academic record, as well as your unwavering commitment to protecting the rights and civil liberties of all Americans throughout your career, make it a distinct honor for Virginia Commonwealth University to have you as a partner in providing vital educational opportunities. Robert C. Scott, by the authority vested in me by the Board of Visitors of Virginia Commonwealth University, I hereby confer upon you the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters, honoris causa, with all the rights, privileges and emoluments thereunto pertaining. “This is a great honor,” said Rep. Scott. “Virginia Commonwealth University is an outstanding university. I am always impressed with the services and opportunities that it provides as well as with the accomplishments of its graduates. I am pleased to receive this honorary degree and congratulate this year’s graduates.” (####)
12.11.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott will hold a Town Hall forum to examine the 2008 election process. Both the successes and problems encountered on November 4, 2008 will be discussed. One of those successes was the experience of record turnouts in both the primary and general election cycles in <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Virginia this year. Joining Congressman Scott at the forum will be experts on voting issues. One issue to be discussed is the NAACP’s lawsuit filed against the Commonwealth questioning whether the state had adequately prepared for Election Day. The goal of the Town Hall is to determine what highly successful voting procedures or practices should be models for all jurisdictions and precincts and what legislative fixes may be needed at the state or federal level to address problems or undue complexities experienced in the voting process.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> “It is important that we address both positive and negative aspects of the voting process. We should use this opportunity to learn from the November 4, 2008 election to encourage and improve voting for all of our citizens. I encourage everyone to share their comments, suggestions, issues or concerns,” said Rep. Scott. The Town Hall will take place on Tuesday, December 16, 2008 at 7:00 P.M in the General Assembly Building, Senate Room A, located at 910 Capitol Street in Richmond, Virginia. (####)
12.10.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 7321, the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act by a vote of 237 to 170 (Roll Call No. 690). Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) voted in favor of the legislation.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Congressman Scott issued the following statement: “The American auto industry has been hit hard by a sharp downturn in sales, which has been exacerbated by the struggling American economy. H.R. 7321 provides up to $15 billion in short-term loans to assist the industry until the economy recovers. The legislation requires strict oversight by the Federal Government, ensures that the taxpayer’s investment is protected and repaid, and requires the industry to drastically restructure at all levels to ensure their continued viability and competitiveness. “Specifically, the bill bans certain corporate excesses, such as bonuses for the 25 most highly paid employees at each company. It also prohibits the automakers from paying dividends to their shareholders over the life of the loans. The President will also designate one or more individuals to hold the car companies accountable for developing and implementing viable long-term restructuring plans. This so-called ‘Car Czar’ can require immediate repayment of the loan if a company has not made adequate progress to develop a long-term restructure plan by February 15, 2009. Any company that receives the bridge loan will not be eligible for additional federal assistance if it fails to submit an acceptable final restructuring plan by March 31, 2009. The legislation also ensures that if a company files for bankruptcy, the Federal loan could not be discharged and must be paid back. “American automakers are the backbone of our manufacturing industry. After our economy shed 500,000 jobs last month, inaction by the Federal Government would jeopardize an additional 3 million jobs. The cost of losing these jobs may be more expensive than the cost of the legislation. If the companies were to fail, the cost of unemployment insurance, pension guarantees, and lost tax revenue to local, state and federal governments may well exceed the total cost of the legislation. Inaction will also further inflame the housing crisis since more families would be unable to pay their mortgages.” “The action Congress was forced to take today is a consequence of eight years of the outgoing Administration’s reckless economic policy, which has resulted in the worst job growth since the Great Depression. Although not ideal, I believe this was the most appropriate action for Congress to take at this time to assist the auto industry until the economy begins to improve.” A full summary of H.R. 7321 is available on the House Financial Services Committee website at:https://www.house.gov/apps/list/press/financialsvcs_dem/auto_bill_summary.pdf. (####)
12.08.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) will hold office hours for residents of <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Charles City County, New Kent County, Prince George County and Surry County on Monday, December 15, 2008 and on Wednesday, December 17, 2008. Staff from Congressman Scott’s office will meet constituents at the following times.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Monday, December 15, 2008Charles City County10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.Charles City County Administration Building10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, Virginia 23030New Kent County2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Quinton Community Center3041 New Kent HighwayNew Kent, Virginia 23124 Wednesday, December 17, 2008Prince George County10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.Human Services Building, 2nd Floor6450 Administrative DrivePrince George, Virginia 23875Surry County2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Surry County Community Facility205 Enos Farm DriveDendron, Virginia 23839 For additional information, please contact Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. (####)
12.01.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - On Wednesday morning, December 3, 2008, Dr. Barry Krisberg, juvenile justice researcher and President of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency (NCCD), will release a NCCD critique and comparative analysis of the legislative approaches in the 110th Congress to address gangs. The critique and analysis will compare S. 456, the "Gang Abatement and Prevention Act" and its House companion, H.R. 3547, with H.R. 3846, the “Youth PROMISE Act” sponsored by Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott. S.456 and H.R. 3547 both emphasize increased punishment and other suppression approaches; the Youth PROMISE Act emphasizes an alternative approach, using evidenced-based prevention and intervention strategies to prevent crime. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Immediately following the press conference, Rep. Scott, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, will hold a summit on Effective Youth Violence and Gang Prevention Strategies. Dr. Marian Wright Edelman, President and founder of the Children's Defense Fund, will make opening remarks, followed by presentations from 12 other researchers, law enforcement officials and other criminal justice practitioners. Barry Krisberg has been the President of NCCD for fourteen years. He is known nationally for his research and expertise on juvenile justice issues and is called upon as a resource for professionals and the media. Dr. Krisberg received his master's degree in criminology and a doctorate in sociology, both from the <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />University of Pennsylvania. Prior to joining NCCD, Dr. Krisberg held several education posts. He was faculty member at the University of California at Berkeley; Dr. Krisberg also was an adjunct professor with the Hubert Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs School at the University of Minnesota and the University of Hawai’i. He is currently a Visiting Lecturer in Legal Studies at UC Berkeley. The release press conference will be held in Room 2175 in the Rayburn House Office Building, from 9:15 a.m. to 9:45 a.m.(####)
11.26.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) will hold a summit on Youth Violence on Wednesday, December 3, 2008. Congressman Scott has invited experts from law enforcement, academia, gang intervention programs, and child advocacy groups to address the need for evidence-based strategies for juvenile justice prevention and intervention. The <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Summit will address in particular Rep. Scott’s Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention, Support, and Education Act or “Youth PROMISE Act” (H.R. 3846). <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> “There are many communities suffering from gang related and juvenile crimes,” Rep. Scott said. “We know that there are multiple strategies that are cost effective in reducing these crimes and that will save communities money they would otherwise spend on incarceration and welfare programs for these youth. The summit will explore these strategies further as policymakers prepare for the 111th Congress.” Appearing with Rep. Scott will be Marian Wright Edelman, President and Founder of the Children’s Defense Fund (CDF). Mrs. Edelman is a lifelong advocate for disadvantaged Americans and under her leadership, CDF has become the nation’s strongest voice for children and families. “The Cradle to Prison Pipeline”, a 2007 CDF-issued report, emphasized the need for more prevention services to break the “pipeline” that research shows will send 1 in 3 Black boys born in 2000 to jail at some point in their life. There will also be four panel presentations. The first panel will look at a new study comparing current legislation and policy positions to determine which are most effective. The second panel will feature members of law enforcement who will give their perspective on the need for additional prevention efforts. The third panel will highlight examples of current effective programs and interventions. The final panel will address the comparative benefits of effective crime prevention. Panelists will include: Barry Krisberg, President of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency; Judith Greene of Justice Strategies; Frank Straub, Commissioner of Public Safety, White Plains, NY; Shay Bilchik, Director of the Center for Juvenile Justice Reform and Systems Integration, Georgetown Public Policy Institute; Miriam Krinsky and Jorja Leap, both of the UCLA School of Public Affairs; Khalid Samad, Executive Director and Co-founder of Peace in the Hood, Cleveland, OH; Teny Gross, Executive Director of the Institute for the Study & Practice of Nonviolence; Brian Bumbarger, Director of the Evidence-based Prevention and Intervention Support Center, Pennsylvania State University; Larry Cohen, Director of the Prevention Institute; and Lynn White, Senior Policy Associate on Juvenile Justice at the Children’s Defense Fund. The summit will take place in Room 2175 of the Rayburn House Office Building from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. (####)
11.25.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) received a perfect score of 100 percent on the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights’ Voting Record that was recently released. The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights’ Voting Record monitors Members of Congress’ votes on civil rights issues. For the 110th Congress, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights documented Congressional support for, or opposition to, bills containing important civil rights protections, hate crimes and immigration legislation, judicial nominees hostile to civil rights and other issues. Out of 435 members of the House of Representatives, only 171 members received a perfect score of 100 percent.“I am committed to protecting our civil rights, which are the foundation of our nation,” said Rep. Scott. “I am proud that the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights’ Voting Record reflects this commitment. I look forward to working with the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights in the next Congress to address equality in civil right protections.” (####)
11.12.2008	WASHINGTON, October 15, 2008 – Agriculture Deputy Under Secretary for Rural Development Douglas L. Faulkner today announced the selection of eight recipients in five states and the Territory of Guam to receive $1.3 million through the Small Minority Producer Grant program. “The grants awarded today will help farmers, cooperative members and business owners better market their products and services and that will ultimately add profit and efficiency to their operations,” Faulkner said. In Hagatna, Guam, the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam has been selected to receive $175,000 to provide training and technical assistance to its members on farming practices and facilities management. Hawaii Rural Development State Director Lorraine P. Shin said “The Farmers Cooperative Association of Farmers was also assisted in its formation through the efforts of USDA’s cooperative development technical assistance program. In September 2005. we held a week-long training session in Guam for potential cooperative projects. Several of the initial incorporators of the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam were in attendance where the idea of the cooperative was discussed with Agency staff. It is good to see the results of this planning effort pay off in helping Guam farmers with additional resources” The Winston County Self Help Cooperative in Louisville, Miss., will receive $145,000 to provide business planning services, feasibility analysis, and marketing and business formation assistance to its members. In Barry, Texas, the Navarro County Black Farmers & Ranchers League, Inc. will receive $174,600 to provide technical assistance for product improvement, marketing and customer service training. Small Minority Producer Grants are provided to cooperatives or associations of cooperatives to provide technical assistance to small, minority agriculture producers. Funding of individual recipients is contingent upon meeting the conditions of the grant agreement. Below is the complete list of recipients.Small Minority Producer Grant Recipients Recipient State Grant Amount Rio Culebra Lucero CO $174,922 Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam Territory of Guam $175,000 Mississippi Association of Cooperatives MS $175,000 Winston County Self Help Cooperative MS $145,000 Native American People Cooperative ND $175,000 InterTribal Bison Cooperative SD $175,000 Southwest Texas Goat Producers, Inc. TX $118,372 Navarro County Black Farmers and Ranchers League, Inc. TX $174,600 USDA Rural Development’s mission is to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life for rural residents. Rural Development has invested more than $90 billion since 2001 for equity and technical assistance to finance and foster growth in homeownership, business development, and critical community and technology infrastructure. More than 1.7 million jobs have been created or saved through these investments. Further information on rural programs is available at a local USDA Rural Development office or by visiting USDA’s web site at https://www.rurdev.usda.govUSDA Rural Development is an Equal Opportunity Lender, Provider, and Employer. Complaints of discrimination should be sent to: USDA, Director, Office of Civil Rights, Washington, D.C. 20250.
11.10.2008	The Department of Defense POW/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO) announced today that the remains of a U.S. serviceman, missing in action from the Vietnam War, have been identified and will be returned to his family for burial with full military honors. He is Capt. Lorenza Conner, U.S. Air Force, of Cartersville, Ga. He will be buried Oct. 25 in Cartersville. On Oct. 27, 1967, Conner and his copilot flew an F-4D Phantom II fighter jet in a flight of four on a combat air patrol mission over North Vietnam where the plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire over Tuyen Quang Province, North Vietnam. The copilot ejected safely, was captured and later released by Vietnamese forces, but Conner could not eject from the aircraft before it crashed. In 1992, Vietnamese citizens told U.S. officials that they had information concerning the remains of missing U.S. servicemen and they turned over Conner’s identification tag. Between 1992 and 2003, several joint U.S./Socialist Republic of Vietnam (S.R.V.) teams, led by the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC), investigated this incident, interviewed witnesses and surveyed the crash site. At the crash site, teams found aircrew-related equipment and aircraft wreckage consistent with an F-4 Phantom II. In 2007, another joint team excavated the site and recovered human remains. Among other forensic identification tools and circumstantial evidence, scientists from JPAC also used dental comparisons in the identification of Conner’s remains. For additional information on the Defense Department’s mission to account for missing Americans, visit the DPMO Web site at https://www.dtic.mil/dpmo or call (703) 699-1169
11.04.2008	The Department of Defense announced today its recruiting and retention statistics for the active and reserve components for fiscal 2008. Active Duty Recruiting Fiscal 2008. All services met or exceeded their recruiting goals for fiscal 2008. - The Army had 80,517 accessions, making 101 percent of its 80,000 goal - The Navy had 38,485 accessions, making 100 percent of its 38,419 goal. -The Marine Corps had 37,991 accessions, making 100 percent of its 37,967 goal. - The Air Force had 27,848 accessions, making 100 percent of its 27,800 goal. Active Duty Retention. Army and Navy exceeded their fiscal 2008 targets. Although the Marine Corps retained far more first term personnel than last year, it did not meet its ambitious first term reenlistment goals and it achieved 95 percent total retention. Air Force missed its end-of-year mission in each reenlistment zone. We expect to see Air Force retention rates improve gradually through fiscal 2009, and we anticipate that Air Force will meet its fiscal 2009 end strength mission. Reserve Forces Accessions Fiscal 2007. All six reserve components met or exceeded their accession goals for fiscal 2008. - The Army National Guard brought in 65,192 accessions, 103 percent of its 63,000 goal; the Army Reserve brought in 39,870 accessions, 106 percent of its 37,500 goal. - The Navy Reserve brought in 9,134 accessions, 100 percent of its 9,122 goal.The Marine Corps Reserve brought in 7,628 accessions, 100 percent of its 7,628 goal. - The Air National Guard brought in 10,749 accessions, 126 percent of its 8,548 goal, while the Air Force Reserve brought in 7,323 accessions, 105 percent of its 6,963 goal. Reserve Attrition. Losses in all reserve components remain within acceptable limits. (Note: This indicator lags by one month) Detailed information on specific recruiting data can be obtained by contacting the individual military recruiting commands at (502) 626-0164 for Army, (210) 565-4678 for Air Force, (703) 784-9454 for Marine Corps and (703) 697-8761 for Navy. The reserve components can be reached at the following numbers: National Guard Bureau (703) 607-2586; Army Reserve (404) 464-8490; Air Force Reserve (703) 697-1761; Navy Reserve (504) 678-6055; and Marine Corps Reserve (504) 678-6535.
10.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), released the following letter reflecting his disappointment in the lack of a response by the U.S. Department of Justice to his October 17, 2008 letter requesting information on pre-clearance of voting procedure requests by <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Virginia jurisdictions under Section 5 of the federal Voting Rights Act.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> The text of both letters sent by Congressman Scott to the Attorney General are below: October 29, 2008 The Honorable Michael B. MukaseyAttorney General of the United StatesU.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Mukasey: I am writing as a follow up to my letter dated October 17, 2008 asking for a list of the Virginia jurisdictions that have requested Section 5 pre-clearance of changes in polling procedures for the 2008 Presidential election together with the changes they requested and any actions you have taken on those requests. In that letter, I asked that you provide the information by October 24, 2008. All I have received from your staff to date is information that you have approved 43 of 44 requests from Virginia jurisdictions. As a member of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee, the committee with jurisdiction over voting rights issues, it has been brought to my attention that some of the approvals will adversely affect minority voters. In order to respond to these concerns, I need the requested information. Therefore, I am asking that you provide me with the requested information forthwith. Very truly yours, /S/ ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTTMember of Congress October 17, 2008 The Honorable Michael B. MukaseyAttorney General of the United StatesU.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Mukasey: I understand that there have been several requests for pre-clearance, under the Voting Rights Act requirements, of polling procedure changes by jurisdictions in Virginia for the upcoming presidential election. I write to request a list of the jurisdictions that have requested such changes together with the changes they requested and any actions you have taken on those requests. I am also requesting that you respond to this letter no later than Friday, October 24, 2008. Very truly yours, /S/ ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTTMember of Congress (####)
10.20.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), sent a letter Friday to Attorney General Michael Mukasey concerning requests made by several jurisdictions in the <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Commonwealth of Virginia for changes to polling procedures. Any such changes require “pre-clearance” by the Department of Justice under the federal Voting Rights Act before they can become effective.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> The text of Congressman Scott’s letter to the Attorney General is below:The Honorable Michael B. MukaseyAttorney General of the United StatesU.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001Dear Attorney General Mukasey: I understand that there have been several requests for pre-clearance, under the Voting Rights Act requirements, of polling procedure changes by jurisdictions in Virginia for the upcoming presidential election. I write to request a list of the jurisdictions that have requested such changes together with the changes they requested and any actions you have taken on those requests.I am also requesting that you respond to this letter no later than Friday, October 24, 2008.Very truly yours, /S/ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTTMember of Congress(####)
10.20.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), sent letters Friday to registrars responsible for precincts in <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Virginia’s Third Congressional District requesting that ample voting materials and equipment be provided on Election Day due to the record turnout of voters expected on November 4, 2008. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> The text of Congressman Scott’s letter to Richmond Registrar J. Kirk Showalter is below: Mr. J. Kirk Showalter, General Registrar City of RichmondP.O. Box 61037Richmond, VA 2361-1037 Dear Mr. Showalter: I write to call your attention to the recent Advancement Project Report suggesting that Richmond will have precincts in which voting machines will be significantly less accessible in some minority communities than in majority communities, causing possible obstacles to voting in those minority communities. I have included a web address for the report for your convenience. https://www.advancementproject.org/pdfs/vpp/PollingPlaceResourcesReport.pdf I have no independent information to indicate that there is such a problem in Richmond. However, in view of the report I feel it is important that we take all necessary steps to ensure that no such problem occurs and call it to your attention for your very able handling. Very truly yours, /S/ ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTTMember of Congress The text of Congressman Scott’s letter to Newport News Registrar Vicky V. Lewis is below: Ms. Vicky V. LewisVoter RegistrarCity of Newport News Dear Ms. Lewis: I write to call your attention to the recent Advancement Project Report suggesting that Newport News will have precincts in which voting machines will be significantly less accessible in some minority communities than in majority communities, causing possible obstacles to voting in those minority communities. I have included a web address for the report for your convenience. https://www.advancementproject.org/pdfs/vpp/PollingPlaceResourcesReport.pdf I have no independent information to indicate that there is such a problem in Newport News. However, in view of the report I feel it is important that we take all reasonable steps to ensure that no such problem occurs and call it to your attention for your very able handling. Very truly yours /S/ ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTTMember of Congress The text of Congressman Scott’s letter to Norfolk Registrar Elisa Long is below:Ms. Elisa LongRoom 808 810 Union StreetNorfolk, VA 23510 Dear Ms. Long: I write to call your attention to the recent Advancement Project Report suggesting that Norfolk will have precincts in which voting machines will be significantly less accessible in some minority communities than in majority communities, causing possible obstacles to voting in those minority communities. I have included a web address for the report for your convenience. https://www.advancementproject.org/pdfs/vpp/PollingPlaceResourcesReport.pdf I have no independent information to indicate that there is such a problem in Norfolk. However, in view of the report I feel it is important that we take all necessary steps to ensure that no such problem occurs and call it to your attention for your very able handling. Very truly yours /S/ ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTTMember of Congress (####)
10.17.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) received a perfect score of 100 percent on the League of Conservation Voters’ 2008 National Environmental Scorecard that was released today. The National Environmental Scorecard rates Members of Congress on conservation and energy issues. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> For the 2nd Session of the 110th Congress, the League of Conservation voters scored Members of Congress on votes in support of clean energy tax credits, green building standards, public transportation grants, public lands protection, subsidy reform in the Farm Bill, opposition to gutting renewable energy programs, drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and drilling off our nation’s coasts. Out of 435 members of the House of Representatives, only 67 members received a perfect score of 100 percent. “I am committed to protecting our environment and working towards ending our nation’s dependence on oil,” said Rep. Scott. “I am proud that the National Environmental Scorecard reflects this commitment. I look forward to working with the League of Conservation Voters in the next Congress to address energy independence, climate change, and a host of other important environmental issues.” (####)
10.12.2008	Washington, DC--The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Peru have announced an agreement to reduce Peru's debt payments to the United States by more than $25 million over the next seven years. In return, the Government of Peru has committed these funds to support grants to protect the country's tropical forests. Secretary Paulson welcomed the agreement with the Government of Peru under the U.S. Tropical Forest Conservation Act. "This agreement will build on the success of previous U.S. Government debt swaps with Peru and will further the cause of environmental conservation in a country with one of the highest levels of biodiversity on the planet. Such debt-for-nature agreements are a successful model of government and citizen cooperation to improve and expand conservation efforts," he said.Peru is one of the most biologically rich countries on earth. Funds generated by the debt-for-nature program will help Peru protect tropical rain forests of the southwestern Amazon Basin and dry forests of the Central Andes. These areas are home to dense concentrations of endemic birds such as the Andean Condor and Parakeet; primates including the Peruvian Yellow-tailed Woolly Monkey and Howler Monkey; other mammals such as the Jaguar, Amazonian Manatee, Giant Otter, Spectacled Bear and Amazon River Dolphin; as well as unique plants. Rivers supplying water to downstream settlements originate in many of these forests, and people living in and around the forests depend on them for their livelihood and survival.This agreement with Peru was made possible by the innovative Tropical Forest Conservation Act of 1998. It will complement an existing TFCA debt-for-nature program in Peru dating from 2002, a 1997 debt swap under the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative, and the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement, which includes a number of forest protection provisions. With this agreement, Peru will be the largest beneficiary under the Tropical Forest Conservation Act, with more than $35 million generated for conservation. The new Peru agreement marks the 14th Tropical Forest Conservation Act pact, following agreements with Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Jamaica, Panama (two agreements), Paraguay and the Philippines, as well as an earlier agreement with Peru. Over time, these debt-for-nature programs will together generate more than $188 million to protect tropical forests.
10.03.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) released the following statement today after voting No on the Senate version of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (H.R. 1424). The bill passed on a vote of 263 -171. “We obviously have a crisis in the financial markets. Major firms have failed and others are failing. We are in an economic downturn with people losing their homes, businesses going under, and credit drying up for small businesses and consumers. The current crisis is the predictable consequence of the failed economic policies of the last eight years. These policies are the ones that have produced record budget deficits, the worst job growth since the Great Depression – including our ninth consecutive month of job losses – and the worst Dow performance in over three decades. Congress should address the crisis with appropriate legislation. “The Senate bill that we considered today is not fundamentally different from the bill we voted on Monday, although some have attempted to change the name of the package from a ‘bailout’ to a ‘rescue’. The foundation of the bill remained the outlay of $700 billion for the purchase of worthless assets. On balance, the final version of the bill was still not a good deal for taxpayers. “Whether or not the bailout act we voted on today was a ‘good’ deal rises and falls on the issue of fair value. You cannot rationally determine the worthiness of a purchase, without first assessing what the fair value is, and whether you are paying more or less than that fair value. If the bailout legislation included a provision that would provide that the Federal Government would pay no more than the good faith estimate of the fair value for the assets, then it would be a good deal. Some of the assets we will be asked to buy are options, derivatives, and other exotic speculative investments that are in fact worthless. There is no public policy rationale to bail investors out of speculative securities that did not pay off. Since there is no commitment to calculating a good faith fair value price, and to paying no more than that price, this is a bad deal for the American people, because we will undoubtedly overpay for these assets. Therefore, the worthiness of the deal rises or falls on the commitment to limit payments to a fair value. “I am not suggesting that establishing a fair value of these assets will be easy. But there are well established factors in other situations to determine the value of assets when selling prices or bid and asked prices are not available. And it is our obligation as protectors of the US Treasury to require that no funds should be spent without a reasonable assessment of what we are buying. “Furthermore we should not give unlimited discretion to buy assets at prices obviously higher than fair value to an Administration frequently accused of cronyism and favoritism. “We are dealing with three separate problems: illiquidity in the credit market; insolvency of some financial institutions; and the hardship of homeowners. Offering fair value prices for assets will address the issue of liquidity. If we limited purchasing prices to fair value, we could purchase assets, re-establish confidence, wait for the markets to reinvigorate and the private sector could then buy assets back from the government. Even if it took more than $700 billion, as long as we were paying fair value, and receiving assets earning more than our borrowing costs, we could be confident that, in the long run, this solution would at least break even, and would likely make money for the taxpayer even if we held the assets to maturity. But since the bill provides no limit on the price we pay for assets, we will undoubtedly overpay, and lose money on the deal. If we paid fair value, we could solve the liquidity crisis without any likely cost to the taxpayers. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the Act to restrict payments for assets to their fair value. “The problem with illiquidity which affects credit relates to lending institutions holding valuable but temporarily illiquid assets on their books. While there is no market for those assets, accounting regulators require the assets to be valued at virtually zero. Since lending authority is directly related to the institution’s capital, this markdown significantly reduces lending authority, which leads to the credit crunch. This problem can be solved either by the government purchasing the assets at fair value or by a change in accounting regulations to allow assets to be booked at “fair economic value” rather than “market value”. This administrative change in the “mark to market” rule would significantly increase lending authority at no cost to the taxpayer. In addition there are a handful of banks that have sufficient capital but not enough deposits to sustain lending authority; in those few cases, simply depositing federal funds in the bank would increase lending capacity. “Another factor affecting credit is the reluctance that banks have to lend money to other banks; for fear that the other bank might go broke without notice as several recently have done. This problem can be cured by the issuance of “net worth certificates” which would guarantee the net worth of a bank, for a fee which would insure that there would be no net cost to the taxpayer. This has been done successfully in the past. “There are other ways to instill confidence in financial institutions without spending any of the taxpayer’s money. William Isaac, former head of the FDIC, has suggested that FDIC exercise the powers already granted to it by Congress. The FDIC can take emergency action and declare that no general creditor of a failed bank will suffer a loss if the bank fails. That declaration, when coming from the FDIC would, by statute, be backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. This action would be a signal to the worldwide market that the full faith and credit of the United States stands behind our banks, and an influx of capital would soon follow. Another FDIC change would be to increase the limit at which FDIC insures deposits from $100,000 to $250,000. This would limit the destabilizing impact of major withdrawals from banks. This provision is not controversial and is actually in the bill. “Another factor which affects capital and therefore lending authority is the downward pressure on stock prices caused by short selling. Administrative action has already been taken to prohibit “naked short sales” and to restore the “uptick” rules. “After the bill was defeated on Monday, I worked with other members who were skeptical of the bill, to propose cost-effective solutions to the crisis. Rep. Peter DeFazio has a produced a bill, the No BAILOUTS (Bringing Accounting, Increased Liquidity, Oversight and Upholding Taxpayer Security) Act, that outlines administrative changes that could be implemented at no cost to the taxpayer. The bill directs the Administration to implement a net worth certificates program, adjust mark to market valuation rules, increase FDIC insurance limits, and regulate short sales. These no-cost changes would be more likely to have an impact on the domestic credit crunch than spending $700 billion purchasing worthless assets from all over the world. “Some argue that overpaying for assets will help solve the second problem of the crisis, the insolvency of some financial institutions, by providing capital to these institutions. I believe that we should help financially troubled companies that have a good chance of stabilizing and coming back with our help. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the bill to stop companies in no distress, or companies that are hopelessly insolvent, from selling their toxic assets to the government, and any overpayment for assets those companies sell will provide no value to the taxpayer. There are more efficient ways of targeting financial assistance to appropriate companies than making overpayments to all companies. “Congress does have an interest in assisting homeowners, but homeowners struggling to pay mortgages will find little comfort in this legislation. We should have included meaningful assistance for struggling homeowners in the bill. All homeowners would benefit because homeowners who are paying their mortgages on time have been hurt by home prices collapsing because of the flurry of foreclosures, and perspective homeowners are having difficulty finding new mortgages. The bill directs the Treasury Secretary to implement a plan to decrease foreclosures, “to the extent that the Secretary acquires mortgages”. The problem is that the toxic securities that the Treasury is being asked to buy are not individual mortgages, but options, derivatives and other securities comprised of portions of hundreds and sometimes thousands of different individual mortgages. It is therefore unlikely that the Secretary will have the authority to change the mortgage terms and help prevent foreclosure in any significant number of actual mortgages. “There are many effective ways to actually help homeowners. In November 2007, Rep. Joe Baca introduced HR 4135, the Family Foreclosure Rescue Corporation (FFRC). Rep. Baca’s bill is based on the concept of the Home Owner’s Loan Corporation (HOLC). During the Great Depression, this government entity was created to buy troubled mortgages, and then refinance the mortgages at rates the homeowners could afford, preventing more foreclosures and stabilizing housing prices. When HOLC ended operations in 1951, it had turned a profit to the taxpayer. HR 4135 would create the Family Foreclosure Rescue Corporation (FFRC) to refinance loans for people currently in foreclosure or in serious default. Families will be able to refinance their mortgage through a government administered loan with a set interest rate. FFRC would assist homeowners paying on the mortgages that back many of the toxic assets the Treasury is being asked to buy. Providing stability in the mortgage market is a much more direct solution to the foreclosure problem than overpaying for worthless options and derivatives backed by the bad mortgages, and this strategy is much more likely to help struggling homeowners. The HOPE for Homeowners program, a federal program established by the housing bill passed earlier this year, is another program designed to directly assist homeowners, and Congress could do more to encourage mortgage holders assist their mortgage payers and themselves by utilizing the program. Changes to bankruptcy rules that would allow homeowners to renegotiate the loan on their primary residence would be another provision that would help homeowners. “Although the major assessment of the core provisions of the bill rises and falls on the issues of fair price valuation and actual assistance to homeowners, there are other issues addressed in the legislation. The media has reported that there are provisions in this bill to limit executive compensation and to protect the taxpayer. The actual language in this bill does not support these reports. There are huge loopholes in the bill that allow companies to continue to pay executives exorbitant salaries. And, the taxpayer protections in the bill are flimsy. If the bailout does not pay for itself, the bill leaves it to a future Administration to propose a bill to tax financial institutions to raise the money taxpayers have lost. In a Congress where there is outrage against any new tax proposal, if there is no political will to pay for the bailout in the middle of the crisis, there will be even less political will to raise taxes on financial institutions that may still be struggling in the future. “The failure of the bill to limit the purchase of any assets to the fair value of those assets means that the bill will not effectively address the underlying issues: purchasing worthless assets adds nothing to general liquidity; overpaying for assets from all companies is an inefficient way to help those companies who only need temporary assistance to survive; and overpaying for assets does nothing for homeowners. Furthermore, this bill will fail to instill confidence in the market when it becomes apparent that the language of the bill is unlikely to match the public description of the bill on CEO compensation, foreclosure prevention and protection of the taxpayer. For those reasons, I regret that I was unable to support the bill. “We should have drafted a new bill with the inclusion of many of the alternative proposals I have laid out in this statement. The result would have been a comprehensive bi-partisan bill which targets our federal assistance to the goals we need to address: illiquidity in the market, solvency for appropriate businesses, and assistance to homeowners. “By spending $700 billion ineffectively on this crisis now, we will not have funds to respond to the next phase of our financial crisis in the future. For example, homeowners are continuing to lose their homes, and we have done very little to stem the tide of that problem. And because of today’s vote, we will have fewer resources to address that problem in the future. Furthermore, we must not forget that the underlying problem is that we are in an economic downturn, and our actions must be deliberate and measured if we are going to steer our way out of this mess. Unfortunately, we now have $700 billion less to address our economic situation. “There are many administration initiatives that require virtually no taxpayer money, which would have a huge impact on the banking crisis, the solvency of businesses, and the challenges of homeowners. We should have begun with proposing those no cost administrative changes, before we authorized the expenditure of $700 billion on a plan unlikely to make any difference at all.” (####)
09.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) released the following statement today after voting No on the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (H.R. 3997). The bill failed on a vote of 205-228. “We obviously have a crisis in the financial markets. Major firms have failed and others are failing. The current crisis is the predictable consequence of the bad economic policies of the last eight years. These policies are the ones that have produced record budget deficits, the worst job growth since the Great Depression, and the worst Dow performance in over three decades. Congress should address the crisis with appropriate legislation. “The bailout bill that we considered today was much better than the woefully inadequate proposal sent to us by Treasury Secretary Paulson a week ago. House leadership made many improvements to the legislation, especially in the areas of oversight, judicial review, and the requirement that the government enjoy some of the future profits from the companies bailed out. On balance however, the final version of the bill was not a good deal for taxpayers. “Whether or not the bailout act we voted on today was a ‘good’ deal rises and falls with the issue of fair value. You cannot rationally determine the worthiness of a purchase, without first assessing what the fair value is, and whether you are paying more or less than that fair value. If the bailout legislation included a provision that would guarantee that the Federal Government would pay no more than fair value for the assets and securities, then it would be a good deal. Some of the assets we will be asked to buy are options, derivatives, and other speculative investments that may be in fact worthless. There is no public policy rationale to bail investors out of speculative securities that did not pay off. Since there is no commitment to calculating a fair value price, and to paying no more than that price, this is a bad deal for the American people, because we will undoubtedly overpay for these assets. Therefore, the worthiness of the deal rises or falls on the commitment to limit payments to a fair value. “I am not suggesting that establishing a fair value of these assets will be easy. But there are established factors in other situations to determine the value of assets in situations where selling prices or bid and asked prices are unavailable. And it is our obligation as keepers of the federal purse strings to require that no funds should be spent without knowledge of exactly what we are buying. Furthermore we should not give unlimited discretion to buy assets at prices obviously higher than fair value to an Administration frequently accused of cronyism and favoritism. “We are dealing with three separate problems: illiquidity in the credit market; insolvency of some financial institutions; and the hardship of homeowners. Offering fair values will address the issue of liquidity. If we limited purchasing prices to fair value, we could purchase assets, re-establish confidence, wait for the markets to reinvigorate and the private sector could then buy assets back from the government. Even if it took more than $700 billion, as long as we were paying fair value, and receiving assets earning more than our borrowing costs, we could guarantee that, in the long run, this solution would at least break even, and would most likely make money for the taxpayer even if we held the assets to maturity. But since the bill provides no limit on the price we pay for assets, we will undoubtedly overpay, and lose money on the deal. If we pay fair value, we can solve the liquidity crisis without any likely cost to the taxpayers. “Some argue that overpaying for assets will help solve the second problem of the crisis, the insolvency of some financial institutions, by providing capital to these institutions. I believe that we should help financially troubled companies that have a good chance of stabilizing and coming back with our help. There is nothing in the bill to stop companies in no distress, or companies that are hopelessly insolvent, from selling their toxic assets to the government, and any overpayment for assets those companies sell will provide no value to the taxpayer. There are more efficient ways of targeting financial assistance to appropriate companies than making overpayments to all companies. “Congress does have an interest in assisting homeowners, but homeowners struggling to pay mortgages find little comfort in this legislation. We should have included assistance for struggling homeowners in the bill, even if it cost a little to provide that assistance. All homeowners would benefit because homeowners who are paying their mortgages on time have been hurt by home prices collapsing because of the flurry of foreclosures, and perspective homeowners are having difficulty finding new mortgages. The bill directs the Treasury Secretary to implement a plan to decrease foreclosures, “to the extent that the Secretary acquires mortgages”. The problem is that the toxic securities that the Treasury is being asked to buy are not individual mortgages, but options, derivatives and other securities comprised of portions of hundreds and sometimes thousands of different individual mortgages. The Secretary therefore will not have authority to change the mortgage terms and help prevent foreclosure in any significant number of actual mortgages. “Although the assessment of the bill rises and falls on the issue of fair price valuation, there are other issues addressed in the legislation. The media has reported that there are provisions in this bill to protect the taxpayer and to limit executive compensation. The actual language in this bill does not support these reports. There are huge loopholes in the bill that allow companies to continue to pay executives exorbitant salaries. And, the taxpayer protections in the bill are flimsy. If the bailout does not pay for itself, it is left to a future Administration to propose a bill to tax financial institutions to raise the money taxpayers have lost. In a Congress where there is outrage against any new tax proposal, if there is no political will to pay for the bailout in the middle of the crisis, there will be even less political will to raise taxes on financial institutions that may still be struggling in the future. “There are many regulatory measures that could achieve the stated goals of the bail out legislation. For example, the Treasury Secretary could help confidence by increasing FDIC insurance, producing net worth certificates, or changing accounting standards to relax requirements to mark to market. These changes would address the issues of illiquidity, solvency, and assistance to homeowners more effectively than the provisions of this bill. “Language should have been included in the bill that would have required an assessment of any securities considered for purchase to establish a fair value, and then insist that those securities could not be purchased for more than the fair value determined by the assessment. This would ensure we are spending just enough to bring liquidity back to markets, and would separate assets with value from the worthless speculative assets we might be asked to buy. Unfortunately no language limiting our purchases to fair value of the assets appears in the bill. “The failure of the bill to limit the purchase of any assets to the fair value of those assets means that the bill will not effectively address the underlying issues: purchasing worthless assets adds nothing to general liquidity; overpaying for assets from all companies is an inefficient way to help those companies who only need temporary assistance to survive; and overpaying for assets does nothing for homeowners. Furthermore this bill will fail to instill confidence in the market when it becomes apparent that the language of the bill is unlikely to match the public description of the bill on CEO compensation, foreclosure prevention and protection of the taxpayer. For those reasons, I regret that I was unable to support the bill. We should now draft a new bill which targets our federal assistance to the goals we need to address: illiquidity in the market, solvency for appropriate businesses, and assistance to homeowners.”(####)
09.26.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott will hold a forum entitled “Is Virginia Ready for 2008 – A Look into Election Practices & Procedures” on Monday, October 6, 2008 at 6:00 P.M. The forum will take place in the General Assembly Building, Senate Room A, located at <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />910 Capitol Street in Richmond, Virginia. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Joining Congressman Scott at the forum will be Nancy Rodriguez, Secretary of the Virginia State Board of Elections; Gracia Hillman, Commissioner for the U.S. Election Assistance Commission; and Tova Wang, Vice President for Research at Common Cause. Panelists will discuss problems encountered during previous election cycles, measures that have been taken to address these problems, and preparations under way to ensure a smooth Election Day on November 4, 2008. “This November Virginians are expected to vote in record-breaking numbers. We need to be prepared to ensure that everyone has a chance to vote without difficulty, delay, or unlawful obstacles,” said Rep. Scott. (####)
09.26.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, Congressman Bobby Scott introduced the H.R. 7079, the Patient Advocate Act aimed at assisting patients who have been diagnosed with a chronic illness. The Act would establish a demonstration grant program to State, local, tribal and non-profit entities for the development and operation of programs to assist patients in resolving health insurance, job retention and debt crisis problems resulting from the patients’ diagnosis and illness.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> “It is important that patients have access to professional case management services that will assist them in overcoming problems they may face as a result of their diagnosis and illness,” said Rep. Scott. “Patients should not have to fight the insurance companies and bill collectors at the same time they are battling a life threatening illness.” The grants will be made available to existing as well as new patient advocacy programs. These programs provide patients with much needed assistance with negotiating pre-authorization claims, expediting the appeals process, resolving billing errors, resolving debt crisis related to their diagnosis, brokering resources to supplement limits to insurance, and gaining access to services for the uninsured.(####)
09.25.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) released the following statement on the Wall Street bailout bill: <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> “As Congress moves forward on the Bush Administration’s $700 billion proposal to bail out Wall Street, I feel a key point is being neglected in this debate. Whatever form the bailout plan takes, there should be a provision in the legislation stating that no security should be purchased without a meaningful assessment of the intrinsic value of the security, including its predicted yield to maturity. “Testifying before the House Budget Committee on Wednesday, CBO Director Peter Orzag said we are facing three problems – illiquidity of credit markets, insolvency of businesses, and hardships experienced by homeowners. If the Federal Government is being asked to provide liquidity to frozen markets, we should be able to infuse money into financial markets by purchasing assets at no more than reasonably assessed intrinsic value, re-establish confidence, and wait for the markets to reinvigorate and buy assets back from the government. If done correctly, the budgetary impact of a liquidity solution would be negligible. “If the Federal Government is being asked to bail out insolvent financial corporations, we are effectively rewarding the behavior of the bad actors that caused the crisis, and punishing hardworking, American taxpayers. Bailing out insolvent corporations will cost money, and we should consider a separate solution for that problem, if any, with a separate budget to deal with it. “We must also not forget that we will also have to deal with homeowners whose mortgages are one of the root causes of this financial meltdown. Helping struggling homeowners is also a separate problem that will cost money in the long run, and we should deal with it separately as well. “As we address these three different problems, we should come up with separate solutions to solve each problem, instead of one solution that tries to solve all three at one time. And until an intrinsic value of the mortgage-backed securities is established, we will not know which problem the $700 billion plan is addressing. “To my colleagues who suggest that we should be scared of inaction, I answer that the public should be more afraid of a Congress willing to vote to spend $700 billion without knowing what we are buying, especially considering the relative magnitude of $700 billion. For example:· Cost of the Iraq war so far: nearly $700 billion;· Expansion of SCHIP to insure all American children for 10 years: $150 billion;· $100 million investment in every VA Medical Center in US: $17 billion;· Full four-year public college scholarships for nearly 13,000,000 students: $700 billion;· $700 billion bailout plan cost per American Citizen: $2,333. “In my opinion, the manner in which we appropriate $700 billion is more important than the speed with which we do it. The actions of this Congress and this Administration will reverberate for decades. There are many other issues that must be addressed, such as oversight and transparency, protection of pensions, lobbying reform, and executive pay, but the first step is that we must require that no funds should be spent without knowledge of exactly what we are buying.” (####)
09.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, introduced the “Fairness and Accuracy in Employment Background Checks Act of 2008.” <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> The Act will mandate reasonable procedures to ensure the accuracy and completeness of federal criminal records. In recent years, public and private employers have increasingly used background checks, issued by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to investigate potential and current employees. Background checks serve a critical purpose; they seek to promote public safety and national security by providing necessary information on persons seeking employment in a wide array of industries, from airport screeners and port workers, to those who work with vulnerable populations such as children and the elderly. However, the system needs improvement as many of these background records are inaccurate or misleading, leading to lower-quality hiring decisions and labor shortages in critical industries. “Over the past few years, we have seen an array of problems with respect to criminal background records; as noted by the Department of Justice, 50% of all background records are incomplete or inaccurate, mostly due to arrest information that has not been updated,” stated Rep. Scott. “Flawed background records are a problem for employers, for workers, and for the economy. The purpose of this legislation is to require the relevant government agencies to update old or incomplete arrest information and to afford individuals about whom an inquiry is made an opportunity to challenge the accuracy of the information collected on them.” The legislation is supported by a broad coalition of civil rights, labor, and legal services organizations, including the National Employment Law Project, the American Federation of Teachers, and the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights.(####)
09.18.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Last night, the Committee for Education Funding awarded Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) with the William H. Natcher Distinguished Service Award. According to CEF, the award was given to Rep. Scott “for distinguished service during this session of Congress in elevating the priority for education funding to ensure better opportunities for our nation’s citizens.”<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> The Committee for Education Funding (CEF) was founded in 1969 and is comprised of 100 member organizations who work together toward the common goal of achieving adequate federal support for our nation’s education system. CEF, which is nonpartisan and nonprofit, is <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />America’s largest education coalition and its members represent a broad spectrum of the education community. “Congressman William H. Natcher, for whom this award is named, was a respected Member of the House of Representatives for over 40 years and I am honored to receive an award bearing his name,” commented Rep. Scott. “The young people of today represent our country’s future. We need to make sure that we provide them with the tools they will need to guide their own lives and the future of our nation. A strong investment in education is the best way to ensure that we remain competitive in this global economy; at the same time, it is the most effective way to reduce incidents of crime and welfare costs. I am committed to ensuring that access to both a quality education and an affordable education remains a top priority in Washington and around the country. It is my pleasure to work CEF and its member organizations as we strive for excellence in the education system in this country.” The award was presented to Rep. Scott at CEF’s annual Gala last night in Washington, DC. (####)
09.18.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - On Wednesday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5350, legislation authored by Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) and cosponsored by Representative Thelma Drake (R-VA-02) that would authorize the Secretary of Commerce to sell or exchange certain National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration property to the City of <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Norfolk. The legislation is critical to Norfolk’s efforts to revitalize and redevelop the area in Downtown Norfolk known as the Fort Norfolk District. Representative Scott and Representative Drake both represent portions of the City of Norfolk. The measure passed by voice vote.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Representative Scott’s and Representative Drake’s floor statements, as prepared for delivery for debate on the bill from Monday, September 15th, are below: MR. SCOTT of Virginia: Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5350, a bill authorizing the Secretary of Commerce to sell or exchange certain National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration property in the City of Norfolk, Virginia. At the request of the City of Norfolk, I introduced this legislation in February of this year along with my colleague from Virginia’s 2nd Congressional District, Congresswoman Thelma Drake, who also represents part of the City of Norfolk. Over the last decade, the City of Norfolk has experienced tremendous economic growth. Downtown Norfolk has reemerged as the urban center of the Hampton Roads region through revitalization and new commercial and residential development. For several decades, NOAA has been an important Federal partner in Downtown Norfolk’s development. NOAA’s Atlantic Marine Operations Center and NOAA’s Chesapeake Bay Office are both located Downtown in an area referred to as the Fort Norfolk District, which is one of the last remaining underdeveloped waterfront areas in Downtown. Nearly a decade ago, the City recognized the strategic location of the Fort Norfolk District for redevelopment and revitalization, and the City began discussions about its desire to purchase a parcel of property from NOAA located at 538 Front Street, directly across from NOAA’s primary Norfolk facility. NOAA currently uses the property for storage and staff space for the Norfolk Field Operations Office of NOAA’s National Geodetic Survey. These discussions stalled when NOAA ascertained that Congressional authorization was required in order to proceed. H.R. 5350 simply authorizes – but does not require – the Secretary of Commerce to sell or exchange the NOAA property located at 538 Front Street in Norfolk to the City of Norfolk. The bill clearly states that NOAA may only sell or exchange the property if the Secretary of Commerce determines that the conveyance would be in the best interest of the Federal government. The bill also requires that the property be sold at a value that is not less than the fair market value as determined by the Federal government. The bill does not delineate or support any particular agreement or contract; the details of any future agreement between NOAA and the City of Norfolk would have to be worked out. This legislation would simply permit that process to move forward. And if a mutually agreeable contract is decided upon, this land sale or exchange would allow Norfolk to continue its tremendous economic growth by developing the land for commercial and residential purposes. The authority granted to the Secretary of Commerce to enter into an agreement with the City of Norfolk will expire two years after the date of enactment of H.R. 5350. Madam Speaker, I would like to thank the Chairwoman of the Fisheries Subcommittee, Ms. Bordallo, and the Ranking Member Mr. Brown, as well as the Natural Resources Committee Chairman Mr. Rahall and Ranking Member Mr. Young for bringing this bill to the floor. I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation that protects the interests of both the Federal government and the citizens of Norfolk. MRS. DRAKE: Madam Speaker, I am pleased to be standing today in support of H.R. 5350, legislation that I sponsored along with Congressman Bobby Scott, which authorizes the sale or exchange of a specific tract of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) property located in Norfolk, Virginia. The sale of this NOAA land is something the City of Norfolk has been working on since 2005. I am proud that this legislation is being considered today, as it will have a significant impact on the economic development of Norfolk. Over thirty years ago, the federal government purchased 3.78 acres of land located at 538 Front Street in Norfolk for $47,300. From this time forward, this prime, waterfront location has remained under-utilized – when the original intention for this land was to be the future site of NOAA’s regional headquarters. Allowing the City of Norfolk to purchase this land for fair market value gives Norfolk a new area to continue redevelopment efforts that will foster job growth and economic opportunities for citizens in Hampton Roads. As Norfolk has experienced substantial economic growth since the time of the original purchase, I appreciate that this sale will finally be permitted to further ensure Norfolk’s future economic development efforts. I am grateful for Rep. Scott’s work on helping to bring this bill to the floor, as well as the work of the Committee on Natural Resources and I look forward to the great benefit this redevelopment effort will have for the people of Hampton Roads. (####)
09.12.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - This week, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) and Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX-1) introduced the Center to Advance Monitor and Preserve University Security (CAMPUS) Safety Act of 2008. Rep. Scott is the Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and also sits on the House Education and Labor Committee. Rep. Gohmert is the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> The CAMPUS Safety Act of 2008 will create a <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />National Center for Campus Public Safety (the “Center”), which will be administered through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. The Center will train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information. “Over the past few years, we have seen numerous tragedies occur at our colleges and universities, including the disastrous events that occurred at Virginia Tech and Northern Illinois University,” stated Rep. Scott. “Unfortunately, because these events were the first of their kind for the schools, they were not fully knowledgeable about how to respond. The purpose of this legislation is to enable our institutions of higher education to easily obtain the best information available on how to keep our campuses safe and secure and how to respond in the event of a campus emergency.” "It is important that while we remember those who were lost or impacted during the recent tragic attacks on our college campuses, we must also take steps to prevent future incidents,” said Rep. Gohmert. “Equipping our higher institutions to be prepared in such extreme emergencies is in the best interest of our students, school staff, and our communities, and this bill will help us to carry out that priority of providing for their safety." The bill has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee for further action. (####)
09.10.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) has been appointed by Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi to the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, commonly referred to as the House Ethics Committee, for the remainder of the 110th Congress. The vacancy to which Representative Scott was appointed was a result of the untimely death of Representative Stephanie Tubbs Jones of <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Ohio.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> “I am honored by the Speaker’s appointment to the Ethics Committee for the remainder of the term,” said Rep. Scott. “As a member of the Committee, I will do my best to uphold the integrity of the U.S. House of Representatives.” (####)
09.08.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives considered S. 2403, a bill to designate the new U.S. Courthouse in Richmond, Virginia as the “Spottswood W. Robinson III and Robert R. Merhige, Jr. U.S. Courthouse.” S. 2403 was introduced by Virginia Senators John Warner and Jim Webb. The bill passed the Senate on June 24, 2008 and is expected to pass the House at 6:30 p.m. today. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Below is Congressman Scott’s full statement as prepared for delivery on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Madam Speaker, It is my honor and privilege to rise in support of S. 2403, a bill to designate the new Federal Courthouse, located in the 700 block of <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />East Broad Street, Richmond, Virginia, as the “Spottswood W. Robinson III and Robert R. Merhige, Jr. United States Courthouse.” “The Commonwealth of Virginia has a rich history of contributions in the founding of this country and in the establishment and development of our legal system. Virginia practitioners such as George Wythe, Thomas Jefferson, John Marshall, James Monroe and Henry Clay have all profoundly shaped and molded our country's legal traditions. In fact, the first law school in the country was our own College of William and Mary located in Williamsburg, Virginia. “It is therefore fitting that we would name the new Federal Courthouse in our State’s capitol city after two distinguished jurists – Judge Spottswood W. Robinson, III, and Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr. – whose exemplary careers in the law displayed the best ideals and principles of our Constitution and legal traditions. “Spottswood William Robinson, III was born in Richmond, Virginia on July 26, 1916 and passed away at his home in Virginia on October 11, 1998. He attended Virginia Union University and then Howard University School of Law, graduating first in his class in 1939 and serving as a member of the faculty until 1947. “In 1964, Judge Robinson became the first African-American to be appointed to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Judge Robinson the first African-American to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. On May 7, 1981, Judge Robinson became the first African-American to serve as Chief Judge of the District of Columbia Circuit. Judge Robinson served on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights and as dean of Howard University Law School. “In addition to these extraordinary and groundbreaking roles, Judge Robinson is probably best known for his role as one of the lead attorneys with the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund from 1948 to 1960, and specifically for his representation of the Virginia plaintiffs in the 1954 landmark U.S. Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education, which declared “separate but equal” schools unconstitutional and is one of the landmark cases in our nation’s history. “Judge Robert R. Merhige was born in New York, New York on February 5, 1919 and passed away in Richmond on February 18, 2005. He attended High Point College in North Carolina where he received his undergraduate degree in 1940. He then earned his law degree from T.C. Williams School of Law at the University of Richmond, from which he graduated at the top of his class in 1942. “From 1942 to 1945 – during WWII – Judge Merhige served in the United States Army Air Forces as a crewman on a B-17 bomber based in Italy. After the war, he returned to Richmond where he practiced law from 1945 to 1967. During that time, Judge Merhige established himself as a formidable trial lawyer representing a wide variety of clients. “In August of 1967, Judge Merhige was appointed U.S. District Court Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond Division by President Lyndon B. Johnson, where he served for 31 years. “While on the Federal bench, Judge Merhige presided over some of the most important and complex litigation in U.S. history. He ordered the University of Virginia to admit women in 1970. In 1972, he ordered the desegregation of dozens of Virginia school districts. As a result of his decision, he and his family were victims of threats and violence, and he was given 24-hour protection by U.S. marshals. His judicial courage and independence in the face of strong opposition is a testament to his dedication to equal justice under the law, and I believe that his example is as pertinent today as it was then. “The new Federal Courthouse in Richmond is under construction and nearing completion. I believe that naming it after these two exemplary jurists will not only serve as a tribute to their fierce adherence to the Constitution and to their legacy of equal justice under law, but also serve as a reminder of their contributions to ensuring a fair and just legal system for all people. “I commend Senator John Warner and Senator Jim Webb for introducing this bill in the Senate, as well as the members of the entire Virginia delegation for their support. I would also like to thank Chairman Oberstar and Chairwoman Norton, Ranking Members Mica and Graves, and both the Democrat and Republican Leadership for swift passage of this measure.” (####)
08.08.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) will hold office hours for the residents of New Kent County and Charles City County on Monday, August 18, 2008.Charles City County10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, Virginia New Kent County2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.Heritage Public Library6215 D Chesapeake CircleNew Kent, Virginia For additional information, please contact Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.(####)
08.08.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - On Monday, August 11, 2008 in Norfolk, Virginia, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott will host a panel discussion and Town Hall forum on the implications, both environmental and economic, of lifting the Congressional moratorium on exploration and drilling on the outer continental shelf. The Town Hall meeting will take place at 6:30 p.m. in the Norfolk City Council Chambers, located at 810 Union Street, 11th Floor, Norfolk, Virginia 23510. The Congressional Moratorium on drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf is enacted each year with the annual Department of Interior Appropriations Bill. The moratorium has been in effect since 1982 and will expire on September 30, 2008 if not reenacted by Congress. Joining Congressman Scott at the forum will be a panel of experts from both sides of the drilling debate:Delegate Joe Bouchard, a former Captain in the United States Navy and a member of the Agriculture, Chesapeake and Natural Resources Committee in the Virginia House of Delegates; Glen Besa, Director of the Sierra Club Virginia Chapter; and Jim Kibler, Vice President of Governmental Relations, Mid-Atlantic Region for AGL Resources, the parent company of Virginia Natural Gas. “The American people deserve an open, honest discussion on how offshore drilling will impact both their wallets and their coastlines,” said Rep. Scott. “I believe it is vitally important that we hear from experts about this issue and how best to address the growing energy needs of our nation.”(####)
07.31.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representatives Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) and J. Randy Forbes (R-VA-4) voted to support passage of the Conference Report to reauthorize the Higher Education Act. The Conference Report includes a specific provision that will establish a new grant program to promote and enhance the study of Modeling and Simulation at institutions of higher education. Both Representatives are members of the Congressional Modeling and Simulation Caucus. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Modeling and Simulation is a field of study that refers to replicating a system on a smaller scale or on a computer for extensive analysis. For example, Modeling and Simulation technology can be used to simulate large scale natural or man-made disasters to improve the effectiveness of local, state, and Federal first responders, law enforcement, and other agencies involved in a coordinated emergency response. Many government agencies use Modeling and Simulation technology, including the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, which use this national critical technology to simulate emergencies and field scenarios and practice responses. Modeling and Simulation technology can be used for urban planning to assess a city’s evacuation plan or traffic congestion. It can also be used to train doctors and surgeons for complex surgeries before they are ready to work on real patients. Currently, a limited number of institutions of higher education have Modeling and Simulation programs, including undergraduate and graduate degree programs. The competitive grant program created by the Higher Education Act reauthorization will provide a critical source of funding for colleges and universities that want to expand and improve their Modeling and Simulation programs. The grant will also provide important seed money for colleges and universities that do not have a program to establish a Modeling and Simulation program. “Modeling and Simulation technology is an essential component in ensuring that we meet both the national security and domestic challenges of the 21st century,” stated Rep. Scott, who is a member of the House Committee on Education and Labor. “The practical uses of Modeling and Simulation technology as a training tool are boundless. We can learn about a system in a more cost-effective, timely, and safe manner than when analyzing the real thing. Furthermore, we can simulate thousands of scenarios over and over again on a computer when it is too hazardous, expensive, or impossible to perform a real-world experiment. Every field of study or profession can benefit in some way from modeling and simulation. By including the Modeling and Simulation Grant Program in Conference Report to the Higher Education Act reauthorization, we are ensuring that the <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />United States remains competitive in this critical and rapidly expanding field.” "Modeling and Simulation is a critical technology that provides unparalleled advancements in American competitiveness and brings high-tech jobs and economic prosperities to our communities. As chairman of the Modeling and Simulation Caucus, I am excited that this important grant program to enhance the study of M&S has been included in the Higher Education Opportunity Act conference report,” said Rep. Forbes. “The grants will provide critical funding to education institutions that want to take advantage of this new and promising technology, and I am hopeful that this important piece of legislation will finally become law.” “The Third Congressional District of Virginia and the Commonwealth as a whole have been leaders in the field of Modeling and Simulation technology,” added Rep. Scott. “In addition to our local military bases supporting the Joint Forces Center in Suffolk, Old Dominion University, Norfolk State University, Hampton University and NASA Langley Research Center on the Virginia Peninsula are engaged in applying people, tools and facilities to modeling and simulation technology. Old Dominion University’s state of the art facility – the Virginia Modeling, Analysis and Simulation Center – is located in Suffolk, Virginia. The new grant program will enable others in Virginia and across the country to participate in and benefit from this important and growing sector of our economy.” The Conference Report passed the House overwhelmingly and is expected to pass the Senate in the next few days, after which it will be sent to the President for his signature. Each year the Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Caucus, founded by Congressman Forbes, hosts an M&S Leadership Summit. The Summit is a watershed event for the M&S industry that is completely devoted to federal public policy and brings together government, industry, academia, and Congress to address the ways M&S technology is being used within various domains. (####)
07.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - "I support this bipartisan tobacco legislation that seeks to reduce the marketing and sale of tobacco to youth and that requires larger, more specific health warnings on tobacco packaging and advertisements.” This legislation is supported by over 700 public health and community groups including the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, the American Heart Association, the American Lung Association, as well as industry (Phillip Morris, Swedish Match, U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company). The bill reinstates the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) 1996 rule which seeks to reduce smoking by our Nation’s youth. Among other provisions, the bill restricts outdoor tobacco advertising within 1,000 feet of schools and playgrounds, restricts vending machines to adult-only facilities, and requires retailers to verify the age for over-the-counter sales of tobacco. The bill also requires tobacco companies to: disclose the ingredients of tobacco products; to place larger, more specific, health warnings on packaging; and to stop using descriptors such as “light,” “mild,” and “low” on labels and in advertising. (####)
07.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. ”Bobby” Scott will hold a Town Hall Meeting for the residents of New Kent County, VA, on Monday, July 21, 2008 at 6:00 P.M. at the George W. Watkins Elementary School located at 6501 New Kent Highway in Quinton, Virginia 23141. Joining Congressman Scott at the Town Hall will be Dr. Diane Lim Rogers, Chief Economist at the Concord Coalition. As the U.S. House of Representatives continues to consider legislation affecting the economy, Rep. Scott believes it is critical to get first hand testimonials on how our current economic situation is affecting the people of the Third District of Virginia, the region, and the nation.“The foreclosure crisis, skyrocketing prices at the pump, the ballooning federal budget deficit, a 600 billion dollar war – Virginians are feeling the pinch of our current economic woes,” said Rep. Scott. “I believe it is critical that I get direct input on these critical economic issues directly from my constituents.”(####)
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - In reaction to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision this morning overturning the <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />District of Columbia’s hand gun ban, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, issued the following statement:<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> “I am reviewing the decision and consulting with experts regarding its implications. I am pleased that, so far, it appears that while the outright ban by D.C. of handguns in the home for self-protection was overturned, other longstanding, sensible governmental regulation of firearms was upheld.” (####)
06.25.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008. Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, (D-VA-3), offered the following statement in support of the legislation:“Madam Speaker, I rise in support of HR 3195, the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act. “In the early 1980's, sixty-four disability organizations formed a coalition known as INVEST (INsure Virginians Equal Status Today) to pass a state statute in Virginia to protect individuals with disabilities from discrimination. The landmark ‘Virginians with Disabilities Act’ was the Commonwealth's commitment to encourage persons with disabilities to participate fully in the social and economic life of the Commonwealth. It preceded the federal Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) by five years, and many of the key concepts in the Virginia statute formed the basis of the ADA. “Signed in 1985 by former Gov. Charles S. Robb, the Virginians with Disabilities Act today protects nearly one million state residents. This Act acknowledged that ‘it is the policy of the Commonwealth to encourage and enable persons with disabilities to participate fully and equally in the social and economic life …’ and it protects Virginians with disabilities from discrimination in employment, education, housing, voting, and places of public accommodation. “Five years later, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 was enacted to protect all Americans against discrimination on the basis of disability. When Congress passed the ADA, Congress adopted the definition of disability from Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, a statute that was well litigated and understood.“Congress expected that under the ADA – just as under the Rehabilitation Act – individuals with health conditions that were commonly understood to be disabilities would be entitled to protection from discrimination. But a series of U.S. Supreme Court decisions interpreted the ADA in ways that Congress never intended, and over the years these decisions have eroded the protections of the statute. “First, the Court held in 1999 that mitigating measures – including prosthetics, medication, and other assistive devices – must be taken into account when determining if a person is disabled. Then, in 2002, the Court held that a ‘demanding standard’ should be applied to determining whether a person has a disability. As a result, millions of people Congress intended to protect under the ADA – such as those with diabetes, epilepsy, intellectual disabilities, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, amputation, cancer and many other impairments – are not protected as intended. “The ADA Amendments Act will restore the ADA to Congress’ original intent by clarifying that coverage under the ADA is broad and covers anyone who faces unfair discrimination because of a disability. The ADA Amendments Act: Retains the requirement that an individual’s impairment substantially limits a major life activity in order to be considered a disability, and further that an individual must demonstrate that he or she is qualified for the job. Would overturn several court decisions to provide that people with disabilities not lose their coverage under the ADA simply because their condition is treatable with medication or can be addressed with the help of assistive technology. Includes a ‘regarded as’ prong as part of the definition of disability which covers situations where an employee is discriminated against based on either an actual or perceived impairment. Moreover, the proposal makes it clear that accommodations do not need to be made to someone who is disabled solely because he or she is ‘regarded as’ disabled. “Madam Speaker, the bill before us today is the direct result of agreements between the business and disability communities to rectify the problem created by the courts, and I applaud the determination and hard work that went into this compromise. The ADA Amendments Act will enable individuals with disabilities to secure and maintain employment without fear of being discriminated against because of their disability. Congress clearly intended to prohibit discrimination against all people with disabilities and we will do that by passing HR 3195. “Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.” The bill passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 402-17 (Roll Call No. 460). (####)
06.25.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security of the House Judiciary Committee, announced today that he will be hosting a Teen Summit on Youth Violence on Wednesday, July 2, 2008 in Surry. The summit will discuss the causes of and possible solutions to the growing epidemic of youth violence in our communities. The summit format will allow young people to interact directly with elected officials and experts on youth violence, with the goal of providing all in attendance with a better understanding of this problem. The Honorable Jerrauld C. Jones, Chief Judge, Norfolk Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court, 4th Judicial District of Virginia; and Professor Robert E. Shepherd, Jr., Faculty Emeriti, University of Richmond, will join Congressman Scott on the panel. WHEN: Wednesday, July 2, 2008 5:30 P.M. WHERE: Surry County Recreation Center 205 Enos Drive, Surry, Virginia 23883 For additional information on the Summit, please contact Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000.(####)
06.23.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) offered the following remarks today on the 36th anniversary of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sex discrimination against students and employees of educational institutions: “Madam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 36th anniversary of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. Title IX was the culmination of the hard work of many women and men who fought for women’s rights to equal opportunities within the American education system. Today, we remember their efforts and we celebrate their achievements. "Title IX was the first comprehensive federal law to prohibit sex discrimination against students and employees of educational institutions. Title IX has benefited both males and females, and is at the heart of efforts to create gender equitable schools with equal opportunities and treatment for women. The law requires educational institutions to maintain policies, practices and programs that do not discriminate against anyone based on sex. Under this law, males and females must receive fair and equal treatment in all areas of higher education, such as admissions, educational programs and athletics. "The benefits of Title IX are compelling and throughout these 36 years we have seen women seize the opportunity to thrive within the education system in all areas. High school sports participation for females has risen 903% since the early 70s. In 1970, women earned only 14% of doctoral degrees, but today earn nearly 50%. Over these 36 years, women have entered and thrived in male-dominated fields such as business and science. I’d like to recognize the 92 current female Members of this Congress who have also entered and thrived in another male-dominated field. Many of my distinguished colleagues have been beneficiaries of Title IX. They have rightfully been given an opportunity to be free from sex discrimination and they are continuing to pave the way for women coming after them. "Throughout our recent history, America has seen the growing momentum to achieve the equality enshrined in our Constitution. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 was the first giant step, which prohibited discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex and national origin. Then during the decade after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, Congress passed a series of laws extending civil rights protections in federally assisted programs. There was Title IX, then Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 which protected those with disabilities, then the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 which prohibited age discrimination, and then the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act to provide education and intervention programs to youth with disabilities. "In the last 44 years we have made great progress towards achieving equality and extraordinary legislation such as Title IX has made this possible. However, despite all this progress, equal rights and opportunities for all have not yet been realized. We continue on the journey to obtain equal opportunities for all Americans, and we acknowledge that there is much more to be done for women and for other historically marginalized groups. But on the 36th anniversary of Title IX, we celebrate our achievements as they give us strength to continue on the path towards equality.” (####)
06.20.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - The U.S. House of Representatives, today, voted on H.R. 6304, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) of 1978 Amendments Act of 2008. Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, opposed the legislation, which passed 293 – 129 (Roll No. 437). Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery: “Madam Speaker, I oppose H.R. 6304. It allows widespread acquisition of private conversations without meaningful court review. The bill actually permits the government to perform mass, untargeted surveillance of any and all conversations believed to be coming into and going out of the United States without any individualized finding that wrongdoing is believed to be involved. “This power is not limited to terrorism. It could be any foreign intelligence, which would include anything related to diplomacy. Furthermore, the bill is vague on what can be done with the information after it is acquired and who has access to it. The only court review is a check on whether or not the government certifies that the appropriate process has been followed. The court does not review who, what, where and how the tapping will occur. “Furthermore, the collection of all of this data can be done under emergency provisions before the court has any opportunity to act and the collection can continue to be done even if the court later rejects the application, if the administration appeals. “The bill also provides retroactive immunity to communications companies who may have violated people’s rights; whether or not those rights have been violated should be reviewed by the courts, not decided here in Congress. “Madam Speaker, we can protect America’s national security and protect individual civil rights by providing government access to personal conversation, with meaningful court review. This bill fails to do that, and therefore it should be defeated.” (####)
06.19.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives considered H.R. 2642, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Military Operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Below is Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott’s full statement on H.R. 2642. “Madam Speaker, the War in Iraq has claimed the lives of 4,101 American soldiers and countless Iraqi civilians over the last five years. Beyond the tragic human cost of this war, the cost to the American tax payer has been tremendous. “I oppose the first amendment to H.R. 2642 that will provide an additional $165.4 billion for this President’s never ending war. If enacted, this Amendment will bring the total cost of the War in Iraq to nearly $660 billion. While I do not support cutting funding to troops in combat, I believe it is morally irresponsible to keep our troops indefinitely stuck in the middle of a sectarian civil war. “Madam Speaker, unfortunately, the first amendment before the House today places no restrictions on how the President should use these funds to transition our mission in Iraq and bring our men and women in uniform home. Our continued military presence in Iraq is counter productive. There are more terrorists in Iraq today than there were before we invaded. The quality of life for an average Iraqi civilian is worse today than before we invaded. Our men and women in uniform have performed with honor and dignity, but Americans understand that this war – that should have never been waged and that should have never been authorized – can only be won diplomatically, not militarily. “At the same time, I strongly support the second amendment to H.R. 2642 that will extend unemployment benefits, protect Medicaid, provide disaster relief to the Midwest, and, most importantly, provide for expanded veterans educational benefits. “As many of our student veterans have come to realize, the current Montgomery G.I. Bill falls far short of meeting today’s cost of a college education. The current program is a benefit that was designed for peacetime service and was never intended to be a wartime benefit. “The 21st Century G.I. Bill will provide our men and women in uniform, who have served multiple and extended tours of duty in Iraq, the full cost of a four year public university. In addition to covering the cost of tuition, the 21st Century G.I. Bill will also provide funds for books and a monthly living stipend equivalent to housing costs in the area in which the veteran is enrolled. The 21st Century G.I. Bill will also create a new program in which the government will agree to match, dollar for dollar, any voluntary additional contributions to veterans from private colleges and universities. “Madam Speaker, perhaps the most significant reform to the G.I. Bill that is included in this amendment is the expansion of benefits to our citizen soldiers in the National Guard and the Reserves. I served in the National Guard and the U.S. Army Reserve for six years, but was never called up for active duty. On the other hand, today’s Guard and Reserve members are serving multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan, getting pulled away from school, from their jobs and from their families. The current Montgomery G.I. Bill program does not adequately honor their service. The 21st Century G.I. Bill will finally honor the sacrifices of our citizen soldiers. “I commend the leadership of my colleagues in both chambers, especially Senators Jim Webb, John Warner and Chuck Hagel for their steadfast leadership on this issue. Honoring the sacrifices of our veterans by providing them the opportunity to obtain a college education is a modest cost of this war. Regardless of how each of us may feel about the Iraq War, everyone in this body agrees that when we talk about supporting our troops that commitment does not and should not end when they return home. “Madam Speaker, while I wish we could be bringing our troops home from Iraq with this supplemental appropriations bill, I commend the leadership of both sides of the aisle for allowing the 21st Century G.I. Bill to be offered as an amendment to H.R. 2642. This new G.I. Bill will transform an entire generation of young Americans by providing them access to a college education. I urge my colleagues to oppose the first amendment and to support the second amendment.” (####)
06.10.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Forty-five years ago today, the Equal Pay Act was signed into law, seeking to close the wage gap between men and women. Nearly a half of a century later, Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3) celebrates the country’s achievements in obtaining equal pay for women, but recognizes the need for further measures to ensure that women are receiving equal pay for equal work. “There is no excuse for the systematic pay discrimination that still continues today,” said Rep. Scott. “The Equal Pay Act provided a good starting point, but we need to continue to move forward.” Rep. Scott is a strong advocate for a woman’s right to equal pay. He was active in passing the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act in the House of Representatives and has cosponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would provide more effective remedies to women suffering from pay discrimination. (####)
05.29.2008	Martin Luther King Jr.'s Civil Rights Dream at 40When we allow freedom to ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all God's children—black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics—will be able to join hands and sing in the words of that old Negro spiritual: 'Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!"King, the son of an Atlanta pastor, was born in 1929. He became an ordained Baptist minister at the age of 19. In 1955, shortly after civil rights activist Rosa Parks refused to obey Montgomery, Alabama rules mandating segregation on buses, King led black residents in a bus boycott.King soon gained national fame for his extraordinary oratorical skills, and for his courage. In the spring of 1963, he led mass demonstrations in Birmingham, Alabama, where local white police officials opposed integration. Violent clashes between unarmed black demonstrators and police armed with dogs and fire hoses generated newspaper headlines throughout the world.His message, however, was not confrontational, but instead emphasized racial reconciliation through non-violent means. This theme was at the core of his "I have a dream" speech.King was speaking directly to the 250,000 people, black and white, gathered on the Washington Mall that sweltering day 40 years ago. Perhaps more importantly, however, he knew he was also addressing the millions of people, most of them white, who were watching the speech live on television."He created a reasonable argument that [white] Americans could embrace," said Haynes. "He appealed to those Americans who didn't see segregation as a major problem, but still thought it was unfair," said Haynes.Ulysses Jenkins, another UC Irvine professor, who teaches African-American studies, says King had to convince white people of the benefits of racial reconciliation."Whites feared that they had something to lose from racial equality," said Jenkins. "King had to show them they would gain something from it."The strong religious underpinning of King's message, with its references to redemption and forgiveness, resonated with white Christians. King's speech also tapped into America's political soul. He said the ideals of American democracy had not been realized until there was racial reconciliation."His message was larger than civil rights," said Clayborne Carson, director of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Papers Project at Stanford University in Palo Alto. "King was fighting for justice."But the speech also served as a warning."King wanted people to act," said Carson, who was 19 years old when he attended the march. "The underlying message was clear: As long as there was no change, the demonstrations would continue." Launch in external player
05.23.2008	Can your cell phone tell if you're happy or overworked?Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology think it can do that and more--separate the rich from the poor, the sick from the healthy, even the outgoing from the introverted. Sandy Pentland, director of MIT's Human Dynamics Research program, has focused his work on that unlikely task: using gadgets as simple as a cell phone to better understand the quirks and patterns of human behavior. Sandy Pentland Pentland's experiments began with what he calls a "sociometer," a simple badge-like device that hangs from a subject's neck and records his or her movements, tone of voice, and location. With just those signals collected from large groups of subjects, Pentland says he was able to perform a kind of data analysis he calls "reality mining," finding patterns that reveal a surprising range of information--from how a population breaks down into groups, to which groups are most social and productive, to the personality traits of single individuals, all based on measuring tone of voice and body language.In his most recent experiments, however, the sociometer hasn't been necessary. Instead, Pentland has tracked his subjects through their cell phones, which are carried by around four out of five Americans. Pentland spoke with Forbes.com about the benefits his tracking experiments could offer to society, the privacy problems they pose and how he hopes to strike a balance between the two.Forbes.com: What is "reality mining?"Sandy Pentland: Reality mining is about using sensors to understand human beings. The sensors could be security cameras, they could be devices that you wear on yourself, they could be cell phones. The point is it's about people. Data mining is about finding patterns in digital stuff. I'm more interested specifically in finding patterns in humans. I'm taking data mining out into the real world.What kind of reality-mining experiments have you actually performed?We developed this thing called a sociometer, a little badge that you wear around your neck that records your body language, your motion and your tone of voice--the tone, not the words. It gives us a nice little package for reality mining.We've done all sorts of interesting things with this. Just listening to peoples' tones of voice and how they move, we can measure interest level and attention, factors that account for 40% of the variation in the outcomes of things like salary negotiation, dating scenarios, closing a sale, pitching a business plan.
05.15.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the United States House of Representatives passed the 21st Century G.I. Bill, which was introduced in the House by Representatives Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) and Harry Mitchell (D-AZ-02) and in the Senate by Senator Jim Webb (D-VA). The bill was included in an amendment to H.R. 2642, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Military Operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The amendment passed by a vote of 256 to 166 (Roll No. 330). The 21st Century G.I. Bill is designed to offer the brave men and women who have served honorably since September 11, 2001 a level of educational benefits on par with those provided to veterans of the World War II era. The bill will cover the entire cost of a four year public college or university, while also providing a monthly housing stipend and money for books and supplies. The legislation will make military service more attractive as we work to rebuild our military. It will also give our troops returning home the tools they need to succeed after military service while strengthening our economy in the face of increasing global competition. “Today marks a historic shift in how this nation treats our veterans,” said Rep. Scott. “The men and women, who have served multiple tours of duty in Afghanistan and Iraq, deserve an educational benefit that more accurately reflects their service in combat. The 21st Century G.I. Bill finally honors their sacrifices.”(####)
05.15.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3) backed a bipartisan Farm Bill that will strengthen American agriculture, help families facing high food costs and make a substantial commitment to land conservation and our energy independence. The Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act passed on Wednesday by a vote of 318-106. The US Senate passed the farm package today.<?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> “With food prices soaring, consumers need all the help they can get,” said Congressman Scott. “The new farm bill will help families who see food costs rising while supporting our farmers and taking important steps toward reforming farm payments.” Nearly three-fourths of the Farm Bill will support nutrition programs that help 38 million American families afford healthy food. The legislation's updates to the food stamp provisions will help about 11 million people by 2012. The bill also provides much-needed support to emergency feeding organizations, such as food banks, food pantries, and soup kitchens by increasing TEFAP funding by $1.25 billion – with $50 million for immediate shortages at food pantries. Additionally, the bill helps schools provide healthy snacks to students, with $1 billion for free fresh fruits and vegetables. Congressman Scott is also pleased the Farm Bill gives farmers, who filed claims under the Pigford case, an opportunity to seek relief. The Pigford v. Veneman case was brought after black farmers received discriminatory treatment by the United States Department of Agriculture. The case was settled and black farmers were guaranteed some monetary relief in the consent decree. Due to inadequate notice and arbitrary deadlines, many farmers did not get the opportunity to be heard by the appropriate court. The Farm bill gives victims additional time to file claims and establishes a $100 million fund that can be replenished by Congress to settle these late filed claims. To encourage conservation efforts, the Farm Bill boosts conservation programs that reduce soil erosion, enhance water supplies, improve water and air quality, increase wildlife habitat and reduce damage caused by floods and other natural disasters by $7.9 million. It will provide $188 million over the next 4.5 years for a new Chesapeake Bay Watershed Program, and increase the region’s share of national conservation programs more than $252 million over five years. Under the bill, farmers will play a greater role in fueling our energy independence. The Farm Bill invests $1 billion in renewable energy focusing on new technologies and new sources. The legislation takes another critical step in transitioning biofuels beyond corn to non-food crops and sources such as switchgrass, woodchips and corn stalks. (####)
05.13.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Themiddleclass.org has recently awarded Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3) with the highest possible performance grade for his 2007 voting record. Themiddleclass.org is a public policy project initiated by the non-partisan Drum Major Institute for Public Policy (DMI). Since 2003 themiddleclass.org has issued annual scorecards analyzing the impact of domestic legislation on America’s current and aspiring middle class and evaluating Members of Congress based on their votes on this legislation. All 435 Members of the House of Representatives were given a grade based on their voting record in 2007 involving 10 pieces of legislation. The legislation involved the areas most important to the middle class, including health care, education, workplace and job creation, government accountability, tax fairness, energy and environment, and housing. Rep. Scott was given an A+ because he voted in support of the middle class position on all 10 pieces of legislation. “It reflects that the issues important to the middle class are important to me as well,” Rep. Scott said in response to the scorecard. (####)
04.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) joined House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), Senators Jim Webb (D-VA), John Warner (R-VA), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Daniel Akaka (D-HI), and Representatives Harry Mitchell (D-AZ), Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL), and Pete King (R-NY), and hundreds of veterans on the west front of the U.S. Capitol Building at a rally for the “21st Century G.I. Bill” (S.22/H.R. 5740). The “21st Century G.I. Bill” is designed to offer the brave men and women who have served honorably since September 11, 2001 a level of educational benefits on par with those provided to veterans of the World War II era. The legislation will make military service more attractive as we work to rebuild our military. It will also give our troops returning home the tools they need to succeed after military service while strengthening our economy in the face of increasing global competition. The bill has 57 cosponsors in the Senate and 241 cosponsors in the House – a bipartisan majority in both chambers of Congress. Below is Congressman Scott’s full prepared statement from the rally: “I am honored to be here this afternoon to rally for the 21st Century G.I. Bill with hundreds of our veterans who have served honorably in Iraq and Afghanistan and around the world since September 11, 2001. For your sacrifices, and the sacrifices of your families, you deserve the opportunity to pursue a college education. “I would like to commend all of my congressional colleagues – House and Senate, Democratic and Republican and especially my friend from Virginia, Senator Jim Webb – for their leadership on the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act. Everyone on this stage agrees that when we talk about supporting our troops, that commitment does not and should not end when they return home. “As many of our student veterans have come to realize, the current Montgomery G.I. Bill falls short of meeting today’s cost of a college education. The current program is a benefit designed for peacetime service and was never intended to be a wartime benefit. “I served in the National Guard and the U.S. Army Reserve for six years, but was never called up for active duty. On the other hand, today’s Guard and Reserve members are serving multiple tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan; getting pulled away from school, from their jobs and from their families. The current Montgomery G.I. Bill program does not adequately honor their service. “Our men and woman, in every branch and function of the military, who have served multiple tours of duty in Afghanistan and Iraq, deserve an educational benefit that more accurately reflects their service in combat. The 21st Century G.I. Bill will finally honor all of your sacrifices. “It is imperative that we support our service men and women not only while they are fighting overseas, but also when they return home and attempt to better their lives through education. Now, in this Congress, is the best time to pass the 21st Century G.I. Bill. Thank you.” (####)
04.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the Senate passed S. 1315, which includes a provision that gives veterans' benefits to Filipinos who fought under the U.S. flag during World War II in the Pacific theater. Filipino veterans were promised the same benefits given to other World War II veterans, but Congress took them away in 1946. This bill would finally provide some of those benefits that were promised. Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) and the only Member of Congress of Filipino ancestry, issued the following statement in response to today's vote: “I applaud the Senate for passing this important veterans bill,” said Rep. Scott. “Our Filipino World War II veterans have waited far too long for the benefits they were promised over sixty years ago. The inclusion of the Filipino Veterans Equity Act in the Senate version of the Veterans’ Benefit Enhancement Act puts us one step closer to finally fulfilling America’s promise to these veterans. I urge my colleagues in the House of Representatives to act swiftly on this important legislation.” (####)
04.18.2008	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) will announce the winners of the Fifteenth Annual Third Congressional District Art Competition at upcoming receptions in Newport News and Richmond. The Third Congressional District Art Competition was open to all High School students in the Third Congressional District of Virginia. An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Representative Scott has participated every year he has served in Congress. This year’s first place winner will receive the Artistic Honors Scholarship of $20,000 from the Savannah College of Art and Design and will attend a reception in honor of all the winners nationwide in Washington, DC. The first place winning entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the primary tunnel connecting the United States Capitol Building to the Cannon House Office Building for one year, where it will be seen by thousands of people who visit the U.S. Capitol. Representative Scott will present the first place winner and other finalists with a certificate, a t-shirt and various other prizes at two upcoming receptions in the Third Congressional District. The opening reception will be held on Saturday, April 26, 2008 at 3:00 p.m. at the Downing Gross Cultural Arts Center, 2410 Wickham Avenue, Newport News, Virginia 23607. The closing reception will be held on Saturday, May 17, 2008 at 3:00 p.m. at the Black History Museum and Cultural Center, 3 East Clay Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219. If you have any questions regarding this year’s art competition, please contact Representative Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000. (####)
04.18.2008	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) was honored on Thursday, March 27, 2008 by the Virginia Peninsula Boys and Girls Club at its 21st Annual Steak & Burger Dinner. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> Congressman Scott was recognized for his continued dedication to the Boys and Girls Club throughout the <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />Peninsula and his support for the goals of Boys and Girls Club programs. He was also credited for his role in passing the Neighborhood Assistance Act, which he sponsored while serving in the Virginia General Assembly. The Act provides tax credits to businesses for donations made to approved social service and crime prevention programs. In the 110th Congress, Congressman Scott has introduced the Youth PROMISE Act (H.R. 3846), which provides resources to state and local government to prevent juvenile crime. The Youth PROMISE Act will also provide an important new Federal funding stream for organizations like the Boys and Girls Club that help young people stay on the right track. “I am honored to receive this recognition from the Virginia Peninsula Boys and Girls Club,” said Rep. Scott. “The Boys and Girls Club has a long history of helping our youth reach their full potential through after school activities and mentoring programs.”(####)
04.17.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - On Thursday, April 16, 2008, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) was honored by the American Bar Association (ABA) for his efforts to improve the American justice system. The award recognized Congressman Scott’s efforts to protect attorney client privilege, provide funding for the Legal Services Corporation so that Americans of limited means have access to attorneys, and address inequities in the juvenile and criminal justice systems. The award states: “The American Bar Association commends the Honorable Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, U.S. House of Representatives, for his dedication to public service and his commitment to Equal Justice for All.” Fellow awardees at the reception held in Washington, D.C. included Senators Pete Domenici (R-NM), Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Arlen Specter (R-PA), and retiring Representative Jim Ramstad (R-MN). (####)
04.16.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) issued the following statement on the anniversary of the tragedy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />State University (Virginia Tech): <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> “Today marks the one year anniversary of the massacre that occurred on the campus of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University on April 16, 2007. On that day, the University experienced the loss of more than 30 members of the Virginia Tech family and the injury of several more in this tragic school shooting. Through this tragedy, we saw the support of students, families, organizations and governmental entities around Virginia and even around the country pull together to support Virginia Tech and help them through their hour of need. “This tragedy highlighted the fact that our universities need more guidance on how to prevent these types of situations and how to handle them in the unfortunate event that they occur. For this reason, I introduced a provision in the House passed reauthorization of the Higher Education Act that would create a National Center for Campus Public Safety. This Center will train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of information related to the best practices relevant to campus public safety. The implementation of this program would help to prevent the type of events that occurred at Virginia Tech on April 16, 2008. It is my hope that the Higher Education Conference Committee will include this provision in the final version of the Act so that we may prevent future tragedies from occurring unnecessarily. “I continue to offer my thoughts and prayers to those affected by this tragedy and commend the Virginia Tech community on its strength and perseverance in celebrating life and learning.” (####)
04.10.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, Representative Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), along with Representatives Harry Mitchell (D-AZ-05), Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL-05), and Peter King (R-NY-03) reintroduced the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill (H.R. 5740). Representative Scott is the lead sponsor of the original House version, H.R. 2702, and is an original cosponsor of the new version of the legislation introduced yesterday by Rep. Mitchell. The updated version of the bill was introduced with 170 bipartisan original cosponsors, and it is supported by numerous veterans’ organizations including the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the American Legion, and the Military Officers’ Association of America. Representative Scott was unable to participate in a press call this afternoon to announce the reintroduction due to a hearing in the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, of which he is the Chairman. Below is the Congressman’s prepared statement for the press call: “Thank you all for taking the time this afternoon to be on this press call. I would like to commend my friend and colleague, Congressman Harry Mitchell, a leader on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, for introducing the revised version of the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. I would also like to commend Senator Jim Webb, the bill’s author and sponsor in the Senate, for his leadership on this issue. Everyone on this call agrees that when we talk about supporting our troops, that commitment does not and should not end when they return home. “The Post-9/11 G.I. Bill provides those that took it upon themselves to enlist in our military after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 the same benefits that this nation afforded our veterans of World War II – a G.I. Bill that covers tuition for public institutions, the cost of books and a monthly housing stipend. The current Montgomery G.I. Bill program is a benefit designed for peacetime service. The current program was never intended to be a wartime benefit. Our men and woman who have served multiple tours of duty in Afghanistan and Iraq deserve an educational benefit that more accurately reflects their service in combat. “This bill should be a priority in both the House and the Senate regardless of party affiliation. The bipartisan level of support for this legislation is tremendous. S. 22 in the Senate has 52 cosponsors and the new House version has 170 cosponsors. All of us have an obligation to our men and woman fighting overseas to provide them with the benefits they so rightly deserve. It is imperative that we support our service men and women not only while they are fighting overseas, but also when they return home and attempt to better their lives through education.” (####)
04.02.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. ”Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), supports the resolution of the Surry County Board of Supervisors and opposes the proposed use of a site in Surry County for a potential outlying landing field for Oceana’s fighter jets. While Congressman Scott recognizes the need for an outlying landing field for Oceana, the resolution articulates compelling reasons to not site the landing field in Surry County. The resolution cites citizen opposition, noise disruptions, loss of tax revenues and proximity to schools as strong reasons not to site the landing field in Surry County. “I will continue to work with the Navy and the Governor to find a suitable site for the outlying landing field,” said Mr. Scott.(####)
03.20.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security of the House Judiciary Committee, will hold a Teen Summit on The Youth Promise Act to discuss ways to reduce what the Children’s Defense Fund calls “the cradle to prison pipeline” of young people in urban and rural communities in the United States. This summit is scheduled for Tuesday, March 25, 2008, at the I. C. Norcom High School in Portsmouth, VA from 6:00P.M. - 8:00 P.M. The summit gives high school students from South Hampton Roads a forum in which to address their concerns and thoughts on juvenile violence and crime. To assist in this endeavor, Congressman Scott has invited a panel of experts who handle these issues that impact our community. The panel includes Dr. Dewey Cornell, clinical psychologist and professor, Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia and Director of the UVA Youth Violence Project; and the Honorable Jerrauld Jones, former Director of the Virginia Department Juvenile Justice and current Chief Judge, Norfolk Juvenile and Domestic Relations District Court, 4th Judicial District of Virginia. Congressman Scott has introduced H. R. 3846, the Youth Promise Act, which focuses on using evidence and research-based prevention and intervention approaches to reduce juvenile and adult crime. The Teen Summit is free and open to the public. All are encouraged to attend, especially teens and their families. The Summit will be held at I.C. Norcom High School at 1801 London Boulevard, Portsmouth,VA, 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, March 25, 2008. Click here for additional information on the Youth PROMISE Act.(####)
03.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee, spoke on the House Floor today in support of the FISA Amendments Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 213 to 197 (Roll No. 145). Below is Congressman Scott’s full Floor statement: “Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the chairs of the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees for their efforts in addressing warrantless surveillance under the Foreign Intelligence and Surveillance Act and for introducing legislation that addresses the national security challenges presented by global terrorism. “This legislation provides that any wiretap which would be legal under the President’s proposal will be legal under this legislation. It merely requires, under some circumstances, that a warrant be obtained prior to the wiretap- or if there is an emergency, after the wiretap begins. This legislation does not balance civil liberties with national security- all of the wiretaps are permitted, this legislation just provides a little oversight. “The idea of wiretaps without oversight has to be considered in the context of some recent developments at the Department of Justice. Republican appointed officials have accused this administration of firing US Attorneys, because they did not indict Democrats in time to affect an upcoming election. We have been unable to ascertain the truth of the allegation for several reasons. For example: high ranking administration officials questioned the credibility of Attorney General Gonzalez’s original response to the allegations; one high-ranking Justice Department official quit and another pleaded the fifth; and White House officials have refused to respond to subpoenas. And it is this Justice Department seeking unprecedented authority to wiretap citizens without traditional oversight and without even articulating the primary purpose of the wiretaps. “Furthermore, Mr. Chairman, this legislation does not offer retroactive immunity for illegal activities. The fact is that the telephone companies, which may benefit from this retroactive immunity, already have immunity for any reasonable actions they may have taken, and this legislation provides a procedural change to ensure that these claims of immunity can be properly considered. “In summary, this legislation provides all of the national security protection sought by the President, but it also provides modest protection of our civil liberties. We should therefore support this legislation.” (####)
03.13.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Representatives Carolyn Kilpatrick (MI-13) and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) offered an alternative to the Democratic budget on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). While the CBC recognizes the important improvements the Democratic budget makes over the President’s budget, the CBC believes that its budget does an even better job of meeting the needs of the American people while being even more fiscally responsible. According to Rep. Kilpatrick, Chairwoman of the CBC: “Fiscal and moral responsibility are the underpinning of the Congressional Black Caucus alternative budget. In order for America to become stronger and healthier we must not devalue the vitality of the working class while insulating the wealthy few.” “The CBC budget demonstrates that when faced with tough choices we must keep the right priorities in mind. In so doing, it is possible to create a budget that is both fiscally and morally responsible,” stated Rep. Scott, who chairs the CBC Budget Task Force. One of the choices is to fund programs and services important to the American people rather than continuing to provide tax cuts to those who need it least. By repealing some of the tax cuts implemented under the Republican administration that primarily impact that portion of a household’s income over $200,000, the CBC budget provides robust funding for much needed programs and services such as health care for uninsured children, education and job training programs, veterans’ benefits and services and an expanded G.I. Bill for Post-9/11 Veterans, juvenile justice prevention and intervention programs, the Global AIDS initiative, community and regional development, public housing, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), the Army Corps of Engineers, and Homeland Security needs such as the Port Security Grant Program and grants for First Responders. Even after funding all of these priorities, the CBC budget significantly reduces the deficit and, in fact, reaches surplus in FY 2012 and FY 2013. Although the CBC Budget failed to gain a majority in the House, it did receive the support of 126 members – more than half of the House Democratic Caucus. The official vote on the CBC Budget Substitute Amendment was 126-292 (Roll No. 137).(####)
03.12.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - This week, U.S. Representatives Carolyn Kilpatrick (MI-13) and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) will offer an alternative to the Democratic budget on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). While the CBC recognizes the important improvements the Democratic budget makes over the President’s budget, the CBC believes that its budget does an even better job of meeting the needs of the American people while being even more fiscally responsible. According to Rep. Kilpatrick, Chairwoman of the CBC: “Fiscal and moral responsibility are the underpinning of the Congressional Black Caucus alternative budget. In order for America to become stronger and healthier we must not devalue the vitality of the working class while insulating the wealthy few.” “The CBC budget demonstrates that when faced with tough choices we must keep the right priorities in mind. In so doing, it is possible to create a budget that is both fiscally and morally responsible,” stated Rep. Scott, who chairs the CBC Budget Task Force. One of the choices is to fund programs and services important to the American people rather than continuing to provide tax cuts to those who need it least. By repealing some of the tax cuts implemented under the Republican administration that primarily impact that portion of a household’s income over $200,000, the CBC budget provides robust funding for much needed programs and services such as health care for uninsured children, education and job training programs, veterans’ benefits and services and an expanded G.I. Bill for Post-9/11 Veterans, juvenile justice prevention and intervention programs, the Global AIDS initiative, community and regional development, public housing, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), the Army Corps of Engineers, and Homeland Security needs such as the Port Security Grant Program and grants for First Responders. Even after funding all of these priorities, the CBC budget significantly reduces the deficit and, in fact, reaches surplus in FY 2012 and FY 2013. The CBC Budget is expected on the House Floor today or tomorrow.One page summary of the CBC Alternative Budget for Fiscal Year 2009CBC Budget Charts Comparing the Democratic Budget and the President's Budget (####)
03.07.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), Congressman John Larson, (D-CT-1), Congressman Fred Upton, (R-MI-6), and Congressman Michael Castle (R-DE-At Large) will co-host a bipartisan Forum entitled “Youth Violence and Intervention Strategies: Advancing Effective Crime Policy for 2008” on Tuesday March 11, 2008. The event will be held in Room 2237 in the Rayburn House Office Building at 8:30 am and is open to the media, members of Congress and their staff. Tuesday’s event will provide information on the underlying prevention and intervention policies that work effectively to reduce crime. Studies show that crime reduction can be best accomplished by investing in prevention and intervention-based strategies. These strategies are not only cost-effective, but can help to end the criminal justice cycle by reaching the next generation of at-risk youth before they become involved in serious gang or other criminal activity. Experts at the Forum will discuss the effectiveness of these strategies compared to traditional approaches. Presenters at the event will include: • Dr. Susan K. Urahn, Managing Director of State Policy Initiatives, Pew Center on the States;• Dr. Isaac Prilleltensky, Dean of the University of Miami School of Education;• Dr. Howard Pinderhughes, Chair of the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, University of California San Francisco School of Nursing;• Robert “Bobby” Kipper, former Director, Commonwealth of Virginia’s Gang Reduction and Intervention Program; and• Angela Arboleda, Director for Civil Rights and Criminal Justice Policy, National Council of La Raza. (####)
02.21.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), will host a media roundtable on H.R. 3846, the Youth PROMISE Act on Tuesday, February 26, 2008. The event will be held in Room 2257 in the Rayburn House Office Building at 8:30 am. Scott will present to the media why America must focus on prevention and intervention strategies to reduce the high number of American youth in what the Children’s Defense Fund calls the Cradle to Prison Pipeline. Tuesday’s event will provide information on both H.R. 3846 as well as the underlying prevention and intervention policies that work effectively to reduce crime. The Youth PROMISE Act focuses on using evidence and research-based prevention and intervention approaches to reduce juvenile and adult crime. Presenters at the event will include:· Dr. Dewey Cornell, Clinical Psychologist and Professor, Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia and Director of the UVA Youth Violence Project; · Dr. Deborah Prothrow-Stith, Henry Pickering Walcott Professor of the Practice of Public Health and Associate Dean for Diversity, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health;· Dr. Deborah Phillips, Professor of Psychology and Public Policy and Co-Director of the Center for Research on Children in the United States, University of Georgetown;· Vincent Schiraldi, Director, District of Columbia Department of Youth Rehabilitation Services;· Lynn White, Senior Policy Associate for Juvenile Justice, Children’s Defense Fund; and · Miriam Rollin, Vice President of Public Policy, Fight Crime: Invest in Kids. For more information about the Youth PROMISE Act, please visit Rep. Scott’s website at https://www.house.gov/scott/hotissues_youthpromiseact.shtml. (####)
02.08.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) announced today that the Department of Veterans Affairs approved a construction project for $6.787 million for the Hunter Holmes McGuire Polytrauma Rehabilitation Center in Richmond, Virginia. The funding for the Rehabilitation Center is the number one priority for the Department in 2008 out of twenty-six minor construction projects designed to improve access and services within the Veterans Health Administration. Rep. Scott released the following statement on the Department’s announcement: “I commend the Department of Veterans Affairs for making the Polytrauma Transitional Rehabilitation Center its top priority for a minor construction appropriation. The Center in Richmond is one of only four facilities in the country that provides intensive rehabilitative care to service members and veterans who experienced severe injuries, especially brain injuries. The Department’s investment will enable the Center to remain a national leader in providing quality rehabilitative care. More importantly, the investment will enable the Center to better assist the many brave men and women injured while honorably serving their country and who now need their country to help them recover.” (####)
02.07.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) today supported the first reauthorization of the Higher Education Act in ten years. The bill passed the House with strong bipartisan support by a vote of 354-58. Before today’s vote in the full House, the bill passed the House Education and Labor Committee unanimously. Below please find a statement issued by Congressman Scott on the bill:“Madame Speaker, I rise today in support of the College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2007. I would like to thank Chairman George Miller, Ranking Member McKeon, Chairman Hinojosa, and Ranking Member Keller for their work on this bill, which goes a long way toward making higher education attainable for all.“The College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2007 contains several helpful provisions for students. First, the bill increases the authorized maximum Pell Grant award from $5,800 to $9,000. In addition, the bill further decreases student interest rates. The bill also includes a feasibility study on giving students more flexibility in refinancing their loans by making student loans more like home mortgages, in which borrowers can switch back and forth from variable rates to fixed rates as the market’s conditions change. “H.R. 4137 increases support for Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Serving Institutions. “This bill also helps schools affected by a disaster. An Education Disaster and Emergency Relief Loan Program is created to provide emergency loan funds to schools after a federal declared major disaster or emergency, including those schools affected by the 2005 Gulf Hurricanes. Additionally, the bill requires the Secretary to create a disaster relief plan for schools and LEAs adversely affected by disasters. “The College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2007 also addresses several additional critical issues. The bill provides loan forgiveness for areas of national need, including early childhood educators, child welfare workers, school counselors, and mental health professionals. In addition, the bill creates a grant program to help nonprofit organizations, in collaboration with higher education institutions and their students, that seek to promote cultural diversity in the entertainment media industry. Finally, the bill creates a new competitive grant program to strengthen and develop college-level programs in the rapidly growing field of Modeling and Simulation.“I am pleased that the bill also includes a study to be performed by GAO on whether any race, ethnicity, or gender biases are present in the design of standardized tests used for admission to institutions of higher learning. This language should enable GAO to acquire data from the testing companies because of the link between the tests and the federal money that the schools receive who use these admissions tests.“H.R. 4137 also seeks to make campuses more safe by creating a National Center for Campus Public Safety to train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information. The bill also requires the Department of Education to conform hate crime reporting requirements to FBI guidelines to more accurately report incidents of hate crimes on our campuses.“Finally, the bill includes several positive changes to the TRIO programs, which provide assistance to low-income and first generation college-going students. The bill eliminates unreasonable evaluation requirements imposed on Upward Bound programs by the Department of Education without requiring a recompetition. In addition, the bill creates an appeals process for TRIO programs to ensure that the grantmaking process is fair and equitable.“One item not addressed in H.R. 4137 is the provision under current law that prohibits students who are convicted of certain drug offenses from receiving federal student financial aid. This provision unfairly targets poor and minority students, increases long-term costs to society, creates double jeopardy for students who have already paid their debt to society, and lacks evidence of effectiveness. For these reasons and others, I hope that we can address this critical access issue as this bill moves through the legislative process.“For the foregoing reasons, I support the bill and urge my colleagues to support it.” (####)
02.07.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), a member of the House Budget Committee, submitted the following statement for today’s Committee hearing on the President’s Fiscal Year 2009 Budget: “Chairman Spratt, Ranking Member Ryan, I thank you for holding this important hearing on the President’s Fiscal Year 2009 Budget. I would also like to welcome the former Chairman of the Budget Committee, OMB Director Jim Nussle, back to the Budget Committee. “When this President took office in 2001, he inherited a projected ten-year surplus of $5.6 trillion. The national debt was $5.7 trillion and only $1 trillion of the debt was held by foreign nations. President Clinton’s Fiscal Year 2001 budget projected that the public held debt would be retired by Fiscal Year 2009 and the total national debt would be retired by Fiscal Year 2013. “In his eight years in office, this President and his misplaced fiscal priorities have put the federal budget in a very different position. Instead of using the $5.6 trillion projected surplus to invest in education, infrastructure, healthcare, or addressing the $4 trillion Social Security shortfall, this President and the former majority in Congress enacted nearly $1.6 trillion in tax cuts. Of that $1.6 trillion, almost a third of those benefits went directly to the top 1% of Americans. Instead of having retired the public held debt, by the time the President leaves office, the national debit is projected to have increased $4 trillion to $9.7 trillion. In addition to adding trillions to the public held debt to help fund his tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, this president has borrowed an additional $1.3 trillion from foreign nations.“Instead of the projected $710 billion surplus for FY 2009 that was projected in 2001, the President’s FY 2009 budget projects a deficit of $407 billion – a deterioration of over $1 trillion from the 2001 projection for FY 2009. To further exacerbate our severe levels of debt, the President’s FY 2009 budget requests that the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts be permanently extended. According to a recent Center on Budget and Policy Priorities report, the top 1% of households (those with incomes over $450,000) will receive more than $1.1 trillion in tax cuts over the next ten years if the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts are made permanent. By permanently extending these tax cuts, the top 1% of households will receive an average tax cut of $60,000 a year and households with incomes above $1 million will receive an average tax cut of $150,000 a year. “While proposing to give away trillions of dollars in additional tax cuts to the wealthy, the President’s budget cuts Medicare by $556 billion over ten years, cuts funding to the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program by $570 million, and increases fees for veterans by $5.2 billion over the next ten years. The President proposes to terminate or severely reduce funding for many vital domestic programs, including the Career and Technical Education State Grants program, the Even Start program, the Safe and Drug Free Schools Grant Program, the Mentoring Program, and the State Grants for Incarcerated Youth program. These programs help strengthen and improve communities all across the United States because they are targeted towards underserved areas, at risk youth, the unemployed, and prisoner rehabilitation. For example, the State Grants for Incarcerated Youth program, which is terminated by the President’s budget, assists state correction agencies in assisting incarcerated youth in acquiring functional literacy, life and job skills. These skills are necessary for incarcerated youth to successfully reenter society upon completion of a prison sentence. Many of the President’s requested terminations and reductions are justified with little thought or logic. “This Committee and Congress as a whole must adopt a Budget Resolution that puts this nation back on the right track and ends the inequality of this President’s fiscal priorities.” (####)
02.07.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) is an original cosponsor of the Business Activity Tax Simplification Act, which was introduced in the 110th Congress today by Congressman Rick Boucher (D-VA-09) and Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA-06). Historically, states have levied business activity taxes, which include income taxes and franchise taxes, on out-of-state businesses that have a direct physical presence within that state. However, over the past several years, a growing number of states have sought to impose business activity taxes on out-of-state businesses that may have no actual physical presence in that given state. Many states have justified imposing these taxes based on a business’s “economic” activity, not physical presence, within the state. Smaller businesses, with little financial resources to battle taxation collection bureaus in the courts of another state, are often forced to pay heavy out-of-state business activity taxes to a state where they have little or no physical presence. As a result, many businesses have shied away from expanding their presence in other states for fear of exposure to further taxation. The Business Activity Tax Simplification Act would clarify federal law and create a uniform method on how states can levy business activity taxes on out-of-state businesses.“I applaud my fellow Virginians, Congressman Boucher and Congressman Goodlatte, for introducing this important legislation in the 110th Congress,” said Rep. Scott. “Several Virginia businesses have been unfairly assessed business activity taxes in other states. The standards by which a business is required to pay a business activity tax varies so widely in various states that the economic cost of paying these out-of-state taxes and battling these taxes in court are skyrocketing. There should be a uniform standard on how states should levy these taxes. The Business Activity Tax Simplification Act would do just that.”In addition to Rep. Scott, a total of ten other representatives from both parties are original cosponsors of the bill. The legislation has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee.(####)
01.22.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - The Secretary of the Navy and the Chief of Naval Operations announced today five new potential sites for an outlying landing field to support training requirements for all carrier air-wing aircraft based at Naval Air Station Oceana and Naval Station Norfolk. Three of those sites are in Virginia, located at Cabin Point, Dory and Mason. Cabin Point in Surry County partially resides within the 3rd Congressional District of Virginia. Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) released the following statement on the Navy’s announcement:“I commend the Navy for doing its due diligence in trying to determine the best location for an outlying landing field, and that the final site should be in the Commonwealth of Virginia,” said Rep. Scott. “However, I hope that the Navy will continue to work with local governments and communities that will be directly affected by this decision. The residents and local government of Surry County still have many concerns about an outlying landing field in their county. The Surry County Board of Supervisors recently passed a resolution opposing an outlying landing field in Surry. As the public comment process continues, Surry County’s concerns should not be ignored.” (####)
01.22.2008	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - On Saturday, January 19, 2008 at their 2008 Winter Gala, the Virginia Peninsula Chamber of Commerce recognized Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) with the Distinguished Citizen of the Year Award. The Chamber also recognized the late Congresswoman Jo Ann Davis (R-VA-01) with the Distinguished Citizen of the Year award. The late Congresswoman’s husband, Chuck Davis, accepted the award on her behalf.The Distinguished Citizen of the Year Award has been awarded annually by the Virginia Peninsula Chamber of Commerce since 1981. According to the Chamber, nominees should exemplify substantial and enduring contributions to the community through actions in human services, education, or business and industry. Previous recipients of the award include Newport News Shipbuilding, former Congressman Thomas N. Downing, former Congressman Herb Bateman, former Delegate Alan Diamonstein, Dr. McKinley L. Price, DDS, and former State Senator Hunter Andrews. “I am honored to be recognized as one of this year’s Distinguished Citizens with my late colleague Congresswoman Jo Ann Davis,” said Rep. Scott. “The Virginia Peninsula Chamber of Commerce is an important advocate for the economic and business interests of the Virginia Peninsula. I look forward to working with the Chamber in the years ahead to ensure that the Virginia Peninsula remains one of the most competitive economic regions in the nation.” (####)
01.18.2008	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) sent the following letter to Congressman Charles B. Rangel (D-NY-15), Chairman of the House Committee on Ways & Means, regarding the Economic Stimulus Package:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Honorable Charles B. RangelChairman, Committee on Ways & Means1102 Longworth House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Rangel: There is currently a consensus in Congress that any economic stimulus package should be timely, targeted and temporary. In addition to proposals on unemployment compensation, food stamps, and tax rebates, I hope your Committee will consider the following suggestions as you begin to draft an economic stimulus package. First, I think it is critical that an economic stimulus package include additional funding targeted towards providing summer job opportunities for low-income youth through the Department of Labor’s Youth, Adult, and Dislocated Worker Employment and Training Activities Program. This grant program was created by the Workforce Investment Act and has a specific Youth Activities component (Subtitle B, Chapter 4). It would be most beneficial to target additional funding to the Youth Activities component, specifically for the summer term. Additional funding could also be directed through Community Action Agencies, such as the National Community Action Foundation. This would be timely because the funds could be made available by the summer. It would be targeted towards low-income youth who are likely to go out and spend their paychecks immediately. Finally, it would be temporary because these jobs would likely expire at the end of the summer. Second, if Congress is to include any form of a corporate tax cut in an economic stimulus package, I suggest that such a tax cut be in the form of accelerated depreciation. On Wednesday, January 16th, former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers addressed the Democratic Budget Group and indicated support for accelerated depreciation as a timely, targeted and temporary tax cut. Accelerated depreciation would be timely because once enacted small businesses and corporations are likely to make capital purchases that they may not normally make under current economic conditions. Secretary Summers also suggested that accelerated depreciation could be more targeted if applied only towards “incremental” spending, such as allowing the tax preference to apply only to capital expenditures in excess of the average of such expenditures over the last three years. Accelerated depreciation would also be temporary and have the least significant impact on the federal budget deficit because it would virtually pay for itself in the out years. Finally, I hope that your Committee will also consider adding funding for home winterization for low income homeowners. Obviously any additional funding would not immediately benefit homeowners this winter, but would alleviate a tremendous financial strain on many low income homeowners later this year. These additional funds would also be timely in creating additional jobs by this summer for winterization for next fall and winter. These funds could provide jobs to unemployed low and moderate income individuals who would likely spend their paychecks soon. The program could of course be worded in a way that would make it a temporary increased authorization. I think it would be most beneficial to our slowing economy to target low and moderate income people who are in most need of assistance. This is consistent with Secretary Summer’s testimony at Tuesday’s Joint Economic Committee hearing, as well as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke’s testimony at Thursday’s Budget Committee hearing. I hope that you will consider these suggestions as your Committee begins drafting an economic stimulus package. Sincerely, /s/ ROBERT C. “BOBBY” SCOTTMember of Congress -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------(####)
01.17.2008	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee, is pleased to announce that local National Basketball Association star Allen Iverson of the Denver Nuggets is donating One Hundred Thousand Dollars to the Peninsula Community Foundation so the Newport News Police Department may continue its current “Gun Buy Back” program. “This is a great gift from local NBA standout Allen Iverson. It is a significant act of philanthropy for a well intended community based effort. It may initiate a larger degree of participation by others,” said Representative Scott. The “Gun Buy Back” program is a joint effort of the Peninsula Community Foundation and the Newport News Police Department. Like similar programs, these two groups began this campaign to raise money and awareness to reduce guns and acts of gun violence in local neighborhoods. “I have made this contribution because I want to make a difference and I hope that others join me,” said Iverson. “I can remember growing up in Newport News and Hampton and if we can prevent one more child from being killed and another family from crying and mourning the death of another loved one, then it is more than worth it,” Iverson pledged. Results from the initial weekend of the “Gun Buy Back” program, according to media accounts, were very good.(####)
12.13.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) voted against a resolution Tuesday night singling out Christianity “as one of the great religions of the world” to the exclusion of other religions. “The spirit of Christmas demands generosity and goodwill towards others,” said Scott. He went on to point out that “instead of legislation that purports to respect the importance of Christmas, Congress in just these past few weeks has failed to override a presidential veto of legislation that would provide healthcare to 10 million low-income children and also failed to override a presidential veto of legislation that would increase education funding by $20 million. At the same time, this Administration continues to advocate for tax cuts for the wealthiest members of American society and increase the national debt.” Rep. Scott’s decision to vote against the resolution was also influenced by the disingenuousness demonstrated by the resolution’s sponsor and many of its supporters. Specifically, the resolution “rejects bigotry and persecution directed against Christians.” Sadly, the sponsor of the resolution and many of its supporters do not extend this idea of rejecting bigotry to others outside the Christian faith. In fact, the sponsor and all but three of the original cosponsors voted to allow religious discrimination in employment in federally funded Head Start programs in May of this year; of the three exceptions, one cosponsor had not yet taken office and two did not vote. “Discrimination is wrong in any form,” asserted Rep. Scott. “It’s hypocritical to say ‘discrimination is wrong when it happens to me but not when it happens to you.’ I can’t support that.” Scott believes that the resolution will also divert the people’s attention away from the real issues facing our government. “We ought to express our passion for Christmas through deeds, not words, and we should not be distracted from our responsibility to uphold the spirit of Christmas as we consider the effects our actions have on ‘the least of these’ during this holiday season,” Rep. Scott insisted.(####)
12.12.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4351, the AMT Relief Act of 2007. Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) voted in favor of the legislation, which passed 226-193 (Roll No. 1153). The bill provides $50 billion in alternative minimum tax (AMT) relief to 23 million families and expands the child tax credit to help 12 million children. The bill will prevent 23,361 individuals and families in Virginia’s Third Congressional District from having to pay the AMT. The Alternative Minimum Tax was originally put in place in the late 1960s to ensure that the wealthiest families did not escape paying taxes altogether. Unfortunately, it was never adjusted for inflation and so it now threatens middle class families – a far cry from its original intent. The cost of the bill is offset by closing tax loopholes that allow hedge fund managers and corporate CEOs to use offshore tax havens as unlimited retirement accounts. The bill also makes more families eligible for the refundable child tax credit – covering working families making at least $8,500 in 2008 instead of requiring them to make $11,000 as under current law. “I am pleased that the House has again passed a one-year extension of the AMT, saving millions of middle-class families from having to pay the AMT,” said Rep. Scott. “I am also pleased that the House passed a fiscally responsible AMT relief bill that is paid for rather than putting the tab on our children and grandchildren by adding billions to the national debt. However, we cannot continue to do these one-year patches. It is imperative to the fiscal stability of the federal government that Congress passes a permanent AMT fix.” (####)
12.11.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. Sentencing Commission unanimously approved retroactive application of the Crack Cocaine sentencing guideline reductions it had previously approved, originally scheduled to take effect November 1, 2007 for cases arising thereafter. Congressman Scott issued the following quote upon release of the Commission’s decision:“Having concluded that the guidelines for Crack sentencing are unjust, it would be unconscionable to not review the sentences of those already sentenced under those guidelines,” said Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), who is Chairman of the U.S. House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. (####)
11.27.2007	NEWPORT NEWS, VA - A member of Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott’s staff will be holding office hours in <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = ST1 />New Kent County and Charles City County on Tuesday, December 4, 2007 and in Surry County on Thursday, December 6, 2007. This is an opportunity for citizens living within the Third Congressional District to meet with a member of Congressman Scott’s staff to discuss any Federal issues they may have. <?XML:NAMESPACE PREFIX = O /> New Kent County Office HoursTuesday, December 4, 200710:00 A.M. – 11:30 A.M.Old New Kent Courthouse12007 Courthouse Circle New Kent, VA 23124 Charles City County Office HoursTuesday, December 4, 20071:00 P.M. – 2:30 P.M.Charles City County Government & School Board Administration Building10900 Courthouse RoadCharles City, VA 23030 Surry County Office HoursThursday, December 6, 200710:00 A.M. – 11:30 A.M.Surry County Government Center45 School StreetSurry, VA 23883 Please contact Congressman Scott’s Newport News District Office at (757) 380-1000 for additional information. (####)
11.21.2007	RICHMOND, VA - On Wednesday, November 28, at 4:00 p.m., Rep. Bobby Scott will host a briefing for local law enforcement, public officials, educators, youth justice and faith-based organizations on how some children in this country are born on what the Children’s Defense Fund has labeled the “Cradle to Prison Pipeline,” and how they can be removed from it and placed instead on a “Cradle to College Pipeline.” Speakers will include a representative from the Children’s Defense Fund; Jesslyn McCurdy, Legislative Counsel, American Civil Liberties Union, Washington Legislative Office; Carol Chodroff, Juvenile Justice Policy Consultant, Campaign for Youth Justice; Tara Andrews, Deputy Executive Director for Policy and Programs, Coalition for Juvenile Justice; and Liz Ryan, President & CEO, Campaign for Youth Justice. The discussion will focus on the need for effective and research based strategies to prevent and reduce youth delinquency and gang crime rather than the more politically popular, punitive methods that do not successfully reduce crime. Several bills under development in Congress to address youth crime will be discussed, including the Feinstein (D-CA) anti-gang bill (S. 456) that passed the Senate by Unanimous Consent and is awaiting action in the House. This bill emphasizes punitive approaches that would make the “Cradle to Prison Pipeline” worse. Similarly, the Schiff (D-CA) gang bill (H.R. 3547), which is currently pending in the House, also emphasizes punitive approaches. Both bills provide for a modest amount of prevention and intervention program funding. Alternatively, also pending in the House is the Scott (D-VA) anti-gang bill (H.R. 3846), called the “Youth PROMISE Act.” This bill emphasizes moving youth from the “Cradle to Prison Pipeline” to the “Cradle to College Pipeline” using proven prevention and intervention programs applicable at any point along the pipeline when an at-risk youth is identified. The briefing will be held at 4:00 p.m. at the Virginia General Assembly Building, Senate Room A on the Capitol Grounds in Richmond, Virginia. (####)
11.15.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on the House Judiciary Committee, voted today in favor of H.R. 3773, the Responsible Electronic Surveillance That is Overseen, Reviewed, and Effective (RESTORE) Act. The RESTORE Act will provide the Intelligence Community with effective tools to conduct surveillance of foreign targets outside the United States but restores Constitutional checks and balances that were not contained in the Bush Administration’s FISA modernization bill, the Protect America Act.Congressman Scott’s full floor statement is below: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate your leadership on efforts to address warrantless surveillance under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or “FISA” and for introducing a bill that corrects many of the shortcomings of the bill that passed the House last August. “The RESTORE Act establishes a strong framework, much stronger than the Administration’s PROTECT Act, to fight terrorism effectively, while providing reasonable safeguards to protect personal privacy. “One important change in the Restore Act is that it draws the appropriate distinctions based on the physical location and types of targets. There has never been any controversy over the fact that surveillance directed at people all of whom are overseas does not need any warrant at all. This bill rightly makes it clear that no court orders are required for the government to conduct surveillance on foreign targets outside the United States, even if the technical surveillance is conducted on U.S. soil. But if any surveillance is intentionally conducted on a U.S. person, this bill makes it clear that the government needs to apply for an individual warrant to conduct that surveillance. And if information on U.S. persons is incidentally collected, the Manager’s Amendment to the bill rightly limits dissemination of that information among government agencies. “Second, the bill removes vague and overbroad language from the bill passed in August that would allow the wiretapping of conversations without a warrant if the communication was “concerning” a foreign target. That, by its own wording, suggests that if two citizens are in the United States talking about somebody overseas, that you could wiretap their communications without a warrant. The bill before us makes it clear that the persons involved in the communications must be overseas, not just that the subject of their conversation must be overseas. “Third, the RESTORE Act goes a step further than the Administration’s bill and allows for the expanded wiretapping authority only in cases involving “national security,” as opposed to the over-expansive “foreign intelligence.” “Foreign intelligence” could include trade deals or anything involving general foreign affairs activities. “Finally, the RESTORE Act was made even stronger in Committee by requiring the Department of Justice, in its application to the Court, to identify the “primary purpose” of its wiretapping. Under the original FISA, when an agent wanted to obtain the authority to conduct electronic surveillance or secret searches, a certificate was necessary detailing what the purpose of the surveillance was in order to obtain the warrant. The standard was altered by the Patriot Act, which provided that obtaining foreign intelligence only has to be “a significant purpose.” "We have to put this change in context because the Department of Justice has not credibly refuted the allegations that some U.S. Attorneys were fired, because they failed to indict Democrats in time to affect an upcoming election. So if the Department of Justice wiretapped someone when foreign intelligence was not the primary purpose, you have to wonder what the primary purpose was. This bill would allow the surveillance to be conducted but the administration would be required to reveal the true purpose of the wiretap to the secret FISA court. "Madam Speaker, I want to emphasize that we do not have to balance security and privacy. It is therefore important to note that everything that the administration can do in its own bill, it can do under this bill. We just require them to get a warrant before they do it, or if they are in a hurry, get a warrant after they do it, but they can wiretap and get the information. We just provide a modicum of oversight to ensure that our laws are being obeyed. I urge my colleagues to support the bill." (####)
11.14.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) voted in favor of H.R. 4156, the Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives. The Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act provides $50 billion to meet the immediate needs of our troops fighting overseas in Iraq. The bill will require the start of the redeployment of U.S. forces within 30 days of enactment and require redeployment to be completed by December 15, 2008. The bill also requires a transition in the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq from a primarily combat mission to force protection and diplomatic protection and targeted counterterrorism operations. In addition, the bill prohibits the deployment of U.S. troops to Iraq who are not fully trained and fully equipped. “Today the House of Representatives passed an important bill to end our involvement in Iraq,” said Rep. Scott. “The Administration’s original time estimate for this war was ‘six days, six weeks, no more than six months.’ Now more than four years after the Administration declared ‘Mission Accomplished,’ the American people continue to hear the same refrain, ‘we are making progress, victory is right around the corner, just give us a little more time and a lot more money, and if you don’t believe that then you’re not patriotic, you don’t support the troops and you would prefer defeat and surrender to victory.’ “In 2003, the Administration testified before the House Budget Committee that the war and reconstruction would cost so little that the Budget Committee would not even have to consider the cost of the war and one Administration official was fired after he said that war might cost $100 billion. The total cost-to-date for this war is over $450 billion and for 2008 the President is requesting an additional $160 billion for Iraq alone. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that if our current policy in Iraq is maintained, this war could cost the American people as much as $2.4 trillion by 2017. And we must not forget the human cost of this conflict. Over 28,400 men and women in uniform have been wounded in Iraq. More tragically, this war has claimed the lives of more than 3,850 of our brave men and women in uniform and the lives of countless Iraqi civilians. “A continued military presence in Iraq is counter productive. There are more terrorists in Iraq today than there were before we invaded. The quality of life for an average Iraqi civilian is worse today than before we invaded. Our men and women in the military have performed with honor and dignity, but the American people have realized that this war can only be won diplomatically, not militarily. It is now time for the President to come to the same conclusion.” (####)
11.14.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - On Thursday, November 15, at 2:00pm, in Room 2226 Rayburn, Rep. Bobby Scott will host a briefing on how some children in this country are born on what the Children’s Defense Fund has entitled the “Cradle to Prison Pipeline”, and how they can be removed from it and placed on a “Cradle to college pipeline”. Speakers will include MaryLee Allen of the Children’s Defense Fund; Marc Mauer, Executive Director of the Sentencing Project, Carol Chodroff, Juvenile Justice Policy Consultant, Campaign for Youth Justice; and Tara Andrews, Deputy Executive Director for Policy and Programs, Coalition for Juvenile Justice.The discussion will focus on several bills under development in the Congress to address youth crime. The Feinstein (D-CA) anti-gang bill (H.R. 456) passed the Senate by Unanimous Consent and is awaiting action in the House. This bill emphasizes punitive approaches which would fulfill on the “cradle to prison pipeline”. Similarly, the Schiff (D-CA) gang bill, which is under development in the House (H.R. 3547) emphasizes punitive approaches. Both bills also provide for a modest amount of prevention and intervention program funding. Also under development in the House is the Scott anti-gang bill (H.R. 3846) the “Youth PROMISE Act”, which emphasizes moving youth from the “cradle to prison pipeline” to the “cradle to college pipeline” through proven prevention and intervention programs applicable for the point along the pipeline the youth at risk is identified. (####)
11.08.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Today Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) joined Congressman Jim Moran (D-VA-08) and Senator Jim Webb (D-VA) in urging the United States Senate to pass H.R. 1294, the Thomasina E. Jordan Indian Tribes of Virginia Federal Recognition Act, this month, which is Native American Heritage Month. H.R. 1294 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by voice vote on May 8, 2007. Once the Senate passes the bill, it will be sent to the White House to be signed by the President. H.R. 1294, introduced by Congressman Jim Moran, will grant federal recognition to the Chickahominy Tribe, the Eastern Chickahominy Tribe, the Upper Mattaponi Tribe, the Rappahannock Tribe, the Monacan Indian Nation, and the Nansemond Tribe. Federal recognition will provide housing and educational opportunities to those who cannot afford it. Federal recognition will also promote tribal economic development that will allow Virginia’s tribes to become self-sufficient. “I commend Congressman Moran for all his hard work on this legislation over the years,” said Rep. Scott. “I also applaud Senator Webb’s leadership on this issue in the Senate. With Senator Webb’s help, I hope that the Senate will soon act on this bill. The Native Americans who greeted the first settlers at Jamestown over 400 years ago have waited too long for federal recognition.” (####)
10.25.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) voted today in favor of H.R. 3963, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. The bill re-authorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Plan (SCHIP), which currently provides health insurance to 6 million children in America who would otherwise be uninsured. Congress voted to continue funding SCHIP exactly one month ago, but that bill was vetoed by President Bush. A congressional attempt to override the veto failed last week. Today, Congress voted on a similar bill to continue SCHIP, but with slight changes to address many of the concerns articulated by the President. “Like the bill we passed last month, H.R. 3963 increases the number of children receiving coverage by over 3 million, but still only reaches one-third of the 9 million children currently uninsured in America. We still have a long way to go,” said Rep. Scott. “I am disappointed that we are still debating whether children deserve access to quality health care,” added the Congressman, who supports expanding health coverage to all uninsured children in America. The bill passed today differs from the bill passed last month in a number of ways, including limiting SCHIP enrollment to those below 300% of the poverty level and requiring childless adults to transition off SCHIP. “We find ourselves having to scale back the bill until we have enough votes to make it law,” explained Rep. Scott. “But it’s still a step in the right direction.” Like the last bill, this bill is paid for by an increase of the Federal Excise Tax on Tobacco. Rep. Scott remains concerned over this particular provision: "This tax disproportionately affects low-income individuals and is therefore regressive. It is unfortunate that Congress would raise this tax by $7 billion a year; at the same time, we cut taxes this year by over $50 billion for families making over $170,000.” (####)
10.16.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Today Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, introduced his Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention, Support, and Education (“Youth PROMISE”) Act. The Youth PROMISE Act will provide resources to communities to engage in comprehensive prevention and intervention strategies to decrease juvenile delinquency and criminal street gang activity. Under the Youth PROMISE Act, communities facing the greatest youth gang and crime challenges will each form a local council called a Promise Coordinating Council (“PCC”). The PCC will include representatives from law enforcement, court services, schools, social service organizations, health and mental health providers and community-based organizations, including faith-based organizations. The PCC will then develop a comprehensive plan for implementing evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies. These strategies will target young people who are at-risk of becoming involved, or who are already involved in, gangs or the criminal justice system to redirect them toward productive and law-abiding alternatives. “The Youth PROMISE Act could be a critical component to reducing crime across the United States,” said Congressman Scott. “For years, we have been codifying slogans and soundbites that do nothing to reduce crime. As a result of these policies, the average incarceration rate in the United States is far above the incarceration rates in other countries and incarceration costs have risen to $65 billion per year. This legislation implements the recommendations of researchers, practitioners, analysts, and law enforcement officials from across the political spectrum concerning evidence- and research-based strategies to reduce gang violence and youth crime.” The bill is supported by a variety of juvenile justice and civil rights organizations, including Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, the National Juvenile Defender Center, the Justice Policy Institute, the NAACP Washington DC Office, the ACLU, the Coalition for Juvenile Justice, and the Campaign for Youth Justice.(####)Click Here for Additional Information on the Youth PROMISE Act
10.06.2007	(Newport News, VA) - "It is with sadness that I note the passing of Congresswoman Jo Ann Davis. She was a good friend and a tireless advocate for America's First District, as both, she and Herb Bateman referred to the First Congressional District of Virginia. While we had different political loyalties, we had no differences in our efforts to work together for the Hampton Roads area and especially the shipping and defense industries. My heartfelt condolences to her husband, Chuck and their family." (####)
09.27.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement today following President Bush’s signing of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act: “Today the President signed historic legislation that provides relief to millions of students and families paying for college. By cutting student loan interest rates in half and increasing funding for the PELL grant award and the Upward Bound program, the bill will help improve college access for millions of low-income and first generation college-going students. In addition, the bill includes critical funding for the needs of Historically Black Colleges and Universities and other minority serving institutions. I am proud of the efforts made by Members of the House Education and Labor Committee, the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, and the full Congress in getting this bill before the President for signature. This is the single largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill.” (####)
09.25.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) today voted in favor of H.R. 976, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. The bill re-authorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Plan (S-CHIP), which currently provides health insurance to 6 million children in America who would otherwise be uninsured. “H.R. 976 increases the number of children receiving coverage by about 3 million, but only covers one-third of the 9 million children who are currently uninsured in America. We still have a long way to go,” said Representative Scott. H.R. 976 would provide dental benefits to children in the S-CHIP program. The bill also improves some mental health coverage and encourages, but does not guarantee, more coverage for pregnant women. Unfortunately, the bill does not guarantee coverage for preventative, screening or diagnostic purposes. The bill also does not provide vision coverage. Regrettably, the bill also eliminates coverage for parents, college-age adults, and legal immigrants who currently have S-CHIP coverage in some states. Rep. Scott added, “I am glad that Congress is taking this step. The next step ought to move us closer to the day when every child and family in America is covered with comprehensive insurance.” “I am also concerned that the bill is paid for by an increase of the Federal Excise Tax on Tobacco,” Congressman Scott said. "This tax disproportionately affects low-income individuals and is therefore regressive. It is unfortunate that we would raise these taxes in the same year that we have cut taxes for American millionaires.”(####)
09.11.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) released the following statement after the two days of testimony by General David Petraeus before the US Congress:“For the last six years, we have heard he same refrain, 'Trust us, Victory (whatever that means this month) is right around the corner, just us give a little more time and a lot more money; and if you do not believe that, you are not patriotic, you don’t support the troops and you would rather have defeat and surrender than victory.'"I was therefore not surprised that the Administration intends to continue the troop levels at the maximum sustainable level for the foreseeable future."We need to withdraw our troops from Iraq and that withdrawal should be in a timeframe that is consistent with our national security interests. Unfortunately, no discussion of an appropriate time for withdrawal can occur while the administration insists on remaining in Iraq indefinitely."(####)
09.07.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) today supported legislation that will make the single largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill, helping millions of students and families pay for college. The new legislation will increase the maximum PELL grant award for college students by $1200 over the next five years, reaching $5,400 in 2012 and benefiting almost 6 million low- and moderate-income students. The legislation will also cut interest rates on need-based student loans in half over the next four years. The costs associated with the bill are paid for by reducing excessive federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry. In addition to money to aid students and their families, the bill will invest over $500 million in Historically Black Colleges and Universities and other minority serving institutions. The funding for these colleges and institutions will be used for a variety of important programs and needs, including science and lab equipment, library books, and enhancement of certain disciplines of instruction such as math, computer science, engineering and health care. “The funding included in this bill will bolster the educational curriculum at HBCUs and thereby increase student achievement in higher education,” explained Rep. Scott. Due in large part to the efforts of Rep. Scott earlier this year, the legislation also includes a provision to aid the Upward Bound program, which seeks to increase high school completion, college participation, and graduation rates among low-income and first-generation college students. The bill will fund 187 additional new and existing Upward Bound programs across the nation, including several Upward Bound programs at HBCUs and programs serving Hispanic students. “This bill will go a long way toward helping all students who wish to better themselves through education achieve their goals,” concluded Rep. Scott. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act (H.R. 2669), which passed the House by a vote of 292 to 97 (Roll No. 864), combines key elements from House and Senate bills that were passed in July. The President has indicated he will sign the bill.(####)
08.31.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-3) released this statement today on the event of Senator Warner's announcement not to seek re-election to the US Senate: "I was disappointed today to learn of the decision of Senator John Warner not to seek another term in the US Senate. For over 50 years, Senator Warner has served the United States in many different capacities. Whether it was as a Navy sailor or a Marine, law clerk or Assistant US Attorney, Secretary of the Navy or US Senator, Senator Warner has always served proudly with a deep sense of reverence and honor."During his Senatorial career, Senator Warner's strong advocacy for our Armed Forces has been good not only for our national security, but also for the economy of the entire Hampton Roads area. In the highly charged partisan atmosphere of Washington, he has always been able to put the interests of the Commonwealth and the nation above partisan political interests. As Dean of the Virginia Congressional delegation, Senator Warner has convinced the delegation to put aside political or personal disagreements and work together in the best interests of Virginia. It has been a personal privilege to serve beside such a consummate statesman. There are many challenging issues facing our nation and I look forward to working with Senator Warner for the remainder of the 110th Congress and in whatever capacity he chooses to serve in the future."(####)
08.14.2007	(Newport News, VA)- Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security of the House Judiciary Committee, announced today that he will be holding a Teen Summit on Youth Violence on Tuesday, August 21, 2007 in Newport News. The Summit will be an opportunity for young people to address their concerns and thoughts on juvenile violence and crime. The Summit will include an expert panel with Dr. Dewey G. Cornell, Director of the Virginia Youth Violence Project at the University of Virginia; and the Honorable Jerrauld Jones, former Director of the Virginia Department of Juvenile Justice and current Chief Judge, Norfolk Juvenile and Domestic Relations District Court, 4th Judicial District of Virginia. The panel will also consist of teenagers from Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, and Portsmouth. “I am excited about having this opportunity to sit down and listen to the concerns of our youth,” said Rep. Scott. “Juvenile violence is a real issue nationwide and especially here in Hampton Roads. Research and evidence have convincingly demonstrated that if you want to reduce crime and violence, you have to deploy evidence-based crime prevention programs targeting at-risk youth before they get into crime careers. Merely responding to crime after-the-fact does not stop the next wave of crime-prone youth. We need to get serious about reducing crime and violence by doing what the research and the evidence has shown will actually work. This Teen Summit will provide an excellent forum to hear what works to reduce teen crime and violence from experts on juvenile crime and violence and to hear what young people have to say about these issues. In September, I will be introducing a comprehensive violence prevention bill and will use the Summit to make sure their input is included in the final version.” The Teen Summit is free and open to the public and all are encouraged to attend, especially teens and their families. The Summit will be held at Achievable Dream Secondary School, 5720 Marshall Avenue, Newport News, VA at 6:30 pm on Tuesday, August 21, 2007. (####)
08.06.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) opposed legislation on the House floor late Saturday night that will greatly expand federal wiretap authority and allow the government to spy on Americans without court oversight. The original law, which this new bill will expand, already permits the gathering of foreign intelligence but prohibits surveillance on Americans that would be considered a violation of the Constitution. “The Administration told Congress that they needed to modernize the federal wiretap law by allowing them to listen to communications between two individuals in different countries whose calls were routed through the United States. That is a legitimate intelligence need, but this bill goes too far,” said Rep. Scott. “The bill, which was being pushed by Administration officials, preys upon the American people’s fears of another terrorist attack. It allows warrantless surveillance of people in the United States without a court order and without oversight, even when an investigation does not involve terrorism. The new law will allow the government to listen to calls involving Americans if they have anything to do with someone abroad,” explained Congressman Scott. Normally, if the government needs to conduct surveillance as part of a foreign intelligence operation, it must get a warrant from the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC). The FISC’s work and its orders are classified, but it does provide some outside check on the government’s decision to spy on an individual. This new law would eliminate that requirement in many cases. “I am deeply disappointed that Congress approved this measure in its current form. The cost of protecting our borders should never come at the expense of forfeiting our civil liberties. The government has the ability to conduct any surveillance and intelligence gathering it needs within the law. Allowing the government to spy on Americans without any oversight, even by the secret FISC, will not make us safer, but it will make us less free.” concluded Rep. Scott. The bill, which passed the Senate on Friday, passed the House by a vote of 227-183.(####)
08.05.2007	(Washington D.C.) - "Today we mourn the passing of Oliver White Hill, a man who dedicated his life and legal talents to confronting and eradicating decades of racial inequality and injustice."With roots in Richmond, Virginia and Washington, DC, Mr. Hill spent his early years as a civil rights attorney in Richmond, where he fought for better pay, full access to transportation, and better educational facilities for African American teachers and students."After admirably serving our nation overseas in the Army during World War II, Mr. Hill returned to the U.S. to continue the fight against racial discrimination. For Oliver White Hill, ‘separate but equal’ was not enough. His efforts included shouldering the cause of the African American students at the all-black R.R. Morton High School in Farmville, Virginia. The resulting desegregation lawsuit was one of several cases decided collectively as Brown v. Board of Education by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1954. That landmark decision helped bring America’s segregation-era to an end."While Oliver White Hill is best known as the fierce, tireless civil rights litigator who helped bring to a close America’s segregation-era, his involvement in the community went beyond the courtroom. In 1949, he became the first African American elected to the Richmond City Council since Reconstruction and continued his public service in both local and federal government posts. Mr. Hill also served as an officer or member on the boards of many organizations, including the National Legal Committee of the NAACP, the National Bar Association, the Southern Conference for Human Welfare, the Virginia State Bar Bench/Bar Relations Committee, and the Old Dominion Bar Association, which he co-founded."For his decades of dedication to the law and accomplishments in the field of civil rights, Oliver White Hill earned many accolades from organizations such as the National Bar Association, the NAACP Legal Defense Fund and the American Bar Association. In 2005, Oliver White Hill received the Spingarn Medal, the highest honor of the NAACP. In 1999, President Clinton awarded Mr. Hill the highest honor the nation can bestow, the Presidential Medal of Freedom."In 2000, several legal admirers founded the Oliver White Hill Foundation. The Foundation encourages young lawyers to become advocates in the field of individual rights and liberties and to carry on Mr. Hill’s civil rights work. Lawyers inspired by the Foundation work with the hope that discrimination based on race, gender, national origin, sexual preference, and religion will ultimately be abolished, just as Mr. Hill has spent his life hoping for and working towards."Earlier this year, I had the honor of celebrating Oliver White Hill’s 100th birthday. He was a man of principle and virtue. He will always be remembered for making the City of Richmond, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and this entire country a place of promise and opportunity for all."It is highly unlikely that I would be a member of Congress today, had it not been for the work of Mr. Hill and others."(####)
08.01.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) today voted in favor of H.R. 3162, the Children’s Healthcare and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act of 2007. The CHAMP Act re-authorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Plan (SCHIP), which now provides health insurance to 6 million children in America who would otherwise be uninsured."Today, the U.S. House of Representatives took a positive step in the direction of covering all of our nation’s children with health insurance. This re-authorization ensures that 800,000 children currently covered by SCHIP are not dropped from the program and provides the resources needed to cover 5 million more children who do not have coverage. This is a good first step, but we need to do more," said Rep. Scott. "The next steps are to provide coverage for the 4 million children who will still lack coverage after this bill becomes law, and to provide all children with more comprehensive coverage."The CHAMP Act uses bonus funding to encourage states to enact many optional provisions in their state health insurance programs. Although this is a good start, these provisions should be mandatory in order to provide more comprehensive coverage. These optional provisions include the coverage of low-income pregnant women, streamlining of the eligibility process, and a 12-month continual enrollment period. "Ideally the CHAMP Act would have made these provisions mandatory. The bill should have also provided the option for families who are just above the current income threshold to buy into SCHIP," said Rep. Scott."While I am pleased that we have made progress with the CHAMP Act, I am troubled with the increase of the Federal Excise Tax on Tobacco that was used to pay for it," Congressman Scott said. "This is a regressive tax that disproportionately affects low-income individuals, and it is unfortunate that we would need to raise these taxes in the same year that we have cut taxes for the wealthiest Americans." (####)
07.27.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement on today’s passage by the U.S. House of Representatives of the Farm, Nutrition and Bioenergy Act of 2007:“I am pleased the farm bill approved today will provide significant relief to tens of thousands black farmers whose claims of discrimination were not heard under the Pigford v. Glickman class action case. Ten years ago, my House colleagues and I worked for an administrative fix to extend the statute of limitations, so that the farmers who were denied claims could be heard. “Unfortunately, thousands have still been denied a chance to present their cases in Court due to an arbitrary deadline. The language in the Farm Bill passed by the House today will afford these farmers the opportunity to have their claims of discrimination heard on the merits.” (####)
07.25.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D- VA-03) made the following statement after today’s House Committee on the Judiciary markup regarding Contempt of Congress allegations against former White House Counsel Harriet Miers and White House Chief of Staff Josh Bolten. “It is important to put the House Judiciary Committee markup today in context. The issue at hand is not whether the President has the right to fire U.S. Attorneys. Of course he has that right. Instead, the issue is whether the criminal justice system has been corrupted by the Administration’s firing of U.S. Attorneys for either investigating Republicans or failing to indict Democrats in time to have a partisan effect on elections. We also have evidence that some U.S. Attorneys may have saved their jobs by indicting Democrats on frivolous charges in an apparent attempt to have a partisan affect on the outcome of elections. “In response to these allegations, the House Judiciary Committee has received conflicting answers. High ranking officials at the Department of Justice have said that the Attorney General is not telling the truth. Another official has resigned. Another has invoked the 5th Amendment, and then admitted, under the cover of immunity, that partisan considerations were improperly or illegally taken into account in the hiring of Department of Justice officials. Now other officials are refusing to comply with subpoenas issued by the Committee. “The Committee has also received conflicting claims of executive privilege by the Administration. At this point, the President has not formally made any claim of executive privilege, nor clearly asserted a basis for such a claim. Many involved in this matter have said there were no discussions with the President on this matter. Therefore, if the President were to make a formal declaration of privilege, he would be incorrectly asserting that this privilege extends to information regarding communications between Presidential advisors, not discussions with the President himself. Furthermore, the White House continues to withhold documents for which no privilege is even claimed. “I believe it is imperative to get a straight answer to the question of whether or not the Administration improperly or illegally corrupted the U.S. criminal justice system to advance a partisan, political agenda.” (####)
07.19.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) and Congressman Danny K. Davis (IL-07), as co-chairs of the Congressional Black Caucus Education Task Force, will be holding an Education Summit on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus on the afternoon of Monday, July 23, 2007. The purpose is to begin a dialogue among members of Congress and educational experts about educational issues in the African American community. Education experts have been invited to discuss a variety of topics including early education and child development, the No Child Left Behind Act, the dropout crisis in America, minority access to college and financial aid, and quality education in youth correctional facilities. The Honorable Margaret Spellings, U.S. Secretary of Education, will also be speaking. “Our aim is to begin a dialogue among congressional members and staff and education experts on issues affecting African American youth. People are doing great work to improve access to quality education for our youth, but there are not many opportunities for experts to get together to discuss concerns and best practices. This is an effort to begin that dialogue,” said Rep. Scott. “Finding ways to more effectively educate our young people must be one of the top priorities of Congress,” said Rep. Davis. “This Summit is an avenue that will open and facilitate meaningful dialogue.” “The centerpiece of the CBC’s Agenda for the 110th Congress is ensuring that every American child has access to a first class education,” said Congresswoman Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick, chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus. “As a former educator, I understand how the quality of an academic program can impact future success. We must invest in education to eliminate existing disparities, to strengthen children and families, and to ensure our ability to compete in this global economy.” The event will be held in Room 2141 of the Rayburn House Office Building on Monday, July 23, 2007 from 2:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. and is open to the public.Please click here for the Summit schedule.104kb (####)
07.13.2007	(Washington D.C.) - On July 12, 2007, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03), Chairman of the Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced H.R. 3013, the Attorney-Client Privilege Protection Act of 2007, in the U.S. House of Representatives. An identical bill was introduced in January in the United States Senate by Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA). Rep. Scott has been joined by a long list of bipartisan cosponsors: Ranking Crime Subcommittee Member Rep. J. Randy Forbes (R-VA), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Judiciary Committee Ranking Member, Lamar Smith (R-TX), Rep. Daniel E. Lungren (R-CA), Rep. Artur Davis (D-AL), Rep. Howard Coble (R-NC), Rep. Tom C. Feeney III (R-FL), and Rep. Peter J. Roskam (R-IL)."This bill protects corporations and employees – from the executive suites to the mailroom – whose rights the Department of Justice and other federal agencies have violated," said Rep. Scott. "Corporate crime should be vigorously investigated and prosecuted but within traditional Constitutional boundaries. When government agencies use tactics that violate Constitutional rights, it is time for Congress to act."Currently, the Department of Justice and other federal law enforcement agencies have written policies instructing enforcement officials to bring charges against "uncooperative" companies. The problem with this standard, however, is companies are labeled "uncooperative" if they refuse to turn over confidential communications between employees and company lawyers, in violation of traditional principles of attorney-client privilege.H.R. 3013 would prohibit all federal enforcement agencies from employing the following practices; requesting, demanding, rewarding or penalizing in any way an entity’s decision with regard to the waiver of its attorney-client privilege; rewarding or penalizing an entity for firing or punishing employees who assert their Constitutional rights or other legal rights; demanding that an entity refuse to pay its employees’ attorneys’ fees; demanding that an entity refrain from entering into joint-defense agreements with its own employees, even when the business and its employees share a common interest; and demanding that an entity refrain from sharing any information with its employees."We have strong bi-partisan support for this bill, because it is the right thing to do," said Rep. Scott. "No federal agency should be able to threaten to indict a person simply for invoking Constitutional rights. Whether the defendant is a corporation or an individual, basic Constitutional rights are the foundation for fairness in the criminal justice system. Forcing a defendant to bargain them away undermines that fairness.""The attorney-client privilege is one of those basic guarantees. An attorney cannot zealously represent his or her client and the client cannot adequately assist in his or her defense if both are concerned that the government can coerce them into turning over their communications." Rep. Scott said.(####)
07.12.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Today, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) voted in favor of H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 223 to 201 (Roll Call No. 624).The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act requires a responsible redeployment of U.S. troops beginning within 120 days of enactment and ending by April 1, 2008. The legislation also requires the President to publicly justify any additional missions in Iraq for the U.S. military after the withdrawal. “A real change of course in Iraq is long overdue,” said Rep. Scott. “An overwhelming majority of the American people now recognize that we must withdraw from Iraq. The Administration’s original time estimate for this war was ‘six days, six weeks, no more than six months.’ Four years after ‘Mission Accomplished,’ the American people continue to be told that ‘victory is around the corner, just give us more time.’ We are now six months into the President’s troop surge and things today are worse than they have ever been. Recent Intelligence reports even warn that al-Qaeda is even stronger and better positioned to strike the United States than it was when the war began. “It’s time to begin a responsible withdrawal from Iraq. Approximately 600 more of our brave men and women in uniform have died this year. It is immoral to keep our troops indefinitely stuck in the middle of a civil war marked increasingly by sectarian violence.”(####)
07.10.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Today Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) introduced legislation that would dramatically improve high school graduation rates across the nation."The current high school accountability system is failing our students and our future as a nation," said Rep. Scott. "Almost one-third of all high school students in the United States fail to graduate with their peers – about 1.2 million every year – and the numbers are worse for minorities as compared to non-minority students," Scott reported. "I am introducing the Every Student Counts Act to bring meaningful accountability to high schools and help reduce the high school dropout rate."Rep. Rubén Hinojosa, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Higher Education, Lifelong Learning, and Competitiveness and an original cosponsor of the bill, commented: "I applaud Rep. Scott for all the work he has done to combat our nation’s alarmingly low high school graduation rates. In our accountability system, the standard must be that every student graduates, prepared for a postsecondary education and a career – otherwise, we, as a country, have failed. The Every Student Counts Act will ensure that we are well on our way toward achieving that goal."The Every Student Counts Act (H.R. 2955) builds on the National Governors Association’s Graduation Rate Compact, which was signed by all 50 of the nation’s governors in 2005. The legislation would ensure that schools are held accountable for graduating students by creating a single, accurate, and consistent measurement for reporting and accountability of high school graduation rates. It would require high schools to increase their graduation rates by meeting annual, research-based benchmarks with the long-term goal of reaching a 90 percent graduation rate. The bill would also require the disaggregation of graduation data by subgroup to ensure that schools are held accountable for increasing the graduation rate for all types of students. Finally, the bill would give schools credit for graduating students who need extra time by allowing students who graduate in five years to count toward a school’s successful graduation rate."It is my hope that with this bill, we can make great strides toward graduating more of America’s students and preparing them to succeed in college and in life. We need to ensure that all students are not only provided the opportunity to graduate with a high school degree, but are encouraged to do so," concluded Rep. Scott.Original cosponsors also include Reps. Danny K. Davis, Bennie G. Thompson, Corinne Brown, Elijah E. Cummings, Chaka Fattah, William L. Jefferson, Raul M. Grijalva, Linda T. Sanchez, Barbara Lee, Julia Carson, Al Green, Loretta Sanchez, Edolphus Towns, Keith Ellison, Phil Hare, and Carolyn C. Kilpatrick.(####)
07.03.2007	(Washington D.C.) - In response to President Bush’s announcement today regarding the commutation of I. Lewis Libby Jr.’s prison sentence, Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security issued the following statement:“Respect for the rule of law and equal treatment under law form the foundation of our legal system. For several weeks, we have been trying to get to the bottom of whether the Administration is playing politics with the rule of law in the dismissals and appointments of United States Attorneys, given all the shenanigans that have been uncovered. The Libby commutation raises the same question of the President's respect for the rule of law. “It is significant that the President did not pardon Libby. Clearly, he acknowledges that Libby broke the law. He says he commuted Libby's sentence because it was 'too harsh.' However, Libby received exactly what all others receive under the sentencing guidelines for committing the same crime. If the President wants judges to have discretion in sentencing, to assure that the punishment fits the crime in each case, that discretion should be available for all defendants and not just for the President's friends.” (####)
06.28.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) issued the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District and Meredith v. Jefferson County (Ky.) Board of Education: “I am extremely disappointed in today’s Supreme Court decision invalidating Seattle’s effort to promote diversity in its public schools,” said Rep. Scott, a member of both the House Education and Labor Committee and the House Judiciary Committee. “As a result of this decision, implementing voluntary programs that promote diversity will be much more difficult to design, even if the purpose is to avoid de facto segregation. Diversity in the classroom prepares students to be successful in living and working in the real world.”(####)
06.18.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, is hosting a National Crime Policy Summit to examine the causes of and solutions to Violent Crime. Rep. Scott has lined up 40 experts to discuss this subject on Thursday, June 21 and Friday, June 22, 2007. The program will begin on June 21, Thursday afternoon 4:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. with the first panel on Race and the Criminal Justice System in 2226 Rayburn HOB. This will be followed by a reception in the same location. The summit will reconvene on Friday, June 22, 2007 at 8:00 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in 2141 Rayburn HOB. Throughout the day, prominent researchers and representatives of leading national crime policy organizations working to develop and shape effective crime policy will give brief presentations on their priorities for the 110th Congress. Topics include: post-incarceration reentry, juvenile justice reform, gang violence and prevention, mandatory minimums and sentencing reform, alternatives to the criminal justice system and sentencing, Habeas Corpus Reform and Guantanamo Bay, racial profiling and racial aspects of criminal justice policy and law enforcement and the criminal justice system. "Recent FBI reports indicate that crime is on the rise in some areas, despite all the ‘get tough' legislation we have passed in recent years,” said Rep. Scott. “One of the problems is that we have passed legislation based on sound bites and slogans such as – ‘Three strikes, you're out,’ ‘truth-in-sentencing,’ and ‘ya' do the adult crime, ya' do the adult time’ – without any assessment as to whether these approaches actually reduce crime. Now that we have had a chance to assess these policies, it is clear that they do not reduce crime, and may even have contributed to the increase in crime. I have invited more than 40 experts and advocates from around the country to come to Washington to discuss what approaches actually do work. After the two-day summit, I will draft legislation to implement these proven approaches." (####)
06.14.2007	(Washington D.C.) - On Wednesday, June 13, 2007 Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) introduced H.R. 2702, the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007 in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill was introduced in the United States Senate earlier this year by Virginia Senator Jim Webb. Congressman Chris Carney (D-PA) - an Iraq War Veteran, Congressman Jim Moran (D-VA), Congressman Rick Boucher (D-VA), and Congressman John Salazar (D-CO) joined Rep. Scott as original cosponsors of H.R. 2702. On Thursday, June 14, 2007, Rep. Scott and Sen. Webb held a joint press conference to announce bicameral support for the bill. “I am proud to be the House sponsor of Senator Webb’s Post-9/11 G.I. Bill,” said Rep. Scott. “The United States has an obligation to provide our service men and women fighting overseas with the benefits they so rightly deserve. This means we must support our troops while they are overseas and also when they return home and attempt to better their lives through education. It is time for a new G.I. bill.” “With many of our service members having served under difficult conditions in Iraq and Afghanistan and some of them having pulled multiple tours, it is past time to enact a new veterans’ education program modeled on the World War II era GI bill,” said Senator Webb. “Since I introduced S.22 on January 4, the bill has received strong support from the nation’s top veterans’ organizations, 18 members of the Senate, and now, 5 new members of the House. I applaud Congressman Scott for leading the effort in the House of Representatives.” H.R. 2702, the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007, is designed to provide our brave men and woman who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001 with educational benefits similar to those provided in the original post-World War II G.I. Bill of 1944. The Post-9/11 G.I. bill will cover the cost of tuition, books, fees, and provide a monthly stipend of $1,000. (####)
06.13.2007	(Washington D.C.) - On Thursday at 1:00pm, Senators Jim Webb (D-VA) and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Congressmen Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Chris Carney (D-PA) and representatives from endorsing veterans organizations will express their support for the “Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007,” following Congressman Scott’s introduction of the bill in the House of Representatives.The bill, introduced by Senator Jim Webb in January, seeks to provide veterans of the 9/11 era with educational benefits similar to those provided to service members at the end of World War II. Senator Lautenberg, a WWII veteran and the most recent co-sponsor of S.22 in the Senate, attended college on the GI Bill. WHO: Senator Jim Webb (D-VA), Vietnam Veteran Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), WWII Veteran Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), MA National Guard and U.S. Army Reserve Congressman Chris Carney (D-PA), Iraq War Veteran Congressman John Salazar (D-CO), Veteran, House Committee on Veterans' Affairs Eric Hilleman, Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Rick Weidman, Veterans of America (VVA) Bill Ferguson, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) Ruth Ewalt, Air Force Sergeants Association (AFSA) Frank Yoakam, Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS)WHAT: Press Conference to Announce Bicameral support for the Post-9/11 Veterans GI Bill WHEN: Thursday, June 14th at 1:00pmWHERE: Mansfield Room, U.S. Capitol** Credentials required for entrance into U.S. Capitol. To obtain credentials, please contact the Senate Press Gallery – Print (202-224-0241) and Radio & TV (202-224-6421).(####)
05.25.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Next Wednesday, Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, (D-VA), will bring together people in the field of education and school administration to discuss the re-authorization of the Elementary & Secondary Education Act, including the federal education programs under the No Child Left Behind Act. As the House Education and Labor Committee continues its deliberations this summer, Mr. Scott would like to hear from individuals working every day with this law in schools and school districts around the Third Congressional District of Virginia. The No Child Left Behind Education Roundtable will be held on Wednesday, May 30, 2007, at 9:30 a.m. at Congressman Scott’s Richmond office, 501 North Second Street, in the First Floor Conference Room.(####)
05.09.2007	(Washington D.C.) - On Saturday, May 5, 2007 at the Friends of Scouting Dinner in Hampton, VA, the Colonial Virginia Council of the Boy Scouts of America awarded Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) with the 2007 Good Scouter Award. Rep. Scott received the award along with Congresswoman Jo Ann Davis (R-VA-01), Commonwealth Attorney Howard Gwynn, and retired City Attorney Paul Burton.The Good Scouter Award is a tribute to individual citizens who have dedicated their lives to the betterment of the community. Some of the past recipients have been: Charles Banks III, Dois Rosser Jr., Senator Thomas K. Norment Jr., Gordon Gentry, James L. Eason, Joe W. Frank, James Chevious, Senator George Allen, Hunter Andrews, Senator John Warner and Congressman Herbert Bateman. The award was first presented in 1984 to Henry V. "Bird" Hooper and the Colonial Virginia Council has presented the award each year since."I am honored to be one of this year’s Good Scouter Award recipients," said Rep. Scott. "As a former scout, I understand how important scouting is in teaching young people how to become contributing citizens of our society. The Boy Scouts have a long history of developing young boys into responsible, contributing men." (####)
05.02.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-03) today voted to reauthorize the Head Start Act through H.R. 1429, the Improving Head Start Act of 2007. The bill received broad bipartisan support and passed by a vote of 365-48. H.R. 1429 reauthorizes and improves the Head Start and Early Head Start programs. These programs provide early childhood education and development services to almost 1 million children each year. During consideration of the bill, the House also defeated a Republican amendment. This motion would have allowed some Head Start centers to discriminate on the basis of religion for the first time in the program’s 42 year history. The inclusion of this provision in Head Start reauthorization bills has stalled reauthorization of this critical program in the last two Congresses. Rep. Scott was one of the leaders of the effort to defeat the motion."Passage of this bill moves us a major step closer to reauthorizing the Head Start and Early Head Start programs. Both are critical to early childhood education and development of children across the nation," said Rep. Scott. "And I am even more pleased that Congress soundly rejected Republican efforts to write discrimination into one of the government's most effective programs. If the Republican amendment had passed, we would have turned the clock back on civil rights at a time when discrimination in federally funded programs was accepted public policy. Since 1965, Head Start students have learned that their parents were entitled to be fairly considered for employment at a Head Start program regardless of race or religion. The passage of the Republican amendment would have subjected the next generation of Head Start students to a different lesson; fortunately, the amendment was defeated." (####)
05.02.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) today voted to override the President’s veto of H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007, which was passed with bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate last week. Although a majority of the House voted to override the veto by a vote of 222 to 203, a 2/3 majority is required to override (Roll No. 276). "The bill that the President vetoed yesterday funded our troops fighting overseas, spent billions more on health care for our veterans, and it established a strategy to intelligently begin to bring our troops home," said Rep. Scott. "The President’s veto defies the will of the American people by further delaying vital resources for our troops on the front lines and our veterans at home, and keeping our troops indefinitely stuck in the middle of a civil war marked primarily by sectarian violence." (####)
04.25.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) and a majority of the U.S. House of Representatives voted to approve the conference report on H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007. The measure fully funds our troops fighting in Iraq; at the same time, it requires accountability from the President and the Iraqi government.The Senate is expected to consider and approve the conference report on Thursday. The bill will then be sent to the President’s desk."The bill that passed the House today fully funds our troops fighting overseas, spends billions more on healthcare for our veterans here at home and holds this administration accountable for the situation in Iraq," said Rep. Scott. "This bill will finally change the course in Iraq."The conference report fully funds the President’s request while adding an additional $4 billion. These additional funds are for military health care, military housing, Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles for our troops, and a Strategic Reserve Readiness Fund. The measure also provides $1.8 billion not requested by the President to meet the unmet healthcare needs of our veterans returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan.(####)
04.24.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) is pleased to announce the winners of the Fourteenth Annual 3rd Congressional District Art Competition. The art contest was open to all High School students in the Third Congressional District of Virginia. An Artistic Discovery is a nationwide program coordinated by Members of the United States House of Representatives to recognize the artistic talents of our youth. The nationwide competition involves more than 50,000 talented high school students. In the past, over 200 Members of Congress have participated in the program. Representative Scott has participated every year he has served in Congress.This year’s first place winner will receive a $12,000 Scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design and will attend a reception in honor of all the winners nationwide in Washington, DC. The first place winning entry for each congressional district will also be displayed in the tunnel to the United States Capitol Building for one year, where it will be seen by thousands of people who visit the Capitol. All students that competed this year are eligible to win additional prizes worth a total value over $3000.On Saturday, April 28, 2007, the opening reception will be held at the Downing-Gross Cultural Arts Center, 2410 Wickham Ave, Newport News, VA 23607 at 1:00 pm.On Saturday, May 12, 2007, the closing reception will be held at the Black History Museum and Cultural Center, 3 E Clay St., Richmond, VA 23219 at 1:00 pm.If you have any questions regarding this year’s art competition, please contact Representative Scott’s Newport News District Office at 757-380-1000. (####)
04.18.2007	(Washington D.C.) - "Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning to offer my deepest sympathies to the victims and their families who suffered the horrific shooting tragedy at Virginia Tech on Monday morning. My thoughts and prayers go out to them, the students, faculty, and staff of the University. Virginia Tech is one of the largest schools in Virginia, providing higher education for more than 28,000 students. The effects of this tragedy can be felt all across the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the halls of Congress, and in every corner of this nation. I represent hundreds of Virginia Tech families, perhaps thousands of alumni, and members of my staff have friends and family who currently attend Virginia Tech.Schools are meant to be sanctuaries of learning and, most importantly, sanctuaries for safety. Parents who send their children off to college with all the potential that a college education represents should be content that their children will be safe. As we mourn with the Virginia Tech community, this Congress must explore every possible avenue towards determining what can be done to prevent this kind of tragedy in the future, whether in our high schools or college campuses or on business premises or other places where people may congregate. Yet we must be realistic. From what we are hearing regarding this tragic incident, it is not clear that any law would be effective in deterring the kind of senseless acts that occurred. Anyone willing to indiscriminately shoot down innocent people and then kill themselves afterwards is not likely to be deterred by any law. Nonetheless, we must work with our colleges and universities on developing ways to anticipate, identify, and prevent any such threats that we can. Some evidence is emerging that indicates there were signs of severe mental disturbances in the alleged shooter, and this may suggest information which could lead to things to look at to avoid these tragedies in the future. Mr. Speaker, today we stand together to wish a speedy recovery for the injured and to mourn with the families of the victims who died in this horrific tragedy. Virginia Tech is and will remain one of the Commonwealth of Virginia’s finest institutions of higher learning, and its proud traditions will carry on beyond its darkest hour. This event will be with the students and staff of Virginia Tech for the rest of their lives, but we must not let tragedies like this stop people from living their dreams. I hope that some day all members of the Virginia Tech family and community will be able to celebrate life and learning on the campus again. Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask unanimous consent to introduce into the record the powerful statement presented at the service yesterday at Virginia Tech by Nikki Giovanni. That service was attended by nine of the eleven members of the Virginia delegation to Congress and both of our U.S. Senators. So I would ask unanimous consent that her statement be entered into the record.I reserve the balance of my time."For Video of Rep. Scott on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, please click here.For the PDF version of Rep. Scott's Floor Statement, please click here._________________________________________________________________Transcription of Nikki Giovanni's Convocation addressDelivered April 17, 2007 Professor Nikki Giovanni speaks at Convocation, April 17, 2007. “We are Virginia Tech.We are sad today, and we will be sad for quite a while. We are not moving on, we are embracing our mourning.We are Virginia Tech.We are strong enough to stand tall tearlessly, we are brave enough to bend to cry, and we are sad enough to know that we must laugh again.We are Virginia Tech.We do not understand this tragedy. We know we did nothing to deserve it, but neither does a child in Africa dying of AIDS, neither do the invisible children walking the night away to avoid being captured by the rogue army, neither does the baby elephant watching his community being devestated for ivory, neither does the Mexican child looking for fresh water, neither does the Appalachian infant killed in the middle of the night in his crib in the home his father built with his own hands being run over by a boulder because the land was destabilized. No one deserves a tragedy.We are Virginia Tech.The Hokie Nation embraces our own and reaches out with open heart and hands to those who offer their hearts and minds. We are strong, and brave, and innocent, and unafraid. We are better than we think and not quite what we want to be. We are alive to the imaginations and the possibilities. We will continue to invent the future through our blood and tears and through all our sadness.We are the Hokies.We will prevail.We will prevail.We will prevail.We are Virginia Tech.”(####)
04.16.2007	(Washington D.C.) - In reaction to the tragic shooting on the campus of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech): "We were saddened to hear of the tragic events on the campus of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University today. We will certainly want to explore every possible avenue toward determining what can be done to prevent this kind of tragedy in the future, whether on our college campuses or on business premises such as we saw last week. Our hearts and prayers go out to the victims and their families, as well as to the entire Virginia Tech community." Congressman Scott is Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, and is a member of the House Committee on Education and Labor. (####)
04.10.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will hold a town hall meeting in Prince George, Virginia on Wednesday, April 11, 2007, 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. at 6602 Courts Drive, Prince George County, Virginia, in the Prince George Board of Supervisors Room. The topic of the town hall meeting will be the federal budget. The public is invited to attend. (####)
04.10.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will tour the Hampton VA Medical Center in Hampton, Virginia on Wednesday, April 11, 2007, 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. at 100 Emancipation Drive, Hampton, Virginia. The purpose of the visit is to observe the type of care that our soldiers and veterans are receiving at the facility and to meet with hospital leadership.Following the tour of the medical center, Representative Scott will be available to speak with the media. (####)
04.02.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott will tour the McGuire Veterans Hospital in Richmond, Virginia on Tuesday April 3, 2007, 1:00 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at 1201 Broad Rock Boulevard, Richmond, Virginia. Mr. Scott wants to see the type of care our soldiers and veterans are receiving at the facility and meet with hospital leadership. Following the hospital tour, Representative Scott will be available to speak with the media. (####)
03.29.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Today, U.S. Representatives Carolyn Kilpatrick (MI-13) and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) offered an alternative to the Democratic budget on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). While the CBC recognizes the important improvements the Democratic budget has made over the President’s budget, the CBC believes that its budget does an even better job of meeting the needs of the American people while being even more fiscally responsible. Rep. Kilpatrick, Chairwoman of the CBC, stated: “We’re proud to present this alternative budget. This budget is fiscally and socially responsible. It provides financial stability and represents our commitment to building a stronger America for all its families. This budget reflects the values of the people, restores accountability, and rebuilds our communities.” According to Representative Scott, chair of the CBC Budget Task Force, “the CBC’s budget makes difficult choices. It chooses to fund programs and services important to the American people rather than provide tax cuts to those who need it least.” By repealing some of the tax cuts implemented under the Republican administration that primarily impact that portion of a household’s income over $200,000, the CBC budget generates revenue for much needed programs and services such as health care for all children in the United States, education and job training programs, veterans benefits and services, homeland security, transportation, and international child survival and health initiatives. Even after funding all of these priorities, the CBC budget significantly reduces the deficit and, in fact, reaches surplus in FY 2012. “The Republican budget funds tax cuts for the wealthy by borrowing billions of dollars and drastically cuts vital services such as education, healthcare and community services. We think Americans deserve better,” remarked Congressman Scott. “A budget is a profound statement of national priorities, and in terms of balancing fiscal responsibility with an obligation to help all Americans to realize the American dream, the CBC budget is truly a moral document,” explained Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-06), First Vice Chair of the CBC. The CBC budget failed by a vote of 115 -312. Additional Information Below: Congressional Black Caucus Budget Substitute If passed, the CBC budget will: Ensure Fiscal responsibility BALANCE THE BUDGET IN FIVE YEARS Create a surplus of $141 billion in FY 2012 Reduce the deficit:· $107 billion less cumulative deficit than the Democratic budget· $339 billion less cumulative deficit than the President’s budget Save on interest on the national debt:· $18.3 billion less cumulative interest than the Democratic budget· $27.7 billion less cumulative interest than the President’s budget The CBC budget’s main source of revenue is a rollback of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for the top two income tax rates and a rescission of the capital gains and dividend tax cuts -- both primarily affecting that portion of household income over $200,000. ADVANCE THE PRIORITiES OF the AMERICAN PEOPLE* CHILDREN’S HEALTH: Provide every child in the U.S. with health insurance through funding for SCHIP ($66 billion more on healthcare than the Democratic budget and $101 billion more than the President’s budget) EDUCATION: Ensure no child is left behind by fully funding NCLB and providing increased funding for Head Start, IDEA, college access programs and college loan programs ($112 billion more on education, training, employment and social services than the Democratic budget and $158 billion more than the President’s budget) VETERANS: Honor our veterans by increasing funding for health care and benefits ($9 billion more on veterans benefits and services than the Democratic budget and $42 billion more than the President’s budget) JUSTICE: Make local communities more secure by funding juvenile justice, gang prevention, prisoner re-entry, and local law enforcement programs and ensure that every voice counts by funding the Help America Vote Act ($6 billion more on administration of justice than the Democratic budget and $12 billion more than the President’s budget) COMMUNITIES: Provide our communities with support through increases to CDBG, nutrition and housing programs ($5.9 billion more on community and regional development than the Democratic budget and $19 billion more than the President’s budget) DIPLOMACY: Contribute to the global community by investing in child survival and health, international family planning and the global effort to fight AIDS ($8.5 billion more on international affairs than the Democratic budget and $5.8 billion more than the President’s budget) *Numbers are cumulative for the five year budget period (FY08-FY12) Distributed by Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, M.C. (####)
03.29.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Today Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) joined Representatives Chris Van Hollen (D-MD-08), Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD-01) and Tom Davis (R-VA-11) to introduce legislation that would dramatically boost federal funding for Chesapeake Bay restoration. Together, the four members co-chair the Congressional Chesapeake Bay Watershed Taskforce. "The Chesapeake Bay is an incredibly complex ecosystem. Unfortunately, we learned the hard way that one use of the Bay cannot be at the expense of another. The only way we are going to restore the Bay is to clean up each and every one of its rivers and tributaries," said Rep. Scott. "This legislation is a tremendous step in the right direction."The timing of the legislation is particularly appropriate. This year Congress will reauthorize the farm bill, which provides federal support for agricultural programs and producers throughout the United States. "The reauthorization of the Farm Bill creates a rare opportunity to address runoff from agricultural lands, which is one of the most significant challenges facing the Bay, " commented Rep. Scott. "Nearly half of the nutrient pollution in the Bay comes from agriculture. Thousands of farmers in the watershed have implemented conservation practices, and we know they are willing to do more, but they need financial and technical assistance. This bill is our commitment to help them."The legislation, entitled the "Chesapeake’s Healthy and Environmentally Sound Stewardship of Energy and Agriculture Act of 2007" and nicknamed CHESSEA, would have a major impact on the water quality in all six of the Chesapeake Bay watershed states. If enacted, CHESSEA would bring significant new federal technical and financial assistance to farmers and landowners in the Bay watershed states to help them in their efforts to reduce nutrient and sediment runoff. It would also provide incentives for the region's farmers to produce new sources of renewable energy that will simultaneously improve water quality and reduce the impact of fossil fuel consumption on the atmosphere.In addition, the bill would add Virginia to the Agricultural Management Assistance (AMA) program, which is a voluntary program for agricultural producers that provides technical assistance and cost share funds to address natural resource concerns such as water conservation and quality and soil erosion. Currently, Virginia is the only Chesapeake Bay watershed state not included in the AMA program. "I hope that the inclusion of Virginia in this program will bring additional assistance and support to agricultural producers throughout the Commonwealth," remarked Rep. ScottThe legislation is supported by the Chesapeake Bay Commission and the Chesapeake Bay Program. Additional cosponsors include: Albert Wynn (D-MD), John P. Sarbanes (D-MD), Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Jo Ann S. Davis (R-VA), Frank Wolf (R-VA), Jim Moran (D-VA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) ), Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Thelma Drake (R-VA), and Maurice Hinchey (D-NY).(####)
03.23.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Today, Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott joined a majority of his colleagues in voting for H.R. 1591, the "U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans Health, and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007," the centerpiece of which sets conditions for the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq. H.R. 1591 passed the House by a vote of 218 to 212 (Roll Call No. 186). "There is no doubt that the conflict in Iraq is now a civil war marked primarily by sectarian violence, pitting Sunnis against Shias, with our troops caught in between," said Rep. Scott. "This bill is in fact the most responsible means to get our men and women out of this quagmire."The legislation does not call for an immediate withdrawal. Instead, the legislation gives Iraq’s government a timeline to achieve political and military progress already set by President Bush and Iraqi leaders. If Iraq’s government fails to meet the benchmarks outlined in the legislation, U.S. forces must be redeployed by March 2008. If the benchmarks are met by the deadlines established in the legislation, U.S. forces must be redeployed by September 2008. In doing this, the legislation creates leverage that the U.S. can use to hold Iraq’s government accountable and make it ultimately responsible for creating a political solution to this conflict that will result in American troops coming home."I acknowledge that Congress should generally avoid trying to micro-manage a war. When decisions need to be made, there is no time for committee hearings or floor votes; the Commander-in-Chief may need to act immediately," Rep. Scott said. "However, this Administration, contrary to the facts of the situation on the ground, continues to claim that success is around the corner. My Virginia colleague in the Senate, Republican Senator John Warner, has stated that ‘in two or three months if this thing hasn’t come to fruition and this level of violence is not under control’ then we would need to rethink our policy – he made that statement six months ago. "Some have suggested that any deadline is problematic. However, the Administration’s original time estimate for the war was ‘six days, six weeks, no more than six months,’ so a firm deadline18 months from now, after four years of this open ended conflict, cannot create any more problems than we already have and in fact sets a date that begins to bring our troops home. "Today’s legislation, for the first time in the four year history of this conflict, finally puts real pressure on the President and Iraq’s leaders to bring this war to an end. This bill will begin a responsible process to remove our forces from Iraq," concluded Rep. Scott. Foreign Policy Experts Support H.R. 1591: Former National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski has stated that "only a political solution will end this war," and that the plan approved by the House today provides "a means to hold the Iraqi government accountable for its performance by conditioning U.S. support to the meeting of benchmarks already endorsed by President Bush and Iraqi leaders." Former Secretary of State Madeline Albright recently stated, "the bottom line is that there must be a political settlement in Iraq that will end the civil war and reduce the level of insecurity to something that can be managed. With a settlement, we could withdraw gradually, with mission accomplished. Without a settlement, our troops can do little good and might as well come home sooner rather than later." In a letter to House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey, former Congressman, 9/11 Commissioner and co-chair of the Iraq Study Group, Lee Hamilton said that "a strategy of sustained pressure on the Iraqi government to meet benchmarks on national reconciliation, security, and improving the lives of the Iraqi people – backed by clear conditionality of U.S. support – has the best chance of advancing stability in Iraq." Congressman Hamilton added under the House proposal, "the President retains his flexibility and authority as commander-in-chief."High Ranking Military Officials have questioned our current policy in Iraq: Former Supreme Allied Commander of NATO Gen. Wesley Clark (Ret.), former President of the National Defense University Lt. Gen. Robert G. Gard, Jr. (Ret.), former Deputy Commander of Multinational Force Iraq Lt. Gen. Peter Chiarelli, current Deputy Commander of Multinational Force Iraq Lt. Gen. Raymond Odierno, and First Head of Training of Troops in Iraq Maj. Gen Paul Eaton (Ret.), have all pointed out that the solution in Iraq is primarily political, diplomatic and economic.In an open letter to Congress, several retired generals and other high ranking military officials stated that the situation in Iraq is "grave and deteriorating" and that top military officials have "consistently acknowledged that the repeated and lengthy deployments are straining" the U.S. military.General David Petraeus, the new Commander of Multinational Force Iraq, recently declared that "there is no military solution to a problem like that in Iraq." (####)
03.08.2007	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott , (D-VA-3), has invited Head Start leaders and the parents of Head Start students to a roundtable discussion in Newport News, Virginia, to discuss the re-authorization of the highly-touted, national child care/pre-school program in the 110th Congress. "Congress is re-authorizing the Head Start program, and I believe it’s important to get feedback from those people who work with Head Start on a daily basis and from those parents whose children are participants in Head Start. It is imperative that we find out what works and what improvements we need to make in Head Start programs as we move through the re-authorization process," said Rep. Scott.The Education and Labor Committee will markup the re-authorization of the Head Start bill called "Improving Head Start Act of 2007" next week. The Head Start Roundtable will be held Monday, March 7, 2007, from, 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 at the Office of Human Affairs, 610 Hampton Avenue, Newport News, VA 23607. (####)
02.16.2007	(Washington D.C.) - "Madame Speaker, before we respond to the President’s call for an additional 20,000 additional troops in Iraq, we must put his call in the context of the history of the war, beginning with a discussion of what the current 130,000 troops are doing in Iraq now. The original reasons we were provided as the rationale for going to war – that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction, that Iraq’s leaders were connected with the 9/11 attacks and that Iraq posed an imminent threat to the United States – all turned out not to be true. Saddam Hussein was captured and recently hanged, Al-Zarqawi is dead, and Iraq held democratic elections over one year ago, yet we are still in Iraq.Throughout the war, the President has attempted to associate our presence in Iraq with a so-called "war on terrorism." The truth is that our presence in Iraq has actually increased our risk to terrorism. Furthermore, the term "war on terrorism" is a rhetorical term without any relationship to reality. "Terrorism" is not an enemy, it is a tactic. The enemy was al-Qaeda. We attacked Afghanistan because al-Qaeda was there, not in Iraq. So what was the mission in Iraq? The President has now said that he is laying out a new mission in Iraq - thereby clearly acknowledging that whatever the old mission was, it was not working – but there is still no clearly defined end goal and no clearly defined explanation of how failure or success could be measured.If our mission now is to stabilize Baghdad, military experts have already said that an additional force of 20,000 troops is woefully insufficient to accomplish that goal.The fact is that the Administration has already increased troop levels on several other occasions during this war. None of the previous surges in troop levels had any lasting effect on the war, and there is no credible reason to believe that this surge will be any different.And how can we have confidence in predictions of success? Before our invasion into Iraq, then-Defense Secretary Rumsfeld predicted that the war in Iraq would last "six days, six weeks. I doubt six months." [February 7, 2003 at a town hall meeting at Aviano Airbase.] And Vice President Cheney predicted that we would "be greeted as liberators." [NBC’s Meet the Press, March 16, 2003.] On May 1, 2003, about six weeks after we invaded Iraq (almost four years ago), President Bush stood on the U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln under a sign that read "Mission Accomplished" and proclaimed: "Major combat operations in Iraq have ended." A year and a half ago, Vice President Cheney said that the Iraqis were "in the last throes" of the insurgency. [Larry King Live, June 20, 2005] And yet, here we are discussing an increase, not a decrease, in troop levels. At the outset of this war, the Administration predicted that the cost of the war would be so minuscule that it advised the House Budget Committee not to include the cost of the war in the federal budget, and the administration official who suggested that the total cost of the war might exceed $100 billion was fired. To date, we have appropriated nearly $400 billion, and the President has already formally requested almost $200 billion more – with no end in sight. Most importantly, over 3,100 courageous Americans and countless Iraqis have already lost their lives. How many more will die, if this new strategy falls as far from the predicted result as the original length of time and cost estimates of this war?Furthermore, Madame Speaker, as part of developing a mission and strategy, it is imperative that we ask where these additional troops are going to come from. Many will undoubtedly come from the National Guard and Reserves, but they have already been in Iraq for longer than average deployments and many have already completed multiple tours of duty. Other troops may be redeployed from other assignments, so we must also ask what moving these troops will mean for our global national security?Last November, the American people sent a powerful message that they wanted real change in Iraq, not more of the same. And they expect an honest explanation of why we entered Iraq in the first place, what the present situation is, what goal we now expect to achieve, and what the strategy is to accomplish it. Only then can we intelligently discuss the troop levels necessary to accomplish that goal. Unfortunately, all we have gotten from this Administration is essentially, "don’t worry, be happy, success is around the corner; and if you don’t believe that then you are not patriotic and you are not supporting the troops."For my colleagues who say "failure is not an option," I ask you what is to happen if the President’s so-called "New Way Forward" fails – as many experts predict it will. Are we then required to further escalate the war, and further strain our military by sending thousands more of our troops to Iraq? How many more of our young men and women must die before this Administration acknowledges what the unclassified portion of the recent National Intelligence Estimate clearly stated – that "the term ‘civil war’ accurately describes key elements of the Iraqi conflict."Madame Speaker, although the resolution before us is technically non-binding, it gives the House an opportunity to call upon the President to work cooperatively with Congress to develop an effective strategy to bring our troops home. The American people and our courageous men and women on the front lines deserve a clearly articulated and sensible approach to ending the war in Iraq. This resolution puts the House on record saying that an escalation of military forces is a step in the wrong direction. I therefore urge my colleagues to support this resolution." (####)
02.08.2007	
02.07.2007	(Washington D.C.) - "Thank you all for coming. I am proud to be introducing this bill along with my colleague in the House, the Honorable Steve Chabot, and my colleagues in the Senate, the Honorable Charles Grassley and the Honorable Barack Obama. The purpose of this bill is to correct and finally end the long and appalling documented history of discriminatory treatment by the Department of Agriculture against Black Farmers. Throughout the history of the Department of Agriculture, the country essentially ignored its blatant discrimination against Black farmers. And to add insult to injury, and to silence even the suggestion that there was such discrimination, the civil rights office within the Department of Agriculture was closed down in 1981. Finally, in 1997, after extensive investigations and findings of historical discrimination by the Clinton Administration Secretary of Agriculture, the Pigford law suit against the Department was filed. In 1998, Congress enacted legislation to remove the 2-year statute of limitations barring claims to allow action on claims of discrimination made by Black Farmers dating back to 1983. Then, in 1999, the lawsuit was settled allowing Black farmers who could show that they had made a claim of discrimination between 1983 and 1997 that was not acted on to pursue their claims. However, a deadline was placed on filings of claims. Unfortunately, 75% of those filing claims were deemed to have filed too late to be considered. All manner of suggestions and speculations have been put forth as to why so many of the claims were filed late. Starting in September of 2004, under then-Chairman Chabot’s leadership, we conducted a series of hearings on the issue which found that the Department did not effectively make the opportunity to file claims known to Black farmers in isolated rural areas.This bill will allow late filers who believe they can substantiate discrimination against the Department to bring the claims forward to be heard and decided on the merits. Some will win and some will lose, but none should be barred from being heard on a technicality.I truly hope that this Congress will take up this bipartisan bill to provide as many as 70,000 black farmers the opportunity to seek fair and equitable resolution of their claims." (####)
01.11.2007	(Washington D.C.) - January marks the beginning of the season for college-bound students to apply for financial aid and scholarships. “I encourage all students to file their FAFSA applications and take advantage of more than $80 billion that is available in federal aid to help pay for college. While virtually all students are eligible to receive some federal aid to pay for their college education, financially needy students may qualify for additional benefits such as grants, work-study programs and federally guaranteed loans. I urge you to apply as soon as possibly,” said Scott. Completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is the first step in the financial aid process. While available in both paper and electronic forms, ninety-five percent of the 14 million annual applicants use the on-line application, because the system flags errors that can be corrected immediately. Visit the Department of Education's Federal Student Aid website https://federalstudentaid.ed.gov for deadline information and forms. (####)
12.18.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) taped the following holiday message to our men and women serving overseas and their families: "This is Congressman Bobby Scott wishing you a happy holiday season.I am proud to represent the Third Congressional District of Virginia and the Hampton Roads area. Our area has a rich military tradition and we see the effects of your sacrifices each and every day.During the holiday season, it is more important than ever to thank all of you for the hard work you are doing for our great nation. You and your families are sacrificing a great deal to ensure our safety and security.No mater where you are or what job you are doing, your commitment is not going unnoticed. We cannot be more proud of you as we continue to meet the challenges of the 21st century. I wish you health, happiness, and a safe return home to your families."The video message will be distributed to the troops and their families via the Armed Services Network. To view the video message, please click here. (####)
09.19.2006	(Richmond, VA) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott visited J.E.B. Stuart Elementary School, which has been designated as a 2006 No Child Left Behind Blue Ribbon School. The No Child Left Behind Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and private K-12 schools that are either academically superior in their states or that demonstrate dramatic gains in student achievement. The announcement was made at a school assembly this morning by Rogers Johnson, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs for the U.S. Department of Education. "I am delighted that J.E.B. Stuart Elementary has been afforded this honor," said Rep. Scott. "I commend Principal Jennifer K. Moore, the faculty and students for such an excellent academic achievement."Following the assembly, Rep. Scott and Mr. Johnson visited several classrooms.(####)
09.15.2006	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) will host a meeting for Hampton constituents whose apartments suffered severe water damage from Tropical Storm Ernesto two weeks ago. Hampton City officials will be at the meeting to work with Rep. Scott to assist the displaced families and answer any questions they may have. "We need to help these people as quickly as possibly as they put their lives back together, "said Rep. Scott.Many of the residents affected by the storm in Hampton attended last week’s meeting held in Newport News. However, only city officials from Newport News were at last week’s meeting and many of the Hampton residents requested another meeting to hear directly from officials from the City of Hampton. The meeting will be held Monday, September 18, 2006, at 6:30 p.m. at Francis Mallory Elementary School, at 331 Big Bethel Road, Hampton, VA 23666. (####)
09.13.2006	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, (D-VA) held two meetings in the last week with Third Congressional District constituents and with federal, state and local authorities to address the needs of Richmond and Newport News residents who have been displaced by Tropical Storm Ernesto. Rep. Scott is planning a third meeting for people in the City of Hampton next week. "Time is a critical factor for all parties concerned. It is so important that we keep everyone informed at all levels of all the steps taken to assist those hurt by this recent Tropical Storm,"said Representative Bobby Scott. Steps are underway to remove water damaged building materials from residential property infrastructure in Newport News. Clean-up assessments and efforts are underway in Richmond. At the request of Governor Tim Kaine, Congressman Scott and other members of the Virginia congressional delegation have sent a letter to the White House urging President Bush to give Virginia a federal disaster declaration. "VDEM is working closely with local governments and Virginia's congressional delegation to pursue federal assistance for the damage caused by Ernesto," said Michael Cline, state coordinator for the Virginia Department of Emergency Management. The Hampton meeting is scheduled for Monday, September 18, 2006, at the Francis Mallory Elementary School, 331 Big Bethel Road, Hampton, VA 23666. The public is invited to attend. (####)
09.11.2006	(Newport News, VA)- Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) will be hosting a public meeting on the aftermath of Tropical Storm Ernesto tonight at 6:30 pm at John Marshall Elementary School. On Friday, September 1, Tropical Storm Ernesto entered the Hampton Roads region bringing with it high winds, a tidal surge and heavy rain. Flooding forced many local residents out of their homes, some of whom are still waiting to return. At this forum, Congressman Scott will bring elected officials and local, state, and federal agency representatives from fifteen different agencies to make sure the needs of these citizens are being addressed and long term solutions are being considered."This meeting will give citizens a chance to speak directly to the agencies responsible for providing relief," Congressman Scott said. "Along with answering the public’s questions, we want to find out what worked, what needs to be changed, and how we can improve our response."Present at the meeting will be representatives from the Newport News City Council and City Manager’s Office, Newport News Fire and Police Departments, Newport News Public Works and Code Compliance, Newport News Housing and Redevelopment Authority, Newport News Public Schools, Newport News Social Services, Hampton-Newport News Community Services Board, Virginia State Emergency Management, Virginia Health Department, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the American Red Cross. John Marshall Elementary School is located at 743 24th Street, Newport News. The public is invited to attend.(####)
09.08.2006	(Richmond/Newport News, VA)- Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott commends Virginia Governor Tim Kaine for calling upon President Bush today to provide federal disaster relief to the areas devastated by Tropical Storm Ernesto. Rep. Scott has been in constant contact with state and local officials since Ernesto hit Virginia and has been calling upon Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to assist. In order for FEMA to get involved, a request from the Governor was mandatory. "There are people whose lives have been turned upside down by Tropical Storm Ernesto. They’ve lost their homes, their businesses and all their belongings," said Rep. Scott. "We need to do everything we can to assist them and help them begin to put their lives back together again."Rep. Scott spent time in Newport News and Richmond this past Tuesday, viewing the damage and meeting with local residents. He was joined by state and local officials. On Tuesday night, Congressman Scott attended and spoke at the public meeting in Richmond to discuss the damage and how best to assist residents displaced from their homes or otherwise affected.This coming Monday night, Rep. Scott will hold an informational meeting with officials from the State of Virginia, the City of Newport News and the American Red Cross to assist local residents affected by Tropical Storm Ernesto.The meeting will be held at 6:30 p.m. on Monday, September 11, 2006, at John Marshall Elementary School located at 743 24th Street in Newport News, VA. The public is invited to attend.(####)
09.05.2006	(Richmond, VA)- Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, (D-VA-3), will visit the Battery Park area of Richmond this afternoon to get a first hand look at the storm and sewage damage that has occurred as a result of the sewage line collapse and the heavy rains from tropical storm Ernesto last Friday. Rep. Scott will also meet with state and local officials to begin to assess how best to address this crisis in both the short and long term. More than 100 residents have been displaced and 70 homes and apartments have been condemned as a result of the damage so far. Because of the damage, access to clean water has been poor. The City is attempting to pump sewage out of Battery Park but efforts to do so have been slowed by recent rains."We need to make sure that the residents of Battery Park have a safe place to stay and have access to food and clean water," said Rep. Scott. "The contaminated flood waters and raw sewage pose a serious threat to public health. I am committed to do all I can to get folks the assistance they need to make their homes and streets safe again." (####)
09.01.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) joined U.S. Reps. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD-03), Marion Berry (D-AR-01) and 40 other House Democrats in sending a letter to House and Senate conferees to the FY 2007 National Defense Authorization Bill urging them to adopt a provision requiring drug manufacturers to give discounts to the Department of Defense (DoD) for retail drugs purchased by members of the military and their families. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 directs drug manufacturers to provide discounts on pharmaceuticals supplied to DoD, providing a huge savings to the government. Despite the law, some manufacturers refuse to grant DoD discounts for drugs purchased through the TRICARE retail program, although they do provide the discount for drugs purchased by mail order.With prescription drug costs on the rise, DoD is seeking ways to control spending in the TRICARE program. Since it does not receive a discount for drugs purchased at retail pharmacies, DoD is considering requiring all beneficiaries to purchase pharmaceuticals through mail order, putting military personnel and their families at a disadvantage. The fact is that most TRICARE beneficiaries prefer to use their local pharmacist who can answer questions about the medications and their correct usage."Military personnel and their families rely on TRICARE for their health coverage. The conferees should adopt this important provision, which will guarantee access to affordable prescription drugs whether purchased at the pharmacy or through mail-order, as Congress intended," said Rep. Scott. "Members of the military should not be at more of a disadvantage than others in our society who choose where and how to purchase their prescription medications," Rep. Scott added.The Senate-passed provision endorsed in the letter to conferees would force pharmaceutical companies to extend discounts to the TRICARE retail program as well as the mail order program. (####)
08.28.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) will travel to New Orleans this week with a congressional delegation to mark the one year anniversary of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Members of the Democratic Caucus will also establish a time of National Prayer and Remembrance for the residents of the Gulf Coast, especially the city of New Orleans. The group also will use the trip to remind Americans there is still much work to do to rebuild the Gulf. One year ago, the Gulf Coast of the United States was hit by one of the most devastating hurricanes in American history. The storm’s massive storm surge caused the levies protecting the City of New Orleans to break, flooding the crescent city and leaving hundreds of thousands of Americans homeless.Late last year, the Congressional Black Caucus introduced H.R. 4197, the Hurricane Katrina Recovery, Reclamation, Restoration, Reconstruction and Reunion Act of 2005. This is a comprehensive bill that would address the needs of survivors of Hurricane Katrina by providing access to affordable healthcare, education, housing and community rebuilding, voting rights, financial services, small business incentives, and job training. The bill also calls on the President to eradicate poverty in the United States by the year 2015.Rep. Scott also introduced H.R. 4213, the Elimination of Barriers for Katrina Victims Act. Specifically, this bill would suspend the denial of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), food stamps, public housing, and higher education benefits to victims of Hurricane Katrina because of convictions for certain drug offenses. "Daily news reports indicate the federal government has failed to provide assistance to the people of the Gulf Coast in the immediate aftermath of Katrina. This is why we will tour the Gulf Coast region; to see firsthand, if the people of the region, especially the City of New Orleans, are still no better off than they were a year ago," said Rep. Scott. (####)
08.04.2006	(Newport News, VA) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-3) will visit the Peninsula Institute for Community Health (PICH) on Monday, August 7, 2006, as a part of National Health Center Week and will participate in the Reach Out and Read program. PICH offers a network of primary health care services to residents of southeast Newport News and the Peninsula. More than 5000 people visited this facility to get their primary health care in 2005. A group of physicians and health care professionals dedicated to community medicine provide health care that is affordable and accessible. They have given untold numbers of families comprehensive health education and nutrition programs to bolster prevention-oriented health. "PICH makes vital health care a reality for many residents of Newport News. This is an essential service in an underserved area," said Rep. Scott. Congressman Scott will tour the facility and will read a book to pediatric patients as part of PICH’s literacy program. PICH works in conjunction with Reach Out and Read, a national organization that promotes early literacy by giving new books to children and advice to parents about the importance of reading aloud. "This program promotes literacy by encouraging young people to read and by providing tools to families that promote children’s developmental skills," said Congressman Scott. Rep. Scott is a longtime advocate of quality education for all children, and he is a member of the Education and Workforce Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Scott will visit 48th Street Physicians at 4714 Marshall Avenue in Newport News on Monday, August 7, 2006 from 11:00 am to 1:00 p.m. Press are welcome to attend. (####)
08.01.2006	(Newport News, VA) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) will celebrate the launch of the With Ownership, Wealth (WOW) initiative in Virginia's third Congressional district Wednesday with kickoff events in Newport News and Richmond. WOW is an initiative created by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF) in conjunction with national groups such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the National Association of Realtors with the goal of increasing minority homeownership. There are still wide disparities in homeownership in America. According to the US Census Bureau, in 2005, 68.9% of all American householders owned their home. Among non-Hispanic white householders the homeownership rate rises to 75.8%, while only 48.2% of black householders and only 49.5% of Hispanic householders owned their home.To advance the goal of minority homeownership, WOW will hold educational workshops, credit counseling, and other forums to promote homeownership and make sure that minorities have access to all the resources they need to make their homeownership dreams a reality. In addition, WOW will address long-term housing issues in collaboration with local banks, mortgage companies, and other housing related industries."For most Americans, their home is their largest asset and investment," said Congressman Scott. "We need to ensure that minorities are not shut out of a chance to own a home, and that they have all of the knowledge needed to make informed decisions and investments in the future of their families."In the third Congressional district, The Urban League of Hampton Roads will be the program coordinator for the WOW initiative. "We're excited about WOW", says Edith White, CEO of the Urban League of Hampton Roads. "It's great to see such a focused campaign that brings together partners on all sides of the housing issue for the common goal of minority homeownership. We look forward to working with Congressman Scott on this issue."The Newport News kickoff reception will be held at 9:30 a.m. at the W. Henry Maxwell Family Life Center, Ivy Baptist Church, 50 Maple Ave, Newport News. The Richmond reception will be held at 2 p.m. at the Imani Center, First Baptist Church South Richmond, 1501 Decatur Street, Richmond. (####)
07.26.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-03) will host a screening of the film "The Great Warming" at the Mills E. Godwin Student Center, Ballroom A, at Norfolk State University on Monday, July 31, 2006 at 6:30 p.m. "The Great Warming" is a film that reveals how a changing climate is affecting the lives of people all over the world. The film includes commentary on global warming from scientists, religious leaders, a former CIA chief, and other opinion-makers. Endorsed by numerous environmental groups, churches, and evangelical groups, the film is significant not only for its content but for the way it highlights the growing concern about global warming from across the ideological spectrum. Along with presenting strong scientific evidence about global warming, the film also covers how evangelical Christians and other people of faith are working with secular advocacy groups and scientists to push decision-makers to take action. Following the film, Congressman Scott will lead a panel from the science, environmental advocacy, and religious communities in a discussion of the environmental and moral implications of global warming on our community, our nation and the planet."We can no longer ignore the evidence of the strains mankind has placed on our fragile planet and we can no longer put off the need to address this serious global problem," said Rep. Scott.The screening will be open to the public and will begin promptly at 6:30 p.m. (####)
07.13.2006	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, (D-VA-3), issued this statement following the passage of the Federal Voting Rights Act re-authorization. "As the Supreme Court has noted, ‘No right is more precious in a free country than having a voice in the election of those who make the laws under which, as good citizens, we must live. Other rights, even the most basic, are illusory if the right to vote is undermined."’ [Wesberry v. Sanders, 376 U.S. 1, 17-18 (1964).] "Poll taxes, literacy tests and other discriminatory schemes have been effective in closing the ballot box to blacks and other minorities. The Voting Rights Act dismantled these schemes and barriers. As a result, since 1964, the number of black elected officials has increased from just 300 nationwide to more than 9,100 today. The Act also opened the political process for many of the nearly 6,000 Latinos who now hold public office, including more than 250 who serve at the state or federal level, as well as, other minority elected officials.""In my home state of Virginia there was not a single African American in the state General Assembly in 1965. Now, 40 years after the passage of the Voting Rights Act, there are 17 members of the Virginia Black Legislative Caucus. Clearly, these numbers show that many of the provisions in the Voting Rights Act are effective." The House passed the civil rights legislation by a vote of 390 to 33. (####)
06.09.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Steve Chabot (R-OH) and Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) today introduced bipartisan legislation designed to help thousands of African-American farmers who were denied entry into the Pigford v. Glickman settlement. The legislation, the Pigford Claims Remedy Act (H.R. 5575), would allow claims previously rejected on procedural grounds to be reviewed based on merit. "We have learned during extensive hearings on this issue that an unacceptable number of claims were never considered on their merits," said Chabot. "Our legislation will ensure that any meritorious claims of discrimination are reviewed on the facts of each individual case and that they are not summarily rejected on procedural grounds."Congressman Scott stated, "three times as many claimants were denied consideration on the merits as the number that received consideration. This bill will allow those who filed a claim, but were denied a consideration on the merits, an opportunity to be heard."On April 14, 1999, a federal judge approved a settlement agreement to a discrimination lawsuit between African-American farmers and the Department of Agriculture (USDA). The settlement followed the filing of a class action lawsuit by minority farmers against the USDA two years earlier. The lawsuit claimed that the USDA had discriminated against African-American farmers because of their race when applying for farm loans or other forms of assistance in violation of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act.The settlement and its implementation were criticized after it was reported that more than 70,000 African-American farmers submitted late claims, barring them from the settlement. For example, 420 claims were made after the deadline by African-American farmers in Ohio and 270 claims were made in Virginia. Of those, 410 Ohio claims and 252 Virginia claims were rejected on procedural grounds without consideration of their merit (350 similar claims in Indiana and 77 in Kentucky were turned down because they were filed after the deadline). The Pigford Claims Remedy Act is being cosponsored by Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee (R-WI); Rep. Mel Watt (D-NC), Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus and Ranking Member of the Commercial and Administrative Law Subcommittee; Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-Al); Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Immigration, Border Security, and Claims Subcommittee; and Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-MS).Over the last 18 months, the Constitution Subcommittee has conducted an extensive review of the Pigford settlement which including three hearings and an investigation by the General Accountability Office (GAO) from August 2005 – March 2006. (####)
06.08.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3), along with other House Democrats, is strongly urging students and parents to consolidate their federal college loans before July 1, 2006, when interest rates on outstanding loans are expected to rise to their highest rate in six years. Consolidation allows a borrower to combine separate loans into one and lock in a low fixed interest rate. This could save borrowers thousands of dollars over the life of a loan. Earlier this year, the Republican-led Congress cut $12 billion out of the federal student aid programs in order to finance tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. “The Majority in Congress has decided that it is more important to give tax cuts to the rich than help make college more affordable for our children. As a result of bad policy choices, a college education is even more expensive for millions of American students and their families,” said Rep. Scott, who is a member of the Education and Workforce Committee. “It is imperative that students and their families act now to consolidate their loans before interest rates increase on July 1st. This will help reduce your education debt in the long run.” Each year on July 1, the U.S. Department of Education adjusts the interest rates on outstanding college loans. Interest rates on student loans are expected to rise to just over 7 percent and interest rates on parent loans are expected to rise to 7.8 percent. Student borrowers who consolidate their outstanding loans before July 1 would be eligible to lock in an interest rate as low as 4.75 percent, which could save thousands of dollars for the typical student. Parent borrowers who consolidate before July 1 would be eligible to lock in a rate as low as 6.1 percent over the life of their loan. “Education is the key to our future,” said Rep. Scott. “An educated workforce is important to American competitiveness in this global marketplace. We should be doing everything we can to make higher education accessible. Instead, we are making it more difficult for students and their families,” commented Rep. Scott. “But consolidation now is one way students and their families can save money.” Rep. Scott is the cosponsor of a bill that would cut interest rates in half -- from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent -- for students with subsidized loans, which go to students with the most financial need; it would also cut interest rates from 8.5 percent to 4.25 percent for parent borrowers. House Democrats are hosting an online forum on college affordability, which gives college students, graduates and parents the opportunity to make their voices heard on their experiences with paying for college and on their ideas for how Congress should make college more affordable. For more information on student and parent loan consolidation information, please visit:https://www.house.gov/scott/legislative/issues/student%20loan%20conslidation%20notice.html For more information on how to participate in the college affordability e-forum, please visit:https://edworkforce.house.gov/democrats/makecollegeaffordable.shtml For more information on Democratic legislation to cut interest rates in half on new college loans, please visit:https://edworkforce.house.gov/democrats/pdf/reverseraid.pdf (####)
05.17.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Wednesday night, U.S. Representatives Melvin L. Watt (D-NC-12) and Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA-3) opposed the Republican budget and instead offered a budget on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) that exercises greater fiscal responsibility while still addressing the needs of the American people. "The CBC budget focuses on closing disparities in America’s communities and restoring fiscal responsibility to the federal process," said Rep. Watt, CBC Chair. "By funding programs and initiatives to help close dramatic disparities in education, health care, economic opportunity, justice, retirement security and foreign policy, we clearly demonstrate our priorities which will make it possible for African Americans and all Americans to reach their full potential.""The Republican budget funds tax cuts for the wealthy by borrowing billions of dollars and drastically cuts vital services such as education, healthcare and veterans services. We think Americans deserve better," added Rep. Scott, Chair of the CBC Alternative Budget Task Force. The CBC budget offered a comprehensive alternative to the Republican budget. "Our budget is fiscally responsible and recognizes the needs of American individuals and American communities around the country. It is a sound budget that protects and promotes the best values of America," commented Rep. Scott.The CBC alternative balances the budget in five years while the Republican budget still remains deeply in deficits at that time. At the same time, the CBC budget spends $80 billion more on education and job training, $20 billion more on healthcare, and $20 billion more on veterans services than the Republican budget over a five year period. It also allocates funding for Gulf Coast reconstruction. "The CBC budget accomplishes all this by returning to a responsible tax structure similar to the one we had during the 90s, when the economy was strong, we created 20 million jobs, and the stock market was doubling every five years," explained Rep. Scott. The CBC budget’s main source of revenue is a rollback of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, but the rollback only applies to that portion of an individual’s income that exceeds $200,000. The CBC budget also refrains from adopting any new tax cuts."The CBC budget demonstrates that fiscal responsibility and spending on programs that are important to the American people are not mutually exclusive," concluded Rep. Scott. "It is important to act responsibly because if we fail to control the budget today, we will not be able to pay for Social Security and Medicare in the future."The CBC budget failed by a vote of 131 - 294.(# # # #)
05.04.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott today supported the Security and Accountability for Every (SAFE) Port Act. Rep. Scott represents the Newport News/Hampton Roads area of Virginia, which is home to the Virginia Port Authority. The Virginia Port Authority controls terminals in Norfolk, Newport News, and Portsmouth and has more than 75 international shipping lines and one of the most frequent direct sailing schedules of any port. The facilities that encompass the international terminals of Hampton Roads play a vital role in the transport of global commerce. That role is expanding each year and is expected to do so for the next 20 years. Rep. Scott also represents the future home of the major East Coast Maersk APM Terminals to be located in Portsmouth. "This means the enhanced security and safety of our port and harbor is paramount, and I want to do my part to ensure that the Virginia Port Authority has what it needs to remain safe and secure," said Congressman Scott. Rep. Scott supports improved security measures for all ports, large and small. The Port of Richmond is also in the Third Congressional District of Virginia and serves as a major artery for commerce as well as an alternate to the ports of Hampton Roads in the event of any terrorist attack or other disaster. Therefore, it is crucial that the Port of Richmond is always prepared to accept expanded commerce should the need suddenly arise.Rep. Scott recognizes that port security is not just an issue in Virginia, but in every district because the containers unloaded at all ports are then placed on trains and trucks that travel to every congressional district. The SAFE Port Act contains provisions appropriately addressing high-risk containers by identifying the contents of the container, the identity of the shipper and consignee, the port of origin and the destination. The SAFE Port Act also will establish much needed port security training programs, improve employee identification, and implement appropriate measures for evaluating Federal, state, local, and foreign governments, seaport personnel, and non-governmental emergency response providers."The major ports in my district are critical to the vitality of our community, our economy, and our national defense. I believe the SAFE Port Act is a solid first step towards improving port security," concluded Rep. Scott. The SAFE Port Act passed by a vote of 421 - 2. (####)
05.03.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), continued his efforts on the Floor of the House of Representatives to promote lobbying reform that reduces corruption in lobbying. Rep. Scott spoke against The Lobbying Accountability Act because it fails to offer a comprehensive, permanent solution to the current rules governing lobbying activities. In particular, Rep. Scott is concerned about lobbying contingency fee contracts. Today, more and more lobbyists appear to be entering into contracts that pay the lobbyist a percentage contingency fee or “success fee” for securing earmarks in appropriations bills. Rep. Scott offered an amendment to the lobbying reform bill that called for a study of the practice of some lobbyists charging percentage contingency fees for obtaining earmarks in appropriations bills. The amendment was adopted by the Judiciary Committee, but it was removed by Republicans in the Rules Committee last week. Today, the bill passed the House by a vote of 217 - 213. These contingency fee contracts are illegal for lobbyists representing foreign governments and illegal in some lobbying activities involving the Executive branch. They are also illegal in lobbying activities in 39 state legislatures. However, such contracts involving Congressional lobbying do not appear to be illegal under federal criminal law. The Supreme Court has questioned the morality of contingency fee contracts for lobbying dating as far back as 1853, stating that “common law . . . will not lend its aid to enforce a contract to do an act . . . which is inconsistent with sound morals or public policy; or which tends to corrupt or contaminate, by improper influences, the integrity of our social or political institutions.” “These contracts have been found to encourage corruption and so any bill dealing with lobbying activities must consider percentage contingency fees charged by lobbyists. If we are going to adopt a bill that suggests it is going to do something about corruption, then it ought to include at least a study of the prevalence of these contracts which everybody knows have a corrupting influence. Unfortunately, Republicans on the Rules Committee would not even allow a vote on a study of this practice,” Rep. Scott concluded. (####)
05.01.2006	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Scott called on the Republican-controlled Congress during this week to bring up for immediate consideration two key bills that would cover more than half of America’s uninsured. "This week is ‘Cover the Uninsured Week,’ and the problem of millions of Americans who work but have no health insurance continues to grow," stated Rep. Scott. "During President Bush’s tenure, the number of uninsured has increased by 6 million nationwide. Here in Virginia, the number of uninsured has increased by 287,000 – resulting in a total of now 1,061,00 people in Virginia going without health insurance. "Unfortunately, over the last five years, President Bush and the Republican Congress have done nothing to bring down the number of uninsured," Rep. Scott pointed out. "Furthermore, Republican proposals that have been put forward would do more harm than good -- undermining employer-provided insurance and resulting in net increases in the number of uninsured.""It is important that we now move forward to expand access to affordable, quality and reliable health coverage for America’s families," said Rep. Scott. "The two bills I am co-sponsoring are targeted to build on programs that already work and ensure that two fast-growing segments of the uninsured have access to affordable health coverage: low-income working parents and people ages 55 to 65," added Rep. Scott.Rep. Scott noted that he is cosponsoring two bills that target each important group. The Family Care Act (H.R. 2071) would lower costs and expand affordable coverage for working parents, by making the parents of children eligible for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program and Medicaid also eligible for coverage. These working parents frequently work at jobs that do not provide access to employer-based insurance. And the Medicare Early Access Act (H.R. 2072) would allow people between the ages 55 and 64 to purchase Medicare coverage with a subsidized premium. Currently, there are 3.5 million uninsured people age 55 and over who are not yet eligible for Medicare. Together, these bills would cover over 23 million uninsured Americans. "Millions of working, uninsured Americans go to bed every night worrying what will happen to them and their families if a major illness or injury strikes," stated Rep. Scott. "This is a national scandal. I am fighting this year to try to ensure that Congress moves forward on this legislation – so that quality health coverage becomes available to millions more Americans. It should be our highest priority."(####)
04.27.2006	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), spoke on the Floor of the House of Representatives today to promote lobbying reform that is both effective and constitutional. Rep. Scott offered an amendment to the lobbying reform bill that called for a study of the practice of some lobbyists charging percentage contingency fees for obtaining earmarks in appropriations bills. The amendment was adopted by the Judiciary Committee, but unfortunately it was removed by Republicans in the Rules Committee. Today, more and more lobbyists appear to be entering into contracts that pay the lobbyist a percentage contingency fee or “success fee” for securing earmarks in appropriations bills. A Congressional Research Service memorandum dated September 21, 2000, cites a legal treatise that says, “[these contracts] furnish the strongest incentive to the exertion of corrupting and sinister influences . . . [they are] utterly void as against public policy.” Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, according to the memorandum, “explained that it was the ‘tendency’ in such contract agreements to provide incentives toward corruption.” The Supreme Court has questioned the morality of contingency fee contracts for lobbying dating as far back as 1853, stating that “common law . . . will not lend its aid to enforce a contract to do an act . . . which is inconsistent with sound morals or public policy; or which tends to corrupt or contaminate, by improper influences, the integrity of our social or political institutions.” These contracts are illegal for lobbyists representing foreign governments and illegal in some lobbying activities involving the Executive branch. They are also illegal in lobbying activities in 39 state legislatures. However, such contracts involving Congressional lobbying do not appear to be illegal under federal criminal law. “These contracts have been found to encourage corruption and so any bill dealing with lobbying activities must consider percentage contingency fees charged by lobbyists. Unfortunately, Republicans on the Rules Committee would not even allow an up-or-down vote on a study of this practice,” Rep. Scott concluded. (####)
03.16.2006	(Washington D.C.)- Today Congressman Scott participated in a bill signing ceremony at the White House with President Bush. The bipartisan bill, entitled the “Stop Counterfeiting in Manufactured Goods Act,” was designed to counter the growing manufacture, distribution and sale of counterfeit goods. Thousands of jobs and millions of dollars are lost every year due to counterfeit goods. The bill fell under the jurisdiction of the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, on which Congressman Scott is the Ranking Democratic Member. After bipartisan negotiations, the bill was reported favorably by the Subcommittee and the full Committee. It then passed the full House and the Senate and was sent to the President for signature. Rep. Scott attended the signing of the bill along with Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner (WI). “Counterfeit goods not only victimize the manufacturer, but shortchange purchasers with substandard products, expose us to risks from unsafe products, and deprive Americans of jobs and other benefits from commerce of authentic goods,” said Rep. Scott. “I am proud that this bill moved forward with bipartisan participation and support.” Also present at the signing were Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, Department of Commerce; Secretary Elaine Chao, Department of Labor; Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, and Rep. Joe Knollenberg (R-MI), the original sponsor of the bill.(####)
03.10.2006	(Washington D.C.)-Representative Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, (D-VA-3), announced his support for legislation that would increase the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour over two years. Rep. Scott signed a discharge petition that would force consideration of the Miller-Owens bill (H.R. 2429) to raise the federal minimum wage. Specifically, the bill would gradually raise the minimum wage by $2.10 -- from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour-- over two years. The bill raises the minimum wage to $5.85 60 days after enactment; to $6.55 one year later; and to $7.25 one year after that. Rep. Scott is a long time supporter of assistance to low-wage workers and their families. While serving in the Virginia State Senate in 1991, Rep. Scott introduced Senate bill 834 which required Virginia’s minimum wage to mirror the federal minimum wage rate. Rep. Scott’s bill passed and Virginia’s state minimum wage has continued to increase with the federal rate. The last time Congress voted to raise the minimum wage was in 1996. The law increased the minimum wage from $4.25 to $4.75 in 1996, and then from $4.75 to $5.15 in 1997, where it remains today. Each year the federal government fails to act, minimum wage workers pay the price, as the rising cost of living erodes the value of their paycheck."I am fighting for a modest increase in the minimum wage for more than 153,000 workers in Virginia." Rep. Scott stressed, "Working families in Virginia definitely need this increase. With dramatic increases in costs for health care, energy and housing, workers find it more difficult to pay for more with the same wage they have received for about a decade. Even if the new minimum wage is approved, it is still below the value of the minimum wage in 1997, when adjusted for inflation." (####)
12.15.2005	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA-3) last night spoke on the Floor of the House of Representatives and urged Congress to protect the spirit of Christmas. “The spirit of Christmas demands generosity and goodwill towards others,” said Scott. He went on to point out that “instead of legislation that respects the spirit of Christmas, Congress in just these past few weeks has passed a budget that includes mean-spirited attacks on the least of us.” His remarks were in response to House Resolution 579 that sought to “protect” the symbols of Christmas.Scott believes that the resolution will divert the people’s attention away from what Congress has really done this past month, including cutting the food stamp program, health care for the working poor, student aid, and dramatically reducing the child support upon which single parents depend. At the same time, Congress has cut taxes for the wealthiest members of American society and increased the national debt. “We ought to express our passion for Christmas through deeds, not words,” Rep. Scott insisted.Rep. Scott’s full remarks are below.***“Madam Speaker, this resolution purports to protect the symbols of Christmas, but what really needs to be protected are not the symbols of Christmas, but rather the spirit of Christmas. The spirit of Christmas demands generosity and goodwill towards others.“Instead of legislation that respects the spirit of Christmas, Congress in just these past few weeks has passed a budget that includes mean-spirited attacks on the least of us. For those who are hungry, we are cutting food stamps. For those who are sick, we are cutting Medicaid. For those who are in prison, we are imposing senseless mandatory minimums. For others we are ignoring increases in heating costs and cutting student loans. At the same time we are cutting those programs to help the least of us, we are cutting taxes for the wealthiest in society.“Madam Speaker, we ought to express our passion for Christmas through deeds, not words; and we should not be distracted from our responsibility to uphold the spirit of Christmas as we consider the effects our actions on the Federal budget will have on the least of us during this holiday season.“For these reasons I oppose this resolution.” (####)
12.08.2005	(Washington D.C.) - Today Congressman Scott successfully demanded that America provide for the basic health care needs and safety of immigration detainees held by the U.S. Department on Homeland Security in a bill marked up today by the House Committee on the Judiciary. Touted by the Majority as a border protection and immigration reform bill, the bill contained numerous anti-immigration proposals that had little or nothing to do with border security. Rather, the bill served to pursue the Majority’s anti-immigration agenda by adopting policies of jailing, deporting, and criminalizing immigrants in a so-called effort to protect Americans from the real threats of terrorism. The controversial bill provoked heated debate, mostly along party lines.The only noncontentious aspect of the debate was the amendment proposed by Mr. Scott, offered in response to a shocking expose by National Public Radio (NPR). The NPR report, which aired on December 5, 2005, alleged that the Department of Homeland Security has been neglecting the basic health care needs of immigration detainees, which has resulted in at least one death. NPR also reported that the Department declined to comment on the allegations. “There are currently over 200,000 immigration detainees in the custody of the Department of Homeland Security,” said Rep. Scott. “Regardless of their status, they are morally entitled to basic health care needs and guaranteed safety.”The amendment offered by Mr. Scott, and unanimously accepted by the Committee, would require the Government Accountability Office – the independent, nonpartisan investigative arm of Congress -- to investigate and report on the issue of deaths in custody of immigration detainees held by the Department of Homeland Security.“When allegations are made that we may be intentionally indifferent to health concerns of detainees, the official response from our government cannot be ‘no comment.’” remarked Rep. Scott. “We need to find the facts and deny the allegations or fix the problem.”Rep. Scott also offered an amendment to strike all mandatory minimum sentences from the bill, which was defeated along party lines. The underlying bill passed, also along party lines.A copy of Rep. Scott’s full remarks are below. The NPR report can be found at https://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=5022866.###Mr. Chairman, my amendment would require GAO to investigate and report on the issue of deaths in custody of immigration detainees held by the Department of Homeland Security. On December 5, 2005, National Public Radio (NPR) aired a shocking expose entitled, The Death of Richard Rust, alleging that the Department has been neglecting the basic health care needs of immigration detainees. Unfortunately, the Department declined to respond to the allegations.According to the report, Mr. Richard Rust, a 34-year-old immigration detainee from Jamaica, apparently died in the Oakdale, Louisiana detention facility after suffering a heart attack, because no one from the medical staff came to his aid for 20 minutes after he had suffered the attack, despite Department protocol that staff respond to emergencies within 4 minutes. The NPR report also stated that it took 40 minutes for the ambulance to arrive. The report suggests that other detainee deaths may also have been caused by failure to provide detainees with proper medical care.Mr. Chairman, there are currently over 200,000 immigration detainees in the custody of the Department of Homeland Security. Regardless of their status, they are morally entitled to basic health care needs and guaranteed safety. For this reason, my amendment would require GAO to investigate and report on the issue of deaths in custody of immigration detainees held by the Department of Homeland Security, including:1. whether any crimes were committed by the department or its staff;2. whether any deaths were caused by negligence or deliberate indifference of the department or its staff;3. whether department protocol was followed;4. whether current department protocol is sufficient to protect the health and safety of detainees; and5. whether reports of deaths were made under the Deaths in Custody Act.This investigation into health care for detained aliens is timely and desperately needed. Congress is currently considering legislation to significantly expand the numbers of and classes of aliens subject to mandatory detention in the Department's custody. Before such expansion, we must be certain that the Department is capable of ensuring the safety of detainees and of protecting detainees in its charge against death from inadequate health care. Mr. Chairman, we are supposed to be providing internationally respected moral leadership, but we are already having trouble with that task because of the scandal at Abu Ghraib prison and whatever our position is on torture this week. So when allegations are made that we may be intentionally indifferent to health concerns of detainees, the official response from our government cannot be “no comment.” We need to find the facts and deny the allegations or fix the problem.For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to support the amendment. (####)
11.19.2005	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, (D-VA-3), last night opposed a Republican bill that severely decreases student aid and funds for important social service programs. Couched as an effort to reduce the federal budget, the plan cuts spending by about $50 billion dollars; however, it also cuts taxes by nearly $70 billion dollars for a net increase in the deficit of $20 billion. Most of this tax cut will be pocketed by the wealthiest one percent in the country.“The bill cuts student aid by $14.3 billion dollars, saddling students with an additional debt of up to $5800 on top of the $17,500 already owed by the on the average student borrower,” said Rep. Scott. “The result is that financial barriers will prevent over four million high school graduates from attending college over the next decade, and it will only get worse before it gets better.” Rep. Scott was referring to the fact that the cost of attending a public four-year college has risen $3000 over the last five years, yet there has been no increase in Pell grants.This cut is particularly egregious in light of the two tax cuts that will go into effect on January 1, 2006, estimated to be worth $200 billion over five years. Under these tax cuts, those making over $1 million - less than 1% of those filing taxes -- will get the bulk of the benefit with approximately $19,000 each. Meanwhile, those making under $75,000 a year will get no benefit; $75,000 to $100,000 will on average receive a $1.00 benefit; $100,000 to $200,000 will receive an average of $25; $200,000 to $500,000 will get about $500; and $500,000 to $1 million will receive just over $4,000 on average. “In other words, we are giving tax cuts to the rich at the expense of our students,” Rep. Scott explained. “We are limiting the ability of the next generation to participate in our global economy while saddling them with our growing debt.”In addition to the raid on student aid, the bill cuts health care for our poorest children, decreases the food stamp program, and dramatically reduces the child support upon which single parents depend. “This is not the right vision for the future and we can do better,” insisted Rep. Scott. “The American dream is about providing opportunities, not obstacles. I am committed to fighting these misplaced priorities.”The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a margin of only two votes. Democrats unanimously opposed the bill and were joined by fourteen Republicans and one Independent. (####)
11.18.2005	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, (D-VA-3), tonight opposed a Republican attempt to bulldoze any meaningful discussion of American redeployment from Iraq.Representative John P. Murtha, (D-PA-12), is a decorated Vietnam combat veteran and retired Marine colonel with 37 years of military service who received the Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts. Rep. Murtha presented a thoughtful proposal to Congress for disengagement in Iraq. The Murtha resolution called for redeployment of American forces in Iraq at the earliest practicable date while leaving a quick-reaction force in the region, along with diplomatic efforts to ensure security and stability in Iraq.At the eleventh hour, the Republican majority presented a resolution of their own. The so-called rewrite called for immediate redeployment of all U.S. forces in Iraq, with no findings or thoughtful attempt to assist the country that we have occupied for four years at the unilateral decision of President George W. Bush."Our current position in Iraq is a mess and any strategy for redeployment will have problems," said Rep. Scott. "However, a strategy that is thoughtful and responsible deserves serious debate. The Hunter resolution and the manner in which it was brought to the floor is an insult to the thoughtful analysis of Representative Murtha and should not be dignified by anything other than a ‘NO’ vote.""Of utmost importance in any strategy is the safety and security of our troops," Rep. Scott remarked. "We should also attempt to leave Iraq in a better place politically and diplomatically than when we arrived." (####)
11.17.2005	(Washington D.C.)- Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), has been honored by the Richmond Peace Education Center with its Peacemaker of the Year award. He received the award for his support of human and civil rights and for his opposition to the War in Iraq."I am particularly pleased to be recognized by an organization which has as its principle educating the public on options for non-violent conflict resolution," Congressman Scott said. "There are many strategies to resolve conflict that if properly implemented can avoid unnecessary violence." The Richmond Peace Education Center is an organization that works for a just and peaceful community by promoting non-violence locally and globally. It presented the award to Rep. Scott during its annual awards dinner at Saint Paul's Episcopal Church in Richmond, Virginia. Approximately 150 people were in attendance.This is only the second time the Richmond Peace Education Center has bestowed this award. The first recipient of the award was Bishop Emeritus Walter F. Sullivan of the Richmond Catholic Diocese.Congressman Scott received the award on November 11, 2005. (####)
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Virginia Representatives Gerry Connolly, Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., and A. Donald McEachin called on House Republicans to protect the state and local tax deduction. In Virginia, 1.5 million households claim $16.5 billion in SALT deductions for an average deduction of $11,288 per household. Virginia has the nation’s 4th highest percentage of tax filers claiming a SALT deduction (37%). “This is a bad deal for Virginians who are being asked to pay even more just so House Republicans can give massive tax cuts to the top one percent,” said Congressman Gerry Connolly. “Eliminating the SALT deduction would increase taxes on more than 1.5 million Virginia families, including 700,000 Northern Virginia households, and threatens our growing economy.” “The Republicans’ proposed tax plan is little more than a giant tax cut for the wealthy masquerading as tax reform. Instead of helping working families succeed and ensuring that our economic recovery reaches every community, the President and Republicans in Congress are insisting on tax cuts at the expense of the very people they are claiming to help,” said Congressman Bobby Scott. “Eliminating the state and local tax deduction to pay for part of the regressive Republican tax plan would be bad for middle class families across the country, but it would hit Virginians particularly hard,” said Congressman Don Beyer. “Over a third of Virginia families use it to claim, on average, over $11,000 in deductions on their tax filings. Hiking taxes on middle class families to pay for tax cuts that mostly go to millionaires and billionaires would be immoral.” “Eliminating the SALT deduction would mean that the 115,900 households in the 4th Congressional District would get a bad deal for the sake of the wealthy one percent of Americans,” said Congressman Donald McEachin. “I cannot stand by while congressional Republicans turn their backs on my constituents. I urge Chairman Brady and his fellow Republicans to abandon their path to neglect middle-class families.” Virginia Congressional District-Level State & Local Tax Deduction UsageCompiled by the Ways and Means Committee Democrats using IRS 2015 tax data Last week, the members sent a letter to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady in support of the SALT deduction. “We are committed to the state and local tax deduction and will oppose tax reform legislation that repeals this important part of the United States tax code and harms the family budgets of middle income households,” they wrote. “We want smart tax reform that creates new economic opportunities for American families…However, repeal of the state and local tax deduction does not help us accomplish these important objectives. In fact, such a proposal would upend family budgets in Virginia.” The full text of the letter follows and is available here. The Honorable Kevin Brady Chairman Committee on Ways and Means U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C., 20515 Dear Chairman Brady, We write to you on behalf of the taxpayers of the Commonwealth of Virginia to share our concern about plans to eliminate the state and local tax (SALT) deduction. We are committed to the SALT deduction and will oppose tax reform legislation that repeals this important part of the United States tax code and harms the family budgets of middle income households. In the Commonwealth, 1.5 million households claim $16.5 billion in SALT deductions for an average deduction of $11,288 per household. Virginia has the nation’s 4th highest percentage of tax filers claiming a SALT deduction (37%). Residents of Fairfax County, Virginia alone claim nearly $4.62 billion in SALT deductions. Nearly 100,000 tax filers in Loudoun County benefit from an average SALT deduction of $14,986. In Buckingham County, 95 percent of tax filers claiming the SALT deduction are middle income households. The SALT deduction helps the residents in these counties build better schools, invest in transportation improvements, and support law enforcement and public safety agencies. We are especially concerned that repeal of the SALT deduction could harm home ownership in our districts. Repeal would make homes less affordable for more than 100,000 middle income filers in Chesterfield, Stafford, and Roanoke Counties, and could cost people their homes if families are no longer able to deduct their property taxes. We want smart tax reform that creates new economic opportunities for American families. However, repeal of the SALT deduction does not help us accomplish these important objectives. In fact, such a proposal would upend family budgets in Virginia. We commend your efforts to enact meaningful tax reform. We believe the SALT deduction is an important part of a simple and competitive tax code, and we urge you not to repeal it in future tax reform legislation. Sincerely, # # #
