03.15.2019	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement this morning regarding the horrific shootings at two mosques in New Zealand: “"The shootings at the New Zealand mosques are egregiously reprehensible. The shooters need to be prosecuted to the full extent of the law along with anyone who knowingly aided their efforts in any way. There are courts, dispute resolutions, and legislatures to resolve controversies – there is no place for cold blooded murders. Though New Zealand does not have the death penalty, hopefully its people, through their justice system, will send the message loudly and clearly that such barbarity from anyone will not be tolerated.” # # #
03.07.2019	Representative Louie Gohmert (TX01) released the following statement today regarding his vote against H. Res 183 which was repeatedly watered down so that it did not even condemn the anti-Semitic remarks that spurred the need for the bill: “It is appalling that any type of anti-Semitic comment would be rationalized by Democrats. In fact, this resolution was solely on the House Floor today because of anti-Semitic remarks made by Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-MN), yet neither she nor her remarks are ever mentioned in the text. This resolution, edited repeatedly by House Democrats, was meant to condemn anti-Semitism; however, it became so generic that it lost its meaning or significance. I am grateful that the very last version of the bill gratuitously worked in the word ‘Christian’ once in the seven page bill.” “As I pointed out in my House floor speech, watering down any condemnation of anti-Semitic remarks is the way a holocaust begins. It needed to be condemned immediately before it starts us much further toward more widespread anti-Semitic hatred that leads to another attempted genocide.”
03.05.2019	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was honored by The United Negro College Fund (UNCF) today for his work to support Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and their students in the 115th Congress. Congressman Gohmert made the following statement on being designated to the “Honor Roll,” a title reserved for members who have produced measurable impacts on campuses: “UNCF has a powerful mission: to advocate for the importance of minority education and community engagement. I have seen and learned first-hand that these institutions contain a huge percentage of students who are the first in their family ever to attend college. Once that first family member attends, it blows the ceiling off for following generations who so often go on to do extraordinary things. “The colleges in this organization are all about equipping bright individuals through their college education which prepares them to thrive, graduate and become leaders in the world today. It is also notable that these institutions in east Texas unashamedly also equip their students with a spiritual dimension as well and an understanding of the true and ultimate source of wisdom. “It is a great honor to be recognized by UNCF at the 2019 State of the HBCU Address in Washington, D.C. Having seen the good that these institutions in east Texas have done, it remains my goal to assist them as they equip students in the years ahead to make America even greater.” Each Member of Congress is scored based on his or her voting record and participation in activities that support HBCU’s core principles. Rep. Gohmert has been an advocate for HBCUs throughout his time in Congress, consistently voting on legislation that would not just support these institutions but would allow them to thrive. He has worked extensively with Wiley College, Texas College, and Jarvis Christian College, all of which are HBCU institutions within his district in Texas. # # #
02.26.2019	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on his votes against H.R. 8 and H.R. 1112 which were gun control bills that created added burdens for law abiding citizens: “Criminals, by definition, do not follow the law. Adding new laws that would bar a father from lending a gun to his step-son for a hunting trip without an onerous and costly background check is ludicrous. We should focus on enforcing existing law, not passing new ones that would make law-abiding citizens into criminals. There is nothing in either one of these bills that would have prevented the recent shootings that we are told are the motivation for the bills. Over and over again, we see mass violence occur as a result of numerous violations either by the criminal or by agencies not following existing law. The Obama administration had amazingly low numbers of prosecutions for violation of gun laws. “All these new laws would do is impose substantial burdens on law-abiding citizens, therefore, making it more difficult for honest citizens to purchase, own, carry, and use a firearm. Criminals do not bother with having background checks. We keep being told that background checks stopped 3 million illegal purchases of guns. That is not true; there were 3 million initial hits on the background checks, but when secondary checking was done, over 95% were false hits according to gun statistician John Lott. It still is true that criminals prefer to get their firearms through theft or buying from another criminal. Sadly, if these bills become law, you could not loan your gun to a friend who was being threatened with domestic violence without first running a background check; otherwise, you as the good Samaritan become the criminal. Tragically the waiting period might be the difference between life and death for some victims of domestic violence or stalking. Not only were these bills brought forth by violating regular Congressional process, they contain many policy errors. Additionally, I had many concerns raised in the House Judiciary Committee that have not been adequately addressed. Unfortunately, these pieces of legislation, requiring ‘universal background checks,’ do nothing to address the real problems leading to mass shootings and gun violence. “The answer to gun violence is not placing superfluous regulations and burdensome costs on those who want to lawfully express their Second Amendment rights afforded to them under the U.S. Constitution. If Democrats want to make the background check system work better, there are ways that can be done and these two bills are not it." # # #
02.15.2019	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement today regarding President Trump’s announcement to declare a national emergency at the U.S.-Mexico border: “Today President Trump used his existing and clear legal authority to declare a national emergency at the Southern Border. Right now, there is a blatant invasion happening at our border. The influx of illegal immigration places the lives of Americans at risk by bringing in deadly drugs, ongoing violence and heinous sex trafficking. Sadly, cartels, drug traffickers and dangerous gangs have taken advantage of our porous borders for their own profit. This must end now.” “Thankfully, we have a President who understands that it is vital that we take the appropriate action needed to secure this country with a border barrier. Once again, President Trump is keeping his promises to the American people. It is important to note that since 1976, U.S. Presidents have declared nearly 60 national emergencies. As most Democrats in Congress have said at one time or another in other situations, this executive action is necessary for our own national security as the humanitarian thing to do. The State of Texas should also consider a similar declaration.” “It is unfortunate and frankly appalling that some Democrats in Congress have obstructed our Commander-in-Chief from securing this nation’s borders. They have clearly placed their political agenda before the protection of precious American lives. That is absolutely atrocious. America and her citizens deserve to have a homeland that is secure, and all of us in Congress have a duty to provide that security. We can be thankful we have a President who takes that same obligation to heart.”
01.25.2019	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today on President Trump’s announcement to temporarily reopen the United States government: “Today President Trump placed a February 15th deadline on border funding negotiations. If Democrats refuse to provide law enforcement with the tools they need to secure our southern border, the president made clear he has the Constitutional authority and will wield that power to give our law enforcement and troops the means they need to gain control of our own border. Now that the government is open, it is time to see if Speaker Pelosi and the Democrats will stay true to their words and actually negotiate a deal that will protect American lives by simply funding a barrier that will alleviate crime, bloodshed, sex trafficking and other heinous acts of violence. Thankfully, we have a president who understands the dire need to secure the border with a physical barrier. It’s time for Democrats to stop obstructing because they hate the president and do what’s best for the country. They know walls work or Democrat leaders would not have them constructed around their homes. Congress must work together to make border security a top priority. It is my promise to those I serve to continue fighting for border barriers where we need them and a secure border everywhere.”
01.16.2019	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today on his bill, The Armed Services Always Paid Act (ASAP Act), which ensures that any time there is a government shutdown, all of the military continue to receive their pay without any stoppage: “On behalf of our nation’s military, I have filed again in this session of Congress a bill that will make certain that any time there is a government shutdown, the pay of our military men and women will continue without any stoppage. It continues to force Congress members on both sides of the aisle to consider the situation of our defenders. The Armed Services Always Paid Act (ASAP Act) puts military pay on automatic pilot like our seniors’ social security payments. It would mean that when our heroes are in life or death situations fighting for our country, they do not have to be distracted by whether or not their loved ones will have money that month. In the current shutdown, most of the military is getting paid, but this would ensure that all of the military are paid timely. “It is important to protect those who fight so fearlessly to protect us.” # # #
12.20.2018	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the introduction his bill, H.R.7363, that amends section 230 of the Communications Act of 1934: “Social media companies like Facebook, Twitter, and Google are now among the largest and most powerful companies in the world. More and more people are turning to a social media platform for news than ever before, arguably making these companies more powerful than traditional media outlets. Yet, social media companies enjoy special legal protections under Section 230 of the Communications Act of 1934, protections not shared by other media. Instead of acting like the neutral platforms they claim to be in order obtain their immunity, these companies have turned Section 230 into a license to potentially defraud and defame with impunity.” “Representatives of social media companies have testified in Congressional hearings that they do not discriminate against or filter out conservative voices on their platforms. But for all their reassurances, the disturbing trend continues unabated. Employees from some of these companies have communicated their disgust for conservatives and discussed ways to use social media platforms and algorithms to silence and prevent income to conservatives.” “In one hearing, one of the internet social media executives indicated a desire to be treated like Fox News. Fox News does not have their immunity and this bill will fulfill that unwitting request. Since there still appears to be no sincere effort to stop this disconcerting behavior, it is time for social media companies to be liable for any biased and unethical impropriety of their employees as any other media company. If these companies want to continue to act like a biased medium and publish their own agendas to the detriment of others, they need to be held accountable.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, as well as the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.06.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding his comments on George Soros on The Fox Business Network’s, “Varney & Co:” “Soros himself admitted in a 60 Minutes interview with Steve Kroft on December 20, 1998 that he had no regrets whatsoever about assisting the Nazis in confiscating property from the Jewish people during the Holocaust. That is a fact. Any person with any sense of empathy for their fellow human beings would regret the part they played in confiscating Jewish property during the Holocaust. My remarks were not anti-Semitic. Even the Israeli government has condemned Soros. They were about the horror of his lack of remorse over his actions. It was a pro-Jewish statement on my part and supportive of the statement that the Israeli government made last year that anti-Soros statements are not anti-Semitic because George Soros ‘continuously undermines Israel’s democratically elected governments by funding organizations that defame the Jewish state and seek to deny it the right to defend itself.’” George Soros Interview 60 Minutes [FULL] Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QSyczwuTQfo (8:33) Israeli Government Press Release [July 9, 2017] In no way was the statement meant to delegitimize criticism of George Soros, who continuously undermines Israel’s democratically elected governments by funding organizations that defame the Jewish state and seek to deny it the right to defend itself. Link: http://mfa.gov.il/MFA/PressRoom/2017/Pages/Foreign-Ministry-clarification-regarding-anti-Semitism-in-Hungary-9-July-2017.aspx # # #
12.06.2018	In response to a letter from Mr. Gaspard of the “Open Society Foundation” regarding Mr. George Soros (attached below), Congressman Louie Gohmert issued the following statement: “Mr. Gaspard, with the misnamed Open Society Foundation, has been very diligent to condemn opinions or allegations about Mr. Soros’ activity. Yet, he surely knows that in his interview with Steve Kroft on December 20, 1998, Mr. Soros as a mature adult verified that he had no sense of guilt about the role he played in Nazis’ confiscation of property from the Jewish people during the Holocaust. As a very mature adult, if Mr. Soros had deep regrets about what he did when he was 14 years old and apologized, I would have nothing but sympathy and admiration. Were he ever to do that in the future, I would still have those same warm, respectful feelings. “Instead, Mr. Soros statement went on to say that if he weren’t there, someone else would have been in his role. Those are things HE said, that HE admitted as an adult. Any person with any sense of empathy for his fellow human beings would regret the part they played in assisting the Nazis. “Mr. Soros also admitted in that same interview regarding his financial dealings that, ‘I cannot and do not look at the social consequences of what I do.’ That’s breathtaking. “My remarks were not anti-Semitic; the Israeli government itself stated last year that it did not mean to ‘delegitimize criticism of George Soros, who continuously undermines Israel’s democratically elected governments by funding organizations that defame the Jewish state and seek to deny it the right to defend itself.’ “As for any attempt to invoke fear of violence or violence itself whether against Mr. Soros or anyone whomsoever, I have spent an adult lifetime working in our justice system to try to ensure that anyone who takes justice into his or her own hands must answer to that justice system. If a person who sent a bomb to anyone came before me as a judge for sentencing, I would have no problem assessing a significant time of incarceration. In that manner, the rest of us can maintain our freedom of speech, a God-given right enumerated in the very First Amendment to the United States Constitution. Freedom of speech should not be undermined by heavy-handed attempts to stifle criticism.”
11.19.2018	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his bill, the Asylum at Designated Arrival Ports and Terminals (ADAPT) Act of 2018 (H.R. 7139), which requires that requests for asylum shall only be made at designated ports of arrival: “America is facing an invasion at our southern border that promises to be followed by more massive caravans. Our asylum system was never meant to add hundreds of thousands more each year to over one million lawful visas that the United States provides. There are apparently groups who are funding thousands of people at a time to invade the United States without lawful right to do so. No other country in the entire world or in history is as generous with access to a country as the United States . Yet, asylum abuse has become a way to flaunt U.S. law and overwhelm our immigration system and bring down the greatest, most successful effort in self-government the world has ever known.” “This has to end now before it destroys the most desirable country to enter. My bill, the Asylum at Designated Arrival Ports and Terminals, or ADAPT Act, complements President Trump’s recent proclamation by requiring all asylum seekers to apply at a designated port of arrival immediately upon entry. By requiring asylum applications to be made (1) immediately, and (2) only at ports of arrival, illegal border crossers will no longer be able to game the system upon being caught.” “The combination of a border wall where it is needed, President Trump’s proclamation, newly released DHS / DOJ rules, and this bill will finally allow us to virtually end the unsustainable illegal entries into our country.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security, as well as the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.10.2018	Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) and U.S. Sens. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), John Cornyn (R-Texas) this week penned a letter in support of the City of Lufkin’s request for a foreign trade zone (FTZ) to Andrew McGilvray, Executive Secretary of the Foreign-Trade Zones Board. “With over 145,000 workforce participants, I am happy to support the City of Lufkin’s request to establish a foreign-trade zone (FTZ),” Rep. Gohmert said. “Located near major interstates, airports and rail transportation, this thriving city in east Texas is prepared and equipped to increase international trade development. “Not only will this designation create more job opportunities for the residents of Lufkin, Texas it will aid in retaining the jobs already filled and additionally, attract new companies to the region which will generate even more economic success and expansion.” “Texans benefit enormously from international trade,” Sen. Cruz said. “The City of Lufkin has tremendous resources and an equipped workforce. Establishing a Foreign Trade Zone will incentivize further investment in the city, and create more good paying jobs and opportunity for Texans. I am hopeful the FTZ Board will work swiftly to meet the city’s request.” “Opening up East Texas industry to global markets means more jobs and more opportunity for Lufkin and the surrounding area,” said Sen. Cornyn. “I’m proud to join my colleagues Senator Cruz and Congressman Gohmert in supporting the City of Lufkin’s application for a Foreign Trade Zone.” Read the full letter here. ###
10.06.2018	Today, Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the U.S. Senate’s vote to confirm Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court: “Today is a great day for this nation. The confirmation of Justice Kavanaugh is a victory for the U.S. Constitution and for every single American who values freedom over tyranny. Any American who has grieved in recent decades as we have seen five Supreme Court justices substitute their fleeting whims for the clear meaning of the Constitution’s words should be rejoicing today. We have today added a Justice who wants justice and intends to let the Constitution speak for itself. As someone who sent so many men to prison for assaulting women, I believe our laws must be enforced and any attacks on fellow human beings must be punished. In Justice Kavanaugh’s situation, however, Senate hearings and the media were used to assassinate the character of an honorable man who spent his life building a reputation for honesty and integrity, with no evidence other than vague, clouded, remote, questionable, conflicting and completely unverified recollection. There was a time when decent people in America would go to extreme lengths to insure that before they made an allegation, they had to make absolutely certain that they did not disparage an innocent, honorable man. Not only did that not happen in Justice Kavanaugh’s case, there was a massive rush to judgment without evidence at all. Justice Kavanaugh’s family has also been threatened and had his opponents use every form of the most indecent, violent and despicable language to describe what haters aspire to do to the Kavanaughs physically, revealing a seamy, disgusting underside of American debauchery that should offend every thinking American.” “Under our Constitution, America was a place where those accused of a crime had the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. Sadly, Judge Kavanaugh was not given that right. In fact, today’s virulent haters have taken us back to a place not seen since the hate and unfairness of a very hateful time many decades ago. Dr. Blasey Ford’s claims were listened to, investigated and shown the proper respect before the Senate Judiciary Committee. However, after the many hours of testimony and a new, seventh FBI report on Judge Kavanaugh, these allegations were not only completely, in whole and in part, uncorroborated, but the inconsistencies and the other witnesses’ denials established Justice Kavanaugh to be a man who was very unfairly accused.” “This process has been exhausting and frustrating for all involved – especially for the Kavanaugh family. The Democrats have shown their true colors over these past few weeks. They have again staked out an unparalleled ownership of the politics of personal destruction of all with whom they disagree, to the exclusion of civil decency. Their tactics have embraced the ugliest and meanest bullying that has ever been witnessed in a confirmation process. I hope and pray that now that the Senate has successfully completed Justice Kavanaugh’s confirmation, the American people themselves will complete their process of voting to keep home all of those Democrat candidates who embraced the politics of personal destruction. Their kind of bloodlust for power needs to be extinguished at the ballot box. I also thank those Senators who were not swayed by the emotional hatefulness, but examined the lack of evidence for themselves. Congratulations to Justice Brett Kavanaugh on his new position on the United States Supreme Court where I know he will serve his country with dignity and without the hatefulness of those who slandered him.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals.
09.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement remembering and honoring the lives lost on September 11, 2001: “On this day seventeen years ago, communities and families were torn apart by an extreme act of violent hate. Today we remember the thousands of precious lives lost in the terrorist attack— parents, siblings, children, neighbors, and friends. We will not forget that they mattered, that they loved, and laughed and were striving to make the world a better place. We also honor the heroism of the service men and women who spent their final hours doing everything within their power to protect and serve the needs of their fellow man and woman. In response to the worst of humanity, they showed the best of humanity. The hate that tried to break America instead showed the rest of the world why America is strong. We came together as a nation like I had never seen before. Back home in Tyler, Texas, I remember joining hands with people from all ages, races, walks of life and backgrounds as we lifted our country up in prayer. On September 12 of 2001, there were no hyphenated Americans; we were just Americans and very proud of it. Then, as today, we mourn the senseless act of terror that took so many lives. And while there is a group of Americans who are also now filled with hate and desires of anarchy, the vast majority of Americans love freedom, they love mercy, and they have hope for a better tomorrow. My prayer is that we return to that sense of unity, that we remember the patriotism of those who gave their last full measure of devotion serving others. Take a moment with me today to remember and honor the victims and fallen heroes of the attack seventeen years ago. And let us come together as Americans and return to the principles and values that make our nation the greatest, most generous, and caring country in the history of the world.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
08.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the claim made by the FBI that they have ‘not found any evidence’ regarding Hillary Clinton’s serving being breached: “It’s not surprising that the FBI ‘has not found any evidence’ regarding Clinton’s servers being breached. Like I stated to Former FBI Agent Peter Strzok in the House Judiciary Hearing, it was the Obama-appointed Intelligence Community Inspector General that discovered the breach. It was not the FBI that found it, so their statement was technically correct, but very deceptive in its omission. When I asked Peter Strzok about this, he said that he remembered being briefed by the ICIG investigator but did not remember what it was about. That is not credible. We know that the FBI’s head of counter-intelligence, Mr. Strzok, was doing all he could to help protect Hillary Clinton. So, when the Intel IG investigator came to report to Mr. Strzok that a specific foreign intelligence entity (which was not Russian) was receiving virtually all the emails from Secretary of State Clinton’s private server in real time, it is not remotely believable that he would not remember the conversation. In fact, if he testified that he remembered the briefing, he would be potentially incriminating himself in a coverup or obstruction role. One thing has been made acutely clear – partisan politics, sadly, are very much at play within some of the leadership at the FBI. Though Strzok and other FBI personnel were briefed on Hillary Clinton's server being hacked, as now reported, they knew this would devastate Hillary Clinton’s chances of being elected and they were not about to let that happen. Fortunately, progress is currently being made at the FBI and there are good people there who are making a difference. Unfortunately, the FBI’s deceptive omission in its statement reveals that the FBI has not been completely cleansed of the partisanship that so pervasively corrupted it in Washington, DC.” # # #
07.24.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his decision to no longer pursue legislation to create a National Heritage Area near Caddo Lake: "When first considering whether or not to join the effort to designate parts of the Caddo Lake area as a National Heritage Area, I was skeptical. As soon as I heard the term “National Heritage Area,” I immediately became suspicious that there may be federal strings that are put on local, private or public land. I have seen that happen in the instance of a “Wild and Scenic River” designation. Yet, after many months of research, I found no such strings in the Heritage Area designation. The “National Heritage Area” terminology creates a legal designation that allows public, governmental, or private foundation money to flow into an area to improve the economy and enjoyment of the area, with the recognition of a national title of its historic lineage, while allowing for control to remain in local hands. As always, I do not presume to force anything on a county where I am their federal servant, but I do think it is helpful to let a community know about these potential opportunities. For example, after I was elected, the Base Realignment and Closure “BRAC” commission decided the Department of Defense no longer needed the former Longhorn Army Ammunition Plant. Some local leaders believed that if Harrison County could receive 1,000-1,500 acres of that land, it could be used to bring in a huge clean industry that would provide more local opportunities and have a burgeoning economic effect. That land was near Caddo Lake, and no one had wanted to see that lake water dirtied. There have actually been lakes that have been cleaned by industry coming in and agreeing that any water it used would be put back cleaner than it was when taken out. That land had formerly been known as the Thiokol Corporation property, where many thousands of Harrison County citizens had worked at one time. It seemed like a great opportunity to help schools and the people of Harrison County. It was going to be an uphill battle to get the land for Harrison County, but I was not about to do something the people of Harrison County did not want done with their own land. Back then, Harrison County residents were assured by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife that if U.S. Fish and Wildlife got the land, it would mean an economic bonanza. Tourism would boom. That presentation apparently carried the day. When the County Commissioners voted not to support the effort to try to secure the land for the local community’s use and control, I no longer tried to pursue it on their behalf. I absolutely will not pursue any federal action regarding land in Harrison County that Harrison County does not want. People living in the potential Heritage area in Louisiana have been particularly vociferous in opposition to the proposal, and it seems they have not given fair consideration to the possible benefits. As a result, both Louisiana’s U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy and U.S. Representative Mike Johnson are pulling their effort to examine further the possible benefits. The people of Harrison County were willing to engage in a productive dialogue about the pros and cons of a potential designation. While many constituents raised concerns with the idea, I cannot adequately convey how much it means to me to have so many people have enough faith in me that they were willing to wait and hear the whole story, cordially discuss their concerns with my office, and offer suggested amendments, before deciding whether to pursue it or not. I also want to thank the Marshall News Messenger for being open to the discussion without pre-judgement. We had continued to work on language that would have further ensured that the federal government could never use the Heritage Area designation to do anything the actual landowners, private and public, did not want done. We could be certain that such a proposed law did not allow any strings and included that language in what we drafted. However, it could not be said with 100% certainty that some future Congress might not try to add strings, so I prepared language to allow unilateral withdrawal from the Heritage area, without needing the federal government’s permission, if the federal government or Heritage Area Commission ever did anything that had an undesirable effect on the land, the landowners, or any aspect of the local enjoyment or use. That would have been enforceable if anything unwanted had ever been attempted. We also were going to cut the size of the proposed area significantly and only include land that the owners wanted in the Heritage Area. However, Sen. Cassidy and Rep. Johnson’s withdrawal from any effort to pursue financial benefits to what would have been the Caddo Lake National Heritage Area occludes any further inquiry into this matter. Since Louisiana had more land that would have been included in the potential Heritage Area and they are withdrawing, it does not make sense for us to pursue it. This matter will be closed until or unless the people I represent who would be affected tell me that they want the issue of a National Heritage Area designation pursued again. Thank you for the chance to represent your wishes."
07.09.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today in support of Rep. Jim Jordan: “Jim Jordan is a fine and decent person who has a lifetime history of being honorable and honest, unlike his accusers whose extremely troubled backgrounds and ongoing legal and financial troubles place the veracity of their allegations into the realm of ridiculous. Unlike the Olympians who were minor children at the time they were abused, these former wrestlers were adults at the time they claim they were sexually abused by the Ohio State team doctor. Note that they do not claim they reported specific abuse to Jim Jordan or to anyone else. To the contrary, they specifically state they did not tell Jordan but instead say he should have known because there was talk around the locker room. They waited over 20 years to make these allegations with the willing and very expensive assistance of Perkins Coie, a Washington, DC-based dirty tricks law firm. Perkins Coie boasts a client roster that includes the DNC, Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and several Democrat Members of Congress. They were recently paid by Hillary Clinton and the DNC as a pass-through entity to hire Fusion GPS to concoct the salacious and unverified Russian dossier at the heart of the Clinton team’s attempted take-down of President Trump. That doesn’t pass the smell test, but there’s even more. The doctor they are accusing of these acts committed suicide 13 years ago, so this isn’t even about prosecuting him. It is not about “preventing others from being abused” by this dead man. This has every appearance of greed trying to gain twice from the same smear. First, trying to finally have a successful law suit against Ohio State University after failed previous claims. Second, whatever payments were received for trying to destroy President Trump may be available to destroy other high-achieving Republicans, like Jim Jordan. Given the inclusion of Perkins Coie in the mix, the likelihood increases that money has already changed hands to purchase a drive-by character assassination of beloved conservative Republican Congressman Jim Jordan. I personally vouch for the integrity of Jim Jordan. There seems to be an absence of people vouching for the upstanding character of his accusers.” # # #
06.28.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) will continue to seek input from constituents to address questions and discuss the benefits of H.R. 5957 – The Caddo Lake National Heritage Are Act of 2018. He additionally released the following Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ’s) concerning the legislation: Q: Is a Heritage Area controlled by the Federal government? Will the creation of a Heritage area increase Federal Land or impose more burdensome Federal Regulations? A: A National Heritage Area is the name for a partnership among the National Park Service, states, and local communities in which the service supports state and local initiatives through federal recognition, seed money, and technical assistance. Heritage Areas are not part of the National Park System, nor are they federally owned and managed. Rather, lands within National Heritage Areas remain in state, local, or private ownership (or a combination thereof). There are no comprehensive federal criteria for designating National Heritage Areas, and there are no strict federal standards for their funding and management. Rather, these standards are created individually for each National Heritage Area within in its enabling legislation in order to meet the specific needs of the designated area and the surrounding community. Q: Does the designation of a National Heritage Area curtail private property rights? A: No. The enabling legislation within the Caddo Lake National Heritage Area Act of 2018 contains the strictest private property protection language in any such enabling bill. Further, A GAO report in which a survey of every existing National Heritage Area was conducted, not a “single example of a heritage area directly affecting—positively or negatively—private property values or use” was found. Q: Why will the Caddo Lake National Heritage Area be beneficial to our region? A: The National Heritage Area will be able to leverage limited federal funds to commemorate, conserve, and promote areas that include important natural, scenic, historic, cultural, and recreational resources. Any federal funds must be matched; historically, matches have been at a rate of 2:1 and higher. An example of the beneficial opportunities provided to National Heritage Areas can be found in North Carolina. The Blue Ridge National Heritage Area in North Carolina recently offered a grant, available to local schools, towns, and nonprofits, to fund projects that promote the region's “agricultural, craft, Cherokee, music, and natural heritage.” In another example, a local museum in Mississippi recently accepted a grant from the North Mississippi Hills National Heritage Area to add a more localized flavor to the museum’s digital format. Q: Will the creation of a National Heritage Area lead to restrictions on recreational activities – like the ban on permanent duck blinds in 2015? A: No, nothing in the Caddo Lake National Heritage Area Act will have any direct or indirect effect on state or local laws, nor will it impose any federal regulations on state, local, or private land. Currently, Caddo Lake is largely regulated at the state level as Caddo Lake State Park (designated in 1931) and as the Caddo Lake Wildlife Management Area (purchased by Texas Parks and Wildlife in 1992). The 2015 ban on permanent duck blinds was made at the state level, and the creation of a National Heritage Area will not lead to additional regulations like that ban. Q: I have additional questions and concerns – who do I talk to? A: As the Caddo Lake National Heritage Area Act of 2018 is in the very beginning stages of the legislative process, and is by no means a finished product, we are actively seeking input from the community and stakeholders. Any questions, concerns, or comments can be directed to Andrew Keyes in my office at andrew.keyes@mail.house.gov.
06.06.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement remembering the patriots who stormed the beaches of Normandy 74 years ago today: “Today marks the 74th anniversary of the D-Day landing in Normandy. Thousands of young Americans gave their last full measure of devotion on the battlefield that fateful day. When faced with perilous circumstances, these patriots stood firm and tall under the banner of the red, white and blue.” "We remember those courageous patriots who lost their lives so that our freedoms could continue. We truly cannot thank these valiant soldiers and their surviving family members who loved them enough for the ultimate sacrifice they made that day. May we kneel today and thank God for those who were willing to serve and thank God for the sacrifice they made.” # # #
05.25.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement ahead of the Memorial Day weekend –honoring America’s fallen patriots: “Memorial Day is a day we set aside to honor the men and women of our Armed Forces who made the ultimate sacrifice so that this great nation would survive in freedom. They chose to give of themselves to defend the American ideal of individual rights and self-governance for their loved ones and their country.” “Let us take this day to remember our fallen heroes and to also be reminded of the principles they fought and died to defend. We are a nation conceived in liberty for the individual, that by our consent, we formed a government that would protect those inalienable rights endowed to us by our Creator.” “We are blessed to live in a nation where our God-given rights are acknowledged, and we owe a great debt of gratitude to our veterans and our fallen who have so valiantly guarded our freedoms on battlefields across the globe.” “May we remember fondly and proudly those who gave the last full measure of devotion for our freedom, and may God continue to bless America while comforting all those whose unbearable sacrifice was their loved one for the sake of our liberty.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
05.24.2018	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement regarding the introduction of H.R. 5957 –Caddo Lake National Heritage Area Act of 2018: “The Caddo Lake National Heritage Area is the product of years of work with local stakeholders. This legislation will help preserve the heritage of Caddo Lake, contiguous bayous, and a portion of the Red River. This National Heritage Area designation will attract more visitors, stimulate economic growth, and preserve six land and water-based heritage trails, in addition to, also protecting over 200 historical landmarks: all of these advantages occur without adversely affecting anyone's private property rights or interests.” Caddo Lake is truly a natural resource beauty – complete with a rich history and abundant wildlife. I look forward to working with Senator Cassidy and Congressmen Johnson and Ratcliffe as we move this bill through the legislative process -- to preserve this area and make it more enjoyable and lucrative for all.” This bill was presented alongside U.S. Congressmen Mike Johnson (LA-04) and John Ratcliffe (TX-04). Senator Bill Cassidy (R-LA) introduced companion legislation (S. 2947) in the U.S. Senate. “By creating the Caddo Lake National Heritage Area, we can boost Louisiana’s conservation efforts and preserve the region’s history and cultural heritage for future generations while protecting the rights of private land owners.” -- Senator Cassidy (R-LA) “The designation of Caddo Lake as a National Heritage Area is a testament to the community’s deep appreciation for the historical and cultural significance of the lake and its surrounding wildlife areas, consisting of more than 200 historic sites and dating all the way back to the earliest settlements in Louisiana. It is a privilege to introduce legislation with my Texas and Louisiana colleagues to preserve the beauty and history of this land for generations to come.” -- Congressman Johnson (LA-04) # # #
05.08.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding President Trump’s announcement that the United States will withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal: “Today President Trump did what may be the most consequential action in preserving the advancements of modern civilization and self-government when he announced the withdrawal by the United States from the Iran agreement.” “That agreement was, in fact, a treaty, because it affected other prior treaties, which means the Senate is required to ratify it with two thirds of the Senate voting for it. The Senate and then President Obama agreed to violate the Constitution and, in essence, agreed that it would be considered valid if only one third voted to support it. In addition to being unconstitutionally ratified, the agreement provided over $100 billion to the largest supplier of terrorism in the world.” “There should be no question that at least some of the money the Obama administration sent was and will be used to kill innocent Americans and others. That Iran agreement also insured that Iran would have nuclear weapons in at least 10 years, and many believe that violations by Iran would allow it to have nuclear capability much sooner. I personally am also aware that the agreement was not being enforced, nor could it be. The two IAEA inspectors of Iranian nuclear efforts assured me that they could not possibly know for sure whether Iran was violating the agreement.” “President Trump’s action today means that Iran can and should be stopped before they can usher in a new holocaust. Thank You, President Trump.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.17.2018	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the news of Former First Lady Barbara Bush’s death: “Former First Lady Barbara Bush exuded class, dignity, intelligence, humor, along with a love for her family and her country. She clearly was always proud of her husband, her children, her grandchildren, her state, and her nation. Kathy’s and my thoughts and prayers are with her extraordinary family during this difficult time of reflection, as we also thank God for the blessing we knew as First Lady Barbara Bush.” # # #
04.04.2018	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today supporting President Trump’s decision to defend the southern border of the United States with our National Guard: “President Trump’s announcement to defend the United States’ border with National Guard troops is sensible, prudent, and has plenty of precedence. President Obama did the same thing, as did President George W. Bush. With reports of thousands of Central American migrants heading toward an illegal mass entrance across the U.S. border, which basically is an unauthorized invasion into this country, President Trump chose to stand with American citizens and American law." "This move will not only aid in the defense of our law and our sovereignty, but it will also prevent gang members, drug smugglers, sex traffickers, or terrorists from hiding within civilian invaders’ midst as FBI Director Comey once testified middle eastern terrorists had previously done. It will, obviously, also protect Americans and support our unsung heroes in the border patrol stationed along our southern border.” “It is also critical to note that in March 102 years ago, a liberal Democrat, President Woodrow Wilson, ordered an estimated 75,000 National Guard troops to protect that same southern border after incursions across the U.S. border by Mexicans led by Pancho Villa. This effort placing National Guard military troops on our southern border 102 years ago effectively sealed our border from further illegal raids into the United States. Though President Wilson also sent thousands of troops under the command of General John J. Pershing into Mexico itself to assure of our border’s protection, which, of course, President Trump has no intention of doing. However, it is about time we effectively secure our border once again so that only those entering legally come in. If a liberal Democrat President can do it, we know it can be done. "I greatly appreciate the President stepping up to protect America after our latest gargantuan spending bill failed to do what the President and a majority of Americans were seeking. Porous borders have done vast damage to Americans who are casualties to the drug trade, sex trafficking, and crimes that those generate, while providing tens of billions of dollars to the drug cartels to keep the Mexican government corrupted. A military presence will show those attempting to enter our country illegally, that Americans and our President finally again value the rule of law. Today, President Trump should be congratulated on his decision to place the well-being of this nation and its people first. We cannot adequately help the world when our country’s laws are not respected by other nations and their people.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.20.2018	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding a resolution he introduced (H. Res. 791) which would declare March 31st, Cesar Chavez’s birthday, “National Border Control Day”: “Cesar Chavez was best known for his passionate fight to gain better working environments for thousands of workers laboring in harsh conditions on farms for low wages. He also staunchly believed in sovereignty of the United States border.” “In fact, it was his firm belief that preventing illegal immigration was an essential prerequisite to improving the circumstances of American farmworkers; and in 1979, in a speech at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., he demanded that the federal government enforce the immigration laws and keep illegal aliens out of the country.” “Therefore, it only seems appropriate to deem his birthday as, “National Border Control Day” –seeing that Chavez spent his life addressing the harmful effects that illegal migration might have on this country and advocating for a legal immigration process.” Read the resolution, here. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.16.2018	Last night at the United States Capitol, Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was awarded with the Association of the United States Navy’s “National Legislative Advocacy Award.” Each year, the Association of the United States Navy (AUSN) recognizes and honors one U.S. House member and one U.S. Senator with the prestigious award. The U.S. Senator receiving the award this year was Senator Tammy Duckworth (Dem.-Illinois). The decision to award Congressman Gohmert as the sole Congressman receiving this “National Legislative Advocacy Award” was a unanimous decision among AUSN’s twenty-thousand members – an exceedingly rare occurrence. The award citation read, “For his exemplary leadership as a champion of the United States Navy and its veterans. Congressman Gohmert’s tireless commitment during the 115th Congress has ensured that our nation’s sailors have a strong and powerful voice in the United States Congress.” Congressman Gohmert released the following statement: “It means so very much to me personally to be recognized by the Association of the United States Navy with such a vote of confidence. Our military is the safeguard of our freedom and security, and it is always such an honor to stand up and speak up for those who have put themselves in harm’s way for our own protection.” “The people honoring me are the ones who deserve our honor and our accolades as the men and women who answered the call to defend America. It is a noble calling. It takes a love of and devotion to this great country of ours to be willing to face any enemy that becomes a threat to what we hold dear. They have a willingness to exhibit what Jesus said was the greatest love—a willingness to lay down their lives for the good of others. Since our nation was not in combat during my four years on active duty in the U.S. Army, it is always an honor for me to fight for those who have fought for us.” In addition to his prestigious award, Congressman Gohmert’s staff members, who assist him in legislative battles over our military, Caralee Conklin and Sean Griffin, were also awarded the “National Legislative Proponent Award” for the work they do daily with Veterans and the Armed Forces. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the presidential signing of Kari’s Law today at 1:30PM ET: “Today is bittersweet for so many reasons. The Hunt family, brought in to Washington, D.C. by the White House, will witness the signing of legislation bearing their loved one’s namesake into law. Although this law will not reverse the heartbreaking loss of Kari Rene Hunt and all the horrors of that day, her legacy will now live on and safeguard others from experiencing a situation of this magnitude.” “Kari’s Law, which ensures that anyone who dials 9-1-1 can reach emergency personnel even if the phone typically requires that user to dial an additional digit to get an outside line, was birthed by the dedication of Kari Hunt’s father, Hank Hunt.” “In what was a tiring and sometimes frustrating process, the U.S. House of Representatives, on Kari’s 36th birthday, passed the final version of the legislation; and, today that legislation will be signed into law by President Donald J. Trump on the 50th anniversary of the first 9-1-1 call.” “Today is monumental -- no longer should a child, or anyone for that matter, pick up the phone to call for help and get nothing.” Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) presented the Hunt family with an American flag flown over the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. to commemorate the presidential signing of Kari’s Law. Both he and the Hunt family will be present at the signing in the Oval Office. # # #
02.09.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his decision to vote against the massive spending bill (H.R. 1892 – The Bipartisan Budget Act) in the U.S. House of Representatives: “The vote today for a spending bill that in essence runs up our deficit $1 Trillion was an exceedingly difficult one because of some of the things that were cynically put into the bill.” “As the House Member, who stood up to Speaker Boehner in 2011 to demand that he not put our military on the table in a gamble in the original “Super Committee/ Sequester” bill and who has been pushing for Republican leadership to pass my bill, Armed Services Always Paid (ASAP) Act, that would ensure our military are paid in a shutdown, I am simply outraged that our military is still being used as pawns to draw affirmative votes on irresponsible Senate spending bills forced on the House. I continue, as I have since 2011, to push for us to pass my bill that will make military pay automatic even in a shutdown and take the issue off the table as leverage to vote for bad bills.” “As a Texan, I support helping those devastated by natural disasters, but asking that we borrow a trillion dollars, so Texas can get $25 billion or so is not a good deal. Texas had much more damage than is being provided, and we could get full disaster relief for all states if we forced the Senate to pass good House bills that cut much of the waste in government. That would require, however, the Senate to use 51 votes to suspend the requirement to have 60 votes in the Senate that the Constitution does not require. I do not condemn Republicans who voted for this bill because they were put in a terrible situation; but so are the generations that follow us. “ Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.09.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the passage of Kari's Law (H.R. 582) in the U.S. House of Representatives: “Kari’s Law is on its way to the President’s desk to be signed into effect. Our children should be able to dial 911 and get help on the other end of the line in a hotel or in an office. Now they can. My heart goes out to Kari’s father, Hank. What a fitting day for Kari’s Law to pass—today Kari would have been 36 years old. Happy birthday, Kari. Your legacy lives on.” Introduced first in 2015, Kari’s Law will ensure that anyone who dials 911 can reach emergency personnel even if the phone typically requires that user to dial a prefix such as “9” or “7” to get an outside line.
01.20.2018	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the Democrat government shutdown: “Last night the Senate Democrats, led by Senator Schumer, shut down the government. This disastrous move creates horrid anxiety for our heroes in harm’s way serving us around the world. Now they may be wondering whether their families will have money to buy groceries, or for some, even prevent their car from being repossessed because of missed payments. They deserve better. The unnecessary shutdown is caused for one reason: The Senate Democrats believe that the people who came here illegally are more deserving of amnesty than the people legally here are of having federal services and of our military and federal employees are of being paid. Congressional Democrats have made clear that they believe they’ll be rewarded with the majority in Congress if they create a shutdown to demand an amnesty for those here illegally, regardless of who suffers because of their political tactics. Simply put— this is an amnesty shutdown. On behalf of our nation’s military, I have filed again in this session of Congress a bill that would ensure that any time there is a federal shutdown, the military pay continues without any stoppage or slow down. We have assets to do that and it absolutely should be done. The bill is H.R. 2166 and is called the ASAP Act, which stands for Armed Services Always Paid. It puts their pay on automatic pilot so when they are in life or death situations fighting for our country, they do not have to be distracted by whether or not their loved ones will have money that month. As public servants, we take an oath to defend the constitution, not to assault its clear meaning. It is an incredible irony that people who felt the need to flee their country due to lawlessness that hurts their opportunities, come to the United States and demand that we not follow the law here, which would ultimately make us like the country they felt the need to flee. If we do that, we extinguish what Pres. Reagan called that “shining city upon a hill." I have remained resolute: Once the wall is built where it is needed and the border is finally secure, then we can work out an agreement about those who are here. Until the border is secure, each amnesty will create new surges that will require bigger amnesties more often until America really is indistinguishable from other lawless countries. The one country that gives hope to most of the world will be gone. We have an obligation to our oath and that inures to the benefit of the world. If the American public makes clear to Senate Democrats that they want the Senators to keep their oath and represent those who elected them, then and only then, the pay for our military and the services for Americans will restart. The one bright spot different from the last shutdown is that we currently have a President who is not seeking to cause as much suffering to our veterans and the American people as our last one did. That former President ordered violations of the law that required that if a memorial or facility requires more money to shutdown than it does to leave it open, it is to be left open. President Trump is following that law, so the World War II Memorial, Martin Luther King Memorial, and all the others are open. President Trump is doing all he can to minimize any problems the shutdown may create for Americans. As the person who went to the World War II Memorial with cutters to cut what was necessary and move the barricades, and actually did so after asking for Reps Steve King and Steve Palazzo help, we removed the barricades and the hardship that the Obama administration created for those vets. It was an awesome sight to see all the faces of all the vets as we moved the barricades and the wheelchairs rolled in with the bagpipe player accompanying them. Though we have a President that would never harm or unnecessarily inconvenience our veterans and military, we need some Senators to follow the President’s example.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.04.2018	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the news that the Trump Administration plans to massively expand its offshore drilling efforts: “It is truly exciting and encouraging that we have a president that is doing all he can to make us completely energy independent. Being energy independent will ensure that we can never be blackmailed by totalitarian nations who provide us any energy. Under this current administration, we are headed on a road that will establish this country as one of the strongest energy superpowers.” “This move is an important step forward to pursuing our nation’s energy potential. It is refreshing to know that we have a leader in the White House who values the assets this nation has to offer and is willing to take bold, yet common sense steps to both protect and benefit the American people.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.06.2017	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding President Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and the decision to begin the process of moving the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem: “President Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as the rightful capital of Israel was not only an act of political valor, it was a promise kept to the American people who voted him into office.” “This acknowledgement is a historic move for this nation – it’s symbolic. It refuses to continue playing the game of ignoring the fact that except for the 7 ½ years King David ruled Israel from Hebron before moving it to Jerusalem, Jerusalem was the acknowledged capital of Israel sixteen hundred years or so before Mohammed lived. It is also a fact that Jerusalem is never mentioned by name in the Koran. Most Presidents have acknowledged that. We now have a President who puts words to action. It is refreshing. It is about time the rest of the world recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.” “The announcement today displays great strength and courage. It shows that the United States will stand with its ally, Israel. I sincerely appreciate President Trump’s decision to buck the status quo and do the right thing for this nation and the world.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.04.2017	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the Supreme Court’s ruling that allows for full enforcement of President Trump’s travel ban: “The Supreme Court ruling supporting the President’s travel ban should have been a 'ho-hum, but of course’ ruling. However, with judges and justices becoming ever the legislative and executive branches while wearing black robes, this was an absolutely critical ruling. We are grateful the Supreme Court took it up promptly before lower courts ended up with both blood and a shredded Constitution on their hands." Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.10.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding his appreciation and respect for veterans across the country: “Today we honor those who fought for our rights and our freedom as American citizens. Veterans Day is a special day because without those we honor, there is no freedom, no opportunity, no peace.” “We appreciate and we honor all who serve and have served in the Air Force, Army, Coast Guard, Marines, and the Navy. These men and women, who answer the courageous call of duty, face dangerous and deadly situations head on." "At times their duties are monotonous; sometimes their duties are exhilarating; sometimes their duties are so dangerous, they lay down their lives for our freedom. Their actions deserve to be celebrated not just today, but every day." “Whether you are currently serving or have served in any branch of the United States Military, we recognize you and thank you today for your bravery and your valiant service to our great nation.” “We certainly remember and honor those who have given their last full measure of devotion to defend our homes and our way of life. The ultimate sacrifice was made by these brave patriots. We must never fail to honor them and to care for their wounds and for their families for the courage they’ve displayed under fire.” “We live in a great nation, and it is my prayer God continues to bless our nation and its liberties. That is a difficult thing to ask when we have turned so far away from the days when Benjamin Franklin declared that, ‘I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth- that God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, Sir, in the sacred writings, that 'except the Lord build the House they labour in vain that build it.’ I firmly believe this; and I also believe that without his concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the Builders of Babel…'" "One thing is certain: God has truly blessed this nation with patriots in uniform that dedicate and give all of themselves daily to protect this land we call home"
09.07.2017	Gohmert’s Statement on Hurricane Relief Funding Vote WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the vote in Congress to provide federal funding in the Disaster Relief Fund: “Sadly, the dangerous path of Hurricane Harvey has displaced more than 43,500 people – most of which are currently living in shelters around the Texas area. It is apparent that those who experienced such physical losses such as the loss of clothing, housing, transportation, and worldly possessions should receive some assistance to get back on their feet. “In the past, these ‘essential’ emergency spending bills have turned into pork laden spending and not actually true capital for the Disaster Relief Fund. I'm pleased this time unlike the Hurricane Sandy vote, which had about half the spending in the bill going for non-Sandy or non-emergency spending, this bill is just intended to keep FEMA solvent and address the emergency harm. That is an easy vote to take.” “My thoughts and prayers continue to be with those in the Houston area as well as the entire Texas coast who were impacted by Hurricane Harvey and my prayers will also be extended to those who are now in the path of Hurricane Irma.”
08.28.2017	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) praised President Trump’s order restoring a program that provides local law enforcement agencies with certain, limited, surplus military gear. The Executive Order revokes an order previously issued by the Obama Administration that severely limited access to excess equipment, which included not just military gear, but items such as vehicles, protective clothing, and computers. He released the following statement praising the action taken by the Trump Administration: “I too do not want local law enforcement militarized. However, when I saw different times when local authorities were protected by using surplus military equipment like Sheriff JB Smith’s “Bubba I” armored personnel carrier, I realized there are times when it can absolutely be a life-saving help. When law enforcement is dealing with multi-billion-dollar drug cartels with the latest, most powerful weapons, they need more than their Glock pistols. Under federal law, the U.S. military itself may not be used against American citizens except in extraordinary martial law type situations. However, local law enforcement is helped to avoid deadly massacre at the hands of sinister, well-armed criminals if they are at least equally armed. In hostage situations, for example, it can be an incentive for violent, armed criminals to surrender peacefully if they are clearly out-gunned.” “Actually, I am more concerned with federal departments, like the Department of Education and other federal departments and agencies who deal with non-violent issues, yet demand and get their own SWAT-styled teams. That’s how we can have a federal military-style assault on Gibson workers armed with guitars. That is where I would really like to see the militarization scaled back. When a shooters manifest themselves in another gun-free school zone, it is not the federal Department of Education that responds, it is local law enforcement.” “Our local law enforcement officials are faced with the challenge of keeping our communities safe with ever-shrinking budgets. Access to the federal surplus vehicles and equipment can also be invaluable for local authorities as we have just seen in dealing with natural disasters like Hurricane Harvey. Smaller counties often don’t have money to buy the life-saving equipment they desperately need. The only way many local government’s can afford it is through the 1033 program. Now, President Trump’s restoration of the program will help ensure that local authorities have the equipment they need to keep not only themselves but also our own families safe from malevolent criminals.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
08.22.2017	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding President Trump’s scheduled visit to Arizona to meet with Border Patrol officials and speak about his administration’s crackdown on illegal immigration: “The best thing we can do for BOTH the United States and Mexico is to secure our border. Thankfully, we have a President who understands and is committed to that. A nation founded on laws that apply to everyone, where neither rich nor poor or supposed to be above the law, must have the law enforced to maintain its integrity, fairness, justice and opportunity. If we secure and enforce our border properly, Mexico's drug cartels are reduced dramatically, which reduces corruption and lawlessness in Mexico, and, thereby, helps Mexico finally achieve its place as one of the top economies and vibrant countries in the world.” “A good neighbor would help Mexico in this way, which also returns America back to being a nation where the law matters and where we can continue to allow more lawful entries into the United States than any other country in the world. Thankfully, we have a President who not only understands the importance of security and the rule of law, but is doing all he can to make such security, propriety, and opportunity a reality." Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.25.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the decision made by the United States Department of the Interior to rescind the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) hydraulic fracturing rule: “The Department of Interior acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner – basing their rule on allegations that were disproved. It is great to have the Trump Administration and my Navy SEAL friend Secretary Zinke taking action to help create more jobs, raise critical funds from federal lands to help schools and local governments.” “There are so many mutual benefits for everyone except the Russians who have pushed to prevent our fracking so people have to buy from Russia. This is one more of Obama's bureaucratic policies that helped Russia that needed to be struck down.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.14.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which he voted against this afternoon, due to the rejection of the Hartzler Amendment by the U.S. House of Representatives: “Today the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2018. Though there were some additional matters that I sincerely hoped would be changed, I made clear to our Whip Team that I would indeed vote for the NDAA as long as the Hartzler Amendment language had been added. Sadly, this amendment was narrowly defeated last night by a vote of 214-209; and therefore, the amendment language was not included in the NDAA on the House Floor today.” “For context, this nation is engaged in an undeclared war with some of the most ruthless, evil, heinous, malevolent, tortuous, destructive enemies in the world’s history. It even appears they have taken some of their tactics and killing methods from others of the historically most evil. They absolutely must be defeated and destroyed. There is no middle ground with people religiously inspired to do the most despicable things.” “Additionally, President Obama left our military weaker than at any time since before World War II, even as the world has become far more dangerous. A difference in now and before World War II is that the nation was morally far less divided, and no one was going to be in the military if they were suffering from gender confusion. As a result of decades of the most extremely ardent political lobbying, the Diagnostic Statistical Manual for providing appropriate terms for diagnosing conditions, transgender individuals are still considered to be confused. Transgender Dysphoria, (synonymous with “anxiety, depression, melancholy, restlessness” per Thesaurus.com), is the newest term of diagnosis.” “Before and during World War II, the military had a singular focus. A commander did not spend his or her day compiling reports on such things as transgender sex change request status, sexual harassment status, equal opportunity developments and status, ‘Don’t Ask Don’t Tell’ information status though President Clinton’s original policy has significantly changed, all rather than solely being most singularly focused on defeating an evil enemy who is plotting and planning our demise. “Commanders have advised that if a military member approaches them and wants a sex change operation, the commander’s career is over if they encouraged the man or woman to seek counseling or more information or even simply to give it more thought. They say that for the normal minimum two years of all the pre-surgery hormonal treatments, actual surgery and post-surgical rehab and adjustments that make the military member undeployable, they are not provided a replacement for that slot in their unit. Thus, the more who request sex change operations, the fewer military members there are available to fight and deter our enemies from killing us or taking our freedom. This will become a fantastic recruiting tool for those who want to get paid themselves as they live in free housing while going through the multi-year process of changing what Nature, Nature’s God, and the individual’s chromosomes say they are.” “We were advised in a Republican conference meeting that the projected 10-year cost will be $3-4 billion that could be used to actually defend our homeland and liberty. That projected cost is before the military becomes known as the place to have an all-expenses paid sex change surgery, including meals and housing. Medical costs for just one gender reassignment surgery can average up to $130,000, including lifetime hormone treatments, in addition to their overhead and salary costs for the minimum two-year period when they are in a non-deployable status. Regrettably, this policy prevents others, willing and able, from fighting in their stead to protect this nation.” “Even the first hospital in the United States to ever conduct same sex surgeries, Johns Hopkins, stopped the surgeries decades later because they did not appear to be making the changed person’s life better and they might have been making their lives worse. That concern was shown to be legitimate by the most thorough study, covering about 30 years, of people who had the sex change surgery. The study established the fact that after the surgery the patient was 20 times more likely to commit suicide. This all comes at a time when active duty military suicides and veteran suicides have been at an all time high. “I do want to thank Rules Chairman Pete Sessions for making the amendment in order so we could at least have a chance to stop using the military as the sex change surgery place to go. He was very helpful in our efforts to stop the use of our limited military funds for this practice. I also am grateful to Chairman Mac Thornberry for his tireless efforts to try to put together the best budget authorization that would allow our military to do their jobs in protecting America. He could not control what the vote on any issue would be. Both Chairmen, in fact, voted FOR the Hartzler Amendment as well, and we are grateful. “It is nonetheless an exceedingly sad day for this experiment in self-government called the United States of America. My heart continues to break for this previously God-blessed country.”
06.27.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s release of a proposed rule that will kill the Obama Administration’s “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) Rule by re-codifying the Clean Water Act as it existed prior to 2015: “Washington bureaucrats in cubicles should not be deciding the fate of our waterways, nor should they be allowed to completely and arbitrarily control the economic fate of landowners even to the point of ending their ability to make a living. Unelected bureaucrats have, for years, been enviously dreaming of the day they could control American landowners' property by the backdoor methods of completely controlling everything involving water on or near the land.” “Repealing the Obama Administration’s WOTUS Rule is essential in getting the federal government out of everyday farming operations. It is neither right nor fair to subject producers and landowners to jurisdictional protocols and extraordinary levels of compliance charges. Today the EPA took a giant step forward in safeguarding the water rights of hard-working Americans and ending the federal power grab the Obama Administration engineered. It is a victory for those who love liberty and something called private property.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.21.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding his introduction of the Parental Notification and Intervention Act (H.R. 2956) which would prohibit performing an abortion on anyone under the age of 18 unless the minor's parents have been notified: “Traditionally most Americans have done all they can to protect the innocent among us. That has been an important part of my life’s work as well. So, it should come as no surprise that I have been and am pushing for legislation that promises to protect our most vulnerable in society – unborn children.” “It is ultimately imperative that a caring parent, with the child's best interest at heart, should be a part of a decision-making process of this magnitude. It is simply astounding that a child cannot consent to have ears pierced or to take an aspirin without parental consent; however, in some states that very child can have a devastating, life altering and life-ending abortion procedure without any input or guidance from her parents and/or guardians.” “Sadly, without a federal law in place, even in states with parental notification laws, parental guidance is taken out of the equation. This should not be the case. An important governmental role is to protect the lives of those who are unable to protect themselves.” “Parents should have the legal right to stop an abortion from being performed on their minor daughter. This legislation, with the limited exception being the safety of the minor, will give back to the parents of minors their rightful voice in a decision that ultimately will forever alter a child’s life.” Read the text of the bill, here. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # # Read the text of the bill, here. # # #
06.12.2017	Being one of two people asked to honor Dr. James Dobson, Jr. at Faith and Freedom Coalition’s Patriots Gala, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), was pleased to deliver remarks regarding his friend, Dr. Dobson, who received the ‘Winston Churchill Man of the Year Award’ at the Faith & Freedom Coalition’s annual conference. “To be one of the two invited speakers to pay tribute to Dr. Dobson was an honor of extraordinary proportions because he has been helping families grow, proliferate, and even stay together when they would otherwise have split,” said Congressman Gohmert. “My friend, Dr. James Dobson, loves God, loves Shirley, loves his own children; loves everyone else’s children; and loves all families. In fact, he has always known that they were a gift of God.” Below are excerpts of the remarks delivered by Congressman Gohmert during the Patriots Gala at the Omni Shoreham in front of the large ballroom packed with conference attendees at the featured dinner: “Back in 1983, my wife, Kathy, and I had our first child, a daughter, but she was born in a hospital that must have had budget problems because they never gave us a manual telling us everything to do every day to take are of our new child. We weren’t sure how to raise a child in the ways of God’s love, but we had heard of Focus on the Family and Dr. James Dobson. Thank God for his books and videos and their timely help, without even knowing us then. Dr. Dobson has not only nurtured and helped Kathy and me raise our children, he has done so for millions and millions of other families. He has made an absolutely marvelous difference for the good of families in America and around the world. Through the moral crisis that faces this nation, Dr. James Dobson has been a true asset, steadfast in pursuit of God’s wisdom and blessing on us all. It has been such a great honor to be to come to know him as a very dear friend. What an honor to get to publicly extol this man’s virtues.” In 1977, Dr. Dobson founded Focus on the Family, which he personally led as a beacon of light, hope and understanding until 2003. He also founded Family Talk in 2010 as a non-profit organization, again using Biblical principles as he encouraged, taught, and ministered to a nation that needed the Lord’s hope and encouragement which was played on over 300 stations nationwide. Believing also there was a need for a non-profit organization centered in Washington, D.C. that could respond to the ongoing war against anything Biblically-based. # # #
06.01.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord: "President Trump is entirely correct in withdrawing from the Paris Climate Accord. He has done what is best for the American people. Nothing is stopping any nation or business from voluntary participation in the standards agreed to by the previous administration that would have crippled our economy. Scores of nations around the world are again demanding that the U.S. must be part of this agreement for one main reason: the U.S. will be paying the rest of the world because we’ve been successful.” “If people in America want to continue to be the most generous and charitable country in history, the crippling standards should remain voluntary. This agreement would not affect the environment in any significant way as the biggest polluters in the world would continue to pollute.” “Whether we are part of this Accord or not, Americans will continue to make our environment better; so, it is grossly unfair to American citizens and businesses to sign an agreement that intentionally makes Americans far less competitive. In other words, it is the typical leftist agenda of mandating punishment for the most innovative and productive to benefit those who are not. “It would be cheaper just to send all of the signatories a participation trophy and stay out of the self-punishing agreement. If we put America first, we can continue to be the most charitable nation in history. If we continue to hurt ourselves economically, there will be no nation left to be so kind and charitable. That is why I say sincerely, ‘Thank you, President Trump.’" Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.27.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding his bill, the Armed Services Always Paid (ASAP) Act, which ensures that members of the United States Military get their paycheck on time in the event that Congress cannot pass a budget: “Those who stand between us and loss of freedom –or even annihilation –deserve our utmost respect and honor. The heroic men and women of the U.S. Military risk life and limb daily to certify the safety and security of all Americans at home and abroad. If Congress cannot pass an appropriation, it’s not right for these valiant warriors and their families to suffer through a late paycheck.” “In 2013, the Pay our Military Act was signed into law. That act, which allowed members of the armed forces to receive full pay and benefits during the shutdown, was passed unanimously by the House and Senate. However, the 2013 bill only exempted military pay for Fiscal Year 2014, not for any future years. We have the responsibility to provide complete certainty to the men, women, and families who sacrifice so much for our freedom every day.” “Passed in the House just before the government shutdown in 2013, the Pay our Military Act only exempted military pay for Fiscal Year 2014 and not for any future years. The introduction of the Armed Services Always Paid (ASAP) Act is essential and will make certain that all members of the military – Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, National Guard, Coast Guard, and reserve components will receive their pay on time during any lapse in appropriations. This essential legislation will permanently ensure that our heroes in uniform never have to wonder whether their next paycheck will ever come, how they’ll pay their bills, or even face the fear of losing their car or house.” “No military member should have to worry about the financial situation of their family back home. They need to have the peace of mind that their paycheck will arrive on time and in full. These warriors place their lives on the front lines to protect and defend this nation. They deserve to be placed at the top of our interests here in Congress.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.24.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the tragic high school bus crash in East Texas that claimed two lives and injured numerous others: “My thoughts and fervent prayers go out to the family members and friends of the two precious lives that were claimed as a result of the horrific East Texas crash involving the Mt. Pleasant High School girls and boys track teams. How very horrific-- to experience such a devastating loss after a time of togetherness and fun -- traveling back to Mt. Pleasant after a track meet.” “As a former student at Mt. Pleasant High School, my heart goes out to the faculty – and the students injured and recovering in the hospital at this very moment. Such tragedies are truly incomprehensible. My thoughts and prayers remain steadfast for those involved in the coming days and years.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.01.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the decision made by the White House, under the leadership of President Donald Trump, to rescind and rewrite the Waters of the United States regulation implemented by President Obama’s administration: “The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has long since expanded beyond working toward a clean environment and has become a runaway, militarized, super power that eats liberties of Americans becoming bigger and more unstoppable with each set of rights it consumes. This executive order, announced by the Trump Administration, to rescind and rewrite the Waters of the US Rule, is truly encouraging because it halts the federal power grab on a vast array of minor streams and wetlands.” “Whims spoken into law after backroom bureaucratic deals must come to an end. These unelected bureaucrats at the EPA, who have thumbed their noses at the written law in favor of their own cubicle-concocted regulations, should not be allowed to grow any more powerful. “The federal government was only permitted to have some authority over navigable waters. However, the Obama administration felt, in essence, if water falls from the sky and ever runs into a gully that empties into a dry creek bed that becomes a real creek and eventually a river, and finally a navigable river, that water where it first falls should mandate federal control. This was contemptuous of the Constitution and the 10th Amendment, and it is high time someone reined in these autocrats before it got any worse. “Fortunately, this executive order will begin to fix the Obama implemented regulation, thus spurring economic growth and jobs.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.17.2017	*UPDATE: As of 12:30PM CST the power has been restored to our Tyler office and we are back to normal working conditions.* A most tragic series of events occurred in the early morning hours of Friday, February 17th outside my district office located in Tyler, which resulted in the death of a worker attempting to repair the damage to downed power lines. My most sincere condolences go out to the family, friends and coworkers of the Oncor contractor who was killed as he worked diligently in the service of east Texans who needed their power restored in the area. Also, my heartfelt sympathy is with those other workers who were injured at the scene. Prayers will continue for all those affected. As of 11:30am CST, we are still without power in the Tyler office which means our telephones, voicemail system, and computers are inoperable, as are our other east Texas office phones which are normally answered in our Tyler office and transferred to the person requested in the appropriate office. Please call my office in DC today if you need immediate assistance at 202-225-3035. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
02.07.2017	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) introduced companion legislation (HR 928) in the House of Representatives to the Senate version of the FRESH Act, introduced by Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK). This legislation would give states the right to regulate hydraulic fracturing on all land within the boundaries of the States. It would also force companies with hydraulic fracturing operations on Federal lands to comply with current State laws. “In the wake of the overreaching and unaccountable Obama Administration, the need to ensure that states have sole authority to regulate hydraulic fracturing is more apparent than ever. Texas agencies are routinely much more accountable, more knowledgeable of the fracturing and production procedures used in Texas, and much less indiscriminate, while being focused like a laser on the very air, water, environment that the Texas agency members have to breathe, drink, and live in, much more so than DC-entrenched bureaucrats. With the prospects of a new energy and job friendly administration, there is a real opportunity to restore the principles of federalism and the Tenth Amendment while preventing burdensome and overreaching Washington regulations from stymying job creation in Texas at the same time they increase the cost of gasoline and energy.” “States such as Texas have the intricate knowledge and first-hand expertise necessary to properly regulate this energy without the need for a federal, one-size-fits-all approach that has been destructive and costly to our nation’s energy interests. For these reasons, it is time to put people to work producing our own energy, which sends less money to countries that do not like us, all while lowering the cost of living. This is one of those bills that is good all the way around.” “It is indeed an honor to be filing this bill in the House when it is being filed and carried forward in the Senate by my friend, Sen. James Inhofe, who has decades of experience in and knowledge of the subject being legislated.”– Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) “Hydraulic fracturing is critical to our domestic energy production, supporting economic competitiveness and national security. Unfortunately, the federal government has been seeking to burden the industry with red tape, duplicating state regulations, making our energy production more expensive and preventing the United States from achieving greater energy independence. I am proud to introduce the FRESH Act which explicitly gives states the sole authority to regulate hydraulic fracturing operations within their states borders.” – Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK) # # #
01.30.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the executive orders made by the Trump Administration regarding refugees: “After years of failure by the Obama Administration to adequately protect the American people against the inherent and systematic flaws in our refugee system, on Friday President Trump took a first step and utilized the tools that both the Constitution and Congress have long granted Presidents to strengthen our national security and restore sanity to the most generous immigration system in the world. President Trump mandated a pause that is temporary, not terribly dissimilar to one President Carter issued in 1980 after he realized the Ayatollah Khomeini was not the “man of peace” he originally thought.” “The refugee program the President has paused is the same one that ISIS terrorists have repeatedly vowed that they are infiltrating and intending to use to kill Americans. The President is acting temporarily and prudently to give his Administration and Congress the much needed time to properly evaluate the refugee program and reform it to ensure that it both helps legitimate refugees and ensures the safety of the American people. When an FBI Director warns that they have no information against which to determine if a self-proclaimed refugee from a certain country is what he says, at least one out of every two U.S. Presidents ought to take it to heart and act to protect America. With this President’s action to pause refugee admissions, not based on their religion but on whether there is adequate information to determine if they are a threat, he is constitutionally acting to protect Americans.” “While many opponents of this President will claim that the President's order is illegal and even unconstitutional, those claims ignore longstanding constitutional precedents and statutory grants of authority that many presidents, including President Obama, have used. The United States Constitution gives Congress the authority to exclude any non-citizen alien from our country for any reason, period. In exercise of this authority, Congress has granted the executive branch broad authority to exclude aliens who would be detrimental to the interests of our people and their safety.” “No one is being discriminated against on the basis of their religion unless it is Christians. The basis for the pause is the lack of credible information against which to check the identity of the person claiming refugee status. While citizens of Saudi Arabia made up the majority of the 9-11 hijackers, at least the Saudi government provides at least some information with which to vet applicants. The same FBI Director who dramatically aided Hillary Clinton politically last summer, testified in front of me and the Judiciary Committee that the FBI basically has nothing with which to check self-proclaimed Syrian refugees. President Obama ignored this sworn threat. President Trump is taking it seriously.” “While I have great empathy for the millions of men and women who are suffering from the devastating effects of the war in Syria, the real solution is to have a President committed to ending this conflict, while creating a safe place there and preventing radical Islamists from exporting that war into the United States. I look forward to working with President Trump, his new administration, and our elected Members in making significant reforms to protect all Americans and our Constitution against all enemies.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals.
01.27.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today displaying his fervent support for the March for Life, an annual rally of prolife supporters in Washington, D.C., and his continued promise to fight for the rights of the innocent unborn: “It is so very encouraging to see this country’s leaders take a stand today and speak up for the lives of every voiceless, unborn child. The horrific abortion practices carried out in this country and around the world, for that matter, have tragically claimed thousands upon thousands of innocent lives annually. That reality is truly devastating.” “Those standing for life today in the streets of Washington, D.C. are true heroes. How very refreshing to see our current Vice President Mike Pence lend his meaningful voice to the movement today. The tireless work of those peacefully marching – with the purpose of safeguarding the lives of the unborn – is truly appreciated.” “Every single child deserves a voice. Each tiny heartbeat gaining more strength in utero day by day deserves a chance at life. It has been my promise to the First District of Texas, since assuming office, to stand in the gap and fight for the rights of those being knit together in their mother’s womb, and I will surely continue to do so as long as East Texans allow me to be their servant.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.19.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the reintroduction of his bill, H.R. 582, the Kari's Law Act of 2017, which previously passed overwhelmingly in the House of Representatives but was held up in the Senate: “In the last Congress, we had strong bi-partisan and bicameral support for Kari’s Law, and even had a Democrat as lead sponsor in the Senate who was on the committee with jurisdiction and willing to marshal the bill toward passage. However, the bill got held up in the Senate when there was a push to add additional language which would have created significant costs to implement and added more government intrusion into our personal lives. The bill as I drafted it with input from constituents, businesses, phone companies, and installers of systems would have cost virtually nothing, but simply required that all phone systems allow anyone dialing 9-1-1 to always have that call go straight to an emergency operator without dialing any prefix number.” “Having further discussions with Senate friends, I believe we can get it through both Houses of Congress this time without the hold up in the Senate. We have no doubt that President Trump will be pleased to sign the bill as well. In the House itself, the Energy and Commerce Committee leaders who were so helpful last term, have actually encouraged me to file it immediately this term so we can work together toward making this one of the early new laws of this Congress. In other words, we want to press while the iron is still hot.” “The horrific death of east Texas resident, Kari Rene Hunt, caused many people throughout the First District of Texas and the country to lose trust in a system that should assist when faced with emergency situations. Never again should a child or anyone else, for that matter, pick up the phone, dial 9-1-1, and get nothing.” “Sadly, this legislation will not reverse the heartbreaking loss of Kari and all the horrors of that day; but, it is my prayer her legacy will safeguard others, so they never experience a situation of this magnitude. I am also optimistic that Republican Senate Leaders will be very helpful in making this needed law a reality. Regardless of whether or not Kari’s killer thinks this law would have mattered, his horrific, murderous actions took long enough that we believe Marshall Police would have been there in time.” Introduced first in 2015, Kari’s Law of 2017 will ensure that anyone who dials 9-1-1 can reach emergency personnel even if the phone typically requires that user to dial a prefix such as “9” or “7” to get an outside line. Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.05.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his vote against U.S. House Resolution 11 and the bill he introduced today in Congress, H.R. 373, which would withhold any and all funds from the United Nations until United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334, regarding Israel’s Settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, is repealed in its entirety: “Today we voted on U.S. House Resolution 11 that directly undermines Israel’s right to self-defense and supports Israel giving up land under circumstances that are not applied to other nations in the U.N. We should have simply condemned the UN Security Council Resolution 2334 in our resolution, but instead our bill included language the U.S. should not support.” “In four places the resolution demanded a ‘two-state solution’ which would require the dividing of Israel. Even beyond the governmental and foreign policy concerns, the vote has eternal consequences for anyone who believes in the Bible. Since I have taken an oath to defend and protect the United States, I cannot support my nation’s demanding Israel give up land that was promised to and occupied by the children of Israel thousands of years ago.” “Additionally, before I voted on U.S. House Resolution 11 today, I have filed today a bill, H.R. 373, that would force the suspension of any payments whatsoever by the United States to the United Nations or any of its associated agencies or entities, until U.N. Security Council Resolution 2334 is rescinded or withdrawn by the U.N. Security Council. Unlike the resolution we voted on today, H.R. 373 has teeth and shows actual support for Israel.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.03.2017	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today on his vote for Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan: “House Speaker Paul Ryan and I had two substantive private discussions on the legislative agenda for the 115th Congress and came to an understanding on three specific issues.” “The Speaker agreed leadership would bring no bills to the House floor without the support of a majority of the Republican conference; that no bills would be brought forth in an attempt to legalize anyone in this country who is here illegally unless and until we achieve complete border security with a wall built to President Trump’s liking; we will only bring up a trade bill that ensures fairness to Great Britain in the wake of the successful Brexit vote to end Britain’s participation in the European Union. This House will not resurrect the Trans-Pacific Partnership disaster.” “It is my sincerest desire to try to work with leadership to ensure this Congress pursues the agenda we promised to voters, and in the spirit of that cooperation in this new 115th Congress, I cast my vote for Paul Ryan for Speaker of the House today. Everyone here in Congress knows I have no problem standing up to Republicans, no matter what their position, if they are breaking our promises to our constituents and to America.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. He knows well the capabilities of the government. # # #
12.08.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on his decision to vote against H.R. 4919, Kevin and Avonte's Law, which establishes a federal program to chip individuals with autism and developmental disabilities: “While this initiative may have noble intentions, ‘small and temporary’ programs in the name of safety and security often evolve into permanent and enlarged bureaucracies that infringe on the American people’s freedoms. That is exactly what we have here. A safety problem exists for people with Alzheimer’s, autism and other mental health issues, so the fix, we are told, is to have the Department of JUSTICE, start a tracking program so we can use some device or method to track these individuals 24/7.” “I know the feeling of having someone I love dearly having degenerative mental abilities that create concerns for her getting lost. It is immensely heart-breaking. But, the answer is not more federal money and a federal system in place for monitoring people’s location all day every day. It is yet another well-intentioned program that catapults America down the road toward a Big Brother –more invasive than Orwell could have imagined.” “Sponsors of the bill tell us not to worry, because they got language in there that says the tracking device cannot be invasive, it is totally voluntary AND it is only a couple of million dollars to get it started –so it is not all that much money. That is exactly how the most insidious, invasive, overreaching, governmental control bills start. I just would never have dreamed that my own party would lead the way in rushing a bill to the floor that was not brought up in a subcommittee nor committee hearing with witnesses and experts including Constitutional experts to debate this, nor did we have a subcommittee or committee vote on this bill, nor did we have any chance to amend it.” “It is absolutely staggering that the Republican majorities in the House and Senate could be so blind to government overreach that they would allow a federal tracking program, not for criminals in the U.S., not for terrorists, not for illegal immigrants or even immigrants who commit crimes, but for people with ‘developmental disabilities’ a term that is subject to wide misinterpretation. The Senate Republican leaders even brought it to the floor with almost no one there and asked that the new Big Brother program be passed without even having a vote at all - someone just asks for ‘unanimous consent.’ Since no one is advised about the bill being brought up, no one who would object knows to be there, so it passes without anyone ever actually voting for it.” “It is not unreasonable for a doctor or prosecutor to suggest that a chip just under the skin is non-invasive, because there is no entrance into the brain or body cavity. Japan is just a hair ahead of us, but they have found that putting a barcode on a person’s fingerprint is certainly non-invasive. As for voluntary, a parent or guardian is SUPPOSED to consent, but once the program is in place, it is also reasonable to anticipate prosecutors demanding it for someone they have a ‘reasonable belief’ or ‘probable cause’ to believe might be a problem and that a judge should order someone involuntarily into the program, though they would not get the federal funding in this specific bill.” “Benjamin Franklin’s attributed quote is, ‘Those who would give up essential liberty, to purchase a little temporary safety, deserve neither.’ The government is not supposed to be our ‘big brother.’ We must examine other ways to help those who cannot help themselves. There is nothing in the law anywhere that I am aware of that would prevent a parent or guardian from having some reasonable tracking measure right now before this new law is even signed.” “Once again, Republicans can feel good that 167 Republicans out of 246 in the House joined with the Democrats to create a way for the Attorney General of the United States to track their children when the government gets ready to include them in the program.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. He knows well the capabilities of the government. # # #
12.06.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the vote in the U.S. House of Representatives to reject a floor vote on the impeachment of IRS Commissioner Koskinen and refer it, once again, to the House Judiciary Committee: “The evidence appears quite clear that IRS Commissioner John Koskinen was not honest in his testimony to Congress, failed to keep promises he made to us, refused to properly look for the subpoenaed evidence in any productive way, all while being totally unrepentant. Now, after the American voters made clear they wanted the swamp drained and cleaned out, too many of the Republican majority sent a message that we may continue business as usual. Today was not necessarily a proud day for truth, justice, and what used to be the American way.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.30.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on his decision to vote against the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34) today: “While I voted in favor of the original House version of H.R. 6 (the “21st Century Cures Act”), as well as voting for the original House version of the mental health reform bill, H.R. 2646, (the “Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016”), I could not vote for the recently introduced House amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 34 - 21st Century Cures Act since we were not allowed adequate time to read the brand new bill to find all of the changes. The 21st Century Cures Act morphed from an original 300 pages to nearly 1000 pages and is now loaded with so many new provisions, I would have to wait until after it passed, to find out what was in it. I had hoped we had learned our lesson against using this foolish manner of passing long bills, with sweeping changes to our very personal lives. The only explanation for such a fast, last minute “shove through” of a massive, combination of bills into one, is that someone thinks that President Obama and those voted out of office will create a much better law than the new President and newly elected Congress would. Those who demand that we should have passed this law that allows involuntary mental health treatment with new, much broader language, without having time to read it, are apparently not as concerned with the power to involuntarily force shock or other treatments on others as I am.” “The original bill had language that was much too broad in allowing force-able treatment on those who did not want it. Before we originally passed that bill in the House, that language was tightened. Now it has been loosened back, and I am extremely concerned that there are many other provisions that were added or changed to the American public’s detriment without our knowledge or time to read the new super-sized bill. I noticed that one of the provisions in the new bill was that Americans could be forced into mental treatment for such reasons as not wearing or providing oneself appropriate clothing. Immediately I thought of the time my kids were embarrassed because I had used duct tape to hold my tennis shoes together that I mainly used in the backyard working. Another reason that would allow shock therapy or other involuntary therapy is if someone is not eating proper foods. So under the newly passed law, if your adult kids do not think you are eating healthy, you may want to surround yourself with new people who do not fault you for how you eat. You may need their testimony in court. As a former judge and chief justice, I know better than most here in Congress that words have meaning and that small word changes can profoundly change liberty or destroy lives.” “In addition to this, the bill authorizes the creation of federal drug and mental health courts, which, by their nature, would operate as pre-trial and incarceration diversion programs. Given the data we have on FEDERAL drug offenders (e.g., that they are dangerous narco-terrorists and not simple possession offenders as are often found in state courts), the creation of federal drug/mental health courts not only perpetuates the false narrative that simple possession defendants are incarcerated at the federal level, but also runs the risk that dangerous drug traffickers could be re-routed from federal prison to treatment alternatives. With crime rising and drug addiction at an all-time high, this seems like a truly misguided approach for the U.S. Congress, although states and local situations may find it quite appropriate.” “Ramming this bill through Congress while it is chock full of White House top priorities that the President has said he wants for part of his legacy should have more scrutiny than this. Those who wanted to rush it through apparently believe that Representatives and Senators who voters have declared they no longer want with the power to pass laws should be the ones to make this the new law of the land. Over 90% of geographical America said they do not want the policies and agenda of the current administration to continue. What are American voters left to think but that the Republican majorities in the House and Senate apparently disagree with their opinions that gave them renewed majorities.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.18.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding President Elect Donald Trump’s announcement to appoint Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions to the post of U.S. Attorney General: “The rule of law would gain a fierce defender with Sen. Jeff Sessions in the executive branch in the role of Attorney General. When I was supporting Ted Cruz, it gave me immense comfort to know that Jeff Sessions had the ear of Donald Trump and that they were working closely together. Having worked with Sen. Sessions on criminal justice issues, homeland security issues, matters of a judicial nature in addition to having facetime together on critical matters, I am simply smiling ear to ear on the realization that America’s truth and justice are actually going to finally make a comeback.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.15.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the vote for House Speaker Paul Ryan today: “Today we had a Republican Conference vote on nominating a candidate for Speaker of the House election which we will have in early January, 2017, in open session on the House floor. Several Members have pointed out that we had inadequate time to have a fair, true nomination process, having just elected last week the Members who would actually vote on the nomination.” “We had discussed not voting ‘yes’ or ‘no,’ and have as of this writing confirmed with two other Members that they did not vote yes or no as there was no alternative. The Speaker had chosen yesterday not to make a speech and open himself to unlimited questions like most of the candidates.” “Although some press has said that I ‘yelled’ at Speaker Ryan, I did not yell, but hopefully made my concerns with our Republican leaders’ actions crystal clear. I did not plan to and did not vote for or against Speaker Ryan in the election to nominate a Speaker. I had intended to ask the Speaker to make time for a visit and, to his credit, he agreed to talk.” “This nation just came to the brink of losing 4 of our 10 original Bill of Rights, and I will not go quietly down another road of failing to use our Majority to accomplish what's been promised.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.11.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today in honor of Veterans Day: “Today we commemorate those who served honorably in the United States Military. These brave men and women risked their lives to defend our liberties and preserve this great nation. It takes a real hero to answer the call to defend one’s country, and a true patriot to be willing to not only face but also fight an enemy that aims to destroy our way of life and the values we hold most dear.” “Without the hard work and sacrifices of our men and women in uniform to protect our nation’s principles, liberties and homeland, this nation would not be what it is today.” “Let us also remember today those who made the ultimate sacrifice with their lives. We are eternally grateful for their service and devotion to this country.” “May God continue to bless our veterans and their families, and may their lives, memories and acts of valor live on in our hearts and truly drive our passion forward to preserve these United States.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.07.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the murder of 10-year-old Kayla Gomez-Orozco: “My heart truly breaks for the family and friends of Kayla Gomez-Orozco. Such a beautiful child with so much potential. This murder was not only horrific, it was completely and easily avoidable. The alleged murderer, identified by Smith County Sheriff Larry Smith as a previously deported criminal illegal alien, should have been behind bars or prevented from re-entering our nation illegally." “If we do not start enforcing our porous borders, innocent lives, like little Kayla’s, will continue to be in grave danger. This is an issue that needs to be addressed, not ignored or boldly embraced.” “My fervent prayers are with Kayla’s family as they begin to process this unimaginable, senseless loss and deal with the absence of such a precious child.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
10.24.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the 2015 Taxpayers’ Friend Award presented to him by the National Taxpayers Union (NTU), the nation’s leading nonpartisan advocate for tax reform and free enterprise: “It is quite an honor to be recognized by the National Taxpayers Union as a friend of the everyday American taxpayer. Preserving economic liberty and advocating for principles of limiting government when it infringes on American freedom has always been a top priority of mine in Washington, D.C. The hard-earned dollars that the American people make sacrifices in order to pay should never be squandered by bloated government waste, fraud and abuse. It continues to be my commitment to East Texans to continue to stand unwavering in the fight for legislation that improves the lives of Americans now and in the next generation as well.” The NTU’s Taxpayers’ Friend Award is reserved for lawmakers that consistently vote to cut federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation, ultimately trying to resolve economic issues now instead of pushing the problem down for future generations to deal with. The NTU’s Scorecard calculations include every roll call vote with a fiscal or significant regulatory impact. Rep. Gohmert received an “A” for 2015. To view the score card, click here. ### Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas.
09.30.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today in honor of the Hyde Amendment, the annual appropriations language that prohibits taxpayer funding of abortion, passed on September 30, 1976: “Today marks the 40th anniversary of the Hyde Amendment, which outlawed taxpayer dollars from being used to fund abortion practices. This vital legislative provision not only protects the rights of the innocent unborn, but also advances the cause of human freedom, extends the inalienable rights enshrined in our Declaration of Independence to all human beings, and preserves religious liberty. It was a great honor for me to have served with Henry Hyde in the conclusive years of his noble, selfless service in Congress.” “Unfortunately, protecting human life is no longer seen as a profound priority by many of today’s political leaders. We have witnessed this administration turn a blind-eye and even defend the many heinous atrocities unsurfaced at Planned Parenthood.” “It is so very important that we take the time to understand, reflect and preserve this measure. It has already saved over 2 million precious lives. We cannot afford to lose such a crucial legislative safeguard to the right to life. Every life, whether born or unborn, is a gift from God and should be cherished as such.” ### Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas.
09.28.2016	U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) introduced legislation that would award the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award in the United States bestowed by Congress, to Don Stephens in honor of his 38th year as President and Founder of the humanitarian relief organization Mercy Ships. He released the following statement regarding this prestigious nomination: “Over 38 years ago, Don Stephens had a vision of taking health care to places in the world filled with poverty and suffering, just as Jesus had done. Today, he is President and Founder of the humanitarian relief organization Mercy Ships, with international headquarters right in east Texas. He and all those who captured his vision have selflessly served along with Don and his wife, Deyon, to serve others in need. Through innovation and hard work, Mercy Ships’ large hospital ships have reached over 70 countries and have directly benefitted over 2.5 million people worldwide.” “Having spent time on a Mercy Ship in West Africa, I can verify the incredible blessings this group brings. After the ship docks and starts seeing patients, the lame walk; the thousands blind from massive cataracts ultimately see; people with massive head and face tumors slowly choking off their air have them removed and get a new lease on life; women with intestinal or urinary fissures which caused them to be ostracized from family as unclean are rejoined with children they haven’t seen sometimes in decades; little children with no hope of a normal life, actually get that chance; and so much more.” “Mercy Ships has become a beacon of light in some of the darkest parts of the world, and it represents the very best of America — compassion, service, and love for our neighbors. There are few who could merit this medal more than Don Stephens. I realize it is late in the Congress to file this, but it will give us a better chance to get it passed in the next Congress.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
09.27.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding a letter he sent to IRS Commissioner Koskinen to voice his concern with the closure of the Longview Tax Assistance Center: “It is deeply troubling that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has decided to close the doors of the Longview Tax Assistance Center. This location provides helpful services to the constituents in the First District of Texas and its absence will have a profound impact on the hardworking, taxpaying citizens in east Texas who need help.” “Sadly, this closure by the IRS is not just a local issue. Offices all over the country are being shuttered as the IRS blames a cut to their appropriations. Though there were cuts after Congress learned of massive waste, fraud, and abuse, in prior years, the fact is that the IRS appropriation was increased by almost $290 million dollars this year. Within a few short months of getting this huge increase, the IRS chiefs chose to reward the highest ranking in the IRS with outrageous bonuses, while punishing taxpayers seeking assistance. This money was appropriated to improve taxpayer services, to hire more employees, strengthen cybersecurity, and expand the agency’s ability to address identity theft, not to begin again the coronation of the highest ranking in the IRS. “Unfortunately, appropriations do not seem to make their way to the rank and file IRS employees, nor to assist taxpayers with the thousands of pages of IRS regulations and requirements. The rampant waste and abuse at the IRS needs to be called out, and answers provided for what appears to be wanton mismanagement.” Read the letter sent to the IRS Commissioner here. Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
09.14.2016	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) received the Guardian of Small Business Award from The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s leading advocate for small businesses, for his outstanding support of America’s small business owners in the 114th Congress. “It is an honor to be recognized as one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington. Small businesses are truly the backbone of this nation’s economy, and The NFIB works tirelessly to ensure they are protected," said Rep. Gohmert “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but NFIB’s Guardian Award shows small business owners who is really fighting for them,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan. The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently with NFIB on the key issues identified by small business owners. NFIB tracks the votes of every member of Congress. House members and Senators who vote with NFIB members at least 70 percent of the time are eligible for the Guardian Award. Rep. Gohmert received a 100 voting record during the 114th Congress. Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. ###
09.11.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today in remembrance of the thousands of Americans who were killed in the horrific terror attack on September 11, 2001: “Today marks the 15th anniversary of the 9-11 terrorist attack, the most heinous attack our homeland has ever suffered, in which completely innocent people living, working and enjoying America were murdered in a cold-blooded, pre-meditated act of war by evil, sadistic, radical Islamists who want to destroy us, our freedoms, and our way of life. All of America was devastated and mourned the loss of wives, husbands, mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, aunts, uncles, children, and friends. Yet on September 12th, and out of the wanton and despicable evil that brought about 9-11, came a unity, a caring, a oneness as a nation that we have not had to that extent since the end of 2001. We came together, not as individuals, but as one nation under God. We came together with such unity on 9-12 that there were no Euro-Americans, no African-Americans, no Chinese-Americans, no Hispanic-Americans, no Asian-Americans, nor any other hyphenated Americans. On 9-12-2001, we were all AMERICANS, and should be again, That kind of unity, in fact, would be the greatest memorial we could create for our fallen brothers and sisters from that day of horror and evil. May God grant us the oneness and unity we had on 9-12 as, once again, “one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.09.2016	Gohmert on The Life & Legacy of Conservative Icon Phyllis Schlafly Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement honoring the life and legacy of conservative icon Phyllis Schlafly: “Phyllis Schlafly led in efforts to return America to being a shining light on a hill, a citadel for freedom and morality. She saw us losing our way, yet remained relentless in her efforts for her entire life. She was a leader, a warrior, a mentor, and a friend, even when we had a disagreement. Phyllis will continue to be an inspiration to me the rest of my life. She has fought the good fight, she has finished the course, she has kept the faith. And now, may the God Phyllis knew well grant her family the peace that passes all understanding during these difficult days ahead.” ###
06.23.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today applauding the Supreme Court of the United States for its refusal to declare President Obama’s unconstitutional immigration amnesty as lawful: “The ruling by the Supreme Court today is an immense victory for the American people and the United States Constitution. Blocked by a 4-4 tie, this decision upholds the lower court’s ruling that President Obama’s use of executive action to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants is completely unlawful. “This administration simply cannot provide blanket unconstitutional amnesty to millions living in the U.S. illegally – by spoken word or an unwritten ‘memo.’ It is clear in the United States Constitution that the president is not allowed to write laws, only Congress is.” “By virtue of healthy, lawful immigration, this country is a melting pot, and better for it. But, first and foremost, it is also a nation of laws; and, people breaking the law – to cut in front of the million plus people trying to enter legally each year - should not be rewarded with blanket amnesty.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
05.30.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on a day we remember those who have fought courageously and paid the ultimate price for our freedom: “Today we remember and honor the lives of those who have bravely sacrificed their all for the sake of our freedom. The men and women in the United States Armed Forces are truly courageous patriots. There is no doubt that we have the freedom and the liberties we do in this country because of the sacrifice and the willingness of those who’ve gone before us.” “Today is a day for the nation to reflect on the priceless lives and limbs sacrificed on the altar of freedom - not just for ourselves, but for the greater good of all. When faced with perilous circumstances and an opportunity to retreat, these patriots stood firm and tall under the banner of the red, white and blue.” “We owe a debt of gratitude to those currently serving in the military, veterans and those who protected us with their lives. May we kneel and thank God for those who came willing to serve and thank God for their sacrifice.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
05.23.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the passage of Kari’s Law in the U.S. House of Representatives: “This common sense reform was made possible through the tireless work of countless individuals, and none more so than Hank Hunt, the father of Kari Hunt. Federal Communications Commissioner Ajit Pai along with the American Hotel and Lodging Association were great helps in getting the help we needed to make this bill a reality nationwide. The Chairman of the full committee Fred Upton (R-MI) and sub-committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) could not have been more helpful.” “This legislation ensures that anyone who dials 9-1-1 will reach emergency personnel, even if the phone typically requires that user to dial ‘9’ to get an outside line. This fix can be easily implemented with very little if any expense at all.” “The indications are that the Senate will now take up this legislation and pass it. With the House legislation now having passed out of both the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the full House of Representatives today, no child or adult should ever again pick up the phone to call for help and get nothing.” “This legislation will not reverse the heartbreaking loss of Kari Rene Hunt or her daughter’s horror, as she told her grandfather, when she called 9-1-1 four times and could not get help. However, it will create a legacy for Kari that will safeguard others from this kind of trauma.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. To read H.R. 4167, click here # # #
05.12.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today following the ruling in favor of House Republicans lawsuit against the Obama administration over ObamaCare: “This ruling today is a step in the right direction for the American people. It reinforces the reality that the Obama Administration has overstepped constitutional authority. This should come as no surprise to most since it has been their hazardous pattern for the last seven years.” "It is encouraging to see that a federal judge has sided with the U.S. Constitution and the House Republicans on this vital issue. ‎Under Obamacare, this administration does not have the power to provide what could amount to a bribe to insurance companies that the Obama administration calls ‘cost sharing reduction payments,' to try to keep the insurance companies on board. Any payments must be completely authorized and appropriated by Congress.” “Since its inception, President Obama’s Affordable Care Act has been a train wreck. From the broken promises and skyrocketing premiums to the malfunctioning website and the array of privacy issues that have surfaced, the majority of the American people want to wake from this ObamaCare nightmare. Hopefully, this ruling will open some eyes across the nation – to the true destruction of this government run healthcare.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
05.10.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the introduction of his Balanced Budget Amendment: “Over the last 15 years our national debt has skyrocketed to unsustainable levels. This spike in spending has put our economy at risk and, worse, saddled the next generation with an undeserved fiscal burden. In fact, according to the Congressional Budget Office, the federal budget deficit was $352 billion –a record high for the first seven months of this fiscal year.” “This amendment will require us to make the fiscal reforms we need before insolvency makes those decisions for us. This resolution takes a commonsense approach and will be a major step forward in regaining the trust of the American people.” "It is past time to get our fiscal house in order. It is apparent that America is on a road headed for ruin if we continue to spend more money than the federal government. Washington’s lethargic leaders need to stop this runaway train of spending and pass this Balanced Budget Amendment. It will truly serve as a step forward in getting our nation back on a path toward fiscal responsibility and health.” Rep. Louie Gohmert’s Balanced Budget Amendment will: · Require that total spending for any fiscal year not exceed total revenue for that year, and that total spending never exceed 18.5% of GDP; · Mandate that the debt ceiling and taxes can only be raised with three-fourths of both houses of Congress, instead of with simple majorities; · Require the President to submit a balanced budget, or else risk impeachment. Click here to read the text of Rep. Gohmert’s Balanced Budget Amendment Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
05.05.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today on The National Day of Prayer: “Today is such a special day – one of national contemplation and prayer to the one, true God. First established in 1775, when the Continental Congress asked the colonies to pray for wisdom in forming this country, the call to prayer has continued throughout our history. In fact, this day was created for the purpose of humbly coming before God, seeking His guidance for the leaders of this country and His grace upon us as a people. Troubling times are upon us as a country –times in which we are witnessing religious liberties being stripped away from us as each day passes. As a Christian, this grieves me to my soul –knowing full well that our nation was established by people who knew there was a master designer, a Creator from whom our blessings flowed. They recognized divine authority, and realized that they needed to call upon Him for assistance and guidance. As Benjamin Franklin said before the Constitutional Convention in 1787, “In the beginning contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible of danger we had daily prayer in this room for the Divine Protection. -- Our prayers, Sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered. All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of a Superintending providence in our favor. To that kind providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting in peace on the means of establishing our future national felicity. And have we now forgotten that powerful friend? Or do we imagine that we no longer need His assistance. I have lived, Sir, a long time and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth -- that God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, Sir, in the sacred writings that "except the Lord build the House, they labor in vain that build it." I firmly believe this; and I also believe that without his concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the Builders of Babel …” This country has been richly blessed due to the prayers and efforts of those foundational men and women – who made sure they used God’s blueprint for a proper support structure on which to build the greatest nation in the history of the world. In 1981, President Ronald Reagan’s first National Day of Prayer Address made note that prayer is our “source of strength.” He writes, “Prayer is today as powerful a force in our Nation as it has ever been. We as a Nation should never forget this source of strength. And while recognizing that the freedom to choose a Godly path is the essence of liberty, as a Nation we cannot but hope that more of our citizens would, through prayer, come into a closer relationship with their Maker.” It is my prayer that we all join together today and truly beseech Almighty God for His direction – and wisdom. As James 4:8 states, “Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you.” And, let us never forget that we have not, because we either ask not, or we fail to ask the true source of our blessings who loves us. In 1787, after about 5 weeks of yelling and accomplishing nothing, the Constitutional Convention voted to recess and reconvene in a local Philadelphia church where they would all worship together on our nation’s birthday, and then come back and work on a Constitution after that. Well, it worked. They recessed and convened on July 4, 1787 at the Reformed Calvinistic Church where the Rev. William Rogers prayed that God would “favor them, from day to day, with Thy inspiring presence; be their wisdom & strength; enable them to devise such measures as may prove happy instruments in healing all the divisions & prove the good of the great whole.” It worked. God heard and He granted that request. The result was the U.S. Constitution. Isn’t it time our nation asked for that same healing again, and an end to the persecution of Christians in America for their Christian, Biblical based beliefs? I know you believe it IS time, or you would not be here at THIS time! So may God bless anew these United States of America with His glory, by His glory, and for His glory. Thank you for caring and sharing.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
04.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding his opposition to the nomination of Karen Gren Scholer to fill a vacancy on the federal district court for the Eastern District of Texas: “It is my firm belief that an individual who lives and works within the Eastern District of Texas should be selected to fill such an important vacancy within this area. Otherwise, the message is that out of the thousands of attorneys living within this one fourth of the State, no one is properly qualified. Having served on both a district bench and appellate bench in east Texas, I am convinced that there are a great many lawyers and judges in east Texas who can go toe to toe with any lawyers or judges in the country." "The suggested nominee appears to be eminently qualified, and no disrespect is intended to her recommendation as an attorney and judge. It appears she may well be an appropriate nominee in the district in which she lives. However, there are a number of eminently qualified people who live in this district as well, who could fill such a rare opening." "Most Presidents favor nominating individuals with their same party affiliation, but there are extremely capable attorneys and judges in east Texas who are Democrats and additional time should be given to persuade them to apply now that we see the President does not consider current applicants acceptable. Some have practiced law in front of me, or been colleagues on the State bench at the same time. There are some judges elected or appointed as Republicans who should also be acceptable. Though I would not accept a nomination to the bench at this point in my life no matter who was President, I know plenty in east Texans who are qualified and would make us quite proud as federal judges here in our fourth of this great State.” Read the letter Rep. Louie Gohmert sent to President Obama, here. Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as State District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals of Texas. # # #
03.15.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today concerning President Obama’s selection of Merrick Garland to fill the Supreme Court vacancy: “The current election cycle, highly contested and contentious, has revealed one thing – that this nation is deeply divided on countless issues. Though I have not agreed with political positions of now Vice-President Joe Biden and Senator Chuck Schumer, their previously adamant position that a sitting President should not be selecting a Supreme Court Justice late in the President’s term has some potential merit in a situation such as we now have. I think the previous positions that even in the third year of a President’s term he or she should not get to select a Justice goes much too far. However, when the Presidential election process is well underway and primary elections taking place, it is appropriate to wait. I also remember friends such as Andrew Hanen and former Texas Supreme Court Justice Priscilla Owen were made to wait for about four years, into the next term before they were finally given a hearing. Even Tyler’s own Leonard Davis was unfairly blocked from having a hearing for so long that his nomination as a federal judge lapsed, which delayed his becoming a federal judge from his nomination by Pres. George H.W. Bush until about a decade later when George W. Bush was sworn in as a President and he re-nominated him. Simply stated, the American people should have the opportunity to choose a new President before a Supreme Court Justice is seated. Their voices should guide such an important process of this nature; particularly, when an appointment at this time will bring an end to the freedoms, such as religious freedoms, and rights, such as Second Amendment rights, protected under our Constitution. “We cannot allow President Obama to take this important decision away from the people and further fundamentally transform America in ways he promised he would not before he got elected. The tone shifting throughout the nation is clear: the American people need to decide if they want to continue the onslaught on the plain language of the Constitution with so many freedoms under attack, or if they truly want to continue down this path to moral and financial bankruptcy as a nation.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.10.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement honoring the life and legacy of Mrs. Ronald Reagan: “Nancy Reagan had a level of class that was becoming of a First Lady. Her gentle strength was evident to those in her inner circle, as well as, the entire country.” "It is an extraordinary privilege for both Kathy and me to be invited to represent our beloved east Texas at the tribute to be paid to Mrs. Nancy Reagan tomorrow during the memorial service at The Ronald Reagan Presidential Library.‎" “Mrs. Reagan was a true ‘helpmate’ to her beloved husband, Former President Ronald Reagan, in every sense of the word. She truly deserves a place among the very most notable and influential of Presidential spouses.” “My heartfelt thoughts and prayers are with the Reagan family during this delicate time – the loss of a mother, grandmother and friend. It is my fervent hope that Mrs. Reagan’s powerful legacy will continue to live on in the hearts of Americans across the country.” # # #
02.25.2016	Today in the House Natural Resources Committee, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) addressed the committee & questioned witnesses in a hearing on Federal Lands. He noted the vast amount of national forests in east Texas and mentioned hearing reports by private land owners, living near federal lands, that there has been more hostility than ever by federal employees toward east Texans. “The federal government is no longer being the good neighbor that they promised to be,” said Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01). Congressman Gohmert used a gentleman from east Texas as an illustration before the committee. In this gentleman's county, nearly $1,500,000 was received in revenue in 1996 from national forest timber production under the Secure Rural Schools Act. However, last year they only received about $400,000 due to the federal government's poor forest management practices. He stated, “Since [private owners] can’t tax any of those national forests, [they] can’t generate much income; and, if they are not producing timber – we are not talking sequoias or redwoods, we are talking about pine trees – back every 15 to 20 years. 1.5 million in 1996 [in revenue] and last year they got about 400-thousand. The schools are suffering, the local communities are suffering. They’re dying – and it’s all because the federal government is not doing their job.” Watch the FULL video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nlsH19fQLjk Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.13.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the sudden news of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia’s passing: “In 1986, America needed an honorable, brilliant, ethical, clear-headed, protector of the U.S. Constitution. In response to all the musical prayers for God to ‘bless America,’ He did in the form of Antonin Scalia. I loved his mental clarity, treasured his sense of humor and jokes, shared both his faith in God and his recognition of the troubled course ahead for our nation as it continued drifting further from our Constitutional mooring." “My thoughts and prayers are for Justice Scalia’s family and for our country; but, I grieve not for Justice Scalia because that wonderful patriot has no doubt already heard, 'Well done, good and faithful servant.’” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.11.2016	Today, the House Committee on Natural Resources released a Majority staff report detailing information uncovered during the Committee’s ongoing investigation of the EPA’s Gold King Mine blowout near Silverton, Colorado in August 2015. The 73-page report documents the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) and the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) inaccurate and misleading accounts of the events and decisions that led to the blowout and deconstructs their conflicting accounts Click here to view the report. Click here to view appendices. “When government actions result in harm, it’s our duty to know who was responsible and why decisions failed. They haven’t been forthcoming in this regard,” Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) said. “This report peels back one more layer in what many increasingly view as a pattern of deception on the part of EPA and DOI. We will need heavier efforts to squeeze out the full truth. The agencies continue to withhold information requested by the Committee. They need to come clean and produce the missing documents.” “After almost six months, we are still trying to get to the bottom of the catastrophic spill and find out who to hold accountable," stated Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Chairman Louie Gohmert (R-TX). “If these EPA employees were anything other than government officials, they would have already been on their way to prison wearing orange jumpsuits. This report points out the many inconsistencies within the EPA’s and DOI’s reports on the spill and shines a light on their gross incompetence.” The Majority’s findings in the report are based on EPA’s Internal Review, released on August 24, 2015, its related Addendum, released on December 8, 2015, the DOI’s Technical Evaluation of the Gold King Mine Incident, released on October 22, 2015, related documents obtained by the Committee from federal agencies and private contractors, and interviews with multiple individuals with firsthand knowledge of the Gold King Mine, the EPA crew’s activities at the site, and the peer review process for the DOI Technical Evaluation. # # #
01.22.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the 43rd anniversary of Roe v. Wade: “Every year on January 22nd, thousands of passionate Americans travel to Washington, D.C. to speak for the unborn in a true March for Life. These concerned Americans walk in the cold and brave harsh weather conditions – to stand up for the defenseless. They are advocates for innumerable precious little lives across the country.” “Tragically there are 1.21 million babies aborted in the United States each year. Abortion not only ends a beating heart, it deeply wounds the mother in the process. It is apparent that pro-life and pro-women interests go hand-in-hand.” “Each and every life deserves a chance to breathe for the first time – that is simply humane. To scramble a child’s brain or stop a beating heart is repugnant and should be abhorrent to anyone who gets beyond the political realm and contemplates the beautiful life at stake. It is my commitment to the First District of Texas to steadfastly support, stand and advocate for legislation to defend the voiceless, most innocent and helpless among us. Every priceless life, born or unborn, is a gift from our Creator.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.14.2016	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was appointed by House Judiciary Chairman Goodlatte to serve on a new Task Force on Executive Overreach. This Task Force was created to examine the historic breakdown of the separation of powers and checks and balances that has led to the unprecedented increase in presidential power and executive overreach. Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on his appointment to the Task Force: “It is quite an honor to be appointed to this new bipartisan Task Force to examine the President’s actions for potential overreach. It is the role of Congress to make all laws, the Judiciary to interpret the laws, and the President to enforce the laws. Recently, this has not appeared to be the case. The lack of transparency within this administration has been appalling which even resulted in the Attorney General being held in Contempt of Congress.” “I look forward to studying this troubling trend in the executive branch while searching for solutions to one branch exceeding its constitutional authority. This proactive approach is necessary to safeguarding individual liberty and ensuring that this right is well-preserved for future generations.” Congressman Steve King (R-Iowa) will chair the task force and Republican members of the task force are Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), and Mike Bishop (R-Mich.). Chairman Goodlatte will serve as an ex officio member of the task force. ###
12.29.2015	Sen. Bill Ratliff once told me the old adage, ‘It’s amazing what you can get done if you don’t care who gets the credit.’ He was so right. Knowing that I had evoked Speaker Boehner’s wrath, I would tell him I did not care whose name was on a bill that needed to come to the floor for a vote and I have gotten a number of bills passed and others should pass this next year. ZERO BASELINE BUDGET Since my first term in office, I have been pushing to end the automatic increase in every federal department and agency. That would make it a Zero Baseline Budget. Four years ago, Boehner agreed to bring it to the floor under the name of the stellar young House member who managed it in committee. It passed the House, but the Senate did not take it up. About two years later, it was again passed out of the House as the Woodall-Gohmert bill, though I told Paul Ryan not to put my name on it because it might prevent it coming to the floor for a vote. Paul said, “I’ve already told Boehner everybody knows you are the one who has been pushing this since you’ve been here, so he said ok.” The Senate did not take it up, but I am told in this Congress, we should pass it this year and demand the Senate vote on it. Since Speaker Ryan strongly supports it, it may get a vote in the Senate. THE KARI'S LAW ACT OF 2015 We have worked with various aspects of the lodging industry, phone system providers, and concerned individuals including Hank Hunt, to draft Kari’s Law that will require phone systems be provided with the default allowing anyone dialing 911 to reach emergency help without dialing any prefix. We expect to get it passed this year. OBAMACARE ORIGINATION CLAUSE Previously, I drafted a bill that would state that it is the ‘sense of the House’ that the ObamaCare bill did not originate in the House as the Constitution requires for bills that raise revenue or have taxes in them. There are attorneys who have filed suit and gotten different judgments in different Circuit Courts, so there is a good chance that the Supreme Court will take it up. If we pass that resolution, it will be evidence of which an appellate court can take judicial notice and could be persuasive. After drafting it, I talked the Chairman of the Constitution subcommittee into being the lead sponsor and he has done a great job. REFORMING CRIMINAL CODE Continue to lead an effort, as personally requested by former U.S. Attorney General Ed Meese, to reform the criminal code so that no one can be thrown in jail or prison for an innocuous violation of a rule or regulation written by unelected bureaucrats that Congress has not specifically approved as a criminal violation. That outrage has repeatedly occurred and needs to be stopped. MILITARY PAY ACT Have led efforts for almost five years to ensure the military is always paid in the event of a government shutdown; got a temporary bill passed but continue to push for making the payments for our military automatic as Social Security payments are. NEW SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE There should be no doubt that I led the effort beginning three years ago to get a new Speaker which finally paid off in October of this year. INVASIVE SPECIES Continue to push to get additional legislation in each Congress to deal with Invasive Species such as Giant Salvinia that is destroying some of our East Texas lakes. We have had some success, but need to provide more help to the states on such a critical national issue. IRAN TREATY Continue to be the leading proponent demanding that the Senate take up the Iran deal as the treaty it actually is. It modifies existing treaties which can only be done by another treaty that is ratified with a two-thirds vote in the Senate. The Corker bill cannot change that Constitutional requirement for a treaty. BORDER ENFORCEMENT We welcome legal immigrants, but must enforce our border as a matter of national security. In the last Congress, I stopped the House bill that Boehner had secretly drafted the last week of July and had acquired enough Republican pledges to pass it, even without anyone reading it. After it was finally filed Tuesday before the vote on Thursday, I read it through the night on Tuesday to Wednesday morning, realized it was a de facto amnesty bill, so I got copies of all my notes to leading allies in the House and to national talk show hosts. By Thursday morning the Speaker had lost so many of his pledges, he had to pull the bill from consideration. That Thursday night I spent hours with about fifteen other members of Congress changing the bill until we changed it from an amnesty bill to a decent border security bill that we passed late that Friday night with massive Republican support. STANDING UP AGAINST BLANKET AMNESTY Continue to be a leader in fighting against granting blanket amnesty to those illegally in the United States. President Obama's unlawful executive action on immigration was frankly outrageous and an offense to the U.S. Constitution. Not only did the administration’s unlawful memos trample on the U.S. Constitution, they caused many, who applied to come to the United States legally, to go to the back of the processing line behind those who were breaking the law. This nation was built on the Rule of Law; it is my promise to continue to be a vocal opponent of executive amnesty.There is no doubt that immigration has fortified this country; however, it should be done legally. AUMF-NDAA The original Authorization of Use of Military Force passed seven days after 9-11-2001 gave massive powers to the President allowing him to lock up American citizens without right of Habeas Corpus. In the last Congress, I led a fight to get that corrected in the National Defense Authorization Act. As the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee was negotiating acceptable language with the Senate, he had me come to his conference room privately to work on language acceptable to conservatives and most libertarians each time the Senate sent back a new proposal. I would consult with Constitutional Law professors by phone. We finally worked out a satisfactory solution that protected everyone legally in the U.S., though CAIR and the ACLU wanted everyone illegally here with the same protections that the Immigration laws do not afford them. SANCTUARY CITIES Continue to push legislation that will punish sanctuary cities. TPA & TPP Was an extremely vocal critic of the TPA and TPP as they gave far too much power to the President to negotiate away our sovereign rights. CBO SCORING Proposed we end the monopoly on scoring potential bills by the Congressional Budget Office and the Joint Tax Committee, by making it competitive and scoring the scorers. Dr. Arthur Laffer, Ronald Reagan’s economic advisor called me recently to say he had gotten a private grant to come up with a system like I suggested and would be announcing his proposal very soon. PROTECTING & ARMING MILITARY Having been a leader in pushing bills for a number of years that would allow our military members to carry weapons at their U.S. duty station under certain situations, we finally got language included in the NDAA this year that will allow such. PROTECTING STATES NATURAL RESOURCES RIGHTS Have also led efforts to pass bills that will allow states to govern certain activity including oil and gas production if the state has an agency that governs it. In addition to this, top conservative and policy groups have ranked my strong voting record in the highest percentiles: Heritage (93%), FreedomWorks (100%), NumbersUSA (96%). It is my commitment to you, as your humble representative from the First Congressional District of Texas, to stand firmly on the principles that formed this nation and continue to push forward legislation that empower ‘we the people.’ We must keep fighting the good fight for the generations that will follow us. It is my hope and prayer that 2016 will truly be a year of restoration for this country. Many blessings to you and your family, Louie
12.18.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his vote against the year-end spending bill in the U.S. House of Representatives: “The Omnibus included some good initiatives such as ending the ban on oil exports, which will help relieve political blackmail by OPEC and Russia; however, the President’s war against people with jobs involving coal is funded as are federal programs that allow millions more acres to be put off limits for oil, gas, or other mineral production.” “Sadly, this bill continues to fund Planned Parenthood, whose videotaped abortion abuses shock most consciences. Tragically, Democrats demanded and got full funding of President Obama’s plan for bringing alleged Syrian refugees into the United States – ‘alleged’ because there is no way to be sure where they are actually from or who they really are. The provision on visa waivers has a hole big enough to drive truckloads of radical jihadists through. Unfortunately, the Omnibus bill that passed today also failed to stop President Obama’s illegal amnesties. “I really wanted to vote for this bill because of some of the good things in it; but, when America’s number one concern is not addressed nor were so many current abuses of the Constitution, it is a bridge too far and I could not vote for it.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.10.2015	At yesterday’s oversight hearing on the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) Role in the EPA’s Animas Spill, both Republicans and Democrats on the Committee raised numerous questions about the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) involvement with the peer review process of the Bureau of Reclamation’s (BOR) study on the EPA’s Animas spill, particularly in light of USACE’s technical expertise and its serious criticisms of the scope of the Interior evaluation. Because these questions were not adequately answered by DOI Secretary Sally Jewell, Chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Louie Gohmert (R-TX) sent a letter today to USACE requesting documents between USACE, DOI, EPA, and its contractors related to the peer review process. In particular, the House Natural Resources Committee requested: 1) A complete copy of the peer review comments Dr. Olsen provided to BOR; 2) All drafts, documents, contracts, photographs, or other materials Dr. Olsen received from EPA and/or DOI, including its bureaus, for the purposes of performing a peer review of the BOR report; 3) All communications between USACE and the Department of the Interior, including its bureaus, concerning the Gold King Mine; 4) All communications between USACE and the Environmental Protection Agency, including its contractors, concerning the Gold King Mine; and 5) All internal USACE communications concerning the October 2015 BOR report. Read the letter here. Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.08.2015	Yesterday, during a presentation at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, D.C., Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) unveiled The Natural Resources Committee’s Federal Footprint Map, which demonstrably illustrates the gargantuan scale of federal land ownership and regulation within the United States. He released the following statement on the impact and scope of the map: “The House Natural Resources Committee’s Federal Footprint Map is quite illuminating. This research tool provides vital information, and illustrates just how overreaching the federal land grab has been within the United States.” “Looking at this interactive map, it’s easier to comprehend the alarming fact that the federal government owns three out of every ten acres in the U.S. This is more than 640 million acres of land, or the size of six Californias –and that does not even count all the land owned by State and local governments or land locked up in conservation trusts. This map allows you to study where and what these federal lands are, and it helps you understand how far the federal government reaches in, owning 28% of the total land in this country.” “Not only have we taken away too much land from the States and local governments, we can’t take care of what we own. We have deferred maintenance needs in the tens of billions of dollars on federal land including national parks that we will never be able to fund.” “It is my hope that this excellent product, tirelessly crafted by our staff in our Committee on Natural Resources, will play a vital role in eliminating the sweeping federal red tape and resource regulation throughout the nation. Bureaucrats should never have the right to own or control every little puddle, stream, hill, valley, and patch of land in our country.” Click here to watch the Federal Footprint Map presentation at The Heritage Foundation. Click here to view the Federal Footprint Map. Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.05.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) hosted a reception to honor the participants and announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition on Saturday, December 5, 2015, at Stephen F. Austin’s Turner Auditorium. He released the following statement regarding the outstanding art pieces submitted this year: “What an absolute joy it is each year for me to witness such extraordinary talent of East Texas students manifested from the vision of each student through the caring touch of each aspect of their art. This weekend, it was amazing to observe all the creativity and skill from our students in the First Congressional District of Texas as displayed in The Griffith Fine Arts Building on Stephen F. Austin State University’s campus.” “Fine art truly plays a significant role in our children’s lives. We know that both art and music get synapses firing in the brain that enable students to learn so much more than they otherwise would. With one of my daughters being an international artist, the gift of an artist holds a special place in the heart of me and my family. All through history, art and its expression have been vital to our culture; and, it is rewarding to see such genuine artistry and perfection from so many students across east Texas.” “We also owe a debt of gratitude to the superb judges who spent so much time and effort to carefully evaluate each piece of art. We owe thanks to those experienced, discerning and sage individuals who were the East Texas judges this year. Additionally, are indeed grateful to the personnel of Stephen F. Austin University, its Fine Arts program, as well as those at the Griffin Fine Arts Building. Their efforts truly showcased the phenomenal opportunities available if those talented students choose to apply and attend one of our state’s most prestigious universities, our own Stephen F. Austin.” 2016 Congressional Art Winners: FIRST PLACE: Rachael Sikes, Sabine High School "Peering through the Paper" First Place winner will hang in the Capitol Tunnel in Washington, D.C. for one year SECOND PLACE: Ethan Sellers, Pine Tree High School "Rime of Ancient Mariner" Second Place winner will hang in the TX-01 Washington, D.C. Office THIRD PLACE: Sierra Wills, Lufkin High School "Freedom" Third Place winner will be displayed in the TX-01 District Office HONORABLE MENTION: Mikayla Willis, The Brook Hill School "Me" HONORABLE MENTION: Julissa Garay, Winona High School HONORABLE MENTION: Xaviar Williams, Pineywoods Community Academy "The Cost of Living" The annual competition is open to high school students across the district. The first place winner was awarded a scholarship and has their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol Building for a year, alongside winning art from Congressional Districts across the United States. # # #
12.03.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) introduced ‘The Kari’s Law Act of 2015’ today in the U.S. House of Representatives. He released the following statement on this legislation which ensures that anyone who dials 9-1-1 will reach emergency personnel, even if the phone typically requires that user to dial “9” to get an outside line: “Two years ago this week, a precious life was cut short tragically. Kari Rene Hunt, a resident of Marshall, Texas, was murdered by her estranged husband in a hotel room. Kari’s 9 year-old-daughter, while witnessing the brutal murder, did what most all parents teach their kids to do in an emergency— she dialed 9-1-1. However, in this case, Kari’s daughter was unable to reach help because she failed to dial “9” to reach an outside line before dialing 9-1-1. Not only did this tragedy bring sorrow and anguish to a tight knit community, but many in our nation also lost trust in a system it relies on in life or death situations.” “It is clear that our 9-1-1 system failed in a time of need. No longer should a child, or anyone for that matter, pick up the phone to call for help and get nothing. It is necessary to make sure emergency operators can be contacted immediately, when dealing in dangerous situations. The bill I introduced today would ensure that anyone who dials 9-1-1 can reach emergency personnel even if the phone typically requires that user to dial “9” to get an outside line.” “When we learned this could be easily done with very little if any expense at all, we knew this bill had to become a reality. While this legislation will not reverse the heartbreaking loss of Kari and all the horrors of that day, hopefully, her legacy will safeguard others – so they may never experience a situation of this magnitude.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. To read H.R. 4167, click here # # #
12.02.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) participated in a press conference at the U.S. Capitol today with Congressmen Trent Franks (AZ), Rob Bishop (UT) and various other Members of Congress to show support for an amicus curiae brief filed with the Supreme Court in Sissel v. HHS. He released the following statement regarding the amicus brief, backed and filed by 43 Members of Congress that seeks to overturn Obamacare on the grounds that the law violates the Constitution’s Origination Clause: “The Affordable Care Act is an absolute train wreck. Simply put – it’s a governmental healthcare overhaul that places countless restrictions on patients and burdens families with sky-high, crushing premiums. This overbearing legislation unconstitutionally was first written and passed in the Senate which the U.S. Supreme Court found included a huge tax on both individuals and businesses. The Senate stripped the title and every single word out of a very short House bill having to do mainly with Veterans purchasing their first home and getting a tax credit, then substituted in the massive bill of over two thousand pages. The Constitution makes very clear that all bills that raise revenue ‘shall originate in the House of Representatives…’ It is not enough that the bill number arose in the House. The bill the Senate inserts would at least have to be germane to the original bill. In the case of the “Affordable Care Act” or Obamacare, it was not. That is why we have participated in the process as friends of the Court.” “It is encouraging to see so many Members of Congress step forward to participate in the filing of this amicus brief in the U.S. Supreme Court. This is a critical step forward to dismantling President Obama’s destructive healthcare legislation.” “Not only was this egregious bill that deprived people of the insurance policies they liked and the doctor they liked, but its very passage violated the Constitutional requirement that it “originate” in the House. Americans should also have the right to control their healthcare choices and providers, which is why the majority of Americans opposed this bureaucratic monstrosity both at inception and now. The Washington cartel should never be allowed to trample on our rights. Hopefully this time, the Supreme Court will not engage in untoward mental gymnastics and continue to abandon the clear language of the Constitutional requirements.” The brief traces the historical foundation of the Origination Clause, demonstrating that the chamber closest to the people and elected every two years has the sole power to originate a bill that raises revenue. The Origination Clause is found in Article 1, Section 7 of the U.S. Constitution, and requires that “All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendments as on other Bills." Obamacare, which was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court on the grounds that it was a tax (aka a "Bill for raising Revenue") instead originated in the Senate while the only thing that case from the House was a bill number. View the amicus brief here. # # #
11.18.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today on The Natural Resources Committee’s release of the Federal Footprint Map, which demonstrably illustrates the gargantuan scale of federal land ownership and regulation within the United States: “The recent launch of The House Natural Resources Committee’s Federal Footprint Map is quite illuminating. This research tool provides vital information, and illustrates just how overreaching the federal land grab has been within the United States.” “Looking at this interactive map, it’s easier to comprehend the alarming fact that the federal government owns three out of every ten acres in the U.S. It is my hope that this excellent product, tirelessly crafted by our staff in our Committee on Natural Resources, will play a vital role in eliminating the sweeping federal red tape and resource regulation throughout the nation. Bureaucrats should never have the right to own or control every little puddle, stream, hill, valley, and patch of land in our country.” To view the map, click here. Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.14.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today concerning the horrific attack in Paris that left well over 100 innocent people dead: “Our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Paris and all their loved ones. My heart breaks for the families and friends of those violently murdered yesterday. We have seen violence at the hands of radical jihadis only escalate throughout the world. It is time to stop ridiculing those of us who have been sounding the alarm about radical Islamists and work together to stop them and their terrorist tactics." "FBI Director Comey has testified before our committee that ISIS is active in every single state in our nation. Americans must wake up, demand the Obama administration realize that war is being waged against us, and that we must take it on as a war, not as a criminal justice matter. In a war, you don’t 'bring people to justice,' you destroy the enemy. A coordinated attack of this nature is not only sheer evil, it is an act of war.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.11.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today showing appreciation and remembrance for the courageous men and women who served in the U.S. Military: “Today we celebrate and pay tribute to the many veterans throughout this nation who served this country honorably during war or peacetime. Answering the call to defend one’s country is nobility. It takes a love of and devotion to this great country of ours, along with a tremendous amount of patriotism to be willing to face any enemy that is a threat to what we hold dear.” “Whether defending our nation on land, sea or in the air – these men and women deserve the utmost respect and gratitude. They were willing to serve and passionate enough to sacrifice for the common good. Through the sacrifice of our veterans, we have maintained our freedom.” “These brave, heroic patriots make up the very fabric of America. Their strength is stitched in every star and stripe of our great flag. May God bless these defenders of liberty and their families immeasurably, and may the lives and memories of our veterans have a very special place in our hearts today – and always.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.06.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding President Obama’s decision to reject the Keystone XL pipeline, which would have provided Americans with thousands of jobs, pathway to energy independence and billions of dollars in economic growth: “Once again, President Obama has shown the American people that he is not serious about stimulating the very economy his policies have drained. With the smallest participation in the American workforce in many decades and more Americans on food stamps than anyone ever dreamed possible, his decision today rejecting the pipeline denies the chance for job creation and the assurance of at least some economic growth.” “Ironically, the President has stymied, delayed and harassed efforts of the pipeline proponents to bring jobs and more energy into the market place for so long that the proponents had actually indicated they would not pursue the pipeline until after President Obama left office. This administration would rather pursue its efforts to cause energy prices to ‘skyrocket,’ as the President once indicated about coal fired energy, rather than helping our nation achieve true energy independence.” “This country does not run on moonbeams and windmills. The green initiatives President Obama has unveiled are simply fanciful notions that are digging a deeper hole for our nation. It’s tragic that he continues to place his own political agenda over the interests and needs of the American people. He brags about how well the economy is doing, while fewer Americans are earning a living, and the smaller number who are actually working are making less and less.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.28.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after he was presented with the 2015 National Association of Counties Alumni Award, which recognizes faithful support for our nation’s counties in Congress by a legislator who previously served a county government: ‎ “It is such an honor to be presented with the 2015 National Association of Counties Alumni Award. County and city governments are critical to this country’s prosperity, continued growth and development. In fact, since their decision-making is closer to the people they serve, the decisions are normally more in tune with the needs and direction of their constituents.” “One of America’s oldest forms of government, today county governments invest nearly $500 billion each year in local services and infrastructure. Not to mention, they employ more than 3.3 million people throughout the United States.” “As a former district judge and current public servant to the First Congressional District of Texas, which is comprised of twelve different county infrastructures with significant differences, it is my duty and mantle to stand in support of those who have a passion to make their cities and counties better by serving the local best interests. It is also my duty to fight here in Washington, D.C. for legislation that will empower county initiatives – not bloat already successful local governments with federal bureaucracy.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.22.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the news that the majority of the Texas Republican Delegation endorsed Chairman Paul Ryan for Speaker: “Since the beginning of this contested race for Speaker of the House, it has been my pledge to support Congressman Daniel Webster. Dan is the only person I am aware of who has ever been a Speaker anywhere and decentralized power to get it back in the hands of its members. Speaker Boehner is no longer going to be Speaker because he was too powerful, and I simply cannot vote for a candidate who demands more power before he agrees to be Speaker. I am a man of my word, and my support is still with Dan. He is the person who can return power to its rightful place – members who represent the American people.” “As pointed out in the Texas Delegation’s joint release, the group reached a ‘consensus’ but two of us made commitments to Dan we will keep.” “Chairman Ryan was a leader in pushing the Wall Street bailout, supported Barney Frank's same sex agenda, voted for legislation that would have allowed the District of Columbia to have a United States Representative, even though the U.S. Constitution clearly states that ‘representatives shall be from the several States’, and he is supported by some of the most liberal Democrats because of his amnesty stance.” “Though Chairman Ryan is smart, articulate, a great father and husband, our country is in trouble and sadly, he has been on the wrong side of extremely critical issues and indicates he requires more autonomy than even John Boehner.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.20.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today in appreciation of The U.S. Business and Industry Council who presented him with ‘The Defender of the American Economy Award’ for his support of American manufacturers and workers: “American manufacturers and workers keep this country growing, developing and advancing. With gusto and grit, these hardworking men and women have made this nation’s economy flourish – especially in the last 150 years. These patriots labor tirelessly to provide for their families and to make their communities better places to live. They contribute immeasurably toward a strong, vibrant America.” “It is such an honor to receive ‘The Defender of the American Economy Award’ from The U.S. Business and Industry Council. Safeguarding and fighting for a better economy, especially during this trying time in our history, is of critical importance. It my fervent desire to support and create legislation that will cultivate a robust economy and benefit the American workers in east Texas and our country at large. May God bless our American workers, their families, and all they do for our nation. It is an honor to be considered important to them.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.20.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding a letter that he and other concerned Members of Congress sent to the Presidents of ABC, NBC and CBS News concerning their glaring lack of coverage on the Planned Parenthood undercover videos: “It is absolutely outrageous that mainstream media stations such as ABC, NBC and CBS have chosen not to report on the disturbing undercover Planned Parenthood videos which depict the trafficking of infant body parts in the United States. These practices are not only grotesque; they shock the conscience of anyone who appreciates the miracle and beauty of a child.” “According to data from the Media Research Center, in the two months after the release of the first Center for Medical Progress (CMP) video on July 14, ‘ABC, NBC and CBS have only aired one minute and 13 seconds of these videos (with audio) during their news shows.’ That is appalling.” “Rather than inform the public about the potentially unlawful activities of Planned Parenthood exposed in the CMP videos, these particular networks have deliberately misrepresented the content and chosen to abandon journalistic integrity by broadcasting politically driven content. They should be held accountable for their journalistic malpractice and disregard of such atrocities.” To view the letter sent to mainstream media executives, click here. Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.13.2015	Last week, U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), along with 24 House Republicans, sent a letter to the Director of the National Portrait Gallery Kim Sajet, calling for the immediate removal of Margaret Sanger’s bust from the Smithsonian’s National Portrait Gallery. The bust is on display in the Gallery’s “Struggle for Justice” exhibit. Sanger, a founder of Planned Parenthood, believed in using contraceptives to control the population of minorities, or people she deemed as “undesirables.” Specifically, Sanger advocated for the extermination of African-Americans. The letter, written by Sen. Cruz, Rep. Gohmert, and other conservative members, echoes a recent petition of pastors and supporters affiliated with S.T.A.N.D. who also demanded that Sanger’s bust be removed. “There is no ambiguity in what Margaret Sanger’s bust represents: hatred, racism, and the destruction of unborn life,” Sen. Cruz said. “Not only should we continue efforts to redirect funds from Planned Parenthood, an organization founded by Sanger that is currently under criminal investigation, we must also work to ensure that her inhumane life’s work is in no way promoted.” “It is a complete and utter outrage to display a bust of Margaret Sanger in the National Portrait Gallery. In addition to this, it is appalling to honor her as part of the ‘Struggle for Justice’ collection,” Rep. Gohmert said. “One of the founders of Planned Parenthood, Mrs. Sanger portrayed deep-rooted racism by advocating birth control as a method for controlling the population of minorities. This prejudice must not be celebrated or exalted. Her bust should be removed not only from the exhibit but from the National Portrait Gallery altogether, since her legacy is one of prejudice against minorities and widespread destruction of their unborn human lives.” The letter can be read in its entirety here. # # #
10.03.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) will be awarded with the Heritage Sentinel Award Saturday, October 3rd in Tyler, Texas. "Congressman Gohmert has been relentless in fighting for conservative values for Texans. He has faithfully voted to rein in federal overspending, has rigorously pushed to advance federalism, and consistently opposed the faulty policies of the executive administration,” said Joseph Miller, Southwest Regional Coordinator for Heritage Action. “Gohmert has been leading on issue after issue and continues to be a steadfast conservative bulwark against progressivism. For maintaining a score above 90% on our conservative Scorecard, Rep. Gohmert is one of the few who qualified as a ‘Sentinel’ Representative last Congress. Heritage Action enthusiastically supports Rep. Gohmert's principled voting record." “Congressman Gohmert is a proven constitutional conservative leader who has kept his promises. He does what is right – even when he must stand alone. Congressman Gohmert is a light shining in the darkness of Washington, D.C.,” said Executive Director of Grassroots of America, JoAnn Fleming. Sentinel Awards are presented to Members of Congress with a higher than 90% rating on the Heritage Action Scorecard. Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) has a 95% rating. # # #
09.25.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after Speaker John Boehner announced his resignation from the position of Speaker of the House and his plans to step down from the United States Congress at the end of October: “America is at an incredibly perilous time in our history; we need bold leadership more than ever, and the Speaker now has graciously given us that opportunity.” “Due in part to the massive shift in power away from the most accountable representatives of the people to a President and five judges, we have needed leadership with vision for the future that did not continue the downhill slide. A goal to simply slow the losses of liberty and opportunity is not what is needed.” “So often, after being elected to Congress, members have the goal drilled into their head that there is nothing nobler than being a 'team player.' Football and our military are deep passions of mine, but their metaphorical uses in Congress are often inappropriate. For an appropriate use of the sports metaphor, too often 'being a team player' has disguised the fact that a play has been called that has us running toward the wrong goal line.” “As members of Congress, we should be accountable to our constituents and nation more than any earthly responsibility. For the vast majority, we understand that ultimately we will all kneel accountably before God.” “As Speaker Boehner moves on to a new chapter in his life, I truly wish both him and his family well. I have nothing but best wishes for him, wherever he will be.” “My fervent prayers are with the country at this defining moment. It’s past time that we, as a body, stand firmly for those who are being oppressed by government and take up the torch of liberty to ensure this flame of freedom is not extinguished for the generations that follow us.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.18.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the vote passed in the U.S. House of Representatives which will ultimately make sure that when women’s health care is funded, Planned Parenthood is not, while at the same time reinforcing safeguards on the lives of born-alive abortion survivors: “After watching some of the horrific undercover videos of Planned Parenthood employees laughing and haggling over the prices of precious parts of priceless babies, I was both infuriated and nauseated. It is a tragedy to think federal taxpayer dollars were subsidizing these atrocious crimes. It is unacceptable and morally reprehensible.” “As a father whose first daughter was born very prematurely, it grieves me to see little lives not given the opportunity to take their first breath, much less be dismembered and parts sold. They are voiceless as they are being killed, destroyed, and parts sold. Defunding Planned Parenthood, which has never performed a single mammogram, so that facilities that actually do mammograms and address women’s real issues can receive more funding is the right thing to do. Review of the long, unedited videos reveals that the largest provider of abortions in the United States is violating the law. To pay even the lease and utilities of a facility where illegal practices are occurring is to be an accessory, so we must move the funding to facilities that help women without participating in illegality.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.11.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement remembering those killed 14 years ago today in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, and Pentagon, as well as, the valiant soldiers and U.S. Ambassador who lost their lives in 2012 at the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi: “My heart breaks for the families whose lives were shattered 14 years ago today – at the hands of evil people full of hate. Communities were torn apart and the United States was shaken by an extreme act of violence inspired by what we have come to know is carried out by radical Islamists. Thousands of Americans were brutally murdered all while the nation watched in shock at this breathtaking calamity unfolding in front of our very eyes, right on television, live as it happened in the streets of New York City or in Washington, D.C. at the Pentagon. "Every adult remembers where we were that day and what we were doing, because people who could commit acts of malevolence with that depth of depravity in the country where they were living, was almost beyond our comprehension. "That day we stared in the face of evil. “Today we not only remember the victims of the 2001 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, but also the four Americans, three servicemen and our U.S. Ambassador, who were brutally killed while manning or defending our consulate in Benghazi. Such violence and tragedy is almost unfathomable. But once we knew evil of that magnitude exists, we should not be forgetting and becoming calloused to its presence. It must not be allowed to spread, especially among our young people. We should have seen the warning signs, especially after the attempted World Trade Center bombing in 1993. But we did not learn, and were not prepared when September 11, 2012 occurred. “My thoughts and prayers and those of all caring Americans are with the surviving victims and the family members of those whose lives were too soon extinguished from our midst. They know firsthand the terror and true cruelty of such a radical ideology. In the days, weeks, months, and years that have followed, many of us have prayed, even in the face of scoffers, but we will continue to lift up all those affected in earnest prayers. "But we should always remember that the heroes on this day in history, those who displayed what Jesus said was the greatest love - that someone would lay down life itself for friends, is the very love that will ALWAYS overcome hatred and evil. So love is not only the answer, it is our mandate, our remedy, and our cure. May God continue to bless America, and mercifully return his protective hand around us, that we ourselves will seek out every opportunity to protect and defend this nation and her people.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.09.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) introduced a resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives that would declare the Iran Nuclear Deal the Treaty that it actually is. He released the following statement regarding his resolution: “An executive agreement is one that is non-binding on a country. It may be discarded at any time. An executive agreement cannot amend any existing treaties. President Obama and his administration have said that the Iran deal is not binding so it does not require a Congressional vote. On March 11, 2015 regarding the Iran deal, John Kerry unequivocally and blatantly stated that he was, ‘not negotiating a legally binding plan.’ Now we have seen it, so we know that was a lie! We now know – the Iran deal does amend existing, Congressionally ratified treaties to which the United States is a signatory; and, the Iran agreement will be a legally binding agreement that changes them. “Article II of the U.S. Constitution says the President ‘shall have the power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur.’ The Constitution cannot be amended by passing legislation as was attempted with the Corker bill. Now that we’ve read the Iran deal, we know it’s a Treaty; and, therefore, it requires two-thirds of the Senate to vote for it. “Why in the world would Republican leaders in the U.S. House and Senate still willingly ignore the Constitutional requirement of a two-thirds vote in the Senate to ratify the Iran Treaty? Why would they risk a nuclear holocaust by refusing to follow the Constitution and stop the disastrous Iran Treaty? It’s important to recall the President’s illegal, unconstitutional amnesty that Republican leaders said we’d stop if voters gave us the majority in both Houses. The Speaker of the House even said, ‘We are going to fight this tooth and nail;’ but, he and a majority of the House completely caved, exactly as some of us expected. “I’ve met with a lot of Middle Eastern leaders; and, in fact, just got back from a trip to Egypt last week. So many of the officials in the Middle East, the ones who are not afraid of President Obama, say Iran’s leaders are liars and cannot be trusted. They have fervently expressed that Iran will develop nukes and will not abide by the treaty. These officials are amazed the United States is so gullible. Numerous Middle Eastern and African leaders have said that if the United States works a deal with Iran, then we are all in jeopardy." “The resolution that I am filing today declares that the Iran agreement is a Treaty. It states that since it’s a Treaty, the House does not get a vote, but two-thirds of the Senate must vote for it, or it is not binding on the United States. Now that we’ve seen the deal, why would Republican leaders in the House and Senate play along under the Corker bill even though they know the Constitution cannot be amended by this legislative bill?” “Regardless of what Republican establishment leaders are saying publicly, some apparently believe Iran is going to get nuclear weapons no matter what we do. They reason that if we treat the Iranian agreement as the Treaty it is, and the Senate fails to ratify it, then when Iran gets nuclear weapons, everyone will blame Republicans since we did not ratify the President’s Treaty.” “However, if Republicans pretend to fight the Iranian deal like our leaders pretended to fight the President’s amnesty, and let the President’s Iran treaty slip through without stopping it, then when Iran gets nukes, everyone will blame the President and the Democrats and the pitiful deal they made with Iran that allowed Iran to get nukes. Then Republican leaders can say that we tried to stop that terrible Iranian Deal but we just did not get the two-thirds we needed in the U.S. House and Senate to vote it down.” “This Iran deal puts civilization, Christians, Jews and moderate Muslims at risk of a nuclear holocaust. And, I can not just stand by idly and let this disastrous agreement come to fruition without doing everything I can to stop it.” “After deep lengthy contemplation, I came up with an offer to the Republication Establishment Leaders. It is apparent that Republican leaders want me out of Congress. They consider me a pain and have considered the possibility of getting me out. Republican Establishment have wondered how much money it would take to spread enough lies about me in east Texas to try to defeat me in a primary, the way they went after Thad Cochran’s honorable opponent. I know, after the recent polling someone did in my district, they have been discouraged by how tough it will be to take me out in a Republican primary because most east Texans know me and they know lies about me when they hear them.” “If the House Leadership will vote on my resolution whether filed in my name or someone else’s, or even one comparable that declares the Iran agreement to be the Treaty it is, and demands that the Senate follow the Constitution and have a vote on ratification, and then the Senate has a vote on ratifying the Iran treaty instead of taking up the inapplicable Corker-Cardin bill’s anticipated vote because the Corker-Cardin bill is not applicable to a treaty, then, I give you my word: I will not run for re-election. If the Republican Establishment wants me out, this is their best shot. But the House and Senate both must not take any votes regarding the Iran treaty that are prescribed by the Corker-Cardin bill because it was written and voted on relying on representations that it did not affect existing treaties, did not affect the sanctions, did not consider ICBM’s, and that we would see the entire agreement along with other misrepresentations.” “Nevertheless, if we do not treat the Iran agreement as the Treaty it is, and do not follow the Constitution, I will definitely run again, harder than ever to be the Congressman for the 1st District of Texas, and the blame for Iran getting nukes will not just be on President Obama, Secretary Kerry and the Democrats, it will also lie squarely with all of the Republican leaders who refused to follow the Constitution and became willing accomplices in this worldwide atrocity that will be coming. And none of those Republican leaders should be allowed to remain leaders and I will be committed to making it my number one goal to seeing that none of them are elected to leadership positions again.” “This Iran deal is an absolute disaster for civilization, for Christians, Jews, and especially moderate Muslims. If this Iran treaty is accepted, what is coming is not only frightening, it is disastrous; and, the Hell that this agreement will unleash and allow on so many innocent people is unambiguously unconscionable.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.23.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on ‘The Safer D.C. Act’ that he introduced which would end the sanctuary city policies in the District of Columbia: “In the wake of the tragic murder of San Francisco resident, Kate Steinle, by a five-time deported illegal criminal alien, it is important to realize that the District of Columbia is in fact also a sanctuary city like San Francisco. Subsequently, when District police arrest individuals lacking paperwork or information regarding citizenship or immigration status they are prohibited from both investigating immigration matters and also contacting Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). “This type of limitation simply should not be the case. It is time to take action and start protecting cities and citizens from crimes which may be prevented with proper checking, communication and accountability between departments. “The Safer D.C. Act would ensure that when the District of Columbia arrests an individual it is required to provide information to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) so it can determine the citizenship or immigration status of that individual. Once DHS determines than the alien is inadmissible or deportable, DHS is required to issue a detainer directing the District of Columbia to hold the alien and then take the alien into federal custody after the conclusion of any legal proceeding under DC law. “If the Secretary fails to issue a detainer and take the alien into custody then political appointees of the Department of Homeland Security are subject to penalties. Likewise, DC employees will also be subject to civil fines for failing to comply with the law.” “Protecting Americans from the violence of criminals illegally in the country should be a top priority. This administration has been so intentionally and recklessly dysfunctional in protecting our country that in fiscal year 2014, 36.7% of all federal sentences were for crimes by people who are not even legally in the country. It is time to start taking action to ensure innocent, precious lives are not lost due to indolent, outlawed and politically motivated oversight. The Constitution explicitly vests Congress with exclusive jurisdiction over the District of Columbia –and we should take action. Therefore, at the very least, Congress must use our explicit Constitutional power to ensure that at least the District of Columbia is not a sanctuary city.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.21.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the now second undercover video of a Planned Parenthood executive haggling over the price of aborted baby body parts: “The surfacing of a second abhorrent Planned Parenthood video makes it more than apparent this federally funded organization has more than one isolated individual heartlessly calculating profit from dismembering unborn babies in such a way that more money can be made. These videos make it clear to any but the most calloused that the negotiation is not about ‘tissue’ but about uncrushed baby body parts. This is clearly about profit from trafficking in dismembered baby organs – which is illegal. “It is also abundantly clear that these high level leaders in Planned Parenthood are concerned about preserving organs and parts of an unborn child with no thought at all for the pain and suffering of the child whose parts they are crushing as they pull off limbs and other parts as they extract the child. Planned Parenthood needs to be held accountable for the grotesque actions of its leaders. “It is utterly despicable that an executive at Planned Parenthood would cruelly joke about the remains of precious lives by haggling over their body parts using terms such as – ‘lowball’ and her desire for a ‘Lamborghini.’ These are human lives – not specimens; and this group should be called out for what it’s doing – the hideous collecting of revenue for the babies they destroy for their sellable parts. That is not only abominable; it is criminal. If America does not wake up soon to its decadence, we will go beyond the point of being salvageable as a society.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.14.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the announced Iran Nuclear Agreement: “The bare basics of the agreement that have been disclosed today between the Obama Administration and the leading sponsor of terrorism in the world, Iran, are not only disastrous for the future of the United States; it is an ultimate betrayal of Israel, Egypt and moderate Muslim nations everywhere. It is hard to conceive of a deal that could be much worse. “While the President announced that Iran will dismantle some of its centrifuges that are enriching uranium, he then failed to note that the U.S. will help them install more advanced centrifuges. What an absolute gift to terrorism by the Obama administration. This administration learned nothing from the debacle negotiated with North Korea that ultimately helped Korea become a nuclear threat to world peace. “The Obama-Kerry deal agrees to the release of tens of billions of dollars to Iran that unquestionably will include money used to terrorize and kill Americans, Christians, Jews and moderate Muslims the world over. Other provisions reported include that the embargo on arms being sold to Iran is being lifted; Iran will be allowed to keep its military sites off-limits ‘for a time;’ Iran can veto any nuclear inspections that were supposed to be allowed ‘anytime, anywhere;’ no nuclear facilities will actually be dismantled; and Iran will be ever closer to making good on its promise to try to wipe Israel off the map. “For anyone who believes the Bible, this is a betrayal of Israel that will have adverse consequences for the United States. For anyone who does not believe the Bible, this ‘deal’ helps fund and more powerfully weaponize the country whose leaders hate America more than any other nation. Even quite recently, Iranian top officials have been chanting – ‘Death to America.’ “Though the President was mired in self-adulation regarding this agreement, even before it was formally put into writing; this is a devastating threat to civilization which must not be ratified.” Congressman Gohmert discussed problems with the announced agreement before several thousand attendees today at the Christians United For Israel summit held at the Washington, DC Convention Center. Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.26.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert released the following statement today regarding the Supreme Court of the United States ruling on same-sex marriage: “It is a tragic and ominous day for the United States when a decision by five unelected justices of the U.S. Supreme Court blatantly violates the law in order to destroy the foundational building block for society provided by Nature and Nature’s God – that was stated as divine law by Moses and Jesus. Our nation has been blessed with liberty, opportunity, power, and individual prosperity beyond any other nation in history. Both Moses and Jesus stated that it was God’s law that ‘a man will leave his father and mother and a woman will leave her home and the two will come together as one.’ That defined marriage. Jesus even added that the defined marriage that God brought together should not be divided by anyone. The Supreme Court ruling is heartbreaking for the turmoil it will mean for our nation’s future. "The U.S. Constitution gives neither Congress nor federal Courts any authority over marriage. Now, the Supreme Court majority flaunts the law, the U.S. Constitution, and makes its mark in history sealing our fate unless America makes a dramatic turn. Though Chief Justice Roberts was part of the minority today, he has previously and again yesterday established for the Court his example that what the law and Constitution says is of no consequence when his Court has an agenda. "The law governing all federal justices, 28 United States Code section 455, states: ‘Any justice, judge or magistrate judge of the United States shall disqualify himself in any proceeding in which his impartiality might reasonably be questioned.’ "It is clear beyond any doubt that Justices Kagan and Ginsberg have held exceedingly strong opinions that same-sex marriages were constitutional by virtue of their having performed them. When Justices of the highest court in the country believe they do not have to comply with essential laws governing courts themselves, then there is no overriding legitimate law of the land, which action standing alone is enough to substantiate tyranny. "Founders and leaders including George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Franklin Roosevelt, John Kennedy, Ronald Reagan and most all of the Presidents have noted that it is God who has been the source of this nation’s unfathomable blessings. But if Moses, Jesus, and contributors to the Bible were correct, God’s hand of protection will be withdrawn as future actions from external and internal forces will soon make clear. I will do all I can to prevent such harm, but I am gravely fearful that the stage has now been set. "Our situation evokes the situation noted by Thomas Jefferson in Virginia. Part of Jefferson’s observation is even inscribed inside his D.C. memorial: 'And can the liberties of a nation be thought secure, when we have removed their only firm basis, a conviction in the minds of the people that these liberties are the gift of God? That they are not to be violated but with his wrath? Indeed I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just: that his justice cannot sleep forever: that considering numbers, nature and natural means only, a revolution of the wheel of fortune, an exchange of situation is among possible events: that it may become probable by supernatural interference!' "Thank God there was a second great awakening or revival in America which fostered and drove an abolitionist movement, and an end to slavery, followed by America’s explosion of individual affluence and world influence. "A major question now looming is whether a nation has to comply with law that was promulgated by a Supreme Court majority that included two justices who were legally barred from participating in the new court-legislated, civilization-changing decision that destroys our nation’s heritage of Biblical marriage. May God forgive our Supreme Court majority for its arrogance and its self-apotheosis.”
06.25.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement concerning the decision made today by the United States Supreme Court finding as valid the subsidies that the Affordable Care Act said were illegal: “In recent years, the U.S. Constitution has taken a severe beating at the hands of this president’s administration. The United States Supreme Court has now added to the Constitutional malfeasance by decreeing from on high that what the Affordable Care Act itself said is not legal is legal. “In this instance, the Supreme Court has completely abandoned any semblance of basing its rulings on the law. This opinion indicates that the majority put far greater weight on what the leftwing media might say if the Supreme Court followed the law itself, even to the point of writing laws that Congress did not write. “The truth is that the American people did not want ObamaCare before it passed. After it passed, they did not like losing their insurance or their doctor they wanted to keep or even their hospital that was critical to their lives. They’ve been left with higher premiums, higher out of pocket costs and less coverage than the policies they liked and lost. “Since its inception, President Obama’s Affordable Care Act has been a train wreck. From the broken promises and skyrocketing premiums to the malfunctioning website and the panoply of privacy issues that have surfaced, the majority of the American people want to wake from this ObamaCare nightmare. “Americans should have the right to choose our own healthcare providers. Whether our small handful of elitist Washington leadership, which includes the majority on the Supreme Court, should be allowed to continue to trample on our Constitutional rights at will is the fundamental question of this era.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.18.2015	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement thanking the Endowment for Middle East Truth (EMET) for the ‘Speaker of Truth’ award: “What a privilege it is to speak at the Endowment for Middle East Truth’s 9th Annual ‘Rays of Light in the Darkness’ dinner and to be presented with the ‘Speaker of Truth’ award. Sarah Stern, EMET founder and president, has truly been a fount of wisdom in the nation’s Capitol – educating key policy makers on the importance of the United States’ relationship with Israel and the continuing battle against radical Islam. “Terrorism is very real and is poised to wreak havoc on our home front. Our leaders lack boldness and vision or even a strategy to combat the most insidious evil embodied in ISIS. It is imperative that the United States take a strong stand against radical Islam, as it fundamentally threatens our ability to live as a free society. The Obama administration’s strategy of merely watching events unfold across the globe is undermining national security interests at home and abroad. “There is an ominous and urgent need for EMET and its leader, Sarah Stern, to continue to shine a bright light of truth on the dangers coming out of the Middle East. I pray for their continued success as they enable the revelation of truth across the globe and am honored that they would present me with this award.” Previous EMET “Speakers of Truth” award recipients have included U.S. Senators Joseph Lieberman, Daniel Inouye, Jon Kyl, Sam Brownback, and Ted Cruz; Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist, Bret Stephens; Pulitzer Prize-winning syndicated columnist, author, and political commentator, Dr. Charles Krauthammer; former U.S. Ambassador; John Bolton; Governor, Mike Huckabee; and Ayaan Hirsi Ali, among many other notables. Founded in 2005, EMET’s mission is to educate policymakers in Washington and the general public about the importance of Israel to the United States in their common struggle against radical Islam. For more information, please visit, http://www.emetonline.org. Follow EMET on Twitter and Facebook.
05.27.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) decision to implement the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, which would assert federal authority over the nation's streams and small water where it may be found: “Yet again, the Obama Administration is grabbing control of areas the Constitution and law do not allow. The federal government’s control over navigable waterways is being dramatically expanded to potentially allow control over anywhere water may be found. Currently in Texas, water seems to be everywhere and people need help to recover from the floods, but do not need a bureaucrat coming up with orders to cease and desist with a SWAT team to stop people from using their own land. At a time when nationally our economy is still staggering, this additional federal power-grab will overburden businesses and farmers further suppressing jobs and our financial situation. States should be allowed to control the conservation of water and wetlands. There is no need for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to inject itself into our state and local ditches, puddles and streams. Farmers, local property owners and small businesses should not need to go through another layer of federal red tape to do what needs to be done on a local property.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.26.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding a federal appeals court ruling today which upheld the temporary injunction preventing President Obama’s executive amnesty from proceeding while the case proceeds in the trial court: “This ruling is the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals confirmation of the Constitution’s allocation of power while also tacitly agreeing with President Obama’s declaration time and time again that a president does not have the power to carry out a sweeping amnesty program of this nature. Not only did the Obama administration’s unlawful memos trample on the U.S. Constitution, they caused many, who applied to come to the United States legally, to go to the back of the processing line behind those who were breaking the law. It is important to note that the committee had added language to the National Defense Authorization Act indicating in essence that those given the President’s illegal amnesty should be considered for military employment. Such language would have indicated to the appellate court that Congress wanted the amnesty in question to be provided so recipients could join the military. By a narrow vote in the full House, that language was eliminated. If it had cleared the House, the Fifth Circuit panel could have taken judicial notice of its passage and used that as a basis to strike down the temporary injunction. The battle that we fought to get that language eliminated was certainly worth all the effort.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.05.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the ‘Jade Helm 15’ exercises scheduled to take place in Texas and various other states: “Over the past few weeks, my office has been inundated with calls referring to the Jade Helm 15 military exercise scheduled to take place between July 15 and September 15, 2015. This military practice has some concerned that the U.S. Army is preparing for modern-day martial law. Certainly, I can understand these concerns. When leaders within the current administration believe that major threats to the country include those who support the Constitution, are military veterans, or even ‘cling to guns or religion,’ patriotic Americans have reason to be concerned. We have seen people working in this administration use their government positions to persecute people with conservative beliefs in God, country, and notions such as honor and self-reliance. Because of the contempt and antipathy for the true patriots or even Christian saints persecuted for their Christian beliefs, it is no surprise that those who have experienced or noticed such persecution are legitimately suspicious. Having served in the U.S. Army, I can understand why military officials have a goal to see if groups of Special Forces can move around a civilian population without being noticed and can handle various threat scenarios. In military science classes or in my years on active duty, I have participated in or observed military exercises; however, we never named an existing city or state as a “hostile.” We would use fictitious names before we would do such a thing. Once I observed the map depicting ‘hostile,’ ‘permissive,’ and ‘uncertain’ states and locations, I was rather appalled that the hostile areas amazingly have a Republican majority, ‘cling to their guns and religion,’ and believe in the sanctity of the United States Constitution. When the federal government begins, even in practice, games or exercises, to consider any U.S. city or state in 'hostile' control and trying to retake it, the message becomes extremely calloused and suspicious. Such labeling tends to make people who have grown leery of federal government overreach become suspicious of whether their big brother government anticipates certain states may start another civil war or be overtaken by foreign radical Islamist elements which have been reported to be just across our border. Such labeling by a government that is normally not allowed to use military force against its own citizens is an affront to the residents of that particular state considered as 'hostile,' as if the government is trying to provoke a fight with them. The map of the exercise needs to change, the names on the map need to change, and the tone of the exercise needs to be completely revamped so the federal government is not intentionally practicing war against its own states.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.04.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the cold-blooded terrorist attack in Garland, Texas: “Yesterday, Islamic extremists opened fire on a free speech event in Garland, Texas. In the exchange of gunfire, one security officer was injured; however, the swift actions of local law enforcement stopped these cold blooded terrorists before they could carry out their full premeditated attack on the innocent. It is evident that our right to free speech has, yet again, been attacked by radical fanatics – bent on destroying our American way of life and free society. However, now is not the time to waver, wonder, or whine as militant extremists extort away our first amendment rights. Without the right to speak freely, even when it offends someone else, the door is closed to every other freedom. My thoughts and prayers go out to all of those harmed or affected by this shooting yesterday. The men and woman of the police force who, ultimately, saved countless lives by their heroic actions need to be seen as the defenders of peace that the overwhelming majority of our law enforcement are.” Congressman Gohmert is the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, he was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and was appointed by then Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.16.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) spoke today on H.R. 1105 – Death Tax Repeal Act. Below are the comments he made on the House floor: “Several years ago, there was an author who wrote a book about millionaires in America – and it was amazing. Most of the millionaires built a business, built a farm and the number one most commonly driven vehicle by millionaires in America was a Ford F-150 truck. They were workers. There was a time in America, where we looked around and we saw somebody work 16 hours a day, like my aunt and uncle did and build together a farm – and we were proud of them. My Aunt Lilly died and the FDIC dumped land out by her place before the land could be sold, and so the IRS came in and eventually sold every acre of her land. The family was called and thought ‘let’s try to at least buy some of her assets from her home –her little modest home.’ I bought this music box from Aunt Lilly – it plays ‘Amazing Grace.’ But, she did not get amazing grace; her heirs did not get amazing grace. They ran into the amazing greed of the United States Congress. Let’s take the green-eyed monster and put it where it belongs, and begin to feel good for people who work for what they own.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.15.2015	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on his ‘No Taxation Without Representation Act’ - which would amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to insure that there is no taxation without representation and to make tax law regarding residents of the District of Columbia consistent with tax law affecting of territories of the United States that also do not have a voting member of the US House of Representatives: “The license plate motto, ‘taxation without representation’ raised eyebrows when I first saw it, but then I recalled the revolutionary slogan – ‘taxation without representation‎ is tyranny.’ The Washington D.C. residents were paying income tax without having a federal representative with full voting rights. Regardless of who agrees or disagrees now, in the late 1970's people both for and against Washington, D.C. having its own U.S. Representative all agreed that it would take a Constitutional amendment to change the statement in the Constitution that the Representatives would come from the ‘states.’ That Constitutional amendment passed both the House and Senate back then but failed to ever get the requisite state ratification. After looking at the situation of U.S. territories such as Puerto Rico, Guam, or Samoa, I found that the residents there paid local taxes, but none paid federal income tax. It occurred to me after researching the situation still further that until when or if the citizens of Washington, D.C. have a full voting representative, they should not have to pay any federal income tax. So I have filed that bill again today hoping that this Congress will do the right thing by the citizens of the District of Columbia and end the federal income tax. It is the fair, just and right thing to do.” To read the full text of the bill, click here. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.15.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement regarding a letter sent to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) from 22 Members of Congress demanding a comprehensive audit on the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS): “There have been enough revelations about the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and its failures that many Americans have become gravely concerned with their actions and performance causing many to lose faith in its representations. It is critically important that we have a complete investigation into this government entity for potential waste, fraud and any type of corruption fueled by a political agenda. The American people deserve to be protected, not spied on, lied to and forced to pay for DHS ignoring the law and Constitution. According to its own FY16 Budget Request, 96.8% of the USCIS $4 billion annual operating budget will come from fees collected from applicants for most types of immigration benefits, naturalization, or replacement green cards, along with fees from petitioners sponsoring relatives or employees. These fee-based revenues are considered ‘permanently appropriated’ mandatory funds and are not subject to the annual discretionary appropriations process—which applies to most federal agencies. This arrangement creates the potential for USCIS to, in effect, create slush funds and skim off congressionally authorized fees imposed on legal immigrants and their sponsors in order to fund programs that may not be specifically authorized by Congress, such as DHS’s November 2014 memos on immigration establishing a new program that provides work authorization permits to an estimated five million undocumented immigrants residing in the United States. That is why I, along with 21 other Members of Congress, are asking the GAO to audit the USCIS and find out the critically needed answers. DHS agencies continue to be hindered by leadership who break the law and ignore the Constitution while using highly suspect spending practices. They must be held accountable for any misconduct.” To read the full letter sent to the GAO, click here. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.09.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the ceremony which will take place Friday in Ft. Hood, Texas where 45 Purple Heart and Defense of Freedom medals will be presented to soldiers and others who were shot by former Army psychiatrist Nidal Hasan in 2009: “This week has been years late in coming; but, I am so thrilled to see that after years of complaining to the military and this administration, we will finally see the proper honor and medical support provided for the 32 who were injured and proper military honor for the thirteen American patriots who were brutally murdered on November 5, 2009 in Fort Hood, Texas. It has been tragic that this nation’s military leadership clear to the top has denied these heroes what was properly theirs for over five years. The administration had the authority but did not have the will to provide what was sorely needed and properly due to those who were murdered and maimed. It is a shame that it took Congress having to put language in a bill to force the Army to do right by those who were victims of this act of war against our military on a military installation. It is time that these men and women were acknowledged and honored for their acts of bravery on that fateful day – in the line of evil fire. Only now will those who left the service after being wounded be provided what has been needed for them all along, though it is already too late for at least one. After all the evidence establishing the act of war against our military by a religious radical killing in the same name as those who have killed our military in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is abhorrent that the Obama Administration classified this act of terrorism as ‘workplace violence.’ The patriots who defend the United States and their families should be treated with the utmost respect and dignity, rather than cast aside as if someone had accidentally bumped into them at the office. Major Hasan committed the act in the name of religious war against our American military, and it’s good to see that finally admitted today. This ceremony is a monumental measure toward closure and assuaging the mental and emotional brutality inflicted on our military in the place of their own refuge. Military members, in the line of fire that day, should be properly recognized for their sacrifice, and I am honored to attend as a witness and representative of the American people to see this act of sacred propriety is finally provided to our heroes.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # # ​
03.10.2015	The Club for Growth, America’s leading advocate for economic freedom and limited government, announced today that Congressman Gohmert has received the Defender of Economic Freedom Award for his voting record in Congress during calendar year 2014. Congressman Gohmert received a score of 97 in 2014 and has a lifetime score of 90. This year, only 34 Members of Congress will receive the Award. Starting in 2011, The Club for Growth required Representatives and Senators to not only score 90 or better on votes cast in a year, but to also have a lifetime score or “LifeScore” of at least 90. “Congratulations to Congressman Gohmert for his consistent defense of economic freedom and pro-growth policies in Washington,” said Club for Growth President David McIntosh. “We need more people like Congressman Gohmert standing up for pro-growth economic principles in Washington. People deserve to know if their Congressman’s voting record in Washington matches their rhetoric back home in their district. It’s clear from his record that when Congressman Gohmert went to Washington promising to fight for the First District of Texas taxpayers, he meant it.” “It is quite an honor to be named a ‘Defender of Economic Freedom’ by Club for Growth,’ said Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01). “It has been and always will be my commitment to the people of east Texas to vote for bills that will help the economy and not hinder it. It is my belief that only when big bloated government is limited can the American taxpayers experience freedom and truly prosper.” To learn more about the Club for Growth, please visit www.ClubforGrowth.org. To view Congressman Gohmert’s scorecard for 2014 – please click here. ###
02.17.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the federal judge in South Texas’ decision to temporarily halt President Obama’s unlawful blanket amnesty order: “The United States is a nation of laws, not royal decrees. This ruling is not only a victory for the American people, it is a big win for those hoping the U.S. will continue to follow its own Constitution. The Obama Administration needed its unfettered disregard for the law and the Constitution halted– and this ruling does just that. It reminds this President, once again, that he cannot simply speak laws into existence when he disagrees with existing law_ at least not until the American people are willing to nullify the Constitution and accept a supreme ruler. This judge’s ruling should serve as a battering ram to break the logjam in the Senate. The bill that passed the House completely funds the Department of Homeland Security but does not fund the President's illegal amnesty. It sits waiting for a handful of Senate Democrats to vote to allow it to be debated. The Senate has the votes to pass the bill but Senate Democrats are blocking it from being debated, because of some untenable fear. Now they should overcome their fear of debate and realize the bill is both appropriate and upholds the Constitution. Twenty-six states, led by Texas, are doing battle in federal Court in defense of the Constitution and its division of powers. They seek to prevent the President's attempt to strike existing law, legislate new law without the legislature, and unilaterally grant amnesty to millions of immigrants illegally here. This United States District judge in South Texas has previously found the Department of Homeland Security inappropriately engaging in human trafficking and now has struck a blow for the Constitution. The ruling verifies what the American people and lawmakers alike have been echoing – this president does not have the legal authority to be the legislative, executive, and judicial branches all by himself.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.12.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the new data from the Census Bureau that shows the United States added twice as many immigrants as jobs since 2000—while the number of Americans not working increased dramatically: “It is truly astounding that the federal government has added two new immigrants for each additional job created in the United States since 2000. According to Census Bureau data, in the past 15 years there were only 9.3 million jobs created while 18 million new legal and illegal immigrants were introduced to this nation. This new information is compounded by the fact that the President is implementing policies that would unilaterally declare illegal immigrants as “lawfully present” in the United States, making job hunting even more difficult for over 90 million Americans who are eligible to work but unemployed. It is apparent the Obama Administration is out of touch with the financial struggles of willing American hard-workers when it is putting immigrants illegally here ahead of them. This administration’s policies have slowed the growth of employment within the United States and hurt struggling Americans by making employment more difficult to find as well as drastically depressing wages. Under the Obama Administration, this country has seen the lowest labor force participation levels since 1978. Roughly 92 million people in the Unites States are out of a job, including those who are eligible to work but have given up even trying to find a job. According to the report, native-born Americans made up 77 percent of the workforce in 2000, but less than 72 percent by the end of 2014. Additionally, young Americans are being even more dramatically hurt by the Obama policies and amnesty actions. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, ‘today’s typical 18- to 34-year-old earns about $2,000 less per year (adjusted for inflation) than their counterpart in 1980.’ That is truly outrageous. Yet, those younger Americans are the very people who support the President more strongly. The unlawful executive amnesty decree illegally created by President Obama will double immigration rates in the country. That will financially damage Americans legally here all the more. This President’s policies are crushing the economy and doing significant damage to hurting families who try to obey our laws. It’s time for the President to start putting the needs of American workers harmed by his policies ahead of those who violate the law.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.02.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding President Obama’s proposed 2016 budget: “Americans deserve far better than what the president proposed today in his ‘budget plan.’ President Obama’s proposed budget devastates the small monthly returns seniors receive from their retirement accounts since so many are invested in the very stocks the President wants to attack. The President pushes more tax increases that will kill jobs and continue to stymie the economy. This is not what this country needs. Under Obama's budget plan our national debt will pass $20 trillion in 2017. In fact, the plan he has suggested will add trillions upon trillions in new debt to this nation over the next decade. This reckless spending and continuation of failed policies are draining Americans’ paychecks and hindering small businesses from starting and surviving. It steals from our children and grandchildren solely because this administration is voting ‘present’ instead of leading to eliminate waste, fraud and bureaucratic gluttony. This proposal to add trillions of dollars to the national debt is, to quote Senator Barrack Obama, ‘immoral,’ and I urge Congress to stand together against such outrageous and calloused harm to the middle class.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Natural Resources Subcommittee Chairman of Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.29.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the introduction of H.R. 594, the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act: “It is critical that this bill is brought to the House floor for passage then sent to the Senate for passage then on to the President. This bill is critical to reigning in federal agencies who have engaged in a power grab to snatch Constitutional rights away from property owners, as well as local and state governments. The EPA is attempting to illegally expand the Clean Water Act (CWA) and grasp jurisdiction over water that is currently under control of states and private ownership. The EPA has long since expanded beyond working toward a clean environment and has become a runaway, militarized, super power that eats liberties of Americans becoming bigger and more unstoppable with each set of rights it consumes. It must be prevented from speaking its whims into law after backroom bureaucratic deals. These unelected bureaucrats who have thumbed their noses at the written law in favor of their own cubicle-concocted regulations should not be allowed to grow any more powerful. States and local governments should be allowed to control their own water unless it is patently a national waterway. It is an honor to not only work with the bill’s author, Congressman Paul Gosar, but to also call him a dear friend.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and the Natural Resources Subcommittee Chairman of Oversight and Investigations. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.22.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today backing the 2015 March for Life Rally in Washington, D.C. and emphasizing his deep support in standing up for the lives of the unborn: “Sadly, today marks 40 years of legalized abortion in all fifty states that allowed taking the life of an unborn baby at any time. It is heart wrenching that approximately 57,762,169 abortions have taken place since the Roe vs. Wade decision in 1973. Every single life is precious and the thought of these individual lives being brutally snuffed out is unbearable and is a massive dark blot on the history and legacy of any nation that considers itself civilized. All children are endowed by their Creator with the right and chance to life and opportunity to grow. As a father who has held a beautiful, prematurely born daughter in the palm of my hand and felt her tiny little hand grasp the end of my finger and literally hold on for dear life, it is heart breaking beyond words to think of anyone wanting to destroy such a child at the same age from conception. So, today I stand in one accord with those who are on the National Mall standing and marching for the worthy lives of the unborn. Grassroots pro-life America has made a slow but dramatic difference in convicting the hearts of Americans as to this atrocity. I will continue to fight for the precious lives of the unborn on Capitol Hill because of the God-given value of every single life that is so wonderfully made.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.20.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement tonight regarding President Obama’s address to the nation: “Tonight we heard nothing new. This is the first administration that has presided over 95% of the nation’s income going to the 1% most wealthy. It is as if there is a wink and nod to Wall Street, the biggest banks, and the most wealthy that the President will call them names, demonize them publicly, and say he is going after them, but his policies will make them richer than they have ever been and help them eliminate smaller competition. He has brought Americans less healthcare at vastly expanding costs though he has added tens of thousands of government jobs like IRS agents to harass working Americans. His policies have made the poor poorer; the wealthy wealthier; the middle class smaller; while the gap between the wealthiest and poorest has expanded. Wages have not grown though inflation has. At some point the President must come to grips with the fact that his historic and massive government spending and increased tax revenue has created less freedom and less economic prosperity, except for the nation’s richest. He always likes to talk about taxing the rich, but the rich are the only ones who can take actions to avoid taxes even if it means moving, while the middle class gets poorer picking up the slack. President Obama gave no signs tonight of relenting from his oppressive 70,000 plus pages of regulations each year that drag businesses, jobs and wages down. Let’s face it; a group that takes extraordinary advantage of the child tax credit in order to get back more than they put in is people who are illegally in the U.S. Now he wants to bring down wages of working class American citizens even further and give their jobs to people coming in illegally. Americans need the President to start formulating policies for them since he has no need to pander for votes any longer. Now is not the time for radical royal decrees and a more massive federal government. If the President had announced tonight that he is now going to start working WITH Congress for the good of the American people, by changing course and helping create full-time, non-government jobs, better wages, along with lower healthcare, energy and education costs, and work to get government out of people’s private lives for a change, that would have been a speech I would still be applauding.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.15.2015	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was named the Chairman of the Natural Resources Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. He released the following statement regarding his appointment: “It is such an honor to be named the Chairman of the Natural Resources Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. The First Congressional District of Texas is not only rich in natural resources; it is the number one natural gas producing district in Texas, and I am proud to represent east Texas in this capacity in the U.S. Congress. In this new role as the Natural Resources Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman, I plan to hold this administration’s feet to the fire for the good of every household in America. This economy is ready to do amazing things if we loosen the death grip that this administration has had by using over 70,000 pages of new regulations each year. These power-hungry bureaucrats need to return the freedoms they have robbed from Americans, so Americans can make their own choices and save vast amounts of money they are currently spending on energy and taxes. The Obama Administration needs to be held accountable for their actions that are hindering America’s potential of becoming energy independent. We must end the cycle of the administration's cronies getting massive loans and grants for so-called ‘green energy’ only to have them go bankrupt and go start a different company loyal to the President. We need to move to a day when no energy companies get subsidies so that constituent consumers decide what energy is best by deciding which makes more sense for them without government penalties or subsidies. The Natural Resources Committee is blessed to be under the professorial leadership of Rob Bishop. I issued a statement shortly after the November election supporting Rob as chairman because he has extraordinary insights and knowledge about our nation's resources. He has my complete respect, and I am honored to work with him as his subcommittee chairman during this crucial time in our history. Other Congress members have mentioned that bureaucrats at the E.P.A., Land Management, U.S. Fish & Wildlife, and related bureaucracies are not likely going to be excited about having to be accountable and testify before me and my committee. Personally, I very much look forward to it myself.” The Natural Resources Committee has oversight of the Department of Interior, which includes: Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of Reclamation, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, National Park Service , Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement , U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Geological Survey. To view full committee assignments, click here. # # #
01.12.2015	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was named the Legislator of the Year by DETCOG (Deep East Texas Council of Governments). He released the following statement regarding this award and honor: “What a privilege it is to be named the ‘Legislator of the Year’ by the Deep East Texas Judges/Commissioners Association. East Texas is where I grew up and lived all my life except for my four years in the Army. It is home and I love the East Texans that comprise a place where sense is ‘common,’ unlike Washington, D.C. where it is ‘uncommon sense.’ There are no better people in the country or world than East Texans and it is such an honor to represent them and stand up for them, no matter the pressures that exist to abandon our Constitution and just ‘go along to get along.’ I am a blessed man who is humbled and grateful to be voted this honor. It continues to inspire and encourage me to continue to fight for what is best for the country and the wonderful people of East Texas.” The “Deep East Texas Legislator of the Year” award is given to a legislator who has diligently worked on the behalf of all the citizens of the deep east Texas District. # # #
01.06.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today on the historic vote for Speaker of the United States House of Representatives: “We made a difference today. The results were not what we hoped for, but the voices of tens of thousands of Americans were heard by the people on Capitol Hill. Phone lines all over Capitol Hill were lit up by voters letting everyone here know the will of the American people. This was always about one thing –trying to have a Speaker who was sensitive to the will of the American voters. As I repeatedly made clear, this was never about one person. We knew that if everyone were present, we needed 29 votes for anyone other than the current Speaker. If we achieved that, then either after the first ballot or second, we would have a conference of only Republican members of Congress to likely agree on a compromise candidate. The goal was to have a new Speaker with wisdom and honesty to lead the Congress. The fight does not end today. Our cause is a worthy one that we will continue. We must not be breaking our promises to the American people. We must keep the momentum that we created so that the House of Representatives can be as intended “The People’s House” and not just a rubber stamp for broken promises. This is not the last battle. We still have a President acting as if he were the executive, legislative and judicial branches all in one. We also need a House and Senate that are kept accountable. After being told that we should now all come together and work together, we have been told late today that two of our Congressmen are being taken off of the committee they were on, simply for voting like their voters wanted. So, it appears before we can work together, we are now going to have another fight. It would be a shame if the Speaker of the House who has so much power is a sore winner.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.04.2015	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding his decision to buck the status quo and challenge John Boehner in the race for House Speaker: “After the November elections gave Republicans control of the Senate, voters made clear they wanted change. There have been numerous examples of problematic Republican leadership, but we were hopeful our leaders got the voters’ message. However, after our Speaker forced through the CRomnibus by passing it with Democratic votes and without time to read it, it seemed clear that we needed new leadership. There had been much discussion. But, until yesterday, no one had stepped up. I applaud my friend Rep. Ted Yoho for putting his name forward as an alternative to the status quo. Ted is a good man for whom I could vote, but I have heard from many supporters and also friends in Congress who have urged me to put forward my name for Speaker as well to increase our chances of change. That is why I am also offering my name as a candidate for Speaker. There is false information being floated that any Republican candidates in addition to the current Speaker will split the vote and give the Speaker's gavel to Congresswoman Pelosi. This is nothing but a scare tactic to keep the current regime in power. As long as Republicans vote for an adult American citizen for Speaker, no Democrat can win. Only if 59 Republicans voted “Present” would there be a chance for a Democrat to win. To win the Speaker’s race, an adult American citizen has to get a clear majority of all Members of Congress on the House floor voting for an eligible person. Voting “Present” simply reduces the number of votes required to win a majority. If no one wins a majority on the first ballot, then we go to a second vote, then a third, until someone gets a majority. At this point, the Speaker’s election is not about a particular candidate. It is about whether we keep the status quo or make the change the country demands. I am putting forward my name for consideration as Speaker and hope that with a new Speaker, be that me or someone else, we can fight for the ideals and principles that the voters wanted when they elected us in November.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.16.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) hosted a reception to honor the participants and announced the winners of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition on Saturday, in Marshall, Texas. He released the following statement regarding the outstanding art pieces submitted this year: “Throughout history, art and its expression have always been vital to our culture. Personally, with one of my daughters being an artist, it has played a significant role in my family’s life. The Congressional Art Competition is a fun way for gifted artists in the district to showcase their talent. It also gives our high school artists another quality competition for their resume and portfolio. It is truly exciting to see numerous art pieces, from various artists across east Texas, displayed at The Michelson Museum in Marshall, Texas. Congratulations to the winners this year.” 2015 Congressional Art Winners: FIRST PLACE Madalyn Garrett Whitehouse H.S. Mixed Media, “WILD FLOWERS” SECOND PLACE Josh Davis Lufkin H.S. Acrylic, “SAM HOUSTON” THIRD PLACE Scierra Waldron Bishop T.K. Gorman H.S. Photography, “ARBOL DE LA MESA VERDE” HONORABLE MENTION Nathan (Drew) Bienhoff, Jr. Spring Hill H.S. Mixed medium, “PASTURE SUNRISE” HONORABLE MENTION Asyri Austin West Rusk H.S. Pencil, “MRS. VIOLA THOMPSON” HONORABLE MENTION Shelby Hall Bullard H.S. Clayboard, “UP IN THE SKY” HONORABLE MENTION Yamilex Robles Lufkin H.S. Acrylic, “UNDER THE SEA” The annual competition is open to high school students across the district. The first place winner was awarded a scholarship and has their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol Building for a year, alongside winning art from Congressional Districts across the United States. # # #
12.11.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), along with Republican Members of the Texas Delegation, sent a letter of support to Governor Rick Perry and Governor Elect Greg Abbott regarding Texas’ lawsuit against Obama’s executive action amnesty. “President Obama adamantly stated at least 22 times over the past six years that he could not create his own immigration law. However, the week before Thanksgiving, our Commander- in- Chief issued what amounts to a royal decree, which pretends to legalize approximately 5 million people who entered the United States unlawfully,” said Rep. Louie Gohmert. “Now is not the time to surrender. Texas has been and still is on the front lines in the battle of combating illegal immigration, and the federal government has done little to help the massive influx of unlawful crossings and chaos on the southern border. It is more than encouraging seeing the state of Texas take a stand against this unconstitutional monarchical order from President Obama.” # # # Click the links to view the letters sent to Governor Rick Perry and Governor Elect Greg Abbott.
11.20.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert issued the following statement regarding President Obama's speech announcing executive amnesty: “Tonight President Obama issued an oral royal decree that will be followed by a written regal decree, as any good monarch would do. This unlawful, blatant executive action would legalize more than 5 million people here illegally. This president is single-handedly creating a constitutional crisis and hurting the citizens he took an oath to protect and defend. It has been reported that this unilateral amnesty move will add as many foreign workers to the nation’s legal labor force as the total number of new jobs created by his economy since 2009. President Obama’s regal proclamation is literally gambling away jobs for hard-working Americans, so naturally he would go to Las Vegas, perhaps Caesar’s Palace. Regardless of whether or not it is recognized, the President’s illegal legislation is a slap in the face to the African-Americans and Hispanics who as citizens have a dramatically high unemployment rate. Though the amnesty working permits are being illegally and unconstitutionally done, they will no doubt displace millions of working citizens and at a lower hourly rate, driving up minority unemployment and driving down wages artificially. It is the height of manipulation to make the announcement before the week of Thanksgiving when it will not get noticed by as many people whose futures may be crushed by the action.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.05.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the election results in Texas and throughout the country: “This election reinforces that I am the most blessed servant member of the United States Congress. The overwhelming majority of east Texans want their children to at least have the chance for a better life than they have had. Proverbs says, ‘Where there is no vision, the people perish.’ Unfortunately, if there was vision in this administration, it has been one of full government intrusion, manipulation, and lawlessness, with limited healthcare, especially for seniors and non-government workers. This administration has had this country on a course of less opportunity, less respect abroad while creating more enemies and fewer allies. We’ve had more tax dollars doing less for the country but more for bureaucrats, leaving fewer Americans working than at any time since the Carter days of malaise. American voters from all races, creeds, colors, national origins and both genders realized we needed to get off the track to government on the people, crushing the people and spying on the people, back to a government of, by and for the people. Opinion polling of voters indicates Republicans have not earned the respect of the people though they overwhelmingly got their votes. Now that we have the majority in both houses, we must end Republican leader lethargy and begin restoring the national economy and our international greatness that has rusted away. Though some wonder what difference it makes to discern our mistakes, we must know what we’ve done wrong to avoid those errors in the future. We must restore faith by our allies that we will cease pouring money and weapons into the hands of those who want to destroy us. We must encourage lawful immigration, while making sure that we are secure from disease and destruction coming across porous borders. Speaking up and standing up on the foundation of truth and our nation’s Constitution has been and will remain my charge. I am humbled to be so blessed by such support for my efforts.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.29.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today concerning the breaking news that the Obama Administration is planning to treat non-U.S. citizens infected with Ebola in the United States: “According to what has been discovered from this administration, my concerns expressed in recent weeks that the Obama Administration had probably cut a deal with foreign leaders to let their Ebola patients come to the United States were apparently spot on. Completely ignoring the fatal nature of Ebola in horrible ways evidences the callous, wanton disregard for the American lives by President Obama and his appointees took an oath to protect. The evidence that the Obama administration is attempting to sneak foreign Ebola patients into the United States is electrifying since they have not even been able to say where the United States military that he sent to Africa could go if they get the Ebola virus. One would think that it would be common sense not to bring infected patients across our border. In this administration, that kind of sense is extremely uncommon. When the President refused to put a travel ban in place in recent weeks, I knew there had to be an ulterior motive like a secret deal to put Americans involuntarily at risk by bringing in foreigners with the deadly disease. It turns out that I was correct. This outrage comes at a time when our valiant U.S. military will be forced to work amongst people who potentially are contagious. The President said yesterday Americans are not a people defined by fear. That has been true for most of our history. However, when we have a President who refuses to take actions which most Americans know to be common sense protections for Americans at their embassies, in our military, at our borders, in our hospitals, from radical Islamic terrorists, from fatal diseases, and from a government spying on its own people, then Americans’ common sense says there is reason to be very concerned or even fearful. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.28.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the 27 World War II veterans who will travel to Washington, D.C. this week to tour the United States Capitol and experience the World War II Memorial: “These valiant veterans deserve our utmost respect. When Brookshire's gets them all the way to Washington, DC, I want to make sure their experience is worthy of the dedication they have had for our country. For most of them, this will be their one trip to ever see their Capitol, and I want help the Brookshire's team put a smile on their faces when they think about this trip for the rest of their lives. What an honor for me as their servant to get to honor these heroes in Washington.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.04.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the Republican National Committee Chairman, Reince Preibus,’ remarks and release of the unity document, ‘Principles for American Renewal’: “It is about time that the Republican Party stops the war on conservatives and takes a strong stand for principles that make our nation stronger, which happen to be conservative. This nation’s foundation was on life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness through limited government, not bloated, oppressive, freedom-stealing, luxury-indulged government. Power should be in the people’s hands – not in the clutches of bureaucrats in Washington, DC. For so long establishment types have been blaming conservatives for losses when it was actually the abandonment of our core conservative principles that was doing the damage. The majority of Americans want the nation preserved with fewer Washington bureaucrats calling the shots. They want our nation secured against enemies foreign and domestic, while being free of deadly diseases that are coming into the country and spreading by the Democrats’ politically correct policies. They want an end to the waste of deficit spending. They’d even like the White House safe from intruders, where vulnerability has arisen from liberal, unqualified political correctness. Americans would like our military men and women to be able to defend themselves without Rules of Engagement that allow our enemies to wound or kill them first. They would like a secure border so people come in legally, and are not secretly shipped all over the country with any illness they might happen to be carrying. For Republican National Committee Chairman, Reince Preibus, to give a great speech like this today, clearly the light of truth is shining where it is needed. This call, to unite under core conservative principles, is refreshing. Republicans should be planting their feet on the bedrock of these ideals. Let’s face it: promoting peace through strength is a winning strategy. The federal government has evolved into a bloated, oppressive, economy-killing mess. It is time for conservative leaders to take a stand and reverse the deterioration of American greatness. The upcoming election can be a turning point – a potential conduit to America’s foundations that assure prosperity and exceptionalism. I applaud Mr. Preibus for speaking out by reinforcing conservative ideals that will strengthen this nation in the face of Democrat and establishment belittling.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.25.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the announcement that U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder would be stepping down from his position: “For many years now, I have been calling for Attorney General Holder’s resignation. Not only has he lied before Members of Congress and, ultimately, been held in contempt, he has obfuscated the truth and been the most partisan, partial, prejudiced and self-pitying Attorney General in my lifetime, including John Mitchell who went to jail for his crime. As a former judge who has questioned Holder numerous times before the House Judiciary Committee, it is frustrating to seek the truth and receive dishonesty and arrogance from the chief law enforcement officer of the United States government. He has prosecuted more people for leaking, which sometimes is an effort at whistle blowing, than all other Attorneys General added together. He has not only failed to investigate crimes and potential crimes occurring in this administration, he has been the Cover-Upper-in-Chief and will be sorely missed by those in the administration like Lois Lerner who want to disobey the law and flaunt it. It is my sincere hope that the Obama Administration will appoint an Attorney General who is reputable and truly desiring to uphold law and order for all Americans– not just cater to this administration’s whims and ideology.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.19.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his bill, the ‘‘EDIBLE Act” which is an acronym for the longer name of the bill, the ‘Eliminate Dogmatic Interference by Bureaucratic Lunch Extremists Act', which would prevent the federal government from making any food mandates or requirements for schools that are not completely paid for with federal funds: "The best thing the federal government could do, regarding the federal food mandates for students, is completely drop the demands. It is grossly unfair for unelected bureaucrats or spouses of elected officials to mandate what must be eaten and not eaten where they have never lived, resided or eaten. When cafeteria workers have shown me the list of allowed foods, I was shocked that there were so many foods that I had never even heard of as well as foods I did not eat as an east Texas student. Now as an east Texas adult it is exceedingly clear that the best control is local control, and that is especially true of students' food.’ Cafeteria workers all over east Texas have complained about the massive amount of food they are federally required to cook and throw away. Sanity must return to local school menus.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.17.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on his decision to vote against an amendment that would authorize the training and equipping of ‘moderate’ Syrian rebels: "The House voted today to back President Obama’s deeply flawed mission to arm Syrian rebels – purportedly to stop the Islamic State. I voted against this effort because the Syrian rebels this President wants to continue arming and training has strong ties to the very group that we are supposedly fighting. Though President Obama says the Islamic State is not religious, their radical Islamist leaders are apparently unaware of that. The leadership of the Free Syrian Army says that they are willing to fight and kill alongside the Islamic State, who they say shares their religious beliefs. The Islamists that President Obama wants to keep arming have also worked with al Qaeda affiliates in the past and will in the future. Even if someone is naive as this administration's officials, they should have become alarmed long before now that weapons this President has been sending to the "vetted moderate Free Syrian Army" for over a year continue to end up in the hands of our sworn enemies. America should have no part in arming and training these radical armies. Since the Islamist State says they are at war with us, we should eliminate them without giving our enemies more weapons with which to murder us." Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
08.21.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the sickening news that the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) beheaded an American journalist, James Foley: “The American people have witnessed again another glimpse of the brutality of radical Islam, in this case the ISIS terror group. These evil people and their despicable, inhuman atrocities cry out for countries desiring peace to eliminate them from the living. My thoughts and prayers have gone out to Mr. Foley’s family and friends. Their pain, suffering, and anger are unimaginable. We also pray for the additional journalist in captivity and hope for a safe return. But, as we pray for his safety and the American people, our government should be responding with such dramatic power that tempted terrorists are tempted no more. Terrorism is very real and is growing despite this President’s best efforts to weaken U.S. power and apologize. Before ISIS commits more heinous crimes against humanity in the name of radical Islam, it must be annihilated for the good of all peace-loving Christians, Jews, moderate Muslims, other religious people, and secularists who simply want to live in peace. Peace will come no other way.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.16.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement showing unwavering support for Israel after a ceasefire was rejected by Hamas: “The existence and safety of the nation of Israel is critical to the safety and existence of the United States and those who love true freedom. Israel’s support for human rights is more consistent with the position of the United States than any other nation in the middle east. Most Americans believe that if we as a nation bless Israel, we will be blessed. Therefore, any enemy of Israel is an enemy of the United States. As the first nation to recognize Israel as an independent state when it was re-established in 1948, the United States has known Israel as one of its closest allies. Now, Israel is being rocked again by age-old violence from people who have received United States aid and money and yet have vowed destruction of Israel. Now is the time to stand stronger than ever with our dear friend, Israel, not only in prayer and spirit, but in deed and defense. If anyone doubted who truly wanted peace in the middle east, any doubts should have been erased when Israel agreed to a cease-fire, yet Hamas remained a consistent terrorist group and refused anything that resembled peace. All aid of any kind from which Hamas benefits should be eliminated and all aid we can provide to Israel should be provided. In the meantime, our thoughts and prayers have been and remain with the blessed nation of Israel." Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.09.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement in response to a request from The Arab American Institute regarding the heinous murder of Mohammed Abu Khdeir: “The loss of any innocent life is absolutely tragic. Our hearts break for any family who loses a loved one, regardless of who they are, which obviously includes Palestinians or Israelis. The reason the Israeli kidnappings and deaths prompted a statement from me was because after the atrocity against the Israeli boys, Hamas and other Palestinians rejoiced and praised the killers of the teenage Israelis as "heroes." In fact, the murderers of the Israeli boys are still walking free and at large in society; whereas, the Israeli government has arrested and condemned the extremist individuals suspected of killing the Palestinian boy. It appears the Israeli government is acting in concordance with the law and the Palestinians are allowing murderers to get away with their heinous crimes. The Israeli government did not require outside statements of condemnation in order to do the right thing.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.25.2014	U.S. Representatives Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) and Bill Flores (R-Texas) have introduced legislation that provides incentives to find former IRS director Lois Lerner’s missing emails. "It seems that each time the IRS has evidence that will either prove with certainty its guilt or innocence, the evidence disappears which both common sense and the law indicate the evidence such as emails must have proved the IRS’s impropriety if not outright crimes. It is time the IRS either comes clean, or has a special prosecutor to clean it up. This bill should help in the interim," Congressman Gohmert said. “I find it very hard to believe that the emails from Lois Lerner are lost and unrecoverable. It is very convenient that the IRS is unable to turn over any of the communications from the central figure responsible for the inappropriate targeting of conservative groups. We will not sit idly by as the IRS continues to work to cover up its blatant abuse of government power,” Congressman Flores said. “Lois Lerner’s involvement in the planning and execution of beliefs-based IRS targeting can only stay hidden for so long. By providing these incentives we can get people to reveal the hidden truths behind this egregious cover up,” Flores stated. “It is time to hold the IRS’ feet to the fire and for them to come clean about Lois Lerner’s involvement. I remain committed to uncovering the truth and ensuring that all federal agencies are working to serve the American public with integrity and fairness.” The Identify and Recover Sent E-mails (IRS) Act (H.R. 4958) would award any individual or group who can recover Lois Lerner’s lost emails $1,000,000 and award $500,000 for information regarding the destruction of the emails that can be used for prosecution of the individuals involved. These rewards would come from the unobligated balances from the IRS fiscal year 2014 budget. Additionally, this legislation would cut salaries at the IRS by 20 percent, until the emails are recovered. Text of the IRS Act Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.23.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) along with Reps. Bill Flores (R-TX) and Mike Pompeo (R-KS), filed the House companion measure to Sen. Ted Cruz’s (R-TX) bill to prohibit Guantanamo transfers. If passed, this bill would temporarily halt further transfers or releases for detainees at Guantanamo Bay until the Obama Administration can justify the benefits of this prisoner exchange. “The release of the five dangerous Taliban leaders by the Obama Administration is truly outrageous. Time and time again this administration has shown the American people that it is as transparent as hardened mud, though it has claimed more transparency more often than any administration since the Carter administration's chaotic term in the White House. Not only does this prisoner exchange put the lives of countless Americans in jeopardy, it displays to the world that the U.S. will negotiate with terrorists; and, that frankly puts us in a frightening place,” said Congressman Louie Gohmert. “President Obama owes all Americans an explanation for his unilateral negotiations to release five Taliban terrorists. This prisoner trade has significant, adverse repercussions for our national security. As opposed to making destructive decisions, the president must follow the law and work with Congress prior to releasing dangerous prisoners. It is clear that the administration is not properly vetting these situations with Congress and they are putting Americans at risk. This legislation takes a crucial step to make sure that Congress is fully informed of the potential future risks and dangerous implications these five terrorists pose for the U.S. going forward," said Congressman Flores. Congressman Mike Pompeo, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee and a former Army officer said, “President Obama’s catch-and-release approach to terrorists must stop immediately. It was a grave and dangerous mistake to release the Taliban Five whose commitment to jihad against America has shown no signs of dissipating and will now pose a threat to our troops abroad. This bill takes steps to ensure that the President cannot unilaterally empty Guantanamo Bay in order to close it. We must keep Americans safe.” Specifically, the bill will block any funds from being spent on the transfer or release of Guantanamo detainees until either 90 days after submitting a report to Congress that justifies the release of the Taliban 5, or 180 days after this bill is signed into law. # # #
06.06.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement in memory the 70th Anniversary of the D-Day invasion: “Today we remember those who lost their lives taking the fight to the enemies of liberty by retaking the coastal areas of France. Young Americans, most of whom were teenagers, gave their last full measure of devotion on the battlefield 70 years ago today. They were fighting for the United States, they were fighting for us - present and future Americans along with all who yearn to live free. We cannot thank these valiant soldiers enough for the ultimate sacrifice they made that day. Today, we remember and honor these heroic lives. Few are aware that there was a practice invasion in Great Britain during which hundreds of Allied lives were lost. Many including Gen. Eisenhower worried that if that many lives were lost in a practice invasion with no live rounds being fired, how much worse would the real thing be. Roosevelt slept little speaking by radio to the American people the night before and the morning of the invasion, praying for our military for several minutes on national radio. Many who stepped into the landing craft, or put on parachutes, or got into gliders, knew that they may never see their loved ones again. But onward they went for the good of us all. Jesus said, 'Greater love hath no one than this; that a man lay down his life for his friends.' He would know, and that is what so many did for the lovers of liberty. The limitless courage they showed in the face of raw danger should be an inspiration to us all. To those warriors who lived through the violent horrors of that combat – a simple thank you is not enough. You truly are our hearts’ inspiration. Today on this Seventieth Anniversary of D-Day and each day to follow, may God richly bless our courageous military men and women." Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.03.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the Obama Administration’s decision to mandate a 30 percent cut in carbon emissions at fossil fuel-burning power plants by 2030: “President Obama’s plan to combat global warming is a actually a plan that will ultimately shut down power plants and cause air conditioning bills to 'necessarily skyrocket' as he promised when he was a candidate. Unfortunately, that appears to be one of the few campaign promises he has kept. At a time when our nation’s economy has been shrinking as have some people’s incomes, this new plan will surely drive more American businesses overseas to countries that are neither afraid nor ashamed to use the energy with which their countries have been blessed. This measure, aimed at cutting pollution from coal-fired power plants, has essentially waged a war on our coal industry. Coming on the heels of millions of Americans losing their health insurance policies they liked, while seeing their healthcare costs escalate, this will be a devastating blow to both individuals’ cost of living and, for many, their way of making a living. These new EPA regulations, more than likely, will result in the closure of a large number of American coal production facilities as well as electricity producing plants that run on coal over the next decade. Our air in Texas is cleaner than it has been in decades and continues to improve, but what is proposed now, means higher costs and thousands fewer jobs. Projections are that this Presidential power play to eliminate American power will cost our economy up to $50 billion a year. America’s economy doesn’t run on moonbeams and windmills. Even areas that have solar or wind energy must have transmission lines from other plants like those running on coal to provide power when the wind isn’t blowing and the sun isn’t shining. These regulations are intrusive, punitive and ineffective. It is my hope that the Senate Democrats will listen to the American men and woman, who have already tightened their belts in this economy, and stop this disaster from being implemented. Let’s not force a procedure that kills the patient.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.02.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the Palestinian unity government of Fatah and Hamas: "The Palestinian unity of both the Fatah and Hamas governments is more than troubling; it has very deadly implications for any Israeli who simply wants to live in peace. This unity of these two Palestinian rival groups will eliminate a distraction from the hatred of Israelis and the desire to wipe them off the globe. When two groups would love to see genocide of the Jewish people, those two groups distracting each other from that goal has been helpful. At a time when the U.S. government has betrayed Israeli secrets and pressured Israel to take steps that are harmful to Israel, this new union between Fatah and Hamas is not good news. As Benjamin Netanyahu said of this agreement, ‘President Mahmoud Abbas said yes to terrorism and no to peace.’ It is distressing that any group would make an agreement with a known and recognized terrorist organization such as Hamas, who does not even acknowledge the existence of Israel. It is my prayer that the United States will rally around our strong ally, Israel, in the near certain difficulties ahead. The United States’ bond with Israel has existed since that nation’s founding and remains strong. For anyone who believes that those who bless Israel will be blessed, this is not a healthy development when the current Obama administration seems to embrace it.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.30.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki’s resignation today: “More and more we are seeing instances like the Phoenix VA hospital, where 1,600 veterans waited for more than a year for first time appointments with primary-care physicians and sometimes more than 200 days for referrals to specialists. Sorrowfully, as a result, an estimated 40 veterans passed away waiting for the care they were promised to receive at that one facility in Arizona. A decorated patriot and hero, Shinseki was given a massive lethargic bureaucracy ready for his dramatic improvements. Not only did he fail to make improvements, but things got worse under his watch. Hopefully, President Obama will appoint a real reformer who will ensure the proper treatment and care of our beloved veterans.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.26.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today celebrating and honoring the significance of Memorial Day: “Today we honor those men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice for their country. These brave patriots answered their country’s call with honor, and paid with their 'last full measure of devotion.' In the face of danger’s snare, they fought with dignity, devotion, valor and vigor. They sacrificed their lives for the freedoms we enjoy today. It appears that we may be the only country in history which has gone to war or gotten into fights shedding patriotic blood for no more unselfish motive than love of liberty. That is why the French, German and Japanese people, for example, still speak their own native languages today instead of English. Memorial Day is not just a summer holiday, it’s a day for the nation to reflect on the priceless lives and limbs sacrificed on the altar of freedom - not just for ourselves, but for the greater good of all, but the evil. When we look at neighborhoods across America today with flags proudly and majestically waving in the wind, may we consider then the memory of our fallen heroes. We should prayerfully thank them for their sacrifice and thank God that he allowed our nation to be graced with such sons and daughters of liberty. At the same time, we must scrupulously follow the admonition of Abraham Lincoln to 'to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.' To do those noble things, we must end the willful neglect found in too many parts of the Veterans Administration. Once the Senate and President join us in forcing a house cleaning at the V.A., we must insure that everyone left there understands that their duty and purpose is to caringly and considerately serve those who have served us so well, and see to the care for their widows, widowers and orphans. As we thank God today, may He continue to bless these United States of America. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.08.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) voted to hold former top IRS official, Lois Lerner, in contempt of the United States Congress and voted for the appointment of a special prosecutor. He released the following statement regarding his thoughts and support for this vote: “It is neither fair nor legal to waive one’s Constitutional right to remain silent in order to proclaim innocence before Congress while stating that nothing has been done wrong, and then try to reclaim Fifth Amendment rights to remain silent. Mrs. Lerner should be held accountable for her actions. The vote to hold her in contempt of Congress is a first step, but we must get to the bottom of the atrocious targeting of conservative groups. Make no mistake; if the IRS under a liberal Democratic administration can target conservatives and get away with it, a Republican administration can target liberals and that needs to be stopped now. This vote today was a very important step toward attempting to hold the IRS accountable since they hold the ability to abuse taxpayers every single day if partisans like Lois Lerner go unchecked. It is hard to believe it has been almost a full year since news broke that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) had been targeting conservative groups during the 2012 election. Under Mrs. Lerner’s leadership, a part of the IRS leadership has shown a shocking amount of political partisanship, activism and outright abuse of unbridled power over American citizens simply trying to utilize their Constitutional rights.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.02.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the decision made to appoint a select committee to investigate the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi: “For more than a year and a half, I have been pushing for House Leadership to establish a select committee to investigate the deadly attack on our U.S. Consulate in Benghazi. Four precious Americans lives were lost that day and it is our job to get to the bottom of what truly happened. I applaud the decision made to finally appoint a select committee to seek out answers and get to the truth because the American people can handle the truth. Some of us knew that the administration had not given us the facts when it happened and we wanted accurate answers before the 2012 election. It is past time we learned what really happened. For anyone tempted to ask, 'What difference at this point does it make?' they should know that by learning what happened, we can do a better job of preventing it in the future. Two embassies were attacked while the Clintons were in the White House and if they had done a better job assessing the problems then, the Benghazi attack may not have killed four more Americans. With the new information received this week of e-mails that point to White House involvement in misleading the American people, it is more evident that action needs to be taken. This administration has repeatedly lied to the American public and tried to cover-up policy mistakes with false rhetoric. It is time to unearth the truth from the rubble of lies.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.30.2014	Last night, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was named the next President of The Texas State Society of Washington, D.C. He issued the following statement expressing his deep gratitude for the privilege of serving in this position: “It is an absolute honor to serve as the President of The Texas State Society of Washington, D.C. Community is always important. The Texas State Society provides this essential kinship among Texas colleagues living and working in Washington, DC. As a native Texan and United States Representative of the First Congressional District of Texas, it is exciting to have this opportunity to encourage camaraderie among Texans and friends in the heart of the nation’s capital. Since this organization has a heritage that is 104 years old and includes most of the greatest Texas Representatives and Senators of the last 100 years, being the new president becomes even more of a privilege. Though my duties take me to Washington, D.C. most weeks, Texas is ever and always home." The Texas State Society of Washington, D.C. (TSS) is a bipartisan organization that encourages a fraternal spirit among Texans and friends in our nation’s capital. In addition to various events, in January 1981, the Texas State Society began hosting the “Black Tie and Boots” Inaugural reception, which has become a popular event throughout Washington, DC. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.28.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding Secretary of State John Kerry’s remarks that Israel could become an ‘apartheid state’: "Today Secretary of State John Kerry accused the Jewish people of Israel of risking guilt for the crime of ‘Apartheid.’ He said that about Israeli Jews who the U.N. unanimously provided a nation after the worst genocide in world history. Secretary Kerry is ignorant of both history and the offense of ‘Apartheid.’ Our Secretary of State has effectively cursed Israel. It is not Israel who sent suicide bombers against Palestinians, nor denied the right of Palestinians to work in Israel. It was not Israel who advocated for completely wiping others off the map nor taught children in their textbooks to vilely hate others as rats and vermin. It was not Israel who named landmarks and holidays for murderers using suicide bombs to kill innocents nor launched rockets every day hoping to terrorize and kill innocent people. It is Israel that has fought against such racism and hatred. Secretary Kerry stands for those who support the destruction of Israel. He should not be speaking for our nation. He must stand down or be removed from office.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.08.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the passage of The Baseline Reform Act, which he spearheaded in the House of Representatives: “Since my first term in 2005, I have been pushing to end the automatic increases in every federal department’s budget. Having filed the Zero Baseline Budget bill in each term of Congress since I’ve been here, I am gratified to have it passed out of the Budget Committee and brought to the floor for its bi-partisan passage today. Responsible friends who are Democrats understand that we cannot continue to overburden future generations with our own debt as we have been automatically increasing every federal budget for decades. I do not know any person, family, business or charity that has an automatic increase in their annual budget and the government certainly should not either. This bill requires that a cut will be a cut and not simply a slowing of the rate of growth. It is a bit humbling to have House friends like Chairman Paul Ryan and Congressman Rob Woodall credit me with authorship and the relentless pursuit of getting this passed. They have both been outstanding in shepherding this bill to passage, and I am very grateful. Now, we must make sure the Senate feels the heat to stop the automatic government bloating as well. The idea for this common sense measure came when I was a judge in Tyler and heard Rush Limbaugh during a lunch recess mention the federal government had annual automatic increases. I didn't know at the time I would be in a position to help make it happen. It is inexcusable for the federal government to say ‘we simply cannot tighten our belts’ when government overreach has caused so much pain to so many others. The Baseline Reform Act will put the government in the same position as all Americans. This is also an important step toward a balanced budget.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.01.2014	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s claim that 7 million Americans have signed up for The Affordable Care Act: “Today, President Obama spoke on the grand achievement of Obamacare. Praising his plan and calling it a ‘big step forward,’ he claimed that 7 million Americans have enrolled since its launch; however, it appears there are some massive problems with this administration’s numbers. To put it in perspective, 7 million is about the size of the population of the Dallas-Fort Worth area in Texas. And of these millions, only an estimated one-third of exchange sign-ups were from the previously reported 30 million people who were uninsured accruing to the reports. The administration is also choosing to leave Americans in the dark on the actual number of people who have paid their premiums. It is also estimated that Obamacare caused 6 million or so to LOSE their insurance. So a net 1 million out of 300 million does not seem particularly helpful. Healthcare should not be about pushing a government agenda or spending millions of healthcare dollars on registering people to vote as Democrats. It should be about preserving precious lives and providing Americans with the best options available. Obamcare is truly the ultimate April Fool’s Day joke, and if not halted, it will continue to do even more damage to this country.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.26.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement after oral arguments before Supreme Court regarding Obamacare’s denial of the right to practice the religious beliefs held by family business owners: “Today is truly a crucial day for religious liberty and whether those rights will remain viable under our Constitution. It is for this reason that I felt compelled to listen to the oral arguments at the Supreme Court building. Clearly, every American should be free to live and work in accordance to their peaceable religious beliefs without having to beg the government to allow them to do so. Yet, today I was shocked and grieved to hear a Supreme Court Justice, in essence, ask why not just pay the penalty and then you don’t have to violate your religious beliefs. Unbelievable! The power to tax is the power to destroy. If the federal government has the power to force anyone to pay a tax or penalty to observe religious beliefs, then they have the power to make the penalty so high the government can ‘prohibit the free exercise’ of those firmly held religious beliefs –precisely what the Constitution guarantees it cannot do. I also heard the official representative of the U.S. government, that has indicted and convicted corporations of intentionally committing criminal conduct, basically say that a corporation could not have religious beliefs. If a corporation can form the intent to commit a crime, it can certainly have the intent to observe the religious beliefs of its owners, officers, and directors. Hobby Lobby has provided its employees fantastic heath insurance including most contraceptives –just not the four that can cause the death of a growing unborn child, though the four were put on a required list by unelected bureaucrats. Sadly, under this administration, religious freedom has been under attack and our rights continue to be removed or penalized day by day. Though paying a subjugating monetary fee to practice Christianity or Jewish faith is required under Sharia law, it is supposed to be unconstitutional to do so under our Constitution. Yet, now we must wait to see if the Supreme Court will allow a business to observe the religious beliefs of its owners. It is my prayer that religious liberty will be upheld in the Supreme Court. # # #
03.05.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his decision to vote against a bill to provide loan guarantees to the Ukraine: “Having been a college summer exchange student to Ukraine, my sympathy for the Ukrainians may not be exceeded by anyone in Congress. Ukrainians are under assault by ruthless Russian leaders who still romanticize the mass suffering and killings under the former Soviet Union’s heavy boot. However, I have serious reservations over a rushed bill to assure loans to people in Ukraine when we cannot be sure who will administer or actually even receive the money we are guaranteeing to assure it goes where it is needed. Our U.S. bureaucracy is not even good at doing that in the United States. A knee-jerk toss of money to a country being choked by the designs of a coldblooded Russian leader is not the first thing we should do to help. Throwing money at a victim being assaulted by a thug is not the most helpful nor the most courageous thing one friend can do for another.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals.
02.28.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) received the “True Blue Award” from Family Research Council Action and CitizenLink for his unwavering commitment and consistent support in defense of the family and pro-life principles. “It is a true honor to accept this award on behalf of the majority of the First District of Texas who share and hold in esteem these important values. The bond of the family is one of the most critical attributes of this nation’s greatness. It is imperative to defend moral principles that have been the unwavering foundation on which America’s success has been built. I will continue to stand up for and work to protect life and ethical integrity here in Washington, D.C.,” said Rep. Gohmert. The award honors Members of Congress who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom, according to the scorecard produced by FRCAction and CitizenLink that covers the votes of the 113th Congress. To view the scorecard, click here. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.25.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced its proposed military cuts that would slash the U.S. Army to its pre-World War II size: “We constantly hear of massive amounts of waste, fraud, and abuse within the federal government. All areas of federal spending should be scrutinized, and unnecessary spending should be eliminated before we do any more damage to our ability to carry out the federal government’s primary purpose to ‘provide for the common defense.’ While this administration is dramatically growing the bloated bureaucracy and cutting the military to a skeleton, we should remember President Reagan's observation, ‘Of the four wars in my lifetime, none came about because the U.S. was too strong.’” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.12.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his decision last night to vote against the debt ceiling increase: “Under President Obama’s stewardship, we’re charging our bills to a credit card, running up the debt. It’s time for sensible, no-nonsense action. Congress needs to cut up the President’s credit cards, put in place a debt repayment plan and set this country on a responsible fiscal path. Passing a clean debt ceiling gave away the only leverage we had to force conditions to get this endless cycle of borrowing and spending under control.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals.
01.29.2014	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his decision to vote against the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Bill, which is not a farm-only bill, but rather a conduit for food stamps and other public assistance programs: "While I previously voted in favor of the House version of the FARRM Bill, I could not vote in good conscience for the version put before us today. Although the bill voted on today did include some of the reforms that we fought for in the House, it left out many of the much needed changes to put this nation on a path to fiscal solvency. I have long advocated for “regular order” and while I was pleased to see that this bill went through the full legislative process, the Senate Democrats continue to demand massive duplicating expenditures with extraordinary amounts of waste, fraud and abuse without any willingness to include adequate reforms to these programs. This strategy has led this nation to our overspending problem. Unfortunately, if we keep spending money in this nature, future generations will have to earn and pay for the government's debts. This is a tragic reality, and one I cannot support. We desperately need a farm bill that provides stability to the agricultural community and helps those who painstakingly work the land to make a living. The First District of Texas is comprised of many of these individuals. However, like I’ve stated before, we need a standalone farm bill, not one that combines food stamps and public assistance programs, with the programs that help our farmers. While I am absolutely supportive of helping those unable to help themselves, combining the farm bill with other various government benefits without reforming these programs is not a road that will eventually lead to independence and freedom from the downward spiral of poverty. It only makes America, as a whole, more dependent and indebted to the government.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals.
12.13.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the followings statement today regarding his vote against the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “It is high time that Congress reclaims it’s war powers authority. This bill continues to provide the President unilateral authority to engage in war. Unilateral authority of this nature should not solely lie in the hands of the President - especially when both he and his administration have proven time and time again unfaithful to the very principles this country was founded upon. This administration’s politically charged decisions have not only placed our troops in harm’s way, but they have put this nation in a very vulnerable position. We have seen this administration betray our friend, Israel, while supplying and assisting our enemies – the very people that want to kill us. Providing arms and assistance to groups who are killing and brutalizing Christians and other minorities is a prescription for disaster. Though I was very pleased with some of the inclusions like return of conscience exceptions, I could not vote for a bill that would continue to give the President powers that result in the deaths and abuse of Christians and minorities. As some middle eastern allies told me a few months ago, ‘Your country is now helping the people who supported the attacks on you and are at war with you. We do not understand it.’ I do not either and could not support it. After the World Trade Center attack in 2001, the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) was set in place as a reaction to a horrific terrorist attack. Today, we are not in the same position as we once were. The incredible blanket powers, provided to the President on 9-11, must be rolled back. Until we repeal, or at least narrow, the AUMF, I cannot vote to continue to give this administration unfettered authority to make unilateral decisions that could potentially harm us and those who put on uniforms and stand to protect us.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals.
12.08.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) hosted a reception to honor the participants and announced the winners of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition on Sunday, December 8, 2013, in Marshall, Texas. He released the following statement regarding the outstanding art pieces submitted this year: “This weekend, it was exciting to see all the creativity and skill from the First Congressional District of Texas displayed at the Michelson Museum of Art. Throughout history, art and its expression have always been vital to our culture. Personally, with one of my daughters being an artist, art has played a significant role in my family’s life. Hosting this competition, has allowed me to see the importance of fine art in our children’s lives. After the winning piece is displayed in our great U.S. Capitol, the rest of the nation will also see the amazing talent that the young adults from east Texas possess.” 2014 Congressional Art Winners: First Place: Matthew McGehee Bishop T K Gorman Regional Catholic High School “RESTING HANDS” Second Place: Isabella Walters Hallsville High School “LOST TREASURE” Third Place: Alexandria Woodridge Hallsville High School “BUFFALO” Honorable Mention: Claudia McMillan Henderson High School “VIBRANT BOVID” Honorable Mention: Kylie Stinson Grace Community School “TINKERBELL AND CAPTAIN HOOK” Honorable Mention: Rachel Gibson Spring Hill High School “UNTITLED” The annual competition is open to high school students across the district. The first place winner was awarded a scholarship and has their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol Building for a year, alongside winning art from Congressional Districts across the United States. # # #
11.21.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding ‘The Parental Notification and Intervention Act’ which requires that parents be notified at least four days in advance of any abortion to be performed on their minor daughter that involves crossing state lines or any federal funds and gives parents the power to intervene and stop an abortion from being performed: “Every life is precious – and that includes the life of an unborn child. One of the principle tasks of the government is to protect the lives of those who are unable to protect themselves. Nearly 70% of Americans agree parents should have the legal right to stop an abortion from being performed on their minor daughter. No adolescent should be alone in making such a life altering decision. Today, a child cannot consent to have ears pierced or to take an aspirin without parental consent, except for a devastating abortion. It is imperative that a caring parent, with the child’s best interest at heart should be a major part of this decision-making process. Sadly, without a federal law in place, even in states with parental notification laws, parental guidance is taken out of the equation. It is my commitment to continue pushing for legislation that promises to protect our most vulnerable, our unborn children. The implementation of this bill will ultimately save lives and give control back to the very parents who must approve their children taking aspirin.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.16.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert issued the following statement regarding the Senate bill that puts off dealing with U.S. massive overspending and continues funding ObamaCare which at the same time continues the huge cuts to Medicare, and which the House voted on tonight: “Tonight we voted on legislation that continues the massive overspending of money we do not have. This bill borrows even more money that will come out of the pockets of future generations of Americans; our kids and grandkids. The bill permits all ‘non-essential’ federal government workers to return to work with back pay and raises the limit on America’s credit card to any amount the President cares to spend so long as it is spent before February 7th. Unfortunately, the deal also fully funds and implements the disastrous ObamaCare system that lowers the quality of healthcare and healthcare choices while costing more. The bill passed tonight does not protect people’s religious beliefs. It continues to require people to pay for abortions in the ObamaCare insurance plans, even when those people believe in their hearts it is wrong. Though the President has previously announced he would not enforce the mandated penalties against big businesses for next year, he and the Senate successfully fought off our demand that we provide individual Americans with the same waiver provided to big business. I cannot in good conscience support such a bill that contains so much that the vast majority of my constituents do not support and that does so much damage to present and future generations.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals.
10.07.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert released the following statement concerning the government shutdown and the destructive government healthcare takeover: “Although the government is officially “shutdown,” my office is open, receiving calls, emails and other correspondence. We continue to engage in committee hearings, generating laws, case work, participating in debate, preparing proposals, studying proposals, and educating others on the issues. My staff has been working every day and well into most every night and on weekends as we seek to negotiate solutions to the Obamacare nightmare. CNBC just reported the first week of Obamacare signups had a 99% failure rate. They have had over three and a half years to get this done, wasting billion upon billions of dollars so far—Republicans say it’s time to stop and assess whether we are just throwing good money after bad. The payroll checks of my staff members are now suspended until the Obama-Reid shutdown is over. Even though the Constitution does not permit a Congress member’s pay to be adversely changed within a current term (to prevent political abuse of the process), I directed the Treasury Department to suspend my check as well. I cannot be treated better than those who are working with me in this fight or others whom the Democrat-led Senate refuses to vote to pay. House Republicans will continue to push the Democrats and the President to do their jobs and agree to pay for all those things on which we agree. That’s a core part of the legislative process. I’m optimistic despite a White House official’s comment, that Democrats don’t care how long this shutdown lasts, since they believe they are “winning.” They apparently see this as some kind of game, which is shocking in its arrogance and callousness. We are trying to preserve and protect this nation. Federal law allows the office of each member of Congress to employ a total of 18 full-time and four part-time employees. I have always endeavored to keep employment to a minimum so that I can be a good steward with taxpayer funds. We have four less full-time employees than we are authorized to have. We have furloughed one of our part-time employees, a paid intern, and we will continue to assess the circumstances as they unfold In the House of Representatives, we have cut our member office overhead by approximately 18 percent over the past three years at the direction of our Republican leadership. The Senate, under Democrat leadership, did not cut their overhead spending even a dime. The White House did not cut its overhead at all, nor did any of these federal agencies that have grown by such extravagant proportions since President Obama took office. They continue to borrow and spend and fritter away the future of our children and grandchildren, while demanding that we continue to be just as wasteful as last year. If a family can’t pay its bills one year, they don’t decide the next year that they should continue to spend like they did the year before. They look at last year’s spending and try to find things they don’t need pay for again. The same goes for the federal government – nobody believes our spending is in order, so we should not capitulate and continue to spend more money we don’t have. This is a critical a time in Congressional history. The President and the Senate Democrats refuse to negotiate with Members of the People’s House to make any changes whatsoever to the outlandish amounts spent by the federal government last year. And even more catastrophic to the American people, as the Obamacare calamity unleashes its damage to our healthcare system nationwide, the President and Senate Democrats refuse to allow any changes to this national nightmare. The voters of the First District of Texas have entrusted me with the stewardship of this honorable office. It is a responsibility I do not take lightly. We run a lean operation with a smaller number of employees than allotted in our offices and at this point need all of the remaining hands we have on deck in this fight for the future of America.”
09.30.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after the House passed a bill that funded Obamacare: “On January 1st, when millions of Americans will likely lose their employers’ contribution to their health insurance, I will refuse to receive that same subsidy. It also means I will have to pay a substantial penalty or ”tax,” but I cannot in good conscience accept the subsidy when so many Americans have lost their insurance altogether because of ObamaCare. We are supposed to be the servants of the American people, not the masters. “House Republicans have voted for and sent the Senate two different bills, because we have been offering compromises, even to the extent of compromising with ourselves because Senate Democrats and the President have refused to negotiate at all. They have made clear that they will negotiate with Russians and Iranians, but will not negotiate with Americans. “In the Continuing Resolution on which we voted Monday night, all funding is restored to the government takeover of Americans’ healthcare, referred to as ObamaCare, including funding of abortion. I could not vote for the resolution, though I am in agreement with the language ending government subsidies to Congress while Americans suffer without them. “The President has given waivers or exemptions to hundreds and hundreds of his cronies, many businesses and some unions. I could not in good faith vote for a bill that provides even more funding for Obamacare when I have heard from massive numbers of constituents about the damage it is doing. “I will continue to listen to the people of my district, but the hue and cry is overwhelmingly from those who have lost insurance, had insurance costs become prohibitive, lost jobs, or have been moved from full-time employment to part-time because of Obamacare.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals.
09.20.2013	The Texas Republican delegation of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter today to every member of the United States Senate, urging senators to unite with them in the effort to defund Obamacare through the continuing resolution. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF of the letter with signatures, please click here. “The Republicans in the House have stood up for the health and well-being of the American people and sent a clear message to President Obama: Obamacare is destroying jobs, reducing full-time jobs to part-time jobs, ending health insurance policies that people want to keep, and forcing doctors that patients loved to leave the practice of medicine. Obamacare is causing insurance rates and healthcare costs to skyrocket. Real people are being told they will not get the procedures or medical devices they need. Doctors and patients need to make these life-and-death decisions, not Obamacare bureaucrats, especially when the consequences could be fatal. The House has voted 41 times to defund, delay and repeal this flawed law, and we have successfully repealed seven hurtful, abusive and wasteful Obamacare programs. Today we passed a continuing resolution to ensure that no more taxpayer dollars are wasted on Obamacare. Now, it is up to the Republicans and like-minded Democrats in the Senate to continue the charge to defend the American people from this disaster to their health and finances. We urge you to use all of the legislative tools at your disposal, including the filibuster, to protect America from this train wreck. Now is the time for the Senate to stand up for all those constituents who spoke so passionately at our town hall meetings about the irreparable harm Obamacare is causing. They did not want it passed; it is worse than they thought; so now they want it stopped. We urge you to stand with us.”
09.10.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today concerning his decision to vote against a Continuing Resolution that provides any funding to Obamacare: “Obamacare is not only killing jobs – it will ultimately destroy healthy, happy lives. I cannot in good faith vote for a Continuing Resolution that funds this healthcare monstrosity. It puts the government squarely between seniors and the care they need. It hires thousands of IRS agents and bureaucrats who will not provide an iota of healthcare, and yet will force young people to pay more than ever for what little they get, all while leaving potentially many more without insurance than had no insurance when it was passed. The American people deserve better and deserve to make their own choices. I will continue to listen to the cries of those in my district, but the hue and cry is mostly from those who are getting less health insurance while being required to pay far more, as well as, those who have lost their jobs or had their hours reduced and lost their insurance altogether. If Obamacare is the cure, the cure is worse than the disease. We have some responsible heathcare reform alternatives that deserve consideration. So, I will vote against anything that empowers this destructive legislation to cripple and harm precious lives while devastating the national economy.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.05.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement concerning the situation in Syria and President Obama's decision to call upon Congress for action: "President Obama has had a full year since he articulated his 'red line' on use of chemical weapons in Syria. If the President were serious about this, he would have used this time to build a coalition of willing nations and would have worked with Congress to build a consensus to move forward. Perhaps those actions would have served as a deterrent to the use of chemical weapons by either side. We have no clear goal in Syria and no national security interest given that any weakening or toppling of the Assad regime would likely lead to even more chemical weapons falling into the hands of al Qaeda and the Muslim Brotherhood. The vote on a resolution to empower this President’s disastrous foreign policy should be one of 'no confidence.'" Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.26.2013	This week, I joined in a collective, public event along with numerous Special Forces or Operations veterans and some other members of Congress outside the U.S. Capitol. We are continuing to demand that a new investigation by a House Select Committee with Subpoena power be launched to get factual answers to the Benghazi terror attack. Unrolling a 60-foot long scroll outside the Capitol building, our group revealed the nearly one thousand Special Ops veterans who want a select committee in the House appointed to investigate the government response to the attack that killed four brave Americans including the President’s personal representative, Ambassador Chris Stevens. Just like the Fast and Furious scandal, this crisis is being swept under the rug by the Obama Administration. They want to play fast and loose with the truth. However, the families of the victims of the murders along with the American people deserve answers, not silence and more excuses. The American people ought to finally have at least a fraction of the transparency that our President promised us when he was seeking votes back five years ago. Instead we are left with more delays and obfuscation. Those are reasons that I agreed to help my friend, Rep. Steve Stockman, with a “discharge petition.” If we get 218 members of Congress to sign it, then the Speaker is forced to bring this issue to the floor for a vote of Congress. We need to get to the bottom of what truly happened in Benghazi. The blood of our American patriots is crying out for the truth. They deserve justice. Their families deserve honesty. We cannot forget the sacrifice they made and the bravery they displayed in the face of a dire situation. Although some in this administration might ask again, “What difference does it make?” The fact is that it makes all the difference in the world to the American men and women who have sons, daughters, fathers or mothers serving in our courageous military and dutiful Department of State. We must find out specifically what went wrong so that it can be avoided and lives saved in the future. The one certain fact we know is that the attack in Benghazi did NOT happen as the result of some “video,“ despite the lies that were told for days after the attack by this administration. We must get to the truth so that precious American lives may be saved in the future. Having become friends with a number of the loved ones of our deceased heroes, it is actually painful to deal with the cover up that continues. In the military, we were taught as so many who went before us, that the American people would never desert us while we were fighting for them. Benghazi is yet another incident that makes our warriors wonder. They should never have to. We must find out why our heroes were so nonchalantly abandoned and make sure it does not happen again. Seeking truth and justice is what Americans do; it’s who we are. We are not supposed to cover-up truth, we are supposed to embrace it – good, bad, or indifferent. It is clear only a select committee with subpoena power can bring the truth into light. I hope that more and more Americans will continue demand that their members of Congress will sign on to our “discharge petition” to force having a select committee to get the critical answers. A person’s party affiliation does not matter– truth does not care about parties. But, the truth needs to come out and there appears no other way to get to it. I have heard from so many of you that are demanding whatever it takes to find get to the bottom of the Benghazi murders. As your servant, I will not let up until we get answers to our critical questions and the murderers who committed this act of war against America are brought to justice. Faithfully Yours, Louie
07.19.2013	Friends and Neighbors, Over the past few weeks, I have received an overwhelming amount of questions and concerns dealing with National Security Agency’s (NSA) surveillance programs. The fact that the government has access to all of our phone records and email accounts is frightening. It is not only a case of massive overreach by this administration, but also a threat to every United States citizen’s constitutional rights. Unfortunately, this type of overreach has become all too common under the current administration. Recent scandals have been frequent and disturbing in nature. Whether it is the Internal Revenue Service’s unfair treatment of political adversaries, the Justice Department’s tapping of news reporters, or this latest example within the NSA, this administration has lost the trust of the American people. These overreaching, invasive actions must be stopped, but it is going to be a battle. We have already seen that once any government starts watching its citizens like they are watching a reality TV show, it is very hard to break them of the habit. But, break that habit we must. The NSA has abused the powers granted to it by Congress in the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. While this bill was initially passed before the beginning of my time in Congress, I adamantly argued for the inclusion of sunset provisions to force accountability when renewal of the PATRIOT Act came back up. These sunset provisions were critical to enabling adequate oversight, and now it appears dramatic changes must be made or the act must be abolished. The debate was about watching known foreign terrorists or members of known terrorist organizations. I had concerns about how far the Bush administration had pushed the bounds, but now it appears this administration's spying on its people knows no bounds. As a former Judge and Chief Justice, I cannot imagine a judge ever granting a court order for the bulk collection of all the records of a phone company of phone calls inside the United States and all calls to places outside the United States. There should have been specificity, particular descriptions limited to only people of whom there was probable cause to believe a crime had been or was being committed. Yet, the current FISA court granted this Administration’s demand. The court abused its power under the PATRIOT Act in this case and if we don’t rein in the power of the Federal Government, these types of things will most assuredly happen again. There are still people in both parties who even now are advocating that they think what was done is just fine. I do not. The will of the majority of the people is precisely in line with the founders’ desires made clear in the Constitution. We don’t want the Federal Government looking through our computers, gathering all the information on every single call we make, or reading our text messages. We should not have to live with the constant concern of government meddling. The PATRIOT Act was intended to protect innocent Americans, not to be used as a weapon against innocent Americans. It is clear that we must act to safeguard the rights of American citizens. With an administration that has repeatedly proven untrustworthy and that has sent people to Capitol Hill and to television interviews to perpetuate things they knew were not true, we must do everything in our power to roll back the invasive intrusions by the federal government into our communications and lives as we live them. I certainly welcome your input on these matters, and will represent your positions, but certainly wanted to let you know how it looks from the spot where I am writing this from the home of the newest big brother here in Washington, D.C. Faithfully Yours, Louie
07.17.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his vote in favor of postponing both the individual and employer Affordable Care Act mandate: Unfortunately, the Obama Administration is continuing its refusal to recognize and protect the rights of the American people. President Obama appears dictatorial in his arbitrary and capricious selectiveness of which parts of the oppressive, intrusive, and punitive healthcare bill he wants to use. Since he chose to provide some delays for employers, it is only fair that we extend those same rights to individual Americans themselves. To force higher income tax rates on people making as little as $14,000 or so a year is grossly unfair by any standards, no matter how badly he wants to force Americans into ultimate government healthcare control. In delaying the employer mandate, while pushing forward the individual mandate, President Obama violates his Constitutional duty under Article II that he “shall take care that the laws will be faithfully executed. Although the majority of Americans’ do not support Obamacare, it is still the law of the land the President helped force upon us. Rather than ignoring a law harmful to Americans’ health, he should instead help us repeal it in favor of meaningful reform. I voted to delay implementation in a fair, nondiscriminatory manner. If the mandates are going to be delayed for the employers, they should be delayed for individuals. The President should not discriminate against hardworking Americans. I hope the American people will send more people to Congress in the next election that will vote for an outright repeal so we can pass reform that provides better healthcare, not laws that dumb down our healthcare to the lowest common denominator of care. Only then can we get back to the almost lost doctor-patient relationship, and give patients back control over their own healthcare decisions while still helping those who cannot help themselves. President Obama should not have the option to ignore some laws and enforce others; he should be forced to follow his sworn Constitutional duty. Passing legislation to delay harmful aspects of Obamacare on both individuals and employers is the proper thing to do.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.11.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding his vote in favor of Tthe Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act this afternoon: The Farm or Agriculture bill for years has been linked to the food stamp program. In part because of this coupling, the food stamp program has grown to overwhelm the actual agriculture portion. In the previous bill in which food stamps and the agriculture bill were joined, the food stamp portion comprised more than 79%. This is consistent with Democratic strategy over preceding decades to divide and insert duplicative and overlapping programs in so many different budgets that it would be almost impossible to ever do full reform of the growing welfare state that is driving this nation down the road of financial ruin. The various public assistance programs are embedded in so many different budgets that the Heritage Foundation’s Robert Rector has told me it takes him about two years to find all the different programs for a given year’s federal budget. Many Washington insiders said that the two items could never be separated and still pass either House of Congress. Today that was proved wrong. A good example of the type of federal program redundancy I referenced came from Congressman Dan Webster. He tells me that since being elected to the U.S. Congress in November 2010, he has studied federal transportation redundance regarding the question of how many federal programs are charged with getting individuals to and from appointments, most of which have vans that are grossly underutilized. He says that so far he has found 87 such federal programs. The reason for the massive redundance is that they are financed from many different budgets that make each appear somewhat reasonable when standing alone. We must be able to see all of them together in the same subcommittee budget so that we will be able to eliminate the duplication, as well as the waste, fraud and abuse. The only way we will ever be able to fully reform our system is to separate all such public assistance and put it in one budget. I am absolutely supportive of helping those unable to help themselves, but I have personally seen the damage done by some who play and abuse the system. That damage is vastly expanded by the federal government that unintentionally sometimes lures people away from their own God-given potential, making them dependent on the government. Accordingly, for a number of years, I have been pushing the Republican leadership to take the first bold step by separating the food stamp program from the Agriculture bill. Our leadership has finally agreed to do that this week. I realize that this will not be the final vote on this bill since it will have to go to conference with the Senate and will likely come out different. I would then have another vote on such conference report to see whether it is something I could support. In the meantime, this is a great first step in the effort to reform a very broken federal welfare system. Similarly, two years ago, I agreed to vote for a bill that I knew would not be the final bill on a different issue, but in return, I got the Speaker’s assurance that he would bring a bill to the floor that would finally end the automatic increases in every federal department’s budget once Paul Ryan had it voted out of his committee. Chairman Ryan did just that and the Speaker then brought it to the floor where it passed for the first time after decades of automatic annual expansion. The Senate did not take it up in the last Congress but I am assured we will pass it again in this Congress and send it back to the Senate. Eventually, the American people who do not have automatic increases in any of their individual, family, business or charity budgets will vote out most Senators who continue to demand automatic bloating of the federal government. But that first steps in passing it in the House, the first time was historic and a big step toward reform. I see this separation of the food stamp program from the Agriculture appropriation bill the same way. This is such a massive move toward the effort for reform, it justifies the vote for a bill that contains things about which I have concerns. It truly is a stride way down the path to a chance at total and healing reform of BOTH the food stamp program and the Agriculture bills of the future. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.28.2013	This week, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) introduced the Fracturing Regulations are Effective in State Hands (FRESH) Act of 2013. This bill would clarify that States have the sole authority to regulate hydraulic fracturing on all land within the boundaries of the State. He released the following statement regarding the FRESH Act: “The Obama Administration is more interested in pandering to its liberal left that it is in creating and preserving American jobs. With the issuance of new hydraulic fracturing regulations, it’s clear that this administration wants to hinder the production of our own natural resources and ‘necessarily’ cause the price of our own energy to ‘skyrocket’ despite the devastation that creates for hardworking middle and low income families and individuals. It is amazing to realize that this administration has abandoned helping America's most needy in favor of more affluent leftists. States should have the sole authority to regulate such activities within its boundaries, so it is time to put people to work producing our own energy while lowering the cost of living which is a double win. This action by the administration is a triple loss for jobs, cheaper energy, and more national energy independence.” Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), a senior member of the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee reintroduced this bill in the Senate. # # #
06.20.2013	The IRS has been caught red handed punishing the Obama administration’s political enemies, while the NSA is scoping out every person in America’s emails and phone records. President Obama is being rocked by scandal after scandal. It’s simply baffling that the House Republican leadership has now changed the subject to granting amnesty to millions of people who are illegally in the country. My constituents know I have always been an advocate of legal immigration. The United States is a melting pot of various nationalities, and this has contributed to our overall success as a nation. The Senate’s Gang-of-Eight immigration bill goes about immigration reform exactly backwards. First they seek to legalize at least 11 million people illegally here now and then trust the Obama administration to secure the border later. We should have learned our lesson from the 1986 bill that provided legal status or amnesty, but the promised border security was never accomplished, which has led us to another amnesty or legal status bill today. We cannot let that happen again. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has stated time after time that America’s borders are more secure now than they’ve ever been. Our border governors say otherwise. It seems like the governors, who are on the front lines, would have a better idea of the security of our borders. When we actually take the steps required to secure the borders, we should have our border governors, not the Obama administration, certify that they are secure. I’m sure, after that’s accomplished, all of us could quickly come to an agreement about what to do with our broken immigration system and the millions who have come here illegally. Implementing the so-called comprehensive immigration reform without first actually securing the border would be detrimental to our national security and sovereignty. I have learned that “comprehensive” normally means that there are provisions that will harm our nation and, thus, would not pass unless hidden in a bill massive enough that they do not get noticed until it is too late. House Speaker John Boehner has said that he will not bring an immigration bill to the floor of the House that doesn't have support of a majority of Republicans. That’s a good thing. However, if we pass a good, strong, serious immigration bill out of the House, it will then be sent to a “Conference Committee” for compromise and combination with the Senate bill which some Senators have made clear shall have amnesty included without secure borders. I cannot be a party to that breach of our national security. Our security is already at risk when our FBI cannot even properly vet the two Boston bombers, the Tsarnev brothers, even when the Russian government gives us their location, their cell phone numbers, tells us where they live and that the older brother is a terrorist. The solution is not to dump at least 11 million more people into that same system for background checks. That is insanity. It was for these and other reasons I have joined with Reps. Steve King and Michele Bachmann leading a group of Republican members to simply ask our leadership for some time this week to talk about immigration bills and our options. The leadership has never allowed us to talk exclusively about the immigration issue while we’re all in the same room. At this point, Republican leaders are only offering to let us have a meeting in July after all of the voting on the bills is done in our committees. This is unacceptable. My solution is to pass a resolution that says that as soon as this administration secures (but not closes) the border as verified by the four southern border state governors, then we will proceed on a bill that reforms our immigration system. Otherwise, granting another amnesty bill in return for a promise that someday the border will be secured would be disastrous. I will continue to put the safety and security of all Americans before political expedience and party politics. I am more loyal to this country than I am to a party, and humbled by the chance to be your servant in Washington. Faithfully Yours, Louie
05.13.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the guilty verdict reached in the Philadelphia abortionist trial: "The verdict in the Gosnell case certainly sounds appropriate based upon the evidence we've seen. Pro-life and pro-abortion supporters agree in their stances against the “murder” of a living human being. Unfortunately, there has been a disagreement about the point at which a baby becomes a life entitled to live. In this case, a very hard-working and discerning jury found that when a baby survives an abortion attempt, that child has a right not to be murdered. I am so grateful for that finding and will work and pray that this verdict will cause at least some babies to be saved in the future who otherwise would not.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.09.2013	Yesterday, the House Budget Committee, chaired by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI) introduced the Woodall-Gohmert “Baseline Reform Act of 2013.” This bill, originally introduced by Reps. Gohmert (R-TX) and Woodall (R-GA) is designed to cut wasteful government spending by eliminating automatic increases in every federal department’s budget. “Conservatives have advocated for years that there should be no automatic increases in any federal department's budget,” said Rep. Louie Gohmert. “That has been a trap so when we simply slow the rate of increase, we are accused of making draconian cuts. As reckless deficit spending continues, it is paramount that we be honest about what is an increase and what is a cut. This legislation ends the annual automatic increases in every federal department's budget, putting the government in the same position as all working Americans and is an important step to getting out debt under control. I thank Chairman Ryan for seeing this bill through to fruition.” “Families don’t get automatic raises every year. Neither should Washington,” said Chairman Paul Ryan. “My colleague Louie Gohmert has been a strong leader on this issue, and I hope the Senate will follow his lead.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals.
05.09.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding President Obama’s trip to Texas to promote job growth: “Despite the Obama Administration’s failed policies and damage done to the nation's economy, I was delighted that President Obama was traveling to Texas so he could learn how Texas has been creating more jobs than it loses. One of the things that makes Texas the leader in American job growth is our low taxes, rational regulations, and a balanced budget approach. However, I was deeply saddened to find out President Obama did not come to learn but to lecture our state against our own successful common-sense approach to reigning in the invasive government. It's almost as bad as dramatically cutting back drilling for oil and gas on federal land, while taking credit for increased production on private land that he had also been impeding." Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.08.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the Benghazi Whistleblower hearings in the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee: “This hearing on Capitol Hill today is not only important, it is absolutely critical. The valiant whistleblowers’ testimonies shed light on details that have been covered-up time and time again by this administration. To believe what this administration is telling us, one would have to believe that the greatest military in the world could not have gotten a plane to Benghazi for 20 hours, when I have traveled from Andrews Air Force Base here near Washington, DC clear past Libya to Jordan in less than half that time. It became abundantly clear today that the American people have not gotten the truth about Benghazi but actually were lied to about what happened and about what was known during and immediately after the terrorist attack on our Consulate. Gregory Hicks, at the time the deputy chief of mission for the U.S. embassy in Libya, testified that Special Operations troops on the way to Benghazi were ordered to stand down as our people were fighting for their very lives. The statement by the military officer upon receiving the "stand down" order was, paraphrasing, that this was a case in which the diplomat in Libya had more testicular fortitude than the military officer who ordered him to stand down. It is now vital that we find out who gave that order and why. Perhaps the most tragic thing that came out today was that as two former Navy SEALS were fighting to defend our American personnel there on the rooftop in Benghazi, they were doing so without the support of the administration that sent them to Libya. The American people deserve the truth. The families of our brave Navy SEALS and diplomatic personnel who were brutally murdered deserve to know the truth. As was brought out at the hearing, deaths during the Clinton administration resulted in findings that could have prevented the four American deaths in Benghazi if they had been followed, but the lesson was not learned. What we learned today also was that it DOES make a difference what happened in Benghazi and that we must get to that truth if we have any chance of preventing it from happening again. We dishonor the memory of our patriots' with what has passed for an investigation by this administration. It is my hope and prayer that as these hearings continue, the truth will completely come to light, and the sunlight will be a great disinfectant.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals.
04.24.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was ratified by the general membership last night as the first Vice-President of The Texas State Society of Washington, D.C. He issued the following statement expressing his deep gratitude for the election and anticipation for the coming year: “It is such an honor to serve as the Vice-President of The Texas State Society of Washington, D.C. As a native Texan and United States Representative of the First Congressional District of Texas, it is exciting to have this opportunity to encourage camaraderie among Texans and friends in the heart of the nation’s capital. It is my hope and prayer that my love and respect for the Lone Star State will be evident to all. Though my work takes me to Washington, D.C. when the House is in session, Texas will forever remain my home, and retain my heart and my allegiance.” The Texas State Society of Washington, D.C. (TSS) is a bipartisan organization that was formed in 1904 to foster and encourage a fraternal spirit among Texans and friends at our nation’s capital. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.10.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today concerning President Obama’s late budget that will place more debt and higher taxes on the American people: “We are in a very grave economic situation because of the bloated government and massive overspending. Now, two months after the legally mandated deadline for the President's budget, President Obama offers his belated solution—more massive government deficit overspending, more government workers, more IRS agents, less people actually providing healthcare, more government employees explaining the limited healthcare choices, and less money for taxpayers to keep of what they earned –a great belated proposal.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.22.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after learning about the decision to close the air traffic control tower at the Tyler Pounds Regional Airport: “This decision made by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to close the air traffic control tower at the Tyler Pounds Regional Airport is an unnecessary and dangerous move decided by political hacks. Rather than looking at the wasteful spending within the FAA itself, lavish over-expenditures in other areas, this administration has decided to endanger American lives by shutting down 40 percent of this nation’s towers for a ‘budget cutting measure.’ It’s more than disturbing that the Obama Administration is willingly deciding to punish Americans by first, cancelling White House tours and now shutting down 149 air towers countrywide – all masked as a sequestration measure. It is evident that their priorities do not align on the side of the hardworking American people. While countless people will now be out of work in a debt laden economy and the President originally projected doom and gloom, the House of Representatives has cut its own budget over 11 percent in the last two years and is now cutting an additional 8 percent under the sequester without cutting any constituent services. It should also be understood that the President has grown government in four years by about 20 percent so the sequester meant that government should only be 18 percent larger. There is certainly no evidence from the President that he is cutting anything that affects him personally, but only cutting things that adversely affect other Americans. There is something wrong with this picture. It’s time to cut true government waste like Obamacare – and stop putting everyone else at risk.” Earlier this month, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) fired off a letter to the FAA seeking answers as to why the FAA would take action to put Americans at risk when there is no need to make such sweeping airport cuts across the nation. To read his letter, click here. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.20.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was recently awarded with Freedom Works’ second annual “Freedom Fighter Award.” This award is given to members of the House and Senate who consistently vote in defense of economic freedom. “Freedom Works is a powerful voice in America for principles of liberty giving rise to innovation and opportunity. They emphasize the critical need for individual freedom and adherence to the constitutional limitations on our ‘big brother’ government in Washington. It is an honor to be awarded the “Freedom Fighter Award” again this year since it represents a finding by a valued and well respected organization that analyzes the issues that I represent the core beliefs held by most east Texans. Voting with the mindset of hardworking American taxpayers is essential if we are going to leave our children and their children at least as good of a gift as our parents and grandparents left us,’ said Rep. Gohmert.” Each “Freedom Fighter” recipient earned a minimum score of 90 percent on the Freedom Works Congressional Scorecard during the 2012 legislative session. This high score exhibits a strong stance to defend liberty and strengthen the economy across the country. “Congressman Louie Gohmert took a stand against the Washington special interest machine and proved himself a true defender of economic freedom with a 94 out of 100 percent on the Freedom Works Congressional Scorecard. Freedom Works encourages Congressman Gohmert to keep fighting the good fight to protect Texas taxpayers, and bring back fiscal sanity and accountability to the federal government,” said Freedom Works President, Matt Kibbe. The FreedomWorks Congressional Scorecard is a ground-breaking piece of technology that has drawn an abundance of national media attention by allowing concerned Americans greater ability to monitor the issues taken up by Congress. # # #
03.06.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding a letter he sent to the White House requesting that President Obama put a halt to his golf trips until White House tours resume: “It is not only disappointing, it is discouraging that the Obama Administration has decided to cancel all White House tours. This decision clearly demonstrates the administration’s agenda of choosing to punish the American people through politically self-serving maneuvers. As an American that values our history, I find the decision to shut the doors to the White House to this nation’s schoolchildren and families more than troublesome. “First Lady Michelle Obama said it best: ‘This is really what the White House is all about. It’s the “People’s House.” It’s a place that is steeped in history, but it’s also a place where everyone should feel welcome. And that's why my husband and I have made it our mission to open up the house to as many people as we can.’ “During these tough economic times many Americans have planned, saved and scrimped enough funds to make their way to the nation’s Capitol this spring. It is more than troublesome that our President is standing in the way of families and lifelong memories. President Obama has often called for solidarity in his speeches. Now is the time for our Commander-in-Chief to lead the way.” To read the full letter sent to the White House, click here. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas' 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.01.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today concerning President Obama’s press conference on the sequester and funding cuts: “Every single hardworking American taxpayer had a 2% tax increase on January 1st with the payroll tax increase President Obama wanted. Now, the Obama administration is screaming gloom and doom for basically having the same amount of reduction in available spending money because of the sequester. But, it is incredible that the President is acting so indignant when we know and he stated numerous times that the sequester was his idea. Jay Carney has now acknowledged that. Every report of the President’s speech today should include a transcript of the interview he did with the Des Moines register last October, the day after his Iowa debate: ‘[T]he good news is that there's going to be a forcing mechanism to deal with what is the central ideological argument in Washington right now, and that is: How much government do we have and how do we pay for it? So when you combine the Bush tax cuts expiring, the sequester in place ... we're going to be in a position where I believe in the first six months we are going to solve that big piece of business. It will probably be messy. It won't be pleasant. But I am absolutely confident that we can get what is the equivalent of the grand bargain. (October 23, 2012, in Des Moines, Iowa) It is clear by President Obama’s own previous words in different settings that he not only wanted the sequester cuts to go through, he also expected that the Bush tax rates would end and everyone’s taxes would go up. For him to now criticize the very ideas he came up with, he supported, and he originally wanted to occur is grossly inappropriate. The 2% cuts are actually a reduction in the automatically increased spending rather than a real cut and slows the Obama growth in government from 20% to 18%. He refused to sit down with Congress to work an agreement until he finished his expensive nationwide fear tour condemning Congress for not working with him, until the day after the cuts were reality. Now, his administration has released arrested criminal suspects, is threatening to furlough or cut law enforcement, not protect our border, leave our military in harm’s way without adequate support, cut out vaccinations to children, fire teachers they do not even hire, and now pull FAA personnel from 168 airports –all to punish the country. We have never had an American administration intentionally try to do this much damage to American lives as part of a tantrum demanding more money for government. This is a very serious and sad time for America.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas' 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.27.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement today regarding his vote against the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA): “It is never acceptable to carry out acts of violence against women – or anyone for that matter. It violates existing laws in every U.S. state and territory. We should always defend and protect women from abuse and mistreatment. I have prosecuted and, later as a judge, personally sentenced violent abusers to prison for such heinous crimes. Violence against women is a critically important issue to me, and I also personally know the laws in our state of Texas protect women. The Violence Against Women Act was previously struck down by the Supreme Court for violating the Constitution and intruding on each State’s jurisdiction. This new Senate bill was seriously flawed also having Constitutional violations again. It will eventually be struck down. The bill also gave away far more money than even the President had requested. The House bill was better but still had very serious Constitutional flaws. Even though the name of the bill appealed to me on a very strong emotional basis, I still could not in good conscience vote for a bill that will again be found to violate the Constitution. Also the Speaker of the House had promised to return to regular order in the House so that bills would have legislative hearings, have wide open debate and have an open amendment process to provide complete transparency. That process more than likely would have provided a bill I could have voted for, but this bill was secretly negotiated and rushed to the floor for a vote. Additionally, granting Indian tribes special domestic violence jurisdiction over non-native Americans is blatantly violative of the Constitution. We know some of the groups helping battered women do wonderful, healing, helpful work. However, there is inadequate supervision of the money spent by the federal government in these matters causing some women’s advocacy groups, such as Eagle Forum, to state that this Act has a ‘billion-dollar-a-year price tag’ that is ‘spent by the radical feminists to pursue their ideology and goals.’ Shielding women from physical and mental abuse is of the utmost importance. However, this bill was not the answer while violating the Constitution.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas' 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.06.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the U.S. Postal Service’s announcement that they will stop delivering mail on Saturdays: “This decision made by the United States Postal Service to stop delivering mail on Saturdays is just another example of protecting bureaucrats’ jobs at the regional level and up –all at the cost of the American people. It is an attempt to restore a system that is already broken, and in a way, that disproportionately affects millions of Americans, companies and small communities who may depend on Saturday delivery for business and communication. East Texans know all too well the sting of the new changes and ‘restructuring’ of the United States Postal Service. Back in February, it was announced that two east Texas processing plants were considering consolidation. This type of news is not only disappointing; it is exceedingly frustrating for postal customers to hear. Due to the USPS’ ‘aggressive cost cutting efforts,’ countless people will have to suffer in an already bleak economy. The best move these postal bureaucrats could make is to eliminate most of the top officials, who do not help with the mail getting delivered, but instead just come up with these illogical decisions. What some of the USPS bureaucrats don’t understand is that when they make it more difficult to send a letter efficiently and quickly and eliminate convenient places to utilize services, they will have fewer people using services.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.22.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today on the 40th Anniversary of Roe v. Wade: "The gift of life is a precious, sacred blessing. It is heartbreaking that approximately 1.2 million innocent lives have been lost per year for the past 40 years since Roe v. Wade. It is my prayer and commitment to continue pushing for laws and legislation that promise to save the precious lives of the very most vulnerable, who are entrusted to our care. Today on the 40th Anniversary of Roe v. Wade, let us choose to honor life and remember the unborn whose lives are snuffed out before ever having the chance to see the beauty in this world.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.16.2013	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s press conference about raising the debt limit: “Once again this country is facing a fiscal challenge as a result of President Obama’s reckless fiscal policy. The President says that this country ‘must pay its bills,’ and I agree with him. Surely the President understands that we are not paying our bills right now. Under President Obama’s stewardship, we’re charging our bills to a credit card, running up the debt. Every responsible financial advisor will tell you if you’ve run up more debt than you can pay, it’s time to cut up the credit cards, put yourself on a responsible payment plan and to live within your means. We are borrowing money to fund President Obama’s irresponsible, wasteful government. Instead of acting responsibly, President Obama demands to spend trillions of dollars we don’t have and is perfectly willing to leave the bill for our children and grandchildren. America’s financial problems cannot be solved if Washington continues to ignore out-of-control spending. The President’s press conference shows the American people that the White House is not interested in responsible spending. It’s time for sensible, no-nonsense action. Congress needs to cut up the President’s credit cards, put in place a debt repayment plan and set this country on a responsible fiscal path.” # # #
01.16.2013	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today concerning President Obama’s sweeping gun proposals which include banning the sale of certain guns and preventing the ability of a homeowner under attack to protect his family from felons who do not heed restrictions on guns or magazines: “Most of the 23 items in President Obama’s executive orders today are not on their face particularly troublesome, although doctors and insurance companies should not be encouraged to intrude, probe or spy into Americans’ private lives for the government. The President’s 23 executive actions are estimated to cost, according to various media outlets, about $500 million without accomplishing anything substantive. One of the four children, sitting on stage with President Obama at the press conference today, was from Washington, DC, where, like Chicago, there has been a complete gun ban that has made her city and Chicago two of the most dangerous cities in the country. There is nothing the President has asked Congress to do that will make Washington, DC or Chicago any more restrictive than the bans they already have, and those bans made them more dangerous. One child asked that people not be allowed to have machine guns, and the President knowingly or unwittingly, seems to also foster the lie that anyone can buy a machine gun. This is not true. The purchase or possession of machine guns is severely restricted. I could not buy one. What the President is proposing is basically a ban on guns that look dangerous, though there are guns that are far more lethal than others he is not proposing to limit. Tragedies such as the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary are heartbreaking, but it is adds to the travesty when a politician grandstands with proposals that have already been proven completely ineffective. My heart continues to hurt for the families who lost children and family members that day. However, the answer is not infringing on our Constitutional rights. When armed intruders break into homes, the women or men relying on a gun to protect their family should not have to worry about the restrictions on how many rounds they can have in a clip or magazine. Criminals do not worry about complying with the law –they are criminals. Mental health issues that have languished for decades may be a fertile ground for bipartisan efforts to make a true difference. Perhaps, a good first step toward curbing gun violence may well be rebuilding the sanctity and importance of the family and the home where there can be education, training and an honest conversation about guns, without treading on the Constitutional protections from criminals intent on invading the home.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.02.2013	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement regarding his vote against the “Fiscal Cliff” Deal drafted by the Senate: “The biggest problem Washington has is massive overspending. Unfortunately, the pork-laden Senate bill passed by a majority of Democrats in the House Tuesday night did nothing to address the root of our bloated debt problem: this out-of-control spending. Back in August, the U.S. House voted to prevent the largest tax increase in American history on every single American and I agreed. Right now, the federal government is borrowing trillions of dollars from China for spending that this Senate Deal did not do anything to fix. Our children and grandchildren are on the hook for this debt that is growing by the minute. The Senate has refused to pass a budget of its own for three and a half years, even refused to pass the President’s proposed budgets, and failed to bring any of the budgets passed by the House to a vote by the Senate members. The U.S. House has cut our administrative budgets by over 11% over the past two years. Having done so, we have the moral authority to demand that the rest of the federal government do the same. It’s time to stop playing these kick the can games and demand serious spending cuts.” # # #
12.14.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the heartless shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School today: “There are no words to describe the sheer horror and unbearable pain felt today. Our hearts mourn and break for the families of those injured and heartlessly killed in Newtown, Connecticut. My thoughts and fervent prayers are with those who lost loved ones and innocent children at the hands of such senseless violence. It is my prayer that we will continue to hold each other dear and lift up those suffering during this tragic time." Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.14.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement concerning the looming fiscal cliff and the effect that higher taxes will have on all east Texans: “It appears fairly clear that the President believes the conventional DC wisdom that if there is no agreement regarding the fiscal ledge, then the President and the Democratic Party will win politically. Each time it appears that Speaker Boehner tries to move in the President’s direction, the President’s position seems to become more unreasonable. When federal taxes have been netting around $2.4 trillion, with the President continuing to push for spending more than $3.4 trillion, and then the President proposes raising taxes but still have a net increase in overall spending for “stimulus” purposes, it appears the children are in charge of the candy store. He promised to raise taxes only on the millionaires and billionaires, but defines that as including anyone making more than $200,000, not understanding that nearly two-thirds of businesses in America are not incorporated, but just pay regular, personal income tax rates. Having tax rates go up on those individuals who have unincorporated businesses will be crushing to perhaps two-thirds of our businesses as well. According to the Heritage Foundation, if the tax provisions expire at the end of this year the average income tax in 2013 is estimated to go up by $2,570 per tax return for our own current east Texas district. The total increase for the entire district in 2013 is estimated to be over $814 million. Some struggling owners have already said they will have to let people go to pay the extra taxes. This means more people out of work, less people paying taxes, and overall LESS tax revenue coming in. The President has also made clear that he would like to eliminate certain deductions for the “greedy” oil companies. Unfortunately, the most significant deductions he wants to eliminate are not even allowed to be taken by the largest oil companies. This, in turn, would put many independent oil and gas companies out of business. It has been projected that 94-95% of all oil and gas wells in the continental U.S. are drilled or operated by independent oil companies, not the big ones. The devastating tax changes in the President’s jobs act would likely eliminate over 90% of the drilling operations in east Texas, causing widespread economic wreckage—not to mention driving up the price of gasoline to previously unseen levels. What should have been done, and still needs to be done, is pursuing legislation the way the Constitution intended—having open debate and amendments for all to see who is pushing for and against what provisions. Then have a vote on it in the House and Senate and send it to the White House. Our system was never intended to have the most important legislation secretly negotiated behind closed doors. The sooner President Obama and Speaker Boehner realize that, the better off we all will be. We do not have to do this so fast that the country suffers from unintended consequences of hastily thrown together law. It should have already been done; however, we can still accomplish this by the end of January and have it apply to the first of the year without risking bad legislation through “haste making waste.” We ought to all be called to the open debate in the Capitol and stay until it gets done—the Constitutional way.
12.03.2012	Since he first took office in 2008, President Barack Obama has been relentless in his cry for all Americans to pay their “fair share” of taxes, without ever once giving the specifics of a tax plan that would truly create a “fair share” tax system. Here’s a novel idea: let’s take the President at his word. Let’s demand taxation fairness. And nothing will better insure that everyone is paying his or her “fair share” than a flat tax. The concept of the flat tax is simple – one tax rate is applied to all income levels. If you make more – you pay more. If you make less – you pay less. Our solution should not be to punish job creators, but to simplify the tax law with fairness that has everyone paying the same tax rate: 15 percent across the board. My proposal leaves two deductions: (1) charitable contributions since true charities do a better job of getting help directly to those who truly need it, and (2) a mortgage interest deduction for one residential homestead. The President says he wants Warren Buffet to pay the same tax rate as his secretary. The President’s proposal will not accomplish that goal. A flat tax will do it by making the income tax, the capital gains tax, the gift tax, and the estate tax, all a simple 15 percent across the board tax rate. Not only will it be fairer, but the economy will explode upward in a dramatic expansion and there will be even more revenue coming into the federal treasury. The historical facts show when you lower the tax rates, you create more growth, more businesses, more jobs and a much more robust economy – but it will be even better when everyone pays the same low tax rate – no wiggle room for the very wealthy. History shows that when federal, state, or local governments raise tax rates on the ultra rich, the governments bring in less revenue because the super rich can live wherever they’d like. They move. In Great Britain, for example, after taxes were raised in 2009 to 50 percent on people making a million pounds or more each year, the number of millionaires living there immediately went from 16,000 to 6,000. Not only did revenues not increase; they decreased by raising those taxes in a class warfare play. It is the poor and the middle class taxpayer who are wedded to their location. They cannot move their factory location, or mechanic shop, or store where they work or sell or clerk. They have to be at that location to keep their job. Just as Vice-President Biden pointed out, the middle class “has been buried for the last four years” under the Obama administration. The President wants to paint conservatives as the defenders the of the rich, yet the dirty little secret is that Wall Street executives and their immediate families donate consistently about four times more to Democrats than they do to Republicans. It is the ultra rich who continue to make increasingly more than the lower classes under this President's policies, which have widened the gulf between the ultra rich and the middle class. It is time to truly level the playing field. We are continuing to play on the current un-level playing field every time we entertain “increasing revenue” through tax hikes. This is not the time to be defensive. It is the time to be bold; it is time to go on offense with a truly “FAIR” idea – a flat tax across the board. It’s time to articulate principles that don’t defend the rich, but actually create and defend a system that allows everyone the opportunity to get rich. Let’s not forget the more important point. Not only will raising taxes in a recession bring in less revenue right now, but it will result in less individual freedom and will completely fail to addresses the biggest cause of our debt: out of control spending. America is at its greatest with less government interference and more individual freedom. Raising taxes will hurt the economy, stymie job creation, while prolonging and deepening the Obama recession, as the President himself once publicly noted. We can compromise on the numbers; but, when it comes to principle, we should never concede. If we lose the battle for principle, the fight for true fairness and freedom, we lose everything that has made this country the greatest in the history of mankind. This is a tenuous time – a time for bold, strong leadership. Now is the time to stand up and be counted. This is the American Spirit. We’ve been blessed with the wealth of brilliant minds, hardworking attitudes, and the greatest energy resources in the world. It is high time to create the system, once again, where everybody can become rich. This will pave the way to the new economic renaissance this nation so desperately needs and so closely has within its grasp. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas and also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals.
11.30.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today concerning his comments about President Obama’s Middle East policy: “I do not believe the President is intentionally doing anything to endanger America’s fight against terrorism. But, when you get bad advice, you formulate bad policy. The turmoil in the Middle East is causing the region to fall apart and has fostered extremist groups’ rise to power, most notably the Muslim Brotherhood. In addition, four people were killed in Benghazi, Libya, including the U.S. Ambassador and we still haven’t gotten a straight answer about what took place there. It is fair to ask about the amount of influence the Muslim Brotherhood groups in America have on the Obama Administration and the formulation of its policies. Actually it is more than fair. It is our duty as Members of Congress.” Background: The Holy Land Foundation (HLF) trial was the largest terrorism funding trial in U.S. history. The list of unindicted co-conspirators from the trial included the Council on American Islamic Relations (CAIR), the Islamic Society of North America (ISNA) and the North American Islamic Trust (NAIT). These co-conspirators were not tried in the first round of prosecutions in Dallas under the Bush Administration where five defendants were convicted on all counts. Evidence utilized in the first round of prosecutions is posted here on the website for the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The Obama Administration has not shown any interest in the second round of prosecutions that were planned for HLF terrorism funding. CAIR, NAIT and ISNA all petitioned the court to have their names removed from the list of unindicted co-conspirators, which is an assemblage of over 200 groups and individuals under consideration for prosecution in the matter by the Bush Justice Department. The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed that CAIR, NAIT and ISNA should not have their names removed. The judge’s order confirms that a prima facie case was made (page 7 of Judge Solis’ order) that the entities have strong associations with the Muslim Brotherhood, namely Hamas, its Palestinian branch, which is specifically designated as a terrorist organization by the U.S. government. From Judge Solis’ order (page 15). “The Government has produced ample evidence to establish the associations of CAIR, ISNA and NAIT with HLF, the Islamic Association for Palestine (“IAP”), and with Hamas. While the Court recognizes that the evidence produced by the Government largely predates the HLF designation date, the evidence is nonetheless sufficient to show the association of these entities with HLF, IAP, and Hamas.” The full judge’s order can be found HERE. The president of one of these entities in particular, ISNA, is Imam Mohamed Magid. He is a regular visitor to the White House, and admitted advising on at least one of the President’s speeches, particularly the one on Israel in May of 2011 that was so offensive to Israeli leaders. He has led prayer at the White House and even attended at least one of the President’s speeches on the Middle East given in the inner sanctum of the State Department. Among many other things, Magid is also reported to have counseled the Justice Department to criminalize defamation of Islam. He serves on the Department of Homeland Security’s Countering Violent Extremism group advising the department on counterterrorism policy. Five of us here in Congress pointed out such irrefutable facts and requested Inspector General Investigations into the extent of the Muslim Brotherhood influence in each of five Obama administration departments. Rather than accepting various false allegations of what our letters said, legitimate truth seekers may read for themselves specifically what the letters said. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
11.11.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement honoring those who have sacrificed their lives and have placed their lives on the line for this great nation: “Today we celebrate those who have served this country honorably in the United States Military. The brave men and women, who stood guard and those who continue to stand strong, are the defenders of our liberty. They carry the torch of freedom for all Americans. Among these heroes, ‘All gave some; some gave all´--so that we can rest at ease here at home. We are eternally grateful for their service. A simple ‘thank you’ is not enough. We also lift up in prayer the families and friends who have lost loved ones in the heat and height of battle –those who made the ultimate sacrifice. May God continue to bless our veterans and their families, and may God continue to bless the United States of America.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.11.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today remembering and honoring the lives of the thousands of Americans who were killed in the horrific terror attack on September 11, 2001: “Today, hearts all across America and the world mourn and remember the tragic loss of thousands of innocent lives. September 11th was the single worst terrorist attack any country has suffered in modern times. Nearly 3,000 innocent people were cold heartedly murdered on our soil. Americans lost husbands, wives, fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, children, and friends. We remember those who lost their lives on 9/11 and honor those who ran into the burning buildings that catastrophic day. These brave men and women make up the true heartbeat of America. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims today and always. In the days, weeks, months, and years that follow, I pray, even in the face of scoffers, we will always honor these brave individuals and lift up their families in earnest prayers. ” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
08.23.2012	Washington, D.C. – Several U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents today filed a lawsuit in Texas against the Obama administration’s amnesty program. On June 15, 2012, Obama administration officials at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) issued a memo instructing ICE officers to stop placing certain illegal immigrants into removal proceedings and instead take actions that encourage these illegal immigrants to remain in the U.S. and apply for work permits. The lawsuit filed today argues that the Obama administration’s amnesty program commands ICE officers to violate federal law and their oaths to uphold and support federal law. It also asserts that the Administration’s directive violates the Administrative Procedure Act, unconstitutionally usurps and encroaches upon the legislative powers of Congress, and violates the obligation of the executive branch to faithfully execute the law. Representatives Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) and John Carter (R-Texas) joined House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) in condemning the Obama administration’s amnesty program and supporting the ICE agents who filed the lawsuit. Representative Gohmert: “It’s a sad day when ICE employees have to sue their own employer over injustices and violation of laws within the Department of Homeland Security. I support this effort to reintroduce the Obama administration to the Constitution and the fact that when Congress passes a law and the President signs it, a future President must follow the law unless it is changed. A President does not get to speak new law into existence that overrides existing law until his coronation as our first king.” Chairman Smith: “The Obama administration’s amnesty program not only rewards lawbreakers, it also forces ICE agents to violate federal law. ICE agents should enforce our immigration laws and apprehend illegal immigrants. But the Obama administration makes it impossible for ICE agents to do their jobs. Instead of enforcing the law, the Obama administration requires ICE agents to release illegal immigrants. This policy not only hurts ICE agents but also unemployed American workers who have to compete with illegal immigrants for scarce jobs. The Obama administration regularly puts illegal immigrants ahead of the interests of American workers.” Representative Carter: “It is incredible that we have an Administration that is willfully breaking the immigration laws of this country, and is now threatening sworn law enforcement officers if they refuse to break the law as well. These officers deserve their day in court to air their grievances, without fear of destroying their careers for speaking out against what they believe to be, and have substantial evidence to support, efforts to intimidate officers into violating federal law.” # # #
08.09.2012	Reps. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Trent Franks (AZ-02), Michele Bachmann (MN-06), Tom Rooney (FL-16) and Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03) sent letters a few weeks ago to the Inspectors General of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice and the Department of State. These letters seek answers about the U.S. government’s involvement with the Muslim Brotherhood, an Islamist group that calls for “civilization jihad” against America. Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, in his editorial supporting the Congressional group, dubbed them the “National Security Five.” Letters of support for the “National Security Five” and the investigations were recently sent to Speaker of the House John Boehner by national security, military, conservative and Christian leaders including: R. James Woolsey, Former Director of Central Intelligence Agency Joseph E. Schmitz, Former Inspector General, Department of Defense Lieutenant General Harry E. Soyster, Former Director, Defense Intelligence Agency Lieutenant General William G. Boykin, Former Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence David Barton, Founder & President, WallBuilders James Dobson, Founder & President, FamilyTalk Radio Becky Norton Dunlop, former Deputy Assistant to President Reagan Stuart Epperson, Co-Founder and Chairman, Salem Communications Edwin Meese III, former Attorney General of the United States Robert (Bob) Reccord, Executive Director, Council for National Policy Mathew D. Staver, Chairman, Liberty Counsel Tim Wildmon, President, American Family Association Tony Perkins, President of the Family Research Council Text of the letters with full list of signatories at the links: · National Security and Military Leader Letter · Conservative Leaders Letter
08.06.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement commemorating the lives of the thirty American warriors who were killed on August 6, 2011: “One year ago today, thirty of our American warriors were killed serving this country and fighting to preserve the greatest right we have – freedom. These soldiers were killed, including seventeen from Seal Team Six, when their Chinook helicopter was shot down in the Wardak province, Afghanistan. Having been in that area, my heart breaks to think of their loss. We mourn today for the families of those brave soldiers who sacrificed their all for their countrymen. My thoughts and prayers go out to their families and loved ones. It is my hope that you will join with me today to remember and pay tribute to their precious lives. The brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces are truly the sentiments, the preservers, and the guardians of this nation. To them and their loved ones, we are eternally grateful.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.21.2012	Some of my comments in an interview with Ernie Istook on his Heritage Foundation radio show have been grossly taken out of context. Ernie is a good friend and former Congressman who asked for the interview long before the horror in Colorado. I had promised him a 10 minute interview and the topic scheduled for discussion was to be the economy and the President’s comments about it. When I learned of the tragedy I was heartbroken. Such devastation fills our hearts with sympathy making us want to hug our family and that should have been the extent of my comments. Prayers immediately went out for the victims and their families and their community. Instead of the prearranged interview, Ernie asked me about the shooting in Colorado mentioning a Washington Post column that already brought up the issue of gun control, as well as, asking about my own personal experience as a judge with years on the bench. Tragedies immediately become personal, and I thought about our shooting in Tyler and what a hero Mark Wilson was along with another prior shooting in Texas. As a father, my heart goes out to those who lost loved ones in this heartless attack. The killings were a senseless, outrageous act. Our thoughts and prayers continue for all those so tragically affected, and I am very sorry if my comments caused heartache to anyone in Colorado. # # #
07.20.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the senseless shooting in Aurora, Colorado last night: “My thoughts and prayers go out to those who lost their loved ones because of senseless violence last night in Aurora, Colorado. This tragedy is not only heartbreaking –it is incomprehensible. We should unite together as compassionate Americans to comfort those who are mourning. It is my prayer that we will cling tightly as ‘one nation under God’ and lift each other up in ongoing prayer, as well as, bringing physical comfort and support during this heartbreaking time.” Below is a transcript of my discussion with former Congressman Ernest Istook on his show, Istook Live. Some of my comments in this interview have been taken out of context. Below is the full transcript in context: ISTOOK: As promised we have a member of congress that is a former judge. Congressman Louie Gohmert represents the first district of Texas. We are happy to have him with us because everybody is concerned about what has happened with this shooting. Let me see if we have him here. Louie? GOHMERT: Ernie, always good being here ISTOOK: We were going to talk about other things but since you are a former judge and you dealt with criminal cases on the bench…. I don’t know if you ever had something that was such a crime that is senseless as we seem to be seeing with this theatre shooting with at least a dozen people killed evidently in Aurora, Colorado. What? What is your experience, with the way we have so many twisted people in our society? GOHMERT: Well it… some of us happen to believe that when our founders talked about guarding our virtue and freedoms that it was important … you know… whether it was John Adams saying that our Constitution was only for people with ‘moral and religious people’ and ‘wholly inadequate to the governments of any others.’ Ben Franklin, ‘Only a virtuous people are capable of freedom, as nations become more corrupt and vicious they have more need of masters’. I mean it goes on and on… you know… George Washington, ‘of all the disposition and habits that lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports.’ We have been at war with the very pillars, the very foundation of this country… and when… you know… what really gets me as a Christian, is to see the ongoing attacks on Judeo- Christian beliefs and then a senseless crazy act of terror like this takes place. ISTOOK: Now, in this case we don’t know much about the individual. Now, about the suspect all I’ve heard is is he 24 years old, his name is James Holmes. Obviously, he had hom… GOHMERT: What I am saying… ISTOOK: We don’t know… GOHMERT: Don’t misunderstand my statement … don’t misunderstand. My statement - by saying that it is terror… ISTOOK: Oh, No, I didn’t take it that way. GOHMERT: I’m not saying that at all, it could be anybody. We know that… we know from Norway, it could be anybody. But, it is a terror act. When you go in and start terrorizing people like this regardless of what your background is ISTOOK: Right… it doesn’t have to be Islamic terrorism, there is domestic terrorism GOHMERT: That’s right… exactly. But it is a terrorist act….but… You know, when people say, where was God in all of this? Well, you know, we don’t let… in fact we’ve threatened high school graduation participants that if they use God’s name that they’re going to be jailed, we had a principal of a school, and a superintendent or a coach down in Florida that were threatened with jail because they said the blessing at a voluntary off campus dinner. I mean, that kind of stuff… where is God? Where, where? What have we done with God? We told him that we don’t want him around. I kind of like his protective hand being present. ISTOOK: In this case I know, after the aftermath of the Oklahoma City Bombing, and the 180 + people who were killed there – the fact that we were a community of faith in Oklahoma made a huge difference in the reaction. Now, not everybody is that way – and there will be – I mean, I noticed a column posted up on the Washington Post saying – ‘Well, what would be the effect of this on gun control laws?” And, you know it’s interesting, of course after the Virginia Tech shootings people focused more on saying, well what about the mental health laws because you were supposed to have safeguards in place to make sure that somebody who had a mental health issue was picked up on this insta-check issue before they could buy a firearm but they were not putting that information into the system. And, I don’t know if some gaff like that might be some part of the situation? GOHMERT: Well, and I know – before we ever had conceal carry in Texas, there was a senseless shooting, years ago, in Killeen Texas, in a restaurant and if we’d had concealed carry permits at the time – there was a woman who had to leave her gun in her car –and if we’d had concealed carry, the guy would have been stopped before he could have killed so many people. And, I don’t know what the laws all are in Colorado, but – ya know what we’ve found over and over again is when people are authorized to carry… ISTOOK: Colorado does have concealed carry permits GOHMERT: It does make me wonder, you know, with all those people in the theatre, was there nobody that was carrying? That could have stopped this guy more quickly? I mean, in Tyler Texas, we had, in my hometown, we had a shooter come in over a domestic matter and just start shooting people, and it was a guy with a concealed carry. He got killed, but his shooting at this guy caused him to run and no doubt saved a lot of lives. He was a real hero. ISTOOK: Sure, and in fact, and I think, just looking at information from the gun owners of America, that 2 ½ million times a year guns are used in self-defense. GOHMERT: Wow, that’s quite a figure ISTOOK: That’s a huge figure. But that’s theirs. That’s about 68 hundred times a day which means that the number of times that they defend people is far greater than the times that they are used to take a life. Ah, but again, there are so many unknowns; I don’t want to get too far afield on this, this Colorado shooting. But, but what was your experience as a Judge, when you were on the bench? This is Congressman Louie Gohmert. When you were on the bench, what was your experience with people who had mental health issues that were involved in crimes of violence? GOHMERT: Well, it’s always a problem and there are some people that require medication, and when they are on their medication they are not a problem whatsoever. But you can’t require them, you know, to keep taking their medication, and because you can’t follow them around. You can commit them to mental health facilities, but then they put them on their medications and they do fine and then they release them, then you, you know. We had an engineer who was just a wonderful guy, but when he got off his medication – ya know, it came in –our friend was out at a major intersection – eight lanes both ways –he’s running naked between the cars. When he was on his medication, he was a great functioning member of society. But, ya know, I might mention something else that had not been public yet, most of us that follow the military know we have had an extraordinary increase in suicide in the military –and it’s just heartbreaking. And, I’ve sat with families around their kitchen tables and they are going ‘we never saw this coming – ya know, we didn’t know.” And there was a study commissioned… ISTOOK: And, Louie, we’re gonna have to finish... GOHMERT: Well, let me say this very quickly – but its six thousand personality index profiles. And, what they found, and I don’t know if they will make it public – one of the participants told me ‘ the results may not go public’; but, all of the people who committed suicide, within their thousands of people studied, were part of the 2-percent most atheistic members of the military . We’ve lost our faith. ISTOOK: Thank you, Louie Gohmert – Congressman from the First District of Texas. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.28.2012	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) delivered the following remarks at a press conference outside the United States Supreme Court after the ruling to uphold President Obama’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was announced: “I forgive those who express their ignorance like some of those who do not understand what this opinion means. The Supreme Court, by their opinion today, had considered the fact that the President of the United States had said clearly and repeatedly that the mandate was not a tax. The mandate is not a tax. Everyone who works for this president had promised the Congress this is not a tax. The Supreme Court, by making clear today that it is a tax, has made clear also that everyone who believes the President and those who work for this President are fools. The Supreme Court has made clear that when this President says something you ought to understand he may be lying because that’s what here at the Supreme Court, ‘we majority judges understand that this administration will lie, will do whatever is necessary to get a bill passed.’ He also understands apparently through this opinion that when this administration says we will totally disregard the freedom of religion and will totally disregard the right of the people not to be prohibited from practicing their religion, ‘we on the Supreme Court as a majority are saying this administration is so clairvoyant, they’re so wonderful, they’re so illuminated, that it’s ok for them to violate people’s freedom of religion and say you cannot practice this part of your religion. We have spoken and therefore, it is law.’ This administration has violated so many aspects of the Constitution—one thing is clear—when in the course of human events it becomes clear that you have people who will not follow the law, it’s time to use orderly methods set forth in the Constitution to remove them from their offices, and get people who will abide by their oaths, who will not have the Supreme Court saying, ‘of course they’re liars, you should have known they were lying. We know it at the Supreme Court, and so we are going to support the liars that the majority of Americans put into office.’ If America doesn’t wake up and replace all of those who lied to them to get this bill passed then shame on us, we don’t deserve the greatest nation of freedom and liberty that was ever given to a people. It’s time that we pay the price to preserve this gift we were given. God bless us, God protect us, and God work with those who are so ignorant that they continue to support and love the liars that misrepresented things to get this bill passed.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.21.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) is challenging the United States Department of Justice for retracting a statement “inadvertently” made by Attorney General Eric Holder to the Senate Judiciary Committee. The retracted statement claimed that his predecessor, then-Attorney General Mukasey, had been briefed about gunwalking. This retraction made by the Justice Department is the second major retraction made in the last seven months. Though the Justice Department states that this was an “inadvertent” claim, Attorney General Holder made the same claim in stronger terms to Rep. Louie Gohmert on June 7, 2012 in a House Judiciary oversight hearing on The Department of Justice. This statement has not been withdrawn. Excerpt from Attorney General Holder’s testimony before the House Judiciary Committee: MR. GOHMERT: “Did you ever go back to your office and say when you found out about Fast and Furious –I demand to know who authorized this? Are things so fast and loose in your office that somebody can authorize the sale to international criminals of American guns that are bringing about the death of even American agents, and no one has to do that in writing? ATTORNEY GENERAL HOLDER: “What I did do, I asked the inspector general to conduct an investigation. I put an end to the policy that led to the Fast and Furious debacle. I made personnel changes at ATF and in the U.S. Attorney’s Office. We made changes in the procedures there. And that is in stark contrast to what happened to my predecessor Attorney General Mukasey when he was briefed about the transmission of guns to Mexico and, as far as I can tell, did far less than what I did.” Rep. Gohmert noted, “Perhaps the Attorney General should review the definition of the term ‘inadvertent’ and explain how comments made in two different locations five days apart could be ‘inadvertent’ rather than false.” To view the video of Rep. Gohmert questioning Attorney General Holder, click here. To view the letter sent by Sen. Grassley to the Department of Justice and their response, click here. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.20.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after the House Oversight & Government Reform Committee approved a resolution holding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt for his refusal to hand over requested Fast and Furious documents: “After more than a year of trying to get the Justice Department to provide information on when and what the Justice Department officials knew about Fast and Furious, the House Oversight & Government Reform Committee has done the appropriate thing. This action comes after two of their official statements to Congress have been retracted as false. While the subpoenaed information only involved the documentation that brought about the withdrawal of the Justice Department’s false statements, the Attorney General’s conduct warranted such committee action. Previously, the White House had claimed they had no knowledge or involvement, so the current claim of Executive Privilege means someone at the White House apparently must have known prior to their previous admissions and possibly had more involvement than admitted.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.14.2012	This week, Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) and Congressmen Trent Franks (AZ-02), Michele Bachmann (MN-06), Tom Rooney (FL-16) and Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03) sent letters to the Inspectors General of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice and the Department of State. These letters seek answers about the U.S. government’s involvement with the Muslim Brotherhood, a group that calls for "civilization jihad." In the letter, Gohmert, Franks, Bachmann, Rooney and Westmoreland questioned the Inspectors General about the direct influence within the intelligence community of Muslim Brotherhood operatives. They explained that the U.S. government in federal court has established that the group’s mission in the U.S. is "destroying the Western civilization from within." The members went on to request that the respective offices of the Inspectors General conduct a formal investigation or evaluation of the extent to which Muslim Brotherhood-tied individuals or entities are involved. "The national security of our country depends on getting straight answers from the Inspectors General to the questions we posed in these letters," said Bachmann. "The Muslim Brotherhood is not shy about their call for jihad against the United States. We seek answers through these letters because we will not tolerate this group and its affiliates holding positions of power in our government or influencing our nation’s leaders." "Evidence indicates that this administration continues to bow before groups associated with the goal of ‘destroying Western civilization from within,’ and about whom the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals has found that there is plenty of evidence indicating that they support terrorism," said Gohmert. "For departments of this administration to continue meeting with such groups and agreeing to further blind our government agents charged with looking for enemies wanting to destroy us is at best foolhardy. At a minimum, we need an independent inspection regarding the role, the roots and the results of such destructive groups within this administration. Our enemies have been identified; now we need to know what they have done to our ability to protect ourselves." "The Muslim Brotherhood openly calls for violence against the United States, but we’re learning that this organization may be infiltrating our ranks, even within our military," said Rooney. "We need our top security agencies to investigate thoroughly the degree to which members of this organization are active in our defense and intelligence communities, and what impact that has on our national security." "We must always stay vigilant when fighting against those who want to destroy our way of life," said Westmoreland. "The Muslim Brotherhood may not have the name recognition of al-Qaeda or the Taliban, but that does not mean they don't have the potential to be just as deadly. I'm hoping these letters will send the message to our country's intelligence, law enforcement and diplomatic agencies that we cannot ignore the Muslim Brotherhood and must look into their operations and membership with the seriousness that is necessary in order to root them out of our government." Founded in 1928, the Muslim Brotherhood’s motto reads, "Allah is our objective. The Prophet is our leader. The Qur'an is our law. Jihad is our way. Dying in the way of Allah is our highest hope." Signers of the letter serve on the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (Bachmann, Rooney and Westmoreland), the Armed Services Committee (Franks and Rooney) and the Judiciary Committee (Franks and Gohmert). Additionally, Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Copies of the letters are available here: Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice and the Department of State. ###
05.18.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after the Gohmert-Landry-Rigell-Duncan-Barletta amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act was adopted by a vote of 243-173. “It’s a good day –seeing that the Gohmert-Landry-Rigell-Duncan-Barletta amendment was adopted in the House. Supported by the House Armed Services Committee and the Heritage Foundation, the adoption of this amendment is a great victory for the Constitution and all American citizens. It insures that nothing in the 2001 Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) would any longer allow a President, executive branch agent or the judiciary to treat a person lawfully in the United States with any less than all of his or her rights possessed before the 2001 AUMF and the NDAA that amended it. In opposition to the competing Smith/Amash amendment, which granted foreign terrorists or foreign soldiers rights our own military do not have, the Gohmert-Landry-Rigell-Duncan-Barletta amendment’s approach is the better option. This amendment protects our constitutional rights; however, it does not grant them to foreign terrorists, who have been fighting for a decade to tear this great document apart.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.27.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement and called for the resignation of EPA Region Six Administrator, Al Armendariz, after a tape surfaced of his toxic comments: “Elitists, like Al Armendariz, do not understand that we don’t have subway systems in east Texas. Hard-working, taxpaying Americans have to get in their cars and drive, sometimes long distances, in order to get to and from work. In his zeal to “crucify” the Evil Oil Companies, Armendariz is placing a crushing burden on overwhelmed Americans who have to choose between food for their families or gasoline to get to work. The specific game plan of this administration’s “War on Big Oil” will not adversely impact major oil companies. Instead, their policies will repeal business deductions for small independent oil and gas companies who drill and maintain 95-percent of the wells in the continental United States. In fact, his “crucifixion” strategy will nail small independent companies to the cross – leaving true Big Oil to make even more profit.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. He is also a Senior Member on the Natural Resources Committee. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.20.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the agreement made between the U.S. Army and U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service to work through their differences and preserve Caddo Lake National Wildlife Refuge: “For years, saving Caddo Lake and its surrounding habitat has been a critical priority for us in east Texas. The effort to protect this lake is a significant issue for Texas and the nation because it is such a treasure. Internally my feelings are that, ‘It's about time!’ More diplomatically, I would say that we are delighted the Army and the Fish and Wildlife Service were able to reach an agreement. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison and I have been diligently working on this matter, and it is a great to see the issues resolved for the sake of such a historic and valuable wildlife refuge. That means the lake that left me in awe as a child, and that my children have enjoyed, should be around for future generations to treasure.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. He is a Senior Member on the Natural Resources Committee. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.21.2012	Today, Members of Congress including Reps. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Steve King (IA-05), Michele Bachmann (MN-06), Tom Price (GA-06), Joe Barton (TX-06), Phil Gingrey (GA-11), Paul Gosar (AZ-01) and Founder of The Tea Party Patriots, Jenny Beth Martin, addressed Obamacare’s broken promises, new taxes, increased costs and expanded bureaucracy in a press conference on Capitol Hill. Rep. Gohmert delivered the following remarks: “President Obama’s health care bill was not a bill that needed to be passed. Simply stated, it allows any President to tread on the religious freedom expressly promised to us in the Constitution. It is my hope that liberal friends, across the country, who originally bought into the lies about how good this piece of legislation was going to be, will rise up and demand repeal upon realizing the power that this gives a President to trample on their favorite written and unwritten rights. If the President can overstep and tread on your First Amendment rights, then he can certainly overstep all kinds of other rights—all for the greatest good to the new federal health care system. This is such a devastating blow to our liberties for which so much has been sacrificed. As Dennis Miller said, ‘If our original founders would go to war over a tax on their breakfast drink," they would certainly never stand for this massive usurpation of people's choices in how to live.’ ObamaCare was a situation where a minority of Americans dictated the life decisions to a large majority of Americans without their consent and, in fact, with their frequently stated opposition. Some want to nip around the edges and repeal small parts, but the entire monstrous cancer needs to be destroyed. Then, we can move on and get real health care reform that the people deserve.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.01.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after hearing the devastating news of the sudden and unexpected death of conservative writer, Andrew Breitbart: “This nation and freedom have lost a great proponent and defender. Andrew Breitbart was a converted liberal who became a passionate conservative voice for liberty, opportunity and truth. He unashamedly and unabashedly carried the torch of American patriotism, while the brightness of his flame only intensified with every passing day. Though Andrew did great service to himself, his family and his nation, I pray that his greatest contribution to this, the greatest nation in world history, will be the inspiration he has been and will be to so many who saw his devotion, saw his commitment, saw his goals, vision and will, who then go out and restore and achieve more in the name of liberty than one extraordinary person could ever achieve individually. He was a lover of liberty, a lover of family, lover of God, a lover of this nation, and especially a lover of life. He was also a bright and encouraging friend to me.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.24.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the decision made by the United States Postal Service (USPS) to move Tyler and Lufkin processing operations to plants in various other cities in Texas and Louisiana: “It is exceedingly frustrating to hear the news that the U.S. Post Office may be closing the Tyler and Lufkin processing plants. These plants are so important to delivering the mail in a timely manner, while avoiding vast added expenses to sending a letter in east Texas. What some of the USPS bureaucrats don’t understand is that when they make it more difficult to send a letter efficiently and quickly, they diminish the amount of revenue that will come in. The bottom line is that the closure of these facilities will ultimately hurt the U.S. Postal Service. The best move they could make is to eliminate most of the top and mid-level bureaucrats, who do not help mail get delivered but just come up with these ridiculous decisions.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.24.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) appeared in the 2012 January edition of The Limbaugh Letter. Click here to read the full six-page interview with Rush Limbaugh. Reprinted with permission ©2012 The Limbaugh Letter
01.24.2012	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after The Baseline Reform Act passed out of the Budget Committee by a vote of 21-12; this bill was authored by Rep. Rob Woodall (R-GA) and inspired by Rep. Louie Gohmert’s Zero Baseline Budget Act: “Since my first term here in 2005, I have been pushing to end the automatic increases in every federal department’s budget. Having filed the bill that would do that in each term of Congress I’ve been in, also pushing for its passage out of Committee and to the floor, it is now great to see that it has finally happened. When I was a judge without Congress even on my radar, I heard Rush Limbaugh discussing the insanity of the automatic increases annually. When I got here, it seemed like a no-brainer, but even when we had the majority in 2005-2006, I could not get them to bring it up for a vote. Not being on the committee of jurisdiction, I had no objections whatever to Congressman Woodall on the Budget Committee filing it as a new bill and pushing it through the committee with the full support of Chairman Paul Ryan. It is important to note this passage means that Chairman Paul Ryan is a man of his word. He promised me at the end of July he would get the Zero-Baseline Budget Bill passed out of his committee and he has. It now will move to the floor as the Speaker has assured me it will, and I have no doubt it will pass there. Then Senators will pass it to accolades or fail to pass it at their great political peril. Americans understand that they have tightened their belts and it is inexcusable if the federal government says we simply cannot tighten ours. Congressman Woodall and Chairman Ryan are to be commended as America will be the better for the tremendous savings to the American people when it finally becomes law, with this House and this Senate, or a Senate with a new Republican majority if this Senate fails to pass it after we do. When this does become law, Representatives and Senators can also finally advocate with for no increase in a federal department’s budget without being vilified as happened in the past for “’draconian cuts.’” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.23.2012	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) spoke at the 39th Annual March for Life Rally on the National Mall in Washington, DC and delivered the following speech expressing his unwavering passion to defend the sanctity of life: “Scripture, or as Benjamin Franklin called it ‘the sacred writing’ says, ‘Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord; the fruit of the womb is a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior so are the children of one’s youth. Happy is the person has a quiver full of them.’ Fifty-two million dead children is not a reward. That number indicts us and condemns us for our selfishness. My dear friends for life, the same selfish arrogance or reckless disregard for human life would also allow one generation to selfishly and arrogantly forge chains of mountainous debt from self-centered, uncontrolled spending. This spending will be set on the shoulders of those who are born in the near future. God or nature brings together a sperm and egg, and what God has brought together, let no man tear asunder. You and I know it; but, we must ever and always say it – liberty and the pursuit of happiness cannot begin until we allow life.” On January 22, 1974, the first March for Life was held on the West Steps of the Capitol. An estimated 20,000 committed pro-life Americans rallied that day on behalf of our preborn brothers and sisters. To learn more about the March for Life, please visit www.marchforlife.org # # #
01.17.2012	In September 2011 Former President Burhanuddin Rabbani, a key Northern Alliance leader and the only Tajik to be President of Afghanistan, was murdered after Taliban emissaries promised to deliver him an important message of peace. When welcomed, they blew him up. In August 2011, after a conspiracy that lured in members of our Seal Team Six with other heroic Americans, the Taliban set up an ambush and murdered them. Following those brutal attacks, President Obama’s strategy has been to hasten negotiations with the Taliban. Additionally, the Obama administration has now not only offered to release known Taliban terrorists from detention, but has already released some and additionally offered to legitimize our sworn enemy by furnishing them a princely office in Qatar. In return, Obama’s agents defend that they are being tough on the Taliban by demanding that they not use the office to raise funds to support their terrorism. That is a bit reminiscent of the Clinton-Albright demand of North Korea that if we give them nuclear technology, they must promise to use it for electric generation and not weapons. According to many Afghans, all of these and other Obama Administration actions give substantial credence to the Taliban claim, supported privately by some Pakistani leaders, that the U.S. has lost in Afghanistan and is now begging them for negotiations. One Taliban leader who was released from detention by the Obama administration for medical and end of life purposes, is now back in command and recently demanded on Afghan TV that since the Americans have now lost and are begging for negotiations, Afghans disloyal to the Taliban must come ask forgiveness and for safety from the Taliban. A Northern Alliance leader says that of the more than 800 Taliban detainees that have been released, he is now seeing many of them fighting, killing and terrorizing again. Yet, the Northern Alliance leaders are being effectively shut out of the plans for the way forward, while being demonized by the American government they helped. The State Department even went to extraordinary links to attempt preventing the writers from meeting with the Northern Alliance leaders. We were able to meet, with some help from foreign friends, but clearly the Obama administration and its comrades mean for our allies to stay under the bus when they throw them there. In late 2001-2002, the Taliban were defeated with less than 500 Americans embedded with the Northern Alliance, but now the Taliban is stronger while we have more than 100,000 American troops in Afghanistan. Though Vice-President Biden says the Taliban are not our enemies, American soldiers in Afghanistan say the Taliban are still creating IED’s, firing bullets, firing rockets and doing all they can to kill Americans, so it seemed to them that the Taliban certainly think they are our enemy. This points straight to the fact our military is not the problem; its their commander in chief who is the current weak link in our chain of command. To date, the U.S. nation-building experiment in Afghanistan has produced instability, violence, skyrocketing drug production, widespread corruption, fraudulently rigged elections and the general disapproval of this new government by its own people. Under the U.S.-approved, Afghan Constitution, President Karzai appoints all governors for the provinces, all mayors, police chiefs, the slate for one third of the Senate candidates, and even a segment of the Class 1 teachers in the country. He even has power of the purse that the U.S. President does not have. Clearly this is a formula for heightened corruption, while isolating and ignoring many ethnic groups that make up the very essence of Afghan society. Many with first-hand experience fighting the Taliban say they are dependent on Pakistan for their marching orders, strategy, and weaponry. In the meantime, President Karzai’s regime has dropped every pretense of appreciation for American sacrifice in blood and treasure as demonstrated by his recent threats to align with Pakistan, Iran and China even as we continue to prop up his government. From Karzai’s perspective, he may well see the Taliban and Pakistan as holding his fate in their hands once the U.S. pulls out. At the same time, the U.S. is pouring billions of dollars into Afghanistan that comprises the largest portion of the Afghan government’s own budget. U.S.A.I.D. alone is pouring $3.6 billion a year into the country for aid and projects while the money often fails to get past corrupt government officials with 80 percent going to Taliban areas and a tiny fraction going to areas where our allies reside. The Afghan leaders have become increasingly enriched as their contempt for us has continued to grow. At President Karzai’s encouragement, we have politically and militarily undermined the natural and historic barrier to the Taliban, which is the non-Pashtun peoples of the North, Central and Western parts of Afghanistan. As these non-Pashtun communities were weakened, their leaders were undermined by U.S. support for Karzai and his concentration of power. The critical next step should be to insist on a new Constitutional Loya Jirga, or convention, that will draft a new constitution enshrining federalism as the new form of government. This would break the Taliban’s ability to dominate Afghanistan by strengthening those communities opposed to the return of the Taliban and their Al-Qaeda allies. It would give Afghans the kind of hope that our founders provided Americans 225 years ago with our Constitution. We should insist on local elections of Afghan governors and mayors who may then select the police chiefs. Electing regional leaders would serve to eliminate the conduit of corruption built into the present system, while at the same time giving the governing authority back to the people who are now being disenfranchised. This course would establish the basis for a political system that allows each of Afghanistan’s ethnic communities to retain their identity and protect them from the Taliban’s violent ethnic repression, brutality and regressive domination. The resulting political framework would also enable trust and goodwill to be built between Afghanistan’s diverse communities as each community would have a direct and important say in its own future. Perhaps we should even consider support for a Balochistan carved out of Pakistan to diminish radical power there also. Surely, leaving Afghanistan to the same terrorist thugs who enabled the September 11th attacks is the very definition of insanity.The way forward should not include the current Obama plan of putting our future in Taliban hands that are covered with American blood.
01.09.2012	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) along with Reps. Dana Rohrabacher (CA-46), Loretta Sanchez (CA-47) and Steve King (IA-05) held a press conference in Berlin, Germany, on their private meeting with Northern Alliance Leaders on Afghan Strategy. These leaders who fought with embedded Special Forces to initially defeat the Taliban represent over 60-percent of the Afghan people, yet are being entirely disregarded by the Obama and Karzai Administrations in negotiations. Instead, the Obama regime is choosing to now make concessions to the group that helped train for the 9-11 attacks and whose leader proclaimed on Afghan TV recently that the U.S. has been defeated and is now begging them for negotiations. Rep. Gohmert and the individuals, listed below, released the following joint statement: “We have supported the mission of the Coalition Forces in Afghanistan. It is our fervent desire that the Coalition Forces be successful. Yet, after the departure of the Coalition Forces, the enormous American, Coalition, and Afghan investment with their lives and treasure is currently in great peril of having been in vain. Our concern is that the present political system is dysfunctional because all the power is centralized in a way that no American would tolerate in the United States. The current system has fatally concentrated decision-making to whoever is President of the country. The Afghan President appoints the governors of each province and district, the mayor of every town, every provincial chief of police, one third of the entire Senate, and even every judge in Afghanistan.” “This centralized power has led to massive corruption, disenfranchisement of a large segment of the Afghan people, obstacles to economic development, massive abuses of power, increasing political instability, poor governance, and a vast undermining of law and order.” “We call for a national dialogue on a revised Constitution to correct the inherent flaws in the present power structure by decentralizing the political system, making it more compatible with the diverse political, social and cultural nature of Afghanistan. The Afghan people deserve and need a parliamentary form of democracy instead of a personality-centered Presidential system.’ “We firmly believe that any negotiation with the Taliban can only be acceptable, and therefore effective, if all parties to the conflict are involved in the process. The present form of discussions with the Taliban is flawed, as it excludes anti-Taliban Afghans. It must be recalled that the Taliban extremists and their Al-Qaeda supporters were defeated by Afghans resisting extremism with minimal human embedded support from the United States and International community. The present negotiations with the Taliban fail to take into account the risks, sacrifices and legitimate interests of the Afghans who ended the brutal oppression of all Afghans.” “In order to speed the withdrawal of international forces, the participants believe it is essential to strengthen regional and national institutions that are inclusive and represent the concerns of all the communities of Afghanistan.” “The participants favor a change in the Electoral System from a Single Non Transferable Vote System to a nationally accepted variant of the Proportional Representation system with equal opportunities for independent candidates, the political parties, or tribal representatives. We also support the election of Governors and empowerment of provincial councils. Such elected Governors and provincial councils should also have authority for such things as creating budgets and generating revenue, overseeing police and healthcare, as well as establishing educational authority, if they so desire.” Mr. Ahmed Zia Massoud, Chairman, National Front General Abdul Rashid Dostum, Leader, National Islamic Movement of Afghanistan Haji Mohammad Mohaqiq, Leader, People´s Unity Party of Afghanistan Mr. Amrullah Saleh, Former Director, Afghan National Security Directorate Representative Dana Rohrabacher (R-California) Representative Loretta Sanchez (D-California) Represenative Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) Representative Steve King (R-Iowa) Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.20.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement after voting against the two-month payroll tax cut extension pushed by the Senate and President Obama: “The House, last week, passed a one-year extension of the payroll tax cut. This bill ensured 160 million hardworking American that their taxes would not increase. Though I was not satisfied with some of the provisions in the bill, the number of responsible program reforms made it, on balance, a step in the right direction. However, today, the House was called back to vote on a two-month payroll tax cut extension – not the full-year extension we passed which would provide certainty to America’s workers and job creators. Back in 2009, I made the original proposal for a true payroll tax holiday that would allow people to keep every dime of their federal income and payroll taxes – not the small 2-percent fraction this represents. It was fully paid for by the unspent TARP funds, and my proposal was made before we were $15 trillion in debt. Unlike this temporary gimmick “fix” presented to the House today, my proposal meant people kept the money they earned, Wall Street got no more bailouts, it established the entire year’s tax law, and the Social Security Trust Fund and Medicare were not underfunded as the Senate proposal does. This two-month postponement of making critical decisions does not provide workers, families, employers, doctors, and the American people the long-standing stability this country so desperately needs. We need long-term job stimulating solutions, which the Senate bill does not provide. When I took on this role as a United States Representative, I made a commitment to the people of east Texas, and I intend to keep fighting for those commitments. At this time of financial insecurity, we must provide Americans more than a two-month remedy because we will not be able to see significant change without significant, responsible actions.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.14.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3630 - The Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act: “The Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act contained numerous provisions I was pleased with but, there were some provisions that caused grave concern. Some inclusions were things I had been urging our leadership to include. After weighing the good with the provisions of concern, I, ultimately decided to vote for this piece of legislation, which offers real reforms and some long term solutions to many of this nation’s biggest problems. So many positive reforms in this bill led me to favor a path toward these reforms. You can't stop an aircraft carrier on a dime. This will slightly turn the ship that has been headed for a shipwreck. As it stands now, our children and grandchildren are strapped with a financial burden they did not create. It’s time to take action in bold strides to reduce this unbearable load. Tonight the House delivered a responsible bill to the American people. Now, it’s up to the Senate to act. Americans need real leaders – not political games and hissy fits in the Senate and White House. While I remain concerned about several components of this legislation, on the whole, it does contain provisions consistent with east Texas principles in the sense that it enacts necessary reforms and helps return Congress to regular order. It is now up to the Senate to pass what they believe is best for our nation. The American people need to see where the House and the Senate stand and who best represents the future of this country.” Highlights of H.R. 3630 considered by Rep. Gohmert in his decision to vote in favor of this legislation: - EPA Regulatory Relief: requires the EPA to replace the current draconian proposed rules for manufacturers. - Keystone Pipeline: directs the President to issue a permit for the Keystone XL pipeline unless he determines that the pipeline would not serve national interest - Reforms unemployment benefits to promote reemployment by requiring work- search activities and enrollment in a GED program if without high school diploma. - Allows states to test unemployment applicants for drugs. - Reduces taxes by $88.3 billion over ten years. - Cuts spending by $89 billion over ten years. - Provides clarity to Medicare reimbursements for healthcare providers. - Eliminates an ObamaCare slush-fund and halts excessive spending to implement state-run insurance exchanges. - Reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program and implements reforms to make the program solvent. - Increases the fees for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guaranteed mortgage backed securities. - Addresses waste, fraud, and abuse in the Social Security program at state and local levels. - Requires a taxpayer Social Security Number to be listed on a tax return to be eligible for refundable child tax credit, finally preventing illegal aliens from getting back more than they paid in. - Eliminates unemployment compensation and food stamp benefits for millionaires. - Continues civilian federal worker pay freeze through 2013, including Members of Congress and legislative branch employees. - Increases Medicare Premiums for High Income Beneficiaries starting in 2017. - Extension of 100 Percent Business Expensing: extends current law allowing businesses to immediately deduct 100 percent of its property for an additional year. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
12.14.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 1540 - The National Defense Authorization Act: “One of the most important duties Congress is tasked with is laid out in Article 1, Section 8: to ‘provide for the common defense’ of this nation. The National Defense Authorization Act contained numerous provisions I was pleased with, while at the same time contained provisions that caused serious concern. After much deliberation and review, I ultimately decided to support this legislation. We must first and foremost provide the necessary resources for the brave men and women who sacrifice for us. This bill does that. We needed a clear definition of what it means to be an avowed terrorist - sworn to destroy our country. This bill does that. We must extend the prohibition on funds from transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to the U.S. or a foreign country. This bill does that. This bill even contains a conscience clause protecting military chaplains who cannot, in good conscience, perform same sex marriage based on their moral principles. There is a lot to support in this bill. However, I do remain concerned with the vague language prohibiting this legislation from being used against American citizens as written in Sections 1021 and 1022. This bill did not create the problem; however, it does not resolve it. That must be a bill that comes from the Judiciary Committee under House Rules. I have received a commitment from our leadership, including the Speaker himself, that we will fix this problem, after getting input from our best conservative Constitutional experts, with a separate bill. Since the NDAA bill did not create this problem, it was not necessary it be fixed here; but, the proper remedy will be carried out.” Important Provisions of H.R. 1540 considered by Rep. Gohmert in his decision to vote in favor of this legislation: - Attempts to clarify the scope of terrorist detention authority already given to the President under the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF). - Specifically states that this terrorist detention authority does not “affect existing law or authorities relating to the detention of United States citizens . . . or any other persons who are captured or arrested in the United States.” - This language regarding American citizens is a step in the right direction, but we must do more to clean up this language to further guarantee the protection of American citizens from indefinite detention. I have been given assurances from Leadership that we will work on cleaning up this language after the first of the year. - In response to the Ft. Hood terrorist attack, the bill includes multiple provisions that will protect soldiers and civilian defense employees from retaliation for reporting violent Islamic extremist activity. In addition to Whistleblower protection language, the bill also requires the Secretary of Defense to produce guidelines to ensure that military and civilian law enforcement receive “Active Shooter Training.” - Continues to provide our military with the necessary resources to provide for our defense while maintaining our commitment to fiscal responsibility. - Contains a conscience clause protecting military chaplains who do not want to perform same sex marriage based on conscience or moral principles. - Reaffirms the Authorization for Use of Military Force for the President to authorize the military to detain terrorists in the war on terror. - Extends the prohibition on funds from transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to the U.S. or a foreign country. - Authorizes additional domestic and regional missile defense systems to protect the U.S. - Provides additional resources for U.S.-Israeli cooperative missile defense programs. - Limit funds from going toward nuclear security in China until U.S. officials certify that China develops practices to improve proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court. # # #
12.05.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) hosted a reception to honor the participants and announced the winners of the 2011 Congressional Art Competition on Sunday, December 4, 2011, in Longview, Texas. “Throughout history, art and its expression have always been vital to our culture. Personally, with one of my daughters being an artist, it has played a significant role in my family’s life. It has allowed me to see the importance of fine art in our children’s lives. This weekend, it was exciting to see all the creativity and skill from the First Congressional District of Texas displayed at LeTourneau University. After the winning piece is hung in our great Capitol, the rest of the nation will also see the amazing talent that the young adults from east Texas possess,” said Rep. Gohmert. 2011 Congressional Art Winners: First Place: Colleen D’Antoni Senior, Spring Hill High School “Godchild,” Acrylic Second Place: Brittany Tiemann Sophomore, Lufkin High School “The Layers of Lorenzo,” Pencil Third Place: Cori Kallenberger Sophomore, Sabine High School “Carbonate,” Digital Photography Honorable Mention: Cole Brasil Senior, Spring Hill High School “Nikki’s A,” Mixed Media Collage The annual competition is open to high school students across the district. The first place winner was awarded a scholarship and has their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol Building for a year, alongside winning art from Congressional Districts across the US. # # #
11.18.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement after voting against the Balanced Budget Amendment in the House: “Although I am a strong advocate of a Balanced Budget Amendment, this bill presented on the floor today does not have a spending cap. This year we witnessed the largest wave election since the 1930’s that sent dozens of new conservative freshmen to Congress – with one central charge – to stop the wasteful government spending. Following a pledge to make massive cuts in spending, it appears Congress finds it easier to talk about “new revenue” [code for “more taxes”] than to cut spending. This does not live up to the pledge we made to the American people – to restrain government and get our fiscal house in order. President Obama has ramped up spending with the help of Former Speaker Pelosi, Leader Reid, and a majority in both Houses by over an additional $1 trillion. This is far more than the Democratic Congress increased the debt under President Bush. Can we not find enough members to return even to the liberal Democratic spending level of fiscal year 2008? It’s clear – that if we pass a Balanced Budget Amendment, without at least having a spending cap, then future Congresses will use its requirements to increase taxes in order to balance the budget. On Wednesday, the national debt exceeded $15 trillion dollars, which left the United States with one of the highest public debt-to-GDP ratios in the world. This $15 trillion dollar mark further enhanced the uncertainty that is thwarting our economy from moving ahead. It is apparent – America is on a route headed for ruin if we continue to spend more money that we don’t have. Washington needs to stop this runaway train of spending. This President’s policies have added $4.4 trillion to the national debt – all in a fraction of the time that debt accumulated under President George W. Bush. If we at least have a spending cap as part of The Balanced Budget Amendment, then Congress would be compelled to address this worrisome spending problem. It’s troubling that our party felt compelled to strip down the amendment to attract Democratic votes, while acknowledging at the same time that it would not pass in the House and Senate. If this amendment is not going to pass, we need to do what we know is best and right and prepare the way to pass it after the next election.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
10.31.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization’s decision to grant the Palestinian bid for full membership: "Today’s vote made by UNESCO to grant the Palestinian bid for full membership to the United Nations is not only outrageous, it’s utterly offensive. This vote will bolster the fraudulent Palestinian bid for recognition as a state by the United Nations without requiring it to recognize a nation in being and disclaim the goal of Israel's destruction. It offers further evidence of the United Nations' embrace of a radical political agenda. The United States should not fund a United Nations bent on bestowing statehood to a Palestinian government run by Hamas, an Islamist terror group devoted to annihilating our strong ally, Israel. Desiring peace in the Middle East is noble, but granting statehood to Hamas, the Palestinian arm of the Muslim Brotherhood, is foolhardy and does not advance the cause of peace in the region.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court. # # #
10.13.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement expressing his support for The Protect Life Act (H.R. 358): “Life is precious – that includes the life of the unborn. One of the principle tasks of the government is to protect the lives of those who are unable to safeguard themselves. As it stands now, ObamaCare does not bar the use of taxpayer money to heartlessly take an unborn child’s life. The Protect Life Act will amend ObamaCare to prevent the use of federal funding funneled to abortion or abortion coverage.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.22.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement after voting against the spending bill that failed in the House last night by a vote of 195-230: “My views have not changed since vote one on funding the government: we need a game changer that will fundamentally alter the means by which Congress is allowed to spend the American taxpayer’s money. As a minimum starting point we should do two things: one, we should pass a balanced budget amendment that includes a substantial cap on spending and two, we should de-fund implementation of ObamaCare at least until the Supreme Court decides the constitutionality of the law. The only way government can ‘create’ jobs is to unshackle the American entrepreneur.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.14.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after introducing the “American Jobs Act of 2011” which will create jobs by taking the corporate tax rate to zero. “We have heard a lot of rhetoric about job creation from President Obama over the last several days. After waiting to see what the President would actually put into legislative language, and then waiting to see if anybody would actually introduce the President’s bill in the House, today I took the initiative and introduced the 'American Jobs Act of 2011.' It is a very simple bill, which will eliminate the corporate tax which serves as a tariff that our American companies pay on goods they produce here in America. This bill will actually create jobs in America. Right now, American manufacturing jobs are shipped overseas. What is really insidious about this tax is that corporate taxes are paid by the consumer – built in to the cost of the good or service. Corporate taxes are paid for by people in the form of lower wages to American workers and less money paid out in dividends in everything from 401K retirement accounts and to those who would risk their capital in business ventures. This type of capital investment is where jobs come from. Unlike President Obama’s bill, which clocks in at 155 pages, the 'American Jobs Act' is only two pages. The American people want to see jobs and economic growth and this bill guarantees that outcome. America would instantly become a safe haven for businesses resulting in an explosion in revenue increases. If we really want to create jobs and grow the economy, we must pass ‘The American Jobs Act’ now.” To view a copy of the bill, click here. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
09.13.2011	Click the link to read the full text of President Obama's "American Jobs Act."
09.09.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement in order to remember the fallen and pay tribute to the survivors and first responders on the 10th Anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “It has been said by Thomas Jefferson, ‘The cement of this union is the heart-blood of every American.’ The morning of September 11, 2001, America’s heart beat was fortified through tragedy and pulsed in one patriotic accord. Throughout most of the country, September 11th was a bright, clear and warm day. Nothing appeared out of the ordinary. However, at 9:03 AM when the second of four hijacked planes crashed in to the World Trade Center’s South Tower, every heart was irreparably changed forever in America. Dozens of questions flooded the minds of our countrymen and women. Unfortunately, no one could specifically address the devastation, fear, doubt and sheer horror felt by the majority of Americans. Hearts – dismayed, anxious and angry – were racing. Though there were very small pockets of people in America and some countries abroad cheering when those towers came down, all true Americans were devastated. Within minutes of the first plane hitting the North Tower, dozens of police, firefighters and rescue personnel rushed up the endless stairwells with a strict mission in mind - to provide assistance to the victims and contain the violent fire. When the second plane smashed into the South Tower, immediately rescue personnel headed up the stairs to give aid. Emotions saddled with fear and uncertainty, these ordinary Americans, answered the call of bravery, and sacrificed their lives by offering assistance to their fellow Americans. Elmer Davis’ words echoed as truth that day, “This nation will remain the land of the free only so long as it is the home of the brave.” September 11th was the single worst terrorist attack any country has suffered in modern times. Nearly 3,000 innocent people were cold heartedly murdered on our soil. Americans lost husbands, wives, fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, children, and friends. The heroic Americans who responded with courage and strength will never be forgotten. We remember those who lost their lives on 9/11 and honor those who ran into the burning buildings that catastrophic day. These brave men and women make up the true heart of America. When people were evacuating the World Trade Center and Pentagon - running down stairwells and corridors - these patriots stationed themselves in the path of disaster; they saved the lives of their countrymen and comforted countless Americans in their last moments on earth. On that horrific day, two towers came crashing down - all that was left was a foundation. It is the foundation of faith, hope and love that comprises the bedrock of America. Ironically, following the attacks, during the operation to clear Ground Zero and when the massive search to find survivors was underway, a 20-foot cross of steel beams was uncovered among the rubble. In the midst of chaos and calamity, God was present. To quote Isaiah 41:10, “So do not fear, for I am with you; do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you; I will uphold you with my righteous right hand.” America’s patriotism is not etched in the colors of the flag, it’s not found in the concrete monuments or historic government buildings. True American patriotism can only be viewed in the valiant faces of its people. In the days, weeks, months, and years that follow, I pray, even in the face of scoffers, we will always honor these brave individuals. I pray that we never forget the sacrifice of those who ran into the burning buildings that day. I pray that we never replace these men and women who demonstrated courage with those who merely speak of it. May God Continue to Bless America.” # # #
09.08.2011	Today Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued a statement on the devastating wildfires in Texas. According to Texas Forest Service officials, more than 40,000 acres continue to burn in the East Texas area, destroying houses and properties and claiming the lives of numerous individuals including that of Gladewater residents Valerie McBride and her 18-month-old daughter K'loe Cheek: “Our thoughts and prayers are with those who have lost loved ones or lost property as a result of the wildfires in Texas. The brave firefighters and members of the law enforcement who put their lives in danger on a daily basis deserve our admiration, respect and support. They have worked tirelessly to contain the flames and protect precious lives and property throughout the state. Additionally, we are grateful for numerous volunteers, state and local officials who have and are contributing aid and support in the wake of this disaster. More than 100 thousand acres of land have been destroyed just this week alone. Inexplicably nearly half of the federal government’s firefighting air tankers have been grounded by the Obama Administration due to termination of its contract with a non-union provider that has done the work for 50 years. We are making efforts to attempt to get their planes hired anyway to help in this battle with raging fires. We have a duty to defend against domestic threats to our nation and wildfires are certainly one of them.” Texas Forest Service: Current Texas Wildfire Situation County-by-county contact information for Texas Forest Service Texas Forest Service Interactive Map FEMA Texas Wildfires Information For information on shelters open for evacuated residents, please click here. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals # # #
08.26.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement concerning the decision made by New York City Mayor Bloomberg not to invite the first responders and bar prayer from the tenth anniversary ceremony of the September 11th terror attacks: “Excluding the heroic Americans who responded with courage and strength of steel when faced with one of the greatest tragedies in the history of the United States is not only unpatriotic, it’s disgraceful. We are remembering those who lost their lives on 9/11 and honoring those who ran into the burning buildings that catastrophic day. These brave men and women make up the heart of America. When people were evacuating the World Trade Center running down stairwells, these patriots were running up the stairwells. They stationed themselves in the path of disaster; they saved the lives of their countrymen and comforted countless Americans in their last moments on earth. The first responders and those who would pray for them, should not only be invited to the tenth anniversary ceremony, they should be given the places of honor. Our country is only as great as the people who comprise it. Its my hope that Mayor Bloomberg will choose to honor the ones who voluntarily chose to put their life on the line for the security of this nation, while also bringing to the forefront those who can most effectively pray for them. Either Mayor Bloomberg and the memorial leaders are far smarter than the genius of Ben Franklin, or they too should be asked, “Do we imagine that we no longer need God’s assistance*?” * When the founders were bogged down and could get nothing accomplished for the first five weeks at the Constitutional Convention in 1787, they were reminded by Benjamin Franklin of what should be noted today: “In the beginning Contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible of danger we had daily prayer in this room for the divine protection. Our prayers, Sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered. . . And have we now forgotten that powerful friend? Or do we imagine we no longer need His assistance? I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth- that God governs in the affairs of men. . .” That was followed by the proposal of Edmund Jennings Randolf of Virginia that all delegates attend together a sermon on July 4th, 1787, which resulted in the entire Constitutional Convention assembling in the Reformed Calvinistic Church to hear a sermon by Rev. William Rogers. Afterward, they reassembled with a different spirit and pulled together the Constitution. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals.
08.12.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert(TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the ruling made by the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals: “Today’s ruling is a triumph for the Constitution and a great victory for the American people. Not only is it unconstitutional to force Americans to purchase healthcare insurance against their will, this bill misrepresents the rule of law in the United States. It not only destroys jobs; but, it robs the taxpayers of 2.6 trillion of their hard-earned money. This is not the first time that a federal court has ruled that the individual mandate in ObamaCare is unconstitutional. I applaud this court decision and look forward to replacing Obamacare with healthcare that does not just bring change but offers hope.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
08.09.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding S&P's downgrade of The US credit: “For the first time in the history of the United States our credit is no longer considered among the safest in the world. Only a year ago, Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner was asked if our out of control spending and massive deficits could lead to a downgrade. His reply, “Absolutely not. That will never happen to this country." Could he have been more callous? America is facing the most significant financial crisis since the Great Depression. With nonexistent economic growth and steady 9% unemployment in the last three years, both Geithner and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke have proven to the American public and the world that they are not up to the task of solving our fiscal problems. They both continue to pursue the same failed economic policies despite overwhelming evidence that they have been sadly ineffective, so they both need to do the right thing for this country and resign. It is time for both of them, as people with significant influence, to take responsibility for misleading the U.S. by stating that raising the debt ceiling without vast cuts in spending would avoid a downgrading of our credit rating. Resignations should be forthcoming from anyone leading our nation's financial sector who continues to fail the heeded and repeated warnings of the rating agencies. Since we were assured by Geithner and Bernanke that such downgrading would never happen, their assertions on anything in the future will engender neither hope nor change." Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals # # #
07.22.2011	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement after the Senate voted 51-46 to reject the Cut, Cap and Balance Act and turn a blind eye to fiscal responsibility: “It is apparent the Senate Democrats have turned their backs on the desire of the vast majority of the American people. Not only has it been 814 days since the Senate last passed a budget, it seems as if they are trying to stifle job growth and the U.S economy all together. By refusing to even allow the Cut, Cap and Balance Act to come to the floor for a debate today, they have simply refused to address the major issues we so desperately need to tackle - real spending cuts, caps on future spending and a balanced budget. The House Republicans offered a proposal centered on true, solution-based principles, that itself was a compromise, because we realize the urgency to resolve this debt crisis in America. America’s true strength is from the foundation of our principles and the people willing to stand and defend them. It’s time to stand firm on principles to build a better nation. It’s time to implement ideas that will notably rein in our federal spending and reduce the trillion dollar deficit spending. It’s time to stop playing party politics and reassure all Americans that the United States is still the place of opportunity for our children and grandchildren.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas' 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.15.2011	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the announcement made by the United States Postal Service (USPS) of plans to close the Easton Post Office: “In another example of mid to upper-level mismanagement of the Postal Service, it has been announced that the Easton Post Office will be closing. As I have acknowledged, the USPS is obviously experiencing serious financial shortfalls. However, to close a location that facilitates the constitutionally permitted task of delivering mail ahead of cutting bureaucratic expenditures is the very backwards-thinking mismanagement that has led the USPS to its current status. The closure of the Easton Post Office is inappropriate and unnecessary, and I am making that known to both the regional and national mismanagers . In addition to the inconvenience this will be on our community, especially seniors and disabled, the City of Easton may experience financial backlash given that having a postal station available locally is a vital aspect to the success of businesses and individuals. As the USPS attempts to attain solvency, USPS officials must learn to cut bureaucratic costs first before cutting the local facilities where postal consumers are so faithful and the delivery of mail is actually advanced. Far too often, hard-working postal workers must do their jobs under unnecessarily adverse circumstances created by the atrociously ill-advised decisions by higher level Postal management. The people of East Texas deserve better. So does the rest of the country.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. He is also a Senior Member on the Natural Resources Committee. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.13.2011	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s interview on CBS Evening News, in which he said he cannot guarantee Social Security checks will go out in August if a debt-ceiling compromise is not reached by the deadline: “Any claim that Social Security checks may not be paid in August has to be from someone who is either very ignorant, or very dishonest and trying to scare senior citizens for political gain. The Treasury Secretary has more than enough money to make the payments. This administration has not only confused the American public by flip-flopping on many debt and tax issues, but it has at the same time destroyed American jobs and weakened the U.S. economy through the implementation of anti-business policies. Now, by threatening to withhold Social Security checks from Americans, unless he gets permission by Aug. 2nd to continue increasing the debt ceiling, President Obama is once again deploying a scare tactic strategy based on a falsehood.” “Unless the President and his Treasury Secretary willfully withhold Social Security checks to make a political statement, seniors have nothing to worry about. The truth is that Social Security’s ability to make payments as usual will be completely unaffected even if the debt ceiling is not raised next month. In fact, Social Security payments come from the Social Security Trust Fund which is capable of making payments for many months without Congress doing anything. Instead of being a statesman leader and saying something like, ‘The only thing we have to fear is fear itself,’ this President tries to create fear and panic in the American public at every turn.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.11.2011	Today, Rep. Louie Gomhert (TX-01) released the following statement with Rep. John Fleming (LA-04) calling on Republican and Democrat leadership to open debt ceiling negotiations to the American public. Having an open and transparent process will ensure that nothing is kept secret from the American people on this critical issue which will determine our nation's economic and national security for years to come. “We owe it to all Americans to conduct open and transparent debt ceiling negotiations,” said Rep. Gohmert. The U.S. Constitution begins with the phrase, 'We the People.' It is imperative that the people, who make this nation so great, are included in these critical negotiations between the Republican and Democratic leadership.” "Real change can only occur by cutting out-of-control government spending, and I firmly believe that raising the debt limit will only dig America into a deeper, darker pit – one from which escaping may become impossible unless we have an amendment capping spending. The future of our nation is at stake. American tax dollars should not be poured in to ObamaCare and big government programs that were contrived in secret, behind closed doors with an administration that promised complete transparency, said Rep. Gohmert. "This debate has continued for months behind closed doors in the proverbial 'smoke filled room' at the White House with nothing to show for the effort. Republican and Democrat leadership must be honest with the American people on the debt ceiling negotiations. With Obamacare, we have seen the disastrous result of what happens when negotiations take place behind closed doors. There have been several meetings at the White House, including one today, and I still have NO idea of what I am being asked to vote on. I call on the leadership of both parties, in both chambers, to immediately open the debate for the public to observe. It is only fair that any debt ceiling proposal be made available to the American public and Members of Congress to review before its consideration in Congress. Doing so will protect the American people against a rushed deal that could leave the taxpayer on the hook for more debt and spending," said Rep. Fleming. "It is essential to the democratic process that the American people have the opportunity to be a part of these critical negotiations. With the Democrats pushing 'revenue enhancements' otherwise known as TAX HIKES to solve this debt crisis, Americans can't afford to be kept out of this process. I'm committed to voting against any debt ceiling increase that doesn't make immediate drastic cuts and prevent tax hikes,” added Rep. Fleming. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) is calling for a 7 day review period for any final legislative proposal regarding a deal on the debt ceiling. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. He is also a Senior Member on the Natural Resources Committee. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
07.08.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today concerning the recent unemployment report issued by the U.S. Department of Labor July 8: “In order to create jobs for the American people, Washington must stop spending money it does not have. A meager 18,000 American jobs were created in June, but if you look hard at the adjustments, we actually lost 26,000 jobs. This number is staggering and significantly below market expectations. Unemployment continues to climb and is at 9.2% and Senate Democrats have now failed to pass a budget for 800 days. This is truly unacceptable.” “Sadly, this June jobs report does not come as a surprise. However, it proves one thing – President Obama’s big spending habits have by no means aided job growth in the United States. His massive spending spree has only made this job crisis worse. It’s time to implement policies that work. It’s time to find a way to employ the 14.1 million Americans looking for work. With 28 straight months of national unemployment at or above 8 percent, we cannot just be satisfied with the status quo. In order to get America back to work and grow this economy, we must ease the debt that creates uncertainty among job creators.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. He is also a Senior Member on the Natural Resources Committee. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.27.2011	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) and Rep. John Fleming (LA-04) hosted a hearing in Shreveport, Louisiana – to draw attention to the threat and discuss efforts to control and eradicate the invasive weed, Giant Salvinia, in Texas and Louisiana. “Giant Salvinia is a reminder of just how devastating an invasive species can be if left untreated. Just a small plant, innocent in appearance, salvinia can completely take over and destroy the ecological and recreational environment of a lake. We have not made significant strides in dealing with this innocuous-looking lake killer. But, when a floating acquatic plant growing on a freshwater lake can choke out all life underneath its spreading mass, and we rely on those lakes for our freshwater, then we have a critical problem. When one boat trailor can come out of an infected lake with a 2 inch plant, then back it into another lake two weeks later, and that small plant becomes 100's or thousands of acres of lake-choking mass within months, it is a problem we must solve," said Rep. Gohmert. Since 2006, when Rep. Gohmert was first informed about the threat of Giant Salvina to local lakes, drinking water and local economies, he has been diligently working with state and federal entities to work on methods of control and eradication of this menacing problem. The presence of Giant Salvinia in our lakes and rivers is a problem that plagues many states throughout the nation, but has especially plagued the Texas and Louisiana region. It has been called “the world’s worst weed” and has been officially “banned in the United States.” Giant salvinia was first discovered in Caddo Lake in May of 2006. Two years after it was discovered the infestation had grown from less than 2 acres to more than 1,000 acres. There are estimates that it has the ability to double in size about every seven days. A single plant has been found to cover 40 square miles in three months. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. He is also a Senior Member on the Natural Resources Committee. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.23.2011	Last night, Rep. Louie Gohmert released the following statement regarding the President’s announcement to withdraw 33,000 U.S. troops from Afghanistan by next summer: “It is apparent that President Obama is politicizing this significant military decision. We have brave men and women stationed overseas fighting for freedom right now. The President is now undermining his own previous strategy to achieve success. President Obama needs to stop making decisions based on his reelection campaign and focus on a winning strategy for the United States – not for the Arab League, United Nations or his 2012 campaign. If he does that, his reelection campaign will take care of itself.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.16.2011	On Sunday, June 5th, the state of Texas and our nation lost a true hero. Chief Warrant Officer Bradley J. Gaudet was killed in Afghanistan after his helicopter crashed near Kabul. “Brad was the best and brightest of what the First Congressional District of Texas has to offer. Raised in Lufkin, Texas and a graduate of Stephen F. Austin University, he was truly a son of East Texas. We grieve the loss of our warrior brother. We honor Brad for his courage, his sacrifice and his selfless commitment to duty, honor and country. He gave his all in service - for the sake of safety, freedom and liberty. This American warrior is home. He has met his Master. His duty is done. He is at peace,” said Rep. Gohmert. The military transported the body of Chief Warrant Officer Brad Gaudet from Afghanistan to his duty station in New York State. Due to unforeseen and unfortunate circumstances in protocol of Army logistics, the military was unable to transport his casket from there to Texas. In order to avoid further difficulties in the military transfer, Congressman Gohmert will travel with the honor guard bringing CW2 Gaudet home from New York to East Texas this Saturday, June 18th, on the commercial segments of the flight. Southwest Airlines has graciously offered to fly Gaudet’s remains home to Dallas without charge. The Patriot Guard Riders will escort the procession from Love Field to Gladewater. Rep. Louie Gohmert, Gladewater Mayor Walter Derrick, Fire Chief Wayne Smith and Police Chief Farrell Alexander will all take part in the procession from Dallas Love Field to Gladewater. The Gladewater Chief of Police and Croley Funeral Home will be holding a joint press conference tomorrow regarding funeral arrangements. For more information please call the Croley Funeral Home at: 903-845-2155 The procession will be traveling down Hwy 80 from Terrell to Gladewater. The citizens of those communities who wish to honor Bradley and his family are asked to line the road with flags. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
06.01.2011	share: f t Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives voted down a piece of legislation that would increase the federal government’s legal debt limit by $2.4 trillion, raising the limit to $16.7 trillion. Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) joined the bipartisan coalition voting against this measure and released the following statement: “Raising the debt ceiling is not only irresponsible, it is, again, spending money the United States does not have. I could not vote to raise the debt ceiling without a major decline in negligent spending. Here and now, Washington must change the way it does business. We desperately need to pass a Balanced Budget Amendment with a cap on spending in the House and Senate and send it to the States for ratification. We must also stop the insane spending of $105 billion to implement the bureaucracy of Obamacare – which should ultimately be deemed unconstitutional. These are the immediate things we can do to show the world financial sectors we are serious about reining in renegade spending. There is absolutely no reason for the Administration to refuse to organize payments so we meet our public debt obligations and keep our commitments to those Americans who are supposed to receive them. Treasury Secretary Geithner should spend his time setting these priorities instead of playing Chicken Little and demagoguing this important issue. The future of our nation is at stake. Raising the debt limit will only dig America into a deeper, darker pit – one from which escaping will be difficult, if not, impossible. Out-of-control spending must end, and the Senate must finally pass a budget to solidify our commitment to solving this crisis. That’s the only way America will remain ‘the shining city on the Hill.’” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.24.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement today giving strong support to our ally Israel after listening to Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu address a Joint Session of Congress: “A true leader does not only motivate crowds with intrepid language but leads by example and commands by decisive action. It was an honor to have—a true leader— Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu address a Joint Session of Congress today. We will never see freedom and security in the Middle East if America’s leaders ask our ally Israel to sacrifice its safety to terrorist groups that deny Israel’s right to exist. The United States of America’s bond with Israel has existed since that nation’s founding and remains strong. It is imperative we show support for Israel and defend its sovereignty. Israel is one of this nation’s greatest allies. Now is the time to show with great certainty that we stand with Israel and are proud to do so.” A letter, led by Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) and signed by 53 Members of Congress, was sent to Speaker Boehner earlier this year urging him to invite Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu to speak before a Joint Session of Congress. The letter expressed the importance of standing by one of America's strongest allies. Speaker Boehner extended the invitation to Prime Minister Netanyahu on April 14, 2011. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.19.2011	Rep Louie Gohmert (TX-01)released the following statement today after President Obama called on Israel to return to 1967 borders in order to move forward with peace negotiations with the Palestinians. "Desiring peace in the middle east is noble; refusing to acknowledge terrorist organizations, activities and alliances is foolhardy. We have laws against helping terrorist organizations which this administration not only is refusing to enforce but also is violating in spirit in the aid it is promoting and giving. For the President to continue to promote the interests of a terrorist organization, Hamas, over the interests of our close ally, Israel, is outrageous. Once again, this President acts to hurt a U.S. ally and help a U.S. enemy. Killing one terrorist in Pakistan does not balance the scales." ###
05.10.2011	share: f t Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today after receiving the announcement that Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu will address a Joint Session of Congress on May 24, 2011: “It is said that a picture is worth a thousand words. However, the image of both sides of the aisle of both Houses of Congress standing and applauding the leader of our close friend and ally, Israel, will be far more valuable than a thousand words.” “It will send a powerful message to Israel’s enemies. Prime Minister Netanyahu addressing a joint session of Congress shows the world the importance of our relationship with Israel. Though Speaker Pelosi had not been able to find the time to invite Israel’s leader last year despite my request, I am exceedingly pleased that Speaker Boehner has made the time.” In our nation’s history, we have invited over 100 leaders of 50 different countries to speak before Joint Sessions of Congress. Though Prime Minister Netanyahu has been in Washington, D.C. on numerous occasions, he has not addressed a Joint Session of Congress since 1996. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.05.2011	share: f t Thursday, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) appeared on C-SPAN’s Washington Journal. He talked to host, Susan Swain, and answered questions from callers all over the United States of America. Some of the topics discussed on the show: • The Recent Death of Osama bin Laden • The Role of Interrogation Methods in the U.S. Operation to Kill Osama bin Laden • U.S. Counter-Terrorism Efforts • The White House’s Decision not to Release bin Laden’s Photo • House Judiciary Hearing with U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder Click here to watch the video of Rep. Gohmert on C-SPAN’s website. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
05.02.2011	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding the death of Osama bin Laden: “Americans will forever remember today. The death of Osama bin Laden is a great victory for the American people. It is a day to be truly grateful to those who serve in and assist our United States military. It is also a time to revere those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice in our fight against the radical Islamists who declared war upon us. After decades of murderous attacks by radical jihadists against the United States, our courageous warriors have struck a blow for all who love true freedom. Although bin Laden’s death is a great triumph over a remorseless murderer some thought was being divinely protected, it is imperative that we remain steadfast in our fight against those who wish to terrorize and destroy the United States and the blessings we hold dear." Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.27.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement today after the White House’s decision to release President Obama’s birth certificate: “For more than two years President Obama has failed to present his birth certificate for inspection. In early 2008, the New York Times and the Washington Post had raised a question about John McCain's eligibility since he was born in the Panama Canal Zone. Others raised questions about President Obama’s eligibility. These two ‘birther’ controversies exposed a flaw in the enforcement mechanism of our Constitutional eligibility requirement for U.S. presidential candidates. Last Congress, I signed on as a co-sponsor to HR 1503 authored by Rep. Bill Posey which was not drafted to single out President Obama but for all future candidates beginning in 2012 to settle eligibility requirements before an election begins. HR 1503 was merely an enforcement mechanism for meeting the Constitutional requirements to run for this nation’s highest office. It is truly distressing that the administration would wait so long to release such an important piece of documentation, when such a simple act was all it required. In my mind, a critically important action we could take in Congress is to eliminate similar controversies arising in future elections. Hopefully, all presidential candidates in future elections will avoid arrogant condescension and simply establish their qualification from the outset.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.15.2011	After almost a year of efforts by Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) culminating in a recent letter drafted by Congressman Gohmert and signed by 53 other members of Congress, urging the Speaker to invite Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, Speaker Boehner announced his intention to invite the Prime Minister to address a joint meeting of Congress during his official visit to the United States next month. “It is said that a picture is worth a thousand words. However, the image of both sides of the aisle of both Houses of Congress standing and applauding the leader of our close friend and ally, Israel, will be far more valuable than a thousand words,” said Rep. Gohmert. “It will send a powerful message to Israel’s enemies. This invitation to Prime Minister Netanyahu to address a joint session of Congress shows the world the importance of our relationship with Israel. Though Speaker Pelosi had not been able to find the time to invite Israel’s leader last year despite my request, I am exceedingly pleased that Speaker Boehner has made the time.” In our nation’s history, we have invited over 100 leaders of 50 different countries to speak before Joint Sessions of Congress. Though Prime Minister Netanyahu has been in Washington, D.C. on numerous occasions, he has not addressed a Joint Session of Congress since 1996. To view the letter sent to Speaker Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Reid, click here. # # #
04.13.2011	share: f t Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s budget speech this afternoon at George Washington University: “Today the President presented a budget plan that calls for higher taxes and even more spending. This budget reform map, designed to ‘win the future,’ will only add to the already stratospheric $14 trillion national debt. Presented as a ‘nonpartisan’ approach to solving this nation’s debt crisis, President Obama instead delivered more wasteful spending and tax hikes that will only dim the hopes of a brighter future. I would have hoped after the massive bailouts and stimulus spending that exceeded anything ever attempted in the world's history, this administration should have learned that taking from those who earned and giving to the administration's supporters does not revive the economy. This plan will only shackle the dreams and prosperity of America’s future generations. Real change can only occur by cutting out-of-control government spending.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.12.2011	Yesterday, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was honored with the prestigious National Guardian of the Family Award along with Pastor Charles Roberts of Denman Avenue Baptist Church, who was selected to receive the East Texas Guardian of the Family Award. “The founders of this nation cherished religious liberty valued the sanctity of life and firmly believed in the promises of God. These faith-based principles have served as the bedrock of this country from its very inception. The family is the most important unit of the building we call society, and when too many families crumble, so does society,” said Rep. Gohmert. “That is why receiving the National Guardian of the Family Award from Vision America this year is all the more meaningful in my goal to preserve the precious gift that is this country for generations to come. Their dedication and resolve to restore traditional family values to neighborhoods and states throughout our nation is truly a blessing to America.” Vision America was founded in 1998 by Pastor Rick Scarborough to reach across the nation and help mobilize thousands of his fellow pastors of all denominations. The advisory board of Vision America includes notable Christian leaders such as Don Wildmon and Dr. Tim LaHaye. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
04.12.2011	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement after a decision was reached Friday night on a short-term spending bill: “House Republicans pledged to cut $100 billion this year from the 14 trillion dollar federal deficit. Valiant Americans, tired of profligate spending, rallied behind the powerful words in the U.S. Constitution, ‘We the people.’ The battle cry—‘Stop the wasteful government spending.’ These patriotic Americans wanted to make sure their tax dollars stopped pouring into ObamaCare and big government programs draining our future generation’s bank accounts. It’s a wee bit awkward when our leadership demands that we all make ‘The Pledge to America’ to cut at least $100 billion this year, and then they demand we vote to break that pledge.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.31.2011	Today Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) introduced the Ensuring Pay for Our Military Act. This legislation ensures that members of the United States Military get their paycheck on time in the event that Congress cannot pass a budget. “The men and women of the United States military are among the most heroic of Americans. These true patriots place their lives on the line to protect this country and ensure security for our future. If Congress cannot pass a budget, it’s not right for these valiant warriors and their families to suffer through a late paycheck. This is about paying those who protect us and defend our freedom,” said Rep. Gohmert. “Ensuring the troops are paid on time is essential to the morale of our soldiers. No military member should have to worry about the financial situation of their family back home. The families of our service members act as a lifeline—one that supports, encourages, and impels American soldiers to defend this country with passion.” This bill will appropriate necessary funds to ensure that members of the military, including reserve components, continue to receive pay and allowances for their service when a funding gap occurs. That could be caused by the failure to enact interim or full-year appropriations for the Department of Defense, which results in many members serving without a paycheck until the shutdown is over. It is not enough for the military to know they will receive back pay after the shutdown is over. They need to know that their paycheck will arrive on time. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.30.2011	Today Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Rep. Jack Kingston (GA-01) and Former Rep. Ernest Istook (OK-05) held a press conference in order to introduce the Healthcare Fiscal Accountability Act of 2011. “In town halls all across the country, Americans demanded that ObamaCare be stopped. This legislation shows that we are listening. We are doing exactly what the American people want us to do and that is to strip out the funding for Obamacare,” said Rep. Gohmert. The legislation is designed to remove the $105.5 billion in automatic funding that was buried in ObamaCare. It also returns to Congress the authority to appropriate funding as defined by the Constitution canceling the postdated checks written by the last Congress. In addition to this, it rescinds all unobligated balances that have been appropriated in FY2010 and FY2011. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.23.2011	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement on the one year anniversary of ObamaCare: “One year ago today, President Obama signed ObamaCare into law. This health care takeover is the pinnacle of the false 'government knows best' thinking that currently reigns in Washington. According to the latest polls, the majority of Americans oppose this health care overhaul. Not to mention, two federal judges have found the individual mandate unconstitutional.” “This bill tells Americans that they and their doctors cannot be trusted to make their own health care decisions. It tells them that health care selections should be left up to big brother’s government control. Liberty, the founding principle of this nation, is confiscated from the hands of Americans. Though there are flaws in our system, we have the best health care in the world. Our system simply needs reform, not destruction and government takeover.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.17.2011	Today the House Natural Resources Committee held an oversight hearing on how to harness American resources to create jobs and address rising gasoline prices. The Committee heard from several energy experts who discussed America’s vast energy reserves on federal lands. Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement after the hearing today: “The upheaval in the Middle East threatens the stability of petroleum supplies worldwide causing a dramatic rise in gas prices. The Obama administration’s drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico is hurting the working people all over the Gulf state regions not to mention working poor who cannot afford the high gas prices this administration has helped cause. The administration has also made America even more dependent on foreign oil. America’s economy doesn’t run on moonbeams and windmills. We need to harvest our own natural resources.” According to a recently released Congressional Research Service (CRS) report, the United States combined recoverable oil, natural gas, and coal resources is 1.3 trillion barrels of oil equivalent – the largest in the world. Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.15.2011	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) issued the following statement on his decision to vote against the 3-week spending bill: “Today our nation is $14 trillion dollars in debt. Every child born in America inherits a shocking $45,739 of national debt. It’s an understatement to describe our nation’s financial situation as dire. This three-week spending bill just kicks the can of financial uncertainty further down the road by making minuscule cuts.” "We are spending $4 billion per day more than what we take in as revenue. So in this temporary CR, we are only cutting 1 1/2 days of deficit spending out of the next three weeks. We can do better if we have the will. This is a temporary fix, which does not defund ObamaCare or cut enough financial backing from Planned Parenthood. Renegade spending and government waste have compromised the American Dream. It’s time to seal the cracks in the economy not just cover them up.” Congressman Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He also served as Chief Justice of Texas'12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.11.2011	Members of Congress sent a letter today, led by Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) to Attorney General Eric Holder. This letter urges the Attorney General to investigate the non-profit organization Common Cause. “We should not have an organization, especially one that hides behind non-profit status, stirring up hatred and animosity to the point that people would say they have to string up a Supreme Court Justice,” said Rep. Gohmert. “There have been some outrageous things that have resulted in this fundraising gimmick by Common Cause. I fervently hope this time the Attorney General will not turn a blind eye to the threats captured on video that can and should be investigated.” Congressman Gohmert conducted a press conference last week in Washington, D.C. along with Rep. John Carter (R-TX), Rep. Steve King (R-IA) and Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-TX) in order to draw attention to the violent threats captured on video at a Common Cause organized rally against sitting Supreme Court Justices Scalia and Thomas as well as Thomas’ wife, Ginny. To read the letter sent to Attorney General Holder, click here. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
03.10.2011	Last week, Congressman Louie Gohmert introduced H.R. 920 – designed to cut wasteful government spending. The Zero Baseline Budget Act of 2011 will amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and eliminate automatic increases for inflation. “Conservatives have advocated for years that there should be no automatic increases in any federal department's budget,” said Rep. Gohmert. “That has been a trap for years because when we cut the rate of increase or level-fund a program, we are accused of making draconian cuts that harm people. This legislation is an important step to reduce big government spending.” H.R. 920 will do the following: •Amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to change the method the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) must use to calculate its official discretionary budget baseline, that accompanies the budget process each year •Eliminate any automatic increases in the baseline for inflation, or for any other reason, and exclude emergency and supplemental spending •When the bill becomes law, the CBO’s baseline for the next fiscal year will simply be the aggregate of the appropriations bills that are in effect for the current year, excluding emergency and supplemental spending. Therefore, the Zero-Baseline Budget Act makes “level funding” the official CBO baseline for discretionary spending. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.28.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement remembering the life and service of the United States last World War 1 hero, Frank Buckles: “The United States has lost a generation of liberty defenders. Frank Buckles was more than an American hero; he was the last of the Doughboys. A life of allegiance and honor, he is the portrait of the true American Spirit. My thoughts and prayers go out to Mr. Buckles’ friends and family. His service to this nation will always be remembered.” Frank Woodruff Buckles was born Feb. 1, 1901 in Bethany, Missouri. In 1918, Frank Buckles drove an Army ambulance in France. Following the attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, while on business in Manila, he was imprisoned by the Japanese and lost 50 pounds as a prisoner of war. He was liberated by an American airborne unit in February 1945. To read more about the life and legacy of Frank Buckles, click here. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.17.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following remarks today on the two-year anniversary of the “stimulus” package being signed into law. “The ‘stimulus’ package has clearly failed to live up to the expectations the Obama Administration touted to the American people in February 2009. It has let down millions of workers by failing to keep unemployment under 8 percent as promised. With a $1-trillion dollar price tag, the stimulus has only added to our out-of-control national debt, which is over $14 trillion. We are borrowing, mostly from the Chinese, 42 cents on the dollar. Now, President Obama has introduced a new budget plan that will more than double our entire national debt in 5 years. This new proposal is irresponsible. The financial future of our children, grandchildren and even great grandchildren should not be addressed in such a cavalier manner. The economic collapse of the recovering nation is at stake. We cannot borrow and spend our way to prosperity. The answer is in making cuts to federal spending, divesting the federal government of unneeded assets and using the resources with which this nation is so very blessed to create new jobs, bring down energy prices and cause a new resurgence of prosperity for American workers. We will not succeed by doubling the credit limit for our nation’s debt while failing to regain spending.” A Few Results of the Failed Stimulus: 2.5 million American jobs have been lost Overall, the private sector has shed 1.8 million jobs Over 1.5 million jobs lost in construction and manufacturing alone A record 21-months of unemployment at 9 percent or higher Additional $1.7 trillion added to the national debt A total of 47 out of 50 States have lost jobs Read the full Committee on Ways and Means report, here. The House Republicans will act decisively through H.R. 1 this week, which will cut job-destroying spending by over $100 billion. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.16.2011	Congressman Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement concerning the two U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agents (ICE), one wounded and the other killed, in Mexico City yesterday. “How many more American lives will be lost before a modern day American administration realizes Mexico is a war-zone where violence spills over and directly affects American citizens? We have the sovereign right to protect ourselves, which means using force to insure that terrorists, whether fanatic jihadists or drug kingpins are stopped and brought to justice. Only then will the violence against Americans emanating from Mexico stop." “Providing for the common defense of Americans should be this administration's number one priority. It is a Constitutional obligation. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the Zapata family. This heartless murder of one of America’s own border protectors only further displays the dire need to do whatever is necessary to end the violence that continues to harm or kill Americans. That includes stopping the flow of Mexican violence and drugs that are destroying and poisoning American lives. Jamie Zapata was an American hero who was devoting his life to protecting America when his noble life was cut so dramatically short." Jamie Zapata, a native of Brownsville, Texas joined ICE in 2006. He was recently assigned to work as the agency’s attache at the U.S. embassy in Mexico City. Zapata had also worked at the Homeland Security Department and as a member of the U.S. Border Patrol. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.15.2011	share: f t Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding President Obama’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2012: “Yesterday, President Obama announced his 2012 fiscal year budget plan that makes minor cuts but at the same time adds new dramatic amounts of additional spending without any regard for the danger in which he puts this nation or the massive debt he irresponsibly is heaping on the backs of our children, grandchildren and even great grandchildren. His demand to spend $3.7 trillion when we will only bring in about $2.4 trillion is so out of touch with the taxpayers and their sacrifices as to be outrageously reprehensible.” “Thanks to President Obama’s stimulus plan, our national debt has increased by $1.7 trillion just since last year. Unemployment has yet to drop below 9 percent. The House Republicans will be introducing H.R. 1 this week, which will save more than $182 billion over the next 12 months. The answer is in making cuts to federal spending, not creating new federal programs to spend money. We must refrain and withdraw from the Washington mentality that there is no way American workers could possibly spend their own money as wisely as the federal government. It is only when the government spends less and the American public is allowed to spend more of their own money that we will finally pull out of this financial quicksand,” said Rep. Gohmert. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.09.2011	Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the vote in the House on the extension of three provisions in the Patriot Act: “In order to allow Congressional Republicans necessary time to hold hearings regarding the needs of law enforcement with adequate checks and balances in our ongoing war on terrorism, I voted yesterday for a temporary extension of three specific provisions in the Patriot Act that would only be through December 8, 2011. I have always insisted on the need to have sunsets on the Patriot Act in order to have adequate accountability, and because I do not believe these powers should be permanent. Until sunsets come up, it is often difficult to get the answers we need to do necessary oversight to avoid abuses. I also wanted further hearings to determine whether certain powers are really necessary. This extension would also allow a more thorough review of actions undertaken by the Justice Department in regard to these provisions.” Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals.
02.04.2011	This Sunday the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation and Library will be celebrating President Reagan’s 100th birthday. Last week, Rep. Gohmert was present at the Reagan Library and was asked to share recorded comments about the beloved president. His remarks along with those by many other national leaders will be utilized in the foundation’s video collection. “While serving in the United States Army from 1978 to 1982, I saw firsthand how badly demoralized this country became immediately before President Reagan became Commander-in-Chief. After the withdrawal from Viet Nam and the refusal to respond to a 1979 act of war against our embassy in Iran, the United States had lost not only the esteem of countries around the world, but also its own self-respect. President Reagan gave this country and its military a renewed vitality and determination. He led the resurgence of a stronger military and led us out of a devastating recession, all while bringing down an evil empire at the same time. His unwavering faith and optimism empowered this country and inspired millions of freedom lovers around the world. We owe a real debt of gratitude to such a great leader,” said Rep. Gohmert. Ronald Reagan was born February 6, 1911. He served as the 33rd Governor of California and later became the 40th President of the United States of America. He is well recognized for restructuring the Republican Party and propelling the modern conservative movement into prominence. To watch this historic celebration via livestream Sunday, click here. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas, and was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.02.2011	Today, Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was named the “Outstanding Member of the House” by the National Narcotics Officers' Associations Coalition (NNOAC) for his strong record of support for drug law enforcement programs and issues. “Possession and use of illegal drugs has become an extremely destructive force in America today. The abuse of illegal substances has sadly skyrocketed in this country in recent years,” said Rep. Gohmert. “Not only do these types of drugs harm individuals, but they have torn at the very fabric that held families together. It has broken my heart to see so many lives decimated by this scourge only to have national leaders now lending credibility to drug use by their own cavalier attitudes. I am honored to receive this award today; but, I am more grateful to organizations like NNOAC who have made it their mission to combat this drug epidemic by putting their lives on the line to try to prevent others from wasting theirs. This truly is an honor to be singled out for recognition by such a group.” Each year, one member from the House and Senate are selected for this honor. Sen. Richard Shelby (R-AL) was the senator selected for the award this year. The Northern California Regional Intelligence Center Director, Ronald E. Brooks, presented Rep. Gohmert with the award this afternoon. The NNOAC is comprised of individual state narcotic associations representing more than 65,000 narcotic law enforcement officers. The Coalition actively researches, monitors, and supports legislature initiatives designed to increase the effectiveness of narcotic enforcement and law enforcement in general. To learn more about NNOAC, please visit: www.natlnarc.org Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.02.2011	Congressman Gohmert (TX-01) will introduce a resolution next week supporting Israel’s right to defend its independence. “Now is the time to show with great certainty exactly where we stand and with whom we stand,” said Rep. Gohmert. “In light of the ongoing events in Egypt, it is critical that this Congress show support for our close allies. This administration has undermined and snubbed Israel time and time again showing fragility to our support for Israel that has emboldened Islamist extremism. We, the people of the United States, must show support for Israel's sovereignty in these tumultuous times. If the United States shows the world that we will not stand by such a close ally who believes in the same human rights that we do, then we will encourage extremist enemies set on hate to target and attack our nation friends.” This resolution expresses support for Israel’s right to protect its sovereignty using all means necessary, including the use of military force if no other peaceful solution can be found. It reaffirms the United States’ bond with Israel and pledges to continue to work with Israel to ensure that it continues to receive critical economic and military assistance, including missile defense capabilities, needed to address the threat of Iran. It also strongly condemns the Government of Iran for its threats of “annihilating” the United States of America and the State of Israel and for its continued support of international terrorism. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
02.01.2011	share: f t Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement today regarding yesterday’s Florida court decision which ruled President Obama’s mandate for every American to purchase health insurance unconstitutional: “Judge Vinson’s ruling yesterday is an important victory for the United States Constitution and the American people. He is correct when he compares this healthcare takeover to the 1773 Boston Tea Party. The present day Tea Party movement was formed partly due to the dissatisfaction of the people about the government takeover of healthcare. This individual healthcare mandate is the pinnacle of the false ‘government knows best’ thinking. The bill tells Americans that they and their doctors cannot be trusted to make their own healthcare decisions and would be best to leave such matters to Big Brother’s control. I applaud this court decision and look forward to replacing Obamacare with healthcare that does not just bring change but offers hope.” US District Judge Roger Vinson is the second federal judge to declare the president’s entire Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act unconstitutional. Mr. Vinson ruled the law must be overturned because one of its core provision— a requirement that people buy insurance. Early last year, a federal judge in Virginia found that the insurance mandate surpassed the congressional power to regulate commerce. Congressman Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Prior to being elected to serve in Congress, Louie was elected to three terms as District Judge in Smith County, Texas. He was appointed by Texas Governor Rick Perry to complete a term as Chief Justice of the 12th Court of Appeals. # # #
01.24.2011	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) along with other Congressional colleagues spoke today at the 38th annual Walk for Life on the National Mall. He delivered the following remarks: “Allow me to borrow from Abraham Lincoln. Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray that this mighty scourge of abortion may speedily pass away; yet, if God wills it, America suffers until all the wealth piled by the abortionists—38 years of killing innocent babies—shall be lost. As was said 3,000 years ago, so it still must be said the "judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether with malice towards none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right." Let us strive on to finish the work we're in, to bind up the nation’s wounds from abortions, to care for those who have undergone an abortion and from all those suffering from those losses, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting end to the abortion deaths among ourselves and our communities. May God heal our land and bless America.” On January 22, 1974, the first March for Life was held on the West Steps of the Capitol. An estimated 20,000 committed pro-life Americans rallied that day on behalf of our preborn brothers and sisters. To learn more about the March for Life, please visit www.marchforlife.org # # #
01.19.2011	Today Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) voted in favor of repealing ObamaCare. The final vote was 245 to 189. “Now we can get on with the work of providing real health reform that will help the American people have health care that is affordable, patient-centered and patient-controlled. Allowing people to buy insurance across state lines and disallowing insurance companies to drop coverage of sick people are two good ideas. This time – in an open, transparent way – we will really generate solutions to the problems plaguing our medical system,” said Rep. Gohmert. “We have the best health care in the world, but it needs reform, not destruction and government takeover.” Rep. Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. ###
01.13.2011	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) announced he will be working on legislation that will allow members in the U.S. House of Representatives to carry a concealed weapon in the District of Columbia. “There is a rash of legislation further infringing on Second Amendment rights that has been unwisely proffered in the wake of events in Tucson. If members of Congress wished to carry a weapon in the federal District of Columbia, it should be permissible. Accordingly, we are in the process of drafting a bill that will allow members of Congress to do that. The bill would only deal with the District of Columbia and will not affect any state laws at all. Currently, the only non-law enforcement people in DC who have guns are criminals. Though I do not anticipate carrying a gun in Washington, DC myself, members of Congress should have the right to protect themselves from sudden acts of violence like the heartless shooting in Tucson, Arizona,” said Rep. Gohmert. Rep. Louie Gohmert is the Vice Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. ###
01.12.2011	Today, Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) joined the members of the United States Congress and made the following remarks on the House floor in tribute to those killed and injured in the tragic shooting in Tucson, Arizona: “Gabrielle Giffords is always a bright spot in a rather dull, moody, self-absorbed body called Congress. She is easy to work with no matter on which side of the aisle we happen to be. We all find ourselves being criticized, but few of us have been able to respond with the grace and class with which Gabby has. Today, we mourn the loss of all of those killed during the evil shooting spree in Tucson. I know we are praying for the victims families _ that somehow, through their devastating loss and heartbreak, they may still find that peace that passes all understanding. For those who have survived the assault, may they find healing in the shadow of the Almighty. Hearing so much these days about the need for congenial discourse we might look at Gabby Giffords as a living example of how we go about discerning the roadmap to get to the desired decorum. I am sure both sides of the aisle wish the other side worked with others as well as Gabby does. She makes people here in Congress smile just by showing up. Her flights to and from Washington, DC often had us on the same flight to and from the Dallas/Ft. Worth airport hub. Gabby knows I love chocolate, so when she sees me on her flight, she always lights up and says, “Louie, I was hoping you would be on this flight. I need some chocolate.” Gabby always finds something for which she can look forward. Let me just say, when I see her again, I will be certain that I have plenty of extra chocolate just for her. Our prayers remain with her. This is no time for assigning blame to anyone but the gunman. This is a time to seek the positive influences from those who were harmed. This is a time to note and perpetuate the good in THEIR lives so that they live on, whether their hearts continue to beat or not. This is a time to learn from Gabby who has a heart that both still beats and still inspires. We can learn from her attributes _ and her ability to smile even at those with whom we disagree, as we pray for the opportunity for her smile to regain its vitality so she can go back to spreading her sunshine in places that need it. May God bless Gabby Giffords and all of those who are suffering because of this heinous attack as only He knows how. May God provide the comfort and peace that only comes from the embrace of His loving arms.” ###
01.10.2011	Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement Saturday concerning the tragic shooting in Arizona: “I have no words to fully express my sadness, concern, and anger over the senseless assaults and murders in Tucson. Congresswoman Giffords is an inspiring and devoted representative for the people of Arizona. What is more, she is my friend. My thoughts and prayers have and will continue to go out to her and her family and to all the victims of this horrific attack and their families.” # # #
09.28.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01), along with U.S. Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03) hosted a press conference today to discuss the bipartisan hearing in the Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security Subcommittee held this afternoon titled Reining in Overcriminalization: Assessing the Problems, Proposing Solutions.? share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01), along with U.S. Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03) hosted a press conference today to discuss the bipartisan hearing in the Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security Subcommittee held this afternoon titled Reining in Overcriminalization: Assessing the Problems, Proposing Solutions.‪ The hearing addressed evidence that Congress regularly passes new criminal laws that do not sufficiently protect law-abiding citizens by requiring that a defendant have mens rea, or criminal intent, before they can be found guilty. This legislative failure produces piles of new criminal laws every year that puts Americans at risk of prison time for failing to file a report on time or label a box properly before mailing – acts that no reasonable person could predict are criminal. ‪Rep. Gohmert stated, “This is a very important issue. For too long people in both parties have found it convenient to criminalize civil violations because they thought it would help them look tougher. I was never considered soft on crime as a district judge back in Texas. When you see the Heritage Foundation and the ACLU come together on an issue, you know that this is something that demands attention.‪ People have said, ‘I am afraid if we don’t put a prison term on a violation it will look like we are soft on crime.’ But if it is not a crime and there is not criminal intent, then the Federal Government should look very hard before it undertakes that endeavor. We have seen people who never intended to be lawbreakers and who only have the best interests of this country and their families charged with crimes and convicted. One witness was convicted in a US court for violating Honduran shipping regulations – one of which had been repealed several years prior. The Honduran government supported the defendant at trial but he was still found guilty.‪ These tragic cases undermine the faith that people should have in their government I can tell you that some of these laws stretch my faith in the federal government as well. ”‪ As Ranking Member of the Crime Subcommittee, Rep. Gohmert looks forward to working on solutions to the problem to ensure that Americans are not jailed for innocent acts and law enforcement can focus on arresting the true criminals among us.‪ To view Rep. Gohmert’s full speech, click here.‪ ###
08.26.2010	EAST TEXAS – U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert released the following statement today in response to the news of the Administration’s dismissal of pending deportation proceedings against certain illegal aliens: share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert released the following statement today in response to the news of the Administration’s dismissal of pending deportation proceedings against certain illegal aliens: “The news today that this administration is having wholesale releases of people who have entered the country illegally is devastating to those who follow the rules by trying to bring loved ones here legally. It is also a position that tells the world we are not exerting our sovereignty as a nation. It says to the potential billion or more people who would like to come here to do so illegally and get our welfare, our healthcare, and our benefits that taxpayers are funding, because even if you get caught here illegally, this administration has decided that there will be no consequences. This utter disregard for the rule of law is so hurtful to people of every race, gender, religion, and national origin who have worked so hard to follow the law. It also moves us ever closer to being like those countries which immigrants are fleeing because of their disregard for the rule of law.” ###
06.29.2010	EAST TEXAS – Dozens of employers are seeking to fill positions that East Texas job seekers will have the opportunity to apply for at Congressman Louie Gohmert’s upcoming East Texas Job Fair at Stephen F. Austin State University on July 8. share: f t Dozens of employers are seeking to fill positions that East Texas job seekers will have the opportunity to apply for at Congressman Louie Gohmert’s upcoming East Texas Job Fair at Stephen F. Austin State University on July 8. The number of employers participating is expected to grow as more businesses and entities hear about the fair and understand how many talented potential employees will be attending. Hiring employers still have time to register their business or entity for the free job fair, and job seekers with a range of background and experiences are encouraged to attend. Updated Information on Rep. Gohmert’s Nacogdoches Job Fair: Thursday, July 8, 10AM-2PM Location: NACOGDOCHES, Stephen F. Austin State University– William R. Johnson Coliseum, 700 E. College Street, Nacogdoches, TX 75962 Employers Registered as of 6/29/10: 1st Choice Personnel, Basic Energy Services, Burke Center, CBS-19 TV, City of Nacogdoches, Department of Family and Protective Services, Etech, Inc., Exceptional Home Care, Good Shepherd Medical Center, Interquest Detection Canines Northeast Texas, Kool Smiles, Lufkin State Supported Living Center, Manpower, Mary Kay, MTC-East Texas Treatment Facility, Pilgrims Pride, Rent-A-Center, Russell and Sons Construction, Co., Sadler's Smokehouse, Ltd., Securitas Security Services, Shoe Carnival, Suddenlink Communications, Texas Department of Criminal Justice - Parole Division, Texas Veterans Commission, Tyson Foods, Inc., University of Phoenix and Veva J. Hawkins CPA. *In cooperation with Deep East Texas Council of Governments, Stephen F. Austin State University, and Workforce Solutions Deep East Texas. Rep. Gohmert stated, “Our country’s economy and many East Texans have done some struggling. That is why I am joining with some others to host two Job Fairs in East Texas to bring together businesses that need employees and people looking for jobs. My office and partnering organizations are dedicated to making these events as successful as possible, which will require active participation from both employers and job seekers. All types of employers and job seekers with a range of experiences are welcome to attend these free events. East Texas has a diverse job market and strong workforce, and I hope these fairs will help bring the two together to benefit the economic health of East Texas and its citizens.” Employer participation and job seeker admission are FREE. Employers can register online at www.gohmert.house.gov; job seekers do not need to RSVP. For more information, please call Rep. Louie Gohmert’s office toll free at (866)535-6302.
05.27.2010	EAST TEXAS – Dozens of employers are seeking to fill positions that East Texas job seekers will have the opportunity to apply for at Congressman Louie Gohmert’s upcoming East Texas Job Fair at East Texas Baptist University on June 2. share: f t Dozens of employers are seeking to fill positions that East Texas job seekers will have the opportunity to apply for at Congressman Louie Gohmert’s upcoming East Texas Job Fair at East Texas Baptist University on June 2. The number of employers participating is expected to grow as more businesses and entities hear about the fair and understand how many talented potential employees will be attending. Hiring employers still have time to register their business or entity for the free job fairs, and job seekers with a range of background and experiences are encouraged to attend. Updated Information on Rep. Gohmert’s Marshall Job Fair: Wednesday, June 2, 10AM-2PM Location: MARSHALL, East Texas Baptist University – Ornelas Gymnasium, 1209 N. Grove, Marshall, TX 75670 Employers Registered as of 5/27/10: 1st Choice Personnel, Advantage Staffing, AFLAC, The Arc of Harrison County, Basic Energy Sources, BeautiControl Spa Girls, Best Western Executive Inn, C&J Energy Services, CCA – Bradshaw State Jail, Career Search Personnel, Citizens National Bank, City of Longview, Communities in Schools of East Texas, Community Healthcore, Convergys, Duoline Technologies, Exceptional Home Care, Everlast Mechanical Services, Inc., Express Employment Professionals, Gladewater I.S.D., Good Shepherd Medical Center, Griggs Enterprise, Halliburton Energy Services, Harrison County Manufacturer’s Council, J&L Automotive, Kilgore College Workforce Development, Kilpatrick Life Insurance, La Quinta Inn, Longview I.S.D., Longview Professional Staffing, MTC-East Texas Treatment Facility, Manpower, Nehl’s Chevrolet Cadillac, QW Transport, Rent-A-Center, Republic Industries, Securitas Security Services, Social Security Administration, SOS Staffing Services, Southwood Nursing & Rehabilitation Center, STEMCO, Systems Group, Inc., TDCJ-Correctional Division, TDCJ-Parole Division, Texas State Technical College, University of Phoenix, U.S. Army and Woodlawn Manufacturing *This event is being coordinated in cooperation with East Texas Baptist University, East Texas Council of Governments, and Workforce Solutions East Texas. Rep. Gohmert stated, “Our country’s economy and many East Texans have done some struggling. That is why I am joining with some others to host two Job Fairs in East Texas to bring together businesses that need employees and people looking for jobs. My office and partnering organizations are dedicated to making these events as successful as possible, which will require active participation from both employers and job seekers. All types of employers and job seekers with a range of experiences are welcome to attend these free events. East Texas has a diverse job market and strong workforce, and I hope these fairs will help bring the two together to benefit the economic health of East Texas and its citizens.” Employer participation and job seeker admission are FREE. Employers can register online at www.gohmert.house.gov; job seekers do not need to RSVP. For more information, please call Rep. Louie Gohmert’s office toll free at (866)535-6302.
05.08.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) discussed yesterday the bipartisan report, WITHOUT INTENT: How Congress Is Eroding the Criminal Intent Requirement in Federal Law, a joint report from The Heritage Foundation and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) discussed yesterday the bipartisan report, WITHOUT INTENT: How Congress Is Eroding the Criminal Intent Requirement in Federal Law, a joint report from The Heritage Foundation and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. The report provides objective evidence that Congress regularly passes new criminal laws that do not sufficiently protect law-abiding citizens by requiring that a defendant have mens rea, or criminal intent, before they can be found guilty. This legislative failure produces piles of new criminal laws every year that puts Americans at risk of prison time for failing to file a report on time or label a box properly before mailing – acts that no reasonable person could predict are criminal. Rep. Gohmert stated, “There are people who never intended to be lawbreakers and who believed they were going about being good citizens that ended up having their cars run off the road, having their bodies slammed to the ground and being arrested and not understanding what in the world they could have done. One of the witnesses had never even had a speeding ticket because he tried so copiously to avoid violating any law. As we have seen this week, there are real people out there that want to destroy our way of life, and maim innocent people. Yet, we have dedicated so much of the federal government structure to pursuing people that don’t realize they violated the law, and if they did, they wouldn’t have done so. On both sides of the aisle – Republicans and Democrats, we want to show how tough we are on some issues so we will throw in a criminal penalty. That is why we have about 5,000 laws now with criminal penalties. We have to clean up the criminal laws so that innocent people, who want to be law-abiding, productive citizens, don’t end up being the victim of a law that was voted for just because they don’t want to look weak back home. This isn’t a party issue, this is a national issue.” As Ranking Member of the Crime Subcommittee, Rep. Gohmert looks forward to working on solutions to the problem to ensure that Americans are not jailed for innocent acts and law enforcement can focus on arresting the true criminals among us. To view Rep. Gohmert’s full speech, click here. ###
04.20.2010	EAST TEXAS - Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) has announced that he is partnering with local organizations to launch two East Texas Job Fairs, one to be held in Marshall and the latter in Nacogdoches. share: f t Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) has announced that he is partnering with local organizations to launch two East Texas Job Fairs, one to be held in Marshall and the latter in Nacogdoches. The Congressman encourages employers seeking to hire qualified candidates and motivated job seekers to participate. Rep. Gohmert stated, “Our country’s economy and many East Texans have done some struggling. That is why I am joining with some others to host two Job Fairs in East Texas to bring together businesses that need employees and people looking for jobs. My office and partnering organizations are dedicated to making these events as successful possible, which will require active participation from both employers and job seekers. All types of employers and job seekers with a range of experiences are welcome to attend these free events. East Texas has a diverse job market and strong workforce, and I hope these fairs will help bring the two together to benefit the economic health of East Texas and its citizens.” Employer participation and job seeker admission are FREE! Employers must register online at www.gohmert.house.gov; job seekers do not need to RSVP. 2010 East Texas Job Fairs: Wednesday, June 2, 2010 10:00am – 2:00pm East Texas Baptist University - Ornelas Gymnasium 1209 N. Grove Marshall, TX 75670 *In cooperation with East Texas Baptist University, East Texas Council of Governments, and Workforce Solutions East Texas. Thursday, July 8, 2010 10:00am – 2:00pm Stephen F. Austin State University - William R. Johnson Coliseum 700 E. College Street Nacogdoches, TX 75962 *In cooperation with Deep East Texas Council of Governments, Stephen F. Austin State University, and Workforce Solutions Deep East Texas. For more information, please call Rep. Louie Gohmert’s office toll free at (866)535-6302. ###
03.24.2010	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 3590, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, a bill that would lead our nation to an unprecedented federal takeover of the health care system. share: f t U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 3590, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, a bill that would lead our nation to an unprecedented federal takeover of the health care system. “Speaker Pelosi and the Majority, after weeks of arm twisting and backroom deals, forced through a vote on a sweeping government takeover of health care on the House floor last night that threatens to bankrupt the country. Again, they have blatantly ignored the voices of struggling Americans that truly desire reform with quality, affordable access to health care. Instead, they have made an uprecedented power grab that forces millions of individuals off their private insurance, while forcing millions more into unemployment. This bill institutionalizes the “Washington knows best” mentality in our economy and tells Americans that they and their doctors cannot be trusted to make their own health care decisions. The bill also provides funding for abortion, slashes 500 billion dollars in Medicare funding that will significantly hurt our seniors, wrongfully penalizes employers and small businesses with hundreds of billions of dollars in tax increases, and adds nearly 17,000 new IRS agents to monitor and harass Americans on a monthly basis. Once the government controls, rations, and pays for healthcare, it will then have the right to monitor the lives and businesses of all Americans. The term “reconciliation” is such a mockingly sad misnomer. Ironically, the Senate took H.R. 3590, entitled the Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act of 2009, and stripped out every word and inserted their own health care bill while forgetting to mention anything about health care for veterans or their survivors. Now, the House majority will force through a package of supposed fixes to the health care takeover that leaves the sweetheart deals in place and further increases taxes on Americans. Then the Senate will pass the "fixes" that actually raise health care costs on a party line vote with a procedure intended for passing deficit-reduction measures. Despite the disappointing result late yesterday evening in the House of Representatives, I will continue to fight to preserve liberty and free enterprise in Washington, D.C. Having heard from so many passionate Americans, we must continue to fight to prevent Washington from taking over any more of the American economy.”
02.10.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) released the following statement today on the passing of former Texas Congressman Charlie Wilson: share: f t Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) released the following statement today on the passing of former Texas Congressman Charlie Wilson: “Charlie Wilson was proof of what one man can do when he is determined. As a result, the world is a different place because of Charlie. He was a man of purpose, who obviously enjoyed life. Among his greatest loves, he loved this country, he loved veterans, he loved east Texas, and, of course, Barbara who brought him such strength, comfort and stability these last several years. Because of his infectious sense of humor, it was tough to be around Charlie without smiling. East Texans have shared with me that, sure, they knew Charlie had personal issues, but he was always honest about them. We will miss that kind of candor. He was even gracious enough to share the insights from his vast experience with a Republican like me any time I asked. As an east Texas icon and friend, he will be sorely missed. Our sympathy and prayers go out to Barbara and his family." ###
01.28.2010	U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01), along with several Republican colleagues, formally unveiled and signed today the Declaration of Health Care Independence at the U.S. Capitol. share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01), along with several Republican colleagues, formally unveiled and signed today the Declaration of Health Care Independence at the U.S. Capitol. Rep. Gohmert stated, “Thomas Jefferson said, ‘The normal course of things is for Liberty to yield and for government to gain.’ But that is what you have seen with the monstrosity called the health care reform in the last year proposed by the President, by Speaker Pelosi and Leader Reid. It is outrageous what is in that bill in both the Senate and the House. It is Liberty taken away! I am sick and tired of people, including some in the media saying, ‘The Republicans are the party of NO. They are against reform.’ We are not. Health care needs to be reformed but it doesn’t need to be taken over by the government. We need insurance companies to stop getting between patients and their doctors, but we don’t need government substituted in between patients and their doctors. For those on Medicare and Medicaid, they need to be assured that it will be there, that they will have coverage like they have never had before. They can have full coverage and control without bankrupting the nation, without $500 billion in cuts, and without rationing the health care people need. As a Member of Congress, I have heard people say, ‘We want the health care you have.’ Actually, you don’t want my health care. I did not like my health insurance last year so I changed this year. You want my choices. You want the booklet I have that has page after page of private insurance policies so you can choose as much or as little coverage at competing costs. We want the negotiations conducted as the President promised repeatedly – completely transparent on C-SPAN and discussed openly and honestly. To secure those principles, we need Members of Congress, candidates, as well as people across the country to sign onto the Declaration making a pledge that they will stand together in order to achieve the true Health Care reform Americans deserve.” To view Gohmert’s full speech, click here. Rep. Louie Gohmert represents the First District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives and can be reached at www.gohmert.house.gov.
01.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) addressed a crowd of tens of thousands of pro-life supporters today at the annual March for Life Rally held on the National Mall on the 37th anniversary of Roe vs. Wade, the landmark Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion. share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) addressed a crowd of tens of thousands of pro-life supporters today at the annual March for Life Rally held on the National Mall on the 37th anniversary of Roe vs. Wade, the landmark Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion. Rep. Gohmert stated, “I am Louie Gohmert. I am from the United States of America. How about that? I also happen to be from Texas. Now let me tell y’all, in 1983, my wife, Kathy, and I were going to have a baby, but 8-10 weeks early, she went into labor. The doctor’s did what they could but Katy was coming. Back then her odds were not that good to live. When she was born, they gave her 20%, 40%, 60%, 80% and 100% oxygen and they were still losing her. The doctor came and said, ‘We need to take to her to the top level neonatal care unit.’ And so they took her by ambulance to Shreveport. I was torn to stay with my wife in Tyler or go with our baby. Kathy said, ‘Go do any thing you can to help save our child.’ I followed the ambulance. When I got there, the neonatologist said, ‘Oh so good that you have come. Come over here to our isolette.’ They set up a stool there. Her breathing was so shallow, so fast, and so erratic. Her heartbeat was so fast and erratic. They had the monitor set up, and the doctor said, ‘She knows your voice. She knows who you are. Her eyes don’t work. She won’t see you but talk to her, caress her, let her know you love her, and it will help her live.’ As I talked to her and rubbed her little heart, she reached out with her little hand and grabbed the end of my finger. Hours later the doctor came by as I was still seating there. He said, ‘If you look at the monitors her breathing has stabilized, her heart has stabilized. The child is drawing from your love, drawing your security, and drawing life from you.’ How could I leave? I wouldn’t. Friends there are babies who don’t know you but thank god you are there as they reach out to draw on your security, draw on your love so that they may have life. Thank you for what you are doing. Thank you for letting God use you as a vessel. My daughter, Katy, gave me this scarf and said ‘Wear it daddy it will keep you warm.’ Thank you for being used for life. It’s going to happen. You are going to save those children for what you are doing.” Rep. Louie Gohmert represents the First District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives. Among many other bills, some of the most recent pro-life legislation he has cosponsored includes H.R. 227, the Sanctity of Human Life Act that seeks to protect the right to life from the moment of fertilization. To view Rep. Gohmert's full speech, click here.
12.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX) will join House Members and former Assistant United States Attorney Andrew McCarthy at a press conference at the Supreme Court on Thursday at 10 AM EST. share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX) will join House Members and former Assistant United States Attorney Andrew McCarthy at a press conference at the Supreme Court on Thursday at 10 AM EST. The press conference will focus on the impact of bringing self-confessed 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other terrorists to American soil and giving these terrorists Constitutional rights and access to our judicial system. Who: U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert U.S. Rep. Steve King U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann U.S. Rep. Pete Hoekstra U.S. Rep. John Shadegg U.S. Rep. Todd Akin Other House Members Former Assistant United States Attorney Andrew McCarthy When: Thursday, December 10, 2009, 10AM EST/ 9AM CST Where: U.S. Supreme Court Building, Sidewalk area below Supreme Court front steps Topic: The impact of bringing 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other terrorists to American soil for trial in civilian court Background: Rep. Gohmert introduced H.R. 4127 that would amend the Military Commissions Act of 2009 to make it mandatory that all alien unprivileged enemy belligerents stand trial in a constitutionally established military commission rather than a civilian court. Gohmert is a former judge and serves as Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security. # # #
12.07.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) announced the winners of the annual district wide art contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” during a reception held at Tyler Junior College. share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) announced the winners of the annual district wide art contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” during a reception held at Tyler Junior College. East Texas students of high schools from all over the 1st Congressional District were invited to submit their original work as part of a competition held across the nation. Professors from local colleges served as judges for the competition. FIRST PLACE - Mara Hartsell of Marshall, Junior at Texas Early College High School, for "Sleipner" Pencil Drawing Miss Hartsell will be honored by having her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. Additionally, she will be awarded an Artistic Honors Scholarship and have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C. to attend the national reception and view her artwork in the Capitol next summer. SECOND PLACE – Rachel Graham of Tyler, Junior at All Saints Episcopal School, for "Marie" Graphite Drawing THIRD PLACE – Blake Caldarera of Longview, Senior at Spring Hill High, for "Desert Juxtaposition" Oil Paint and Colored Pencil Piece Second and third place finalists are invited to display their art in the offices of Representative Gohmert in Washington, D.C. and Tyler, respectively. HONORABLE MENTION - Kory Prince of Bullard, Senior at Bullard High School, for Untitled Acrylic, Ink, and Color Pencil Piece Mr. Prince received a special certificate from Rep. Gohmert in recognition of his winning artwork. Congressman Gohmert congratulated the contest participants, saying, "It is such a delight to see the marvelous talent of our students showcased through their unique, artistic creations. The display of creativity from our young artists is truly inspiring, and their works will continue to bless others as the pieces hang in the Capitol and in our offices in Washington, D.C. and East Texas. We are so proud of everyone who participated and hope this event will encourage these artists to continue to develop their gifts." # # #
11.19.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) criticized the House’s passage of an unfunded and deceptive “Doc Fix,” instead voting for and supporting a more fiscally responsible alternative plan that would not add to the deficit and protect doctors, seniors and future generations. share: f t U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) criticized the House’s passage of an unfunded and deceptive “Doc Fix,” instead voting for and supporting a more fiscally responsible alternative plan that would not add to the deficit and protect doctors, seniors and future generations. Rep. Gohmert released the following statement: “Doctors deserve a fair, transparent, and clean solution to counter the looming cuts to their Medicare reimbursement payments. They must have the financial means to be able to provide necessary, quality healthcare to our seniors, which is why I support addressing this issue and making sure our doctors and seniors are covered. “However, the “Doc Fix” passed today is a gimmick, carved out of Speaker Pelosi’s healthcare bill to avoid being held accountable to promises made to the American people. This $280 billion “Fix” is unfunded and skirts PAY-GO rules, escalating our out-of-control deficit and adding dramatically to Medicare’s long-term unfunded liabilities. Coupled with Speaker Pelosi’s healthcare bill, this legislation brings the true cost of the Speaker’s healthcare debacle to an overwhelming $1.5 trillion, far beyond the price tag being advertised to the Americans and future generations who have to pay for it. The disingenuous manner in which this legislation has been packaged, presented, and passed belittles the needs and struggles of doctors and seniors and fails to offer a permanent solution. “Doctors cannot be paid and provide services with IOU’s. That is why many of my colleagues and I support physicians and seniors with our “Doc Fix” alternative plan that is fully funded and reigns in the government’s deepening descent into explosive debt. Furthermore, it offers more appropriate payments to physicians than the version passed today and ensures that seniors’ access to quality, affordable healthcare is not sacrificed.” Rep. Gohmert voted in favor of PAY-GO legislation but expressed his frustration with the Majority party’s failure to abide by its own standards. The “Doc Fix” alternative plan supported by the Congressman controls cost by offsetting it with savings from resources from the Medicare Improvement Fund and insurance administrative simplification. It would ensure that physicians are fairly and responsibly reimbursed by preventing the scheduled 21.2% cut in 2010 and the roughly 5% cuts in 2011, 2012, and 2013 from occurring while using the $26.3 billion in savings to address the cuts. In addition, it increases physician Medicare reimbursement by 2% each year for the next 4 years as opposed to the Democrats’ bill that provides only a 1.2% increase in 2010 and may still cause payment cuts in 2011. To view video of Congressman Gohmert’s floor remarks, click here.
11.07.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, a bill that would lead our nation to an unprecedented federal takeover of the healthcare system. share: f t U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, a bill that would lead our nation to an unprecedented federal takeover of the healthcare system. “Today, Speaker Pelosi forced through a vote on a sweeping government takeover of healthcare, blatantly ignoring the voices of struggling American individuals and families who for months have vocally rejected this unprecedented power grab. Americans desire reform that provides them with quality, affordable access to healthcare, but this plan undermines that goal and serves as an affront to individual freedoms. This healthcare takeover is the pinnacle of the false “government knows best” thinking that currently reigns in Washington. The bill tells Americans that they and their doctors cannot be trusted to make their own healthcare decisions and would be best to leave such matters to big brother government’s control. The bill also slashes hundreds of billions of dollars in Medicare funding that will significantly hurt our seniors, wrongfully penalize employers and small businesses with hundreds of billions of dollars in tax increases, while heaping a $1.3 trillion price tag on Americans and future generations. Although many seniors have paid into Medicare for 40 years, their Medicare would be cut while some illegally here will get free coverage. The great “change” the Pelosi/Obama coalition promised takes us in the wrong direction - millions of individuals and families being forced off their private insurance, millions more losing their jobs when unemployment has already reached double digits, and insurance premiums increasing even higher while Americans are struggling to pay the bills. For example, Section 501 will affect those who make too much to get free healthcare but make too little to afford it for themselves by hitting them with a TAX. So much for the President’s promises for the middle class. A takeover of this nature will require putting people on lists for particular healthcare which effectively denies coverage without coming right out and saying that seniors will never get the healthcare services they need to enhance or save their lives. It will result in a loss of specialized doctors in the future, stifling the innovation that makes America the place where people from all over the world come when they really need good care. Once the government controls, rations, and pays for healthcare, it will then have the right to monitor the lives and businesses of Americans. The bill even provides for studies of many businesses to see if they are making business decisions that will keep them solvent - as if the federal government knows how to stay solvent. Despite the result today in the House of Representatives, I will continue to fight to preserve the liberty and free enterprise in Washington, D.C. With passionate Americans organizing, having tea parties, and coming to Washington to make their voices heard, the Senate should be rightfully scared to bring this disaster up for a vote. Americans will surely continue to make their voices heard or vote of those who refuse to hear." Rep. Gohmert says some of the most significant concerns regarding the legislation include the bill’s estimated $1.3 TRILLION cost that will be burdened by taxpayers and $729.5 billion in tax increases that will largely fall on the backs of our nation’s small businesses. In addition, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) Director Douglas Elmendorf stated that proposals contained in this legislation do not reduce healthcare costs but instead “significantly expands the federal responsibility” for these costs. Experts have also estimated the legislation will cause 114 million people to be forced off their private insurance plans and result in 5.5 million job losses, a grim consequence following recent news that the nation’s rate unemployment rose to 10.2% in October. It also cuts Medicare benefits to seniors by over $460 billion, and will allow illegal immigrants to receive the benefits of government sponsored care. In light of these harmful measures, Congressman Gohmert noted, “This bill brings change, but it sure kills hope.” ###
11.05.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the Department of Labor’s report that the U.S. unemployment rate has jumped from 9.8 to 10.2 percent with the economy losing 190,000 jobs in October share: f t U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) released the following statement regarding the Department of Labor’s report that the U.S. unemployment rate has jumped from 9.8 to 10.2 percent with the economy losing 190,000 jobs in October: “To families and individuals across the country who are desperately hurting in this increasingly difficult economic climate, it is abundantly clear that the economic policies of bailouts and government giveaways have failed. Americans are suffering the consequences as they are left paralyzed from the federal government’s power grab, unable to help themselves and help this nation get back on the road to recovery. “Unfortunately, our nation’s breadwinners know firsthand that these reckless policies are dragging us deeper and deeper down the wrong path. With a 26 year-high record unemployment rate and 49 of 50 states losing jobs since the “stimulus” was enacted, they understand there is no such thing as a ‘jobless recovery’.” “These consistently growing, and now double-digit unemployment numbers, serve as a clear warning against forcing through the debt-increasing, job-killing healthcare bill through Congress that is forecast to cause 5.5 million more job losses. Americans cannot afford to let these destructive policies continue to break their wallets and erode their livelihoods. Congress continues to generate bills that are destructive to job growth, although Goldman-Sachs has certainly done well. If the efforts to run everybody’s businesses are stopped, stability will return, certainty will diminish, and the economy will finally rebound. Until then, the Wall Street friends of the current and past Treasury secretaries will continue to enrich themselves, but the rest of America will be in dire straits.” ###
10.31.2009	.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert’s (R-TX) office printed and delivered hard copies of Speaker Pelosi's 1,990 page healthcare bill to five East Texas public library across his First Congressional District to ensure that as many citizens as possible have access to the text and can see for themselves what is buried in the mountain of legislation. share: f t U.S. Congressman Louie Gohmert’s (R-TX) office printed and delivered hard copies of Speaker Pelosi's 1,990 page healthcare bill to five East Texas public library across his First Congressional District to ensure that as many citizens as possible have access to the text and can see for themselves what is buried in the mountain of legislation. Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats held the bill's public unveiling on Thursday in Washington, D.C., but used barriers and staff armed with RSVP lists to prevent the public from attending. Rep. Gohmert called the lack of transparency surrounding the crafting of the legislation and its unveiling “outrageous.” He is therefore trying to bring light to the many provisions within the bill that he says will "raise taxes, raise health care costs, and add to our national debt, significantly hurting America’s seniors, families and small businesses." Gohmert went on to say, "Legislation that will literally “transform” the lives of every American - and I believe it will not be in a good way - should neither be crafted behind closed doors, nor should it blatantly ignore the voices of the people whose very lives it will “transform.” Despite months of tea parties, town halls, and honest feedback from many East Texans and people all over the country, Speaker Pelosi and the Majority Leadership have re-packaged and re-presented a government takeover of healthcare for which most Americans have already overwhelmingly expressed their rejection. I truly hope people will look for themselves at the dangers in this bill and URGE their family and friends to continue to make their voices heard. Demand that Speaker Pelosi immediately drop any plan that lets the government takeover YOUR healthcare decisions." The Congressman noted that the normal process for bills requires: - A bill be presented at subcommittee - Amendments be offered and voted on - The final subcommittee bill be brought to full committee with plenty of notice and time for review, followed by an opportunity to offer amendments - Presentation to the floor of the exact full committee bill as finally amended in committee for an opportunity to amend and vote on amendments - A vote by the full House on that final bill. Gohmert stated, "The Speaker not only skipped the subcommittee, she did not even bring forward the bill that had members of Congress and countless Americans reading it. She had undisclosed, special interests craft it in secret and thrust it on America with very little time to review the 1,990 pages. This brings change, but it sure kills hope." East Texans may read the hard copies of the healthcare bill at the following 5 locations: Tyler Public Library Location: 201 S. College Ave, Tyler, 75702 Hours: M-F: 10am-7pm; Sat 10am-5pm; Sun 10am-5pm Longview Public Library Location: 222 W. Cotton St, Longview, 75601 Hours: M, W, F: 10am-6pm; T & Thrs: 10am-9pm; Sun: 1pm-5pm Lufkin Public Library Location: 706 S Raguet St, Lufkin, 75904 Hours: M: 10am-7pm; T - Thrs: 9am-6pm; Fr: 9am – 5:30pm; Sat: 9am-1pm Marshall Public Library Location: 300 S Alamo Blvd, Marshall, 75670 Hours: M-Th: 10am-8pm; Fr & Sat: 10am – 5:30pm Nacogdoches Public Library Location: 1112 North St, Nacogdoches, 75961 Hours: M&Th: 9:30am-8pm; T,W, & Fr: 9:30am-5:30pm; Sat: 10am-3pm East Texans may also go to Congressman Gohmert's website to read the bill online and to learn more information about the healthcare plan at www.gohmert.house.gov. # # #
10.08.2009	U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) slammed the liberal Congressional leadership’s backdoor tactic to pass unnecessary hate crimes legislation through the unrelated Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Authorization bill, which sets the agenda for our nation’s military. share: f t U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) slammed the liberal Congressional leadership’s backdoor tactic to pass unnecessary hate crimes legislation through the unrelated Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Authorization bill, which sets the agenda for our nation’s military. As an outside conferee on the Defense Authorization Conference Report, Gohmert repeatedly urged Congress to quit playing political games at the expense of our troops and remove the hate crimes bill from the Report. He described the calculated decision to leave the bill in the Authorization as a blatant slap in the face to all those who serve our nation in its military and to all those who understand the dangers of federal hate crimes legislation. In hopes that Congress would come back with a “clean” defense authorization bill, Gohmert voted against the poisoned bill and released the following statement: “I totally support our men and women in uniform and want to provide them everything they need to do their jobs. Those valiant men and women are fighting to protect our freedom at the very time the Democratic leadership is holding them hostage to social engineering efforts to silence religious teaching against sexual immorality. The disingenuous tactic is so outrageous. They cite two factors as reasons that the hate crimes bill had to be part of the military bill now, and both reasons are complete fabrications. One was that hate crimes are on the increase. The FBI statistics over the last 20 and 10 years show that such incidents have vastly declined. The other is that the Matthew Shepherd and James Byrd cases demand the law change. The FACT is that none of the poster cases mentioned would be changed at all by this bill. In fact, in the James Byrd case, two of the three defendants appropriately were sentenced to death and this bill does not even have a death penalty. Under the hate crimes bill, those defendants would get off with a much lighter sentence. “When considered with current federal law 18 USC 2a, the federal hate crimes bill would allow prosecution of any minister who preaches against sexual immorality which is heard by some nut who goes out and commits a crime of violence. Current federal law allows prosecution of anyone who “induces” another to commit a crime. After the brutal murder of Matthew Shepherd, Dr. Jim Dobson told me that a national news anchor said one had to wonder if people like Dobson “induced” such a murder. “I simply could not support a bill that sets out our military defense strategy for our soldiers to defend our freedoms while the very same bill eviscerates the personal freedoms of speech and religion here at home. One should not come at the expense of the other. But by attaching sweeping and dangerous hate crimes legislation to the unrelated Defense Authorization, freedoms are being sacrificed in order to provide for the defense of our remaining freedoms. “There is nothing accomplished by this hate crimes legislation that is not already accomplished by current law in this country. There has been no poster case that hate crime advocates have pointed to where the outcome would have been changed by this bill. It will also have a serious chilling effect on the freedoms of speech and religion, affecting many who preach on sexual immorality as addressed in the Bible, the Koran, and the Tanakh. We even tried to limit the heightened “sexual orientation” protections to heterosexuals and homosexuals, but that too was defeated. The Democratic majority wanted the definition wide open to include all types of sexual orientations, even those that are illegal. For example, another limiting amendment was attempted so as not to give additional protection to child molesters, but that too was defeated. Our amendment that would have given the elderly the same extra protection that homosexuals get under the law was also defeated. Overall, hate crimes legislation sends a dangerous message that random, senseless acts of violence are far more preferable in society than violence with a motive. All crimes of violence are already forbidden in every state in the country. This bill is about social engineering, not protection. “This hate crimes bill had no business being included in the Defense Authorization bill. It was a back door way of passing a bill on the backs of our service members. They deserve to be supported, not used as a social engineering tool.” View video of Rep. Gohmert comments on the floor of the House of Representatives here. ###
07.31.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX) introduced legislation today that seeks to preserve our nation’s religious heritage in the face of politically correct attempts to sterilize America’s rich religious history. share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX) introduced legislation today that seeks to preserve our nation’s religious heritage in the face of politically correct attempts to sterilize America’s rich religious history. The Congressman’s bill would memorialize the tradition of our founding fathers and historical leaders holding church services in various locations within the U.S. Capitol Building. Gohmert’s Congressional Hope for Uniform Recognition of Christian Heritage (CHURCH) Act of 2009 will direct the Architect of the Capitol to procure a historical plaque for display in National Statuary Hall to recognize the seven decades of Christian church services that were held in the Capitol from 1800 to 1868. Participants of this historical tradition include President Thomas Jefferson, who within a year of his inauguration began attending church services in the U.S. House Chamber, and President James Madison, who carried on the practice by holding Christian church services in the halls of State during his administration. Today, despite the rich religious history surrounding the founding of our nation and U.S. Capitol Building, efforts to censor references to these important, defining events and values have stirred significant controversy. Such efforts have even been targeted towards the U.S. Capitol’s new Visitor Center that opened just this year, where reprints and photos of historical documents and monuments displayed within the exhibits were intentionally scrubbed of references to God and other statements with religious connotations – a rewriting of history vigorously opposed by Rep. Gohmert. However, the Congressman hopes his bill will help protect, as well as raise awareness of, the fascinating facts that illuminate our nation’s religious heritage. The text of the plaque, which has been verified by the Congressional Research Service, would state: ‘‘The first Christian church services in the Capitol were held when the Government moved to Washington in the fall of 1800. They were conducted in the Hall of the House in the north wing of the building. In 1801, the House moved the church services to temporary quarters in the south wing, called the ‘Oven’, which it vacated in 1804, returning services to the north wing for 3 years. During church services, the Speaker’s podium was used as the preacher’s pulpit. ‘‘Within a year of his inauguration, President Thomas Jefferson began attending church services in the Chamber of the House of Representatives. Throughout his administration (1801—1809), Thomas Jefferson permitted and encouraged church services in executive branch buildings. Sermons regarding the Old and New Testaments of the Bible were even conducted in the Supreme Court chambers while the judicial branch was located in the old north wing of the Capitol. ‘‘The term ‘separation of church and state’, not found in the Constitution, was rather first used by Thomas Jefferson in a letter to the Danbury Baptists. Though Jefferson saw no problem with having nondenominational Christian services in government buildings, he affirmed that the Government should not choose an official Christian denomination. The worship services in the Government-owned House Chamber—a practice that continued until after the Civil War—were acceptable to Jefferson because they were nondiscriminatory and voluntary. ‘‘President James Madison, the recognized author of the Constitution, followed Jefferson’s example. In keeping with Madison’s understanding of the first amendment, church services were permitted in the halls of State on Sundays during his administration (1809—1817). However, unlike Jefferson, who rode on horseback to attend church in the Capitol, Madison traveled in a coach pulled by four horses. The services were interrupted in 1814 after the interior was burned by the British and had to be repaired. ‘‘Preachers of every Christian denomination preached Christian doctrine in this Chamber. On January 8, 1826, Bishop John England (1786–1842) of Charleston, South Carolina, became the first Catholic clergyman to preach in the House of Representatives. The first woman to preach before the House, and likely the first woman to speak officially in Congress under any circumstances, was the English evangelist, Dorothy Ripley (1767–1832), who conducted a service on January 12, 1806.’’ # # #
07.22.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Tea Party Protests are being held all over the nation today by citizens urging their elected officials to support the Pledge. Rep. Gohmert encouraged the "Tea Party Patriots" to continue fighting, writing, and calling until Washington gets the message that Americans are fed up with the "nation-ending, liberty-usurping, and economically-bankrupting policies" being pushed by the Obama administration and liberal leaders in Congress. share: f t Vows To Oppose Any Health Care Bill Not Publicly Available For 72 Hours, Bill That He Has Not Read To further express his adamant opposition to the federal government’s attempts to socialize health care and force through legislation without proper review by lawmakers and American citizens, U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX) signed the Let Freedom Ring’s Health Care Reform Pledge that is gaining widespread grassroots support across the country. By signing the Pledge, Rep. Gohmert promises he will not vote to enact any health care reform package that he has not read personally, in its entirety, and that has not been available on the internet for at least 72 hours so that the American people may review it as well. Gohmert Signs Health Care Reform Pledge to Oppose Government-Takeover WASHINGTON, D.C. — Tea Party Protests are being held all over the nation today by citizens urging their elected officials to support the Pledge. Rep. Gohmert encouraged the "Tea Party Patriots" to continue fighting, writing, and calling until Washington gets the message that Americans are fed up with the "nation-ending, liberty-usurping, and economically-bankrupting policies" being pushed by the Obama administration and liberal leaders in Congress. The Pledge is available to view at http://www.letfreedomringusa.com/pledge-to-read. Rep. Gohmert is also an original cosponsor of Rep. John Fleming’s (R-LA) H. Res. 615 that expresses the sense that Members who vote in favor of establishing a socialized government takeover of health care should agree to forgo their private insurance coverage and enroll in the public plan. Gohmert is currently drafting his own health care reform proposal called the Patient-controlled Healthcare Protection plan that protects the patient-doctor relationship and enables Americans to get the treatment they need, when they need it, with the doctor of their choosing, at a price that is affordable and covered. Congress’ vote schedule prevented Rep. Gohmert from being able to leave Washington, D.C. in time to join the Tea Parties in East Texas, but members of his staff attended in his place and passed along the following letter of encouragement to the protest participants: Dear Patriots, Thank you for your efforts and presence here today. Your willingness to come out and publicly express your opinion shows that you truly appreciate the fatal danger facing this nation. The Obama Administration and liberal leadership in Congress are ramming through nation-ending, liberty-usurping, and economically-bankrupting policies that violate the fundamental values on which this country was built. We are in the midst of a struggle to protect our precious individual liberties and enumerated rights from being devoured by the federal government’s insatiable desire for more control. Thomas Jefferson captured this unsettling tension in his admonition, "The natural progress of things is for liberty to yield and government to gain ground." But as evidenced by your presence here today, you understand that this dangerous power grab is neither the progress nor the change that Americans desire. We note that it was the threats to and thwarting of freedom and innovation that caused Americans over 200 years ago to risk everything to fight a revolution and ultimately become the greatest in the world. Contrast that to the 1917 Revolution that produced Marxist socialism in the Soviet Union that has already disappeared because of its stifling of creativity and liberty. Though my fighting for our principles has kept me in Washington, D.C. today, I stand with you in spirit against the tyranny of this government’s effort to takeover healthcare and subjugate you and your freedom. In a matter of months, thousands of pages of bills have passed Congress that its Democratic leaders knowingly prevented anyone from being able to read. They knew that if Members of Congress knew what was buried in those mountains of legislation, they would never have the nerve to vote for the unfathomable debt and skyrocketing taxes that they create. The bills actually kill American jobs, close the doors of our small businesses, and even ban us from tapping into our own wealth of energy! Trillions of dollars of debt, record growing unemployment, and vast public outcry were apparently not enough to deter the radical left from continuing pursuit of their emulation of King George III. Now, they are at it again with their plan for government-takeover of healthcare, which is nothing less than a declaration of war on American families, seniors, businesses, and taxpayers. Government-takeover of healthcare will require rationing services, denying lifesaving treatments, wait-lists for necessary care spanning months and even years, a loss in medical specialization, and stifling the innovation that makes our healthcare the best in the world. Once the government controls, rations, and pays for healthcare, it will then have the right to monitor everything you purchase, eat, and physically do to see if it approves or you should be punished for causing additional health risks. In freedom’s name and for the sake of this nation’s survival, we cannot afford to go down this road. It is imperative that we seek true healthcare reform that re-establishes and protects the vital patient-doctor relationship, leaving healthcare decisions up to YOU and YOUR physician and lets you keep the money you need to pay for it. Please be assured that as you fight to make the voice of reason heard, I will continue to fight to preserve the liberty and free enterprise in Washington, D.C. If Congress insists on forcing this healthcare abomination onto American citizens, then those who vote in favor of it should be required to step up and become the first customers of the disastrous government program they have created. That is why I am an original cosponsor of H. R. 615 proposed by my friend and fellow Congressman Dr. John Fleming which requires just that. As a signer of Let Freedom Ring’s We must persevere and stand up against this threat that quite literally affects the lives of every American. Keep the faith, and keep fighting, writing, and calling until all of Washington gets the message, and a majority there, once again, represents the principles on which this great nation was founded. May God bless you, and may God continue to bless America. Responsible Healthcare Reform Pledge that we stand in support of here today, I also refuse to vote in favor of a health care reform bill that has not been given an appropriate amount of time for personal review by both Members of Congress and American citizens. I will represent your voices by opposing any legislation that lets the federal government snatch power and control away from patients and their doctors. I will instead promote better solutions, such as my own Patient-controlled Healthcare Protection plan that I recently unveiled which empowers patients and gives you access to quality, timely, and affordable healthcare coverage you need, deserve, and control. ###
06.23.2009	EAST TEXAS – Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) and local organizations are readying for the upcoming East Texas Job Fair being held in Longview Monday morning. share: f t Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01) and local organizations are readying for the upcoming East Texas Job Fair being held in Longview Monday morning. The event has 60+ employers registered who are seeking to fill more than 1,500 positions. This will be the second Job Fair hosted by the Congressman this month, the previous being held in Lufkin with almost 50 employers and more than 600 job seekers in attendance. The Congressman stated, “Many here in East Texas are doing their best to cope during this difficult economic time, and we want to do everything we can to help them support themselves, their families, and their businesses. People need jobs, and as evidenced by the strong employer feedback we’ve received, there are job opportunities out there. The goal of these events is to bring together businesses that need employees and people looking for work, so we hope to see a great turnout from East Texas job seekers. Our partnering organizations are also invaluable resources for local employers, so I encourage both employers and job seekers to take advantage of Monday’s Job Fair. ” Rep. Gohmert’s office is coordinating the event in conjunction with Workforce Solutions Gregg County, Longview Economic Development Corporation, East Texas Council of Governments, and Longview Partnership. Admission is free for attendees, and job seekers with a range of backgrounds and experiences are encouraged to attend. A list of employers and organizations registered can be viewed here. For more information and maps, visit Rep. Gohmert’s website at www.gohmert.house.gov or call his office toll free at 866-535-6302. Updated Information on Rep. Gohmert’s East Texas Job Fairs: Monday, June 29, 9AM-12PM Location: LONGVIEW,LeTourneau University – Solheim Arena, 2100 South Mobberly Ave, 75607 Employers and Organizations Registered to Date: 1st Choice Personnel, Advance'd Temporaries, Inc., AFLAC, Aldo's Beauty Salon, American General Life & Accident, At Home Healthcare, Beauticontrol, Career Personnel , City of Longview, City of Nacogdoches, Community Care of Marshall, Community Healthcore, Convergys, Dallas Police Department, DFE Tech, East Texas Children's Therapy Services, East Texas Environmental Products, East Texas Radio Group, Eastman Chemical Company, Etelecare Global Solutions, Experience Works, Express Employment, Good Shepherd Medical Center, Gregg County, Highland Pines Nursing and Rehab, J&L Cash Depot, JLee's Party & Gift Store, Kelly Services, Kilpatrick Life Insurance Company, Kool Smiles Dentistry, KYTX-CBS 19, Longview Independent School District, Longview Police Dept., Longview Professional Staffing, Longview Regional Medical Center, Lowe's of Marshall, The Made Rite Company, Manpower of Longview/Kilgore, Orkin, Inc., Pre-Paid Legal Services, Inc., Primerica Financial Services, Rent-A-Center, Social Security Administration, Spherion Staffing, Stephen F. Austin State University (SFASU), Subway, Suddenlink Communications, TCIM Services, Inc., TDCJ, Telco Plus Credit Union, Texas Highway Patrol, Texas National Guard, Turner Industries, Tyler Police Department, Tyler Professional Staffing, University of Phoenix, University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler (UTHSCT), U.S. Army, U.S. Navy. U.S. Census Bureau, Waller Broadcasting, Willstaff Worldwide. Also in Attendance: - LeTourneau University, Kilgore College, and Texas State Technical Colleges (TSTC), will be on site to discuss opportunities regarding job training and continuing education. - First Impression will also be present to provide helpful information for the interview process. - East Texas Center for Independent Living, Dept. of Assistive & Rehabilitative Services (DARS), and Communication Service for the Deaf (CSD) will provide information for job seekers and employees with disabilities. # # #
06.04.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a House Natural Resources Subcommittee hearing today, U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) criticized Washington bureaucrats’ “one size fits all” federal energy regulations that will severely damage the progress being made by individual states. share: f t During a House Natural Resources Subcommittee hearing today, U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) criticized Washington bureaucrats’ “one size fits all” federal energy regulations that will severely damage the progress being made by individual states. The Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, on which Rep. Gohmert serves, looked at the appropriate role of the federal government in the regulation of shale gas, including that which is found in the rich Haynesville and Barnett Shale basins located in state of Texas. Rep. Gohmert stated, “Shale is doing immense good during a difficult economic period by providing jobs, income, security, and American made energy. But federal takeover of the states’ self-governance will threaten all of this. I have had many independent operators tell me they will be forced to cease all exploration if the federal government takes over. “At a time when many Americans are out of work and businesses are being forced to shut their doors, the hearing today once again demonstrates that a ‘one size fits all’ approach to energy regulation does not work. States, like my own state of Texas, who excel in the production of energy and environmental regulation of this production, must be allowed to do so without the interferences of Washington bureaucrats. Adding burdensome federal regulations and reviews will only drive up the cost of energy production and will ultimately cause our country to become more dependent on foreign sources of energy.” Gohmert added, “It is time for Congress to look at the facts before it tries to shut down an industry which provides one of the largest non-tax sources of revenue to the federal government. Our nation must look at increasing the production of both oil and gas while at the same time continuing to develop viable alternative fuels instead of doing everything it can to hamper energy independence and security.” The focus of today’s hearing was the environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing which is the process of bringing otherwise unrecoverable natural gas to the surface. Despite presenting no tangible evidence of adverse effects, out of touch environmentalists are once again trying to halt any domestic production of energy by asking the federal government to step in and regulate this nearly 70 year old process. Rep. Gohmert represents the First District of Texas and has been a strong advocate of a holistic domestic energy approach, including the exploration and production of oil, natural gas, and shale, while also exploring and expanding the use of alternative energy sources, including nuclear, biomass, solar, and wind. # # #
06.03.2009	LUFKIN - Hundreds of East Texas job seekers and several dozen employers were able to link up at Congressman Louie Gohmert’s Job Fair on Monday, the first of two he will be holding during the month of June. share: f t Hundreds of East Texas job seekers and several dozen employers were able to link up at Congressman Louie Gohmert’s Job Fair on Monday, the first of two he will be holding during the month of June. Both individuals looking for work and those with job opportunities offered positive feedback regarding the event’s strong turnout. Rep. Gohmert, who spent most of his time at the fair speaking with employers and attendees, coordinated the event in order to help match up members of the East Texas workforce with hiring employers. Gohmert stated, “It is incredibly encouraging to see East Texans eager for new work opportunities speaking with employers equally excited to find candidates for the opportunities they have. With the so much bad news coming out of Washington on a daily basis, it is easy to let the negative cloud everything else. But, when one person gets back to work or starts a new job, that is great news for the family and friends around that person. The wonderful people at this job fair proved we have great reason to be encouraged in East Texas. There are jobs here in East Texas, and there are people wanting to work hard and succeed at those jobs. We just need to help match the two together. It was a great pleasure for me and my office to partner with organizations aimed at achieving that kind of match. We received very positive feedback from employers and attendees, and my office will follow up with them in the near future to gather further information and learn how we can best serve them.” Approximately 600 people attended the job fair and had the opportunity to speak with representatives face to face, collect information, fill out applications, and schedule interviews. According to response cards attendees completed at the event, more than 10% of responders reported to being offered a job on site. Many others who came will be going for follow-up interviews and have a good shot at those jobs as well. Nearly 50 employers were present and reported having more than 1,000 available positions. They represented various fields within the job market, including information technology, education, medical, government, military, retail, real estate, and others. Rep. Gohmert coordinated the event in conjunction with Angelina County Chamber of Commerce, Deep East Texas Council of Governments, Lufkin/Angelina County Economic Development Corporation, Workforce Solutions Angelina County, as well as the wonderful help from First Baptist Church in Lufkin. The Congressman expresses his deep thanks to the organizations, many of whom had representatives working at the job fair, describing their efforts and skills as “invaluable” to the planning and implementation of the event. He also encourages East Texans to use these organizations as resources for further help with their job search or businesses. Rep. Gohmert’s next job fair will be held Monday, June 29, in Longview at LeTourneau University’s Solheim Arena. Employers may register for this free event on the Congressman’s website at www.gohmert.house.gov; those wishing to look for employment do not need to RSVP. # # #
05.22.2009	When it comes to President Obama’s campaign promise to close down the Guantanamo Bay detention center, many supporters were quick to praise his reversal of President Bush’s policy. share: f t Keep Guantanamo Open, Mr. President How does the closure of Gitmo make Americans safer? It doesn't. BY REP. LOUIE GOHMERT When it comes to President Obama’s campaign promise to close down the Guantanamo Bay detention center, many supporters were quick to praise his reversal of President Bush’s policy. Those champions of terrorists’ rights are singing a different tune now that they’re facing the real life implications of such an action — namely, the very real possibility that some of the world’s most dangerous and depraved minds will be relocated to their own backyards. The Obama administration and liberal Democrat leadership claim the closure of the facility is imperative to overhauling America’s image abroad. President Obama has evidenced his desire to appeal to other countries from his remarks criticizing his own nation while overseas during his European tour. But the United States needs to ask itself why it is seeking the role of Miss Congeniality at times when actions that may (or may not) improve our global stature endanger the safety and well-being of American citizens. How does the closure of Gitmo make Americans safer? It doesn’t. Our president plans to shut down the facility with no plan forward once the doors close permanently, except to bring some of the dangerous men currently held behind its walls onto American soil. Some critics contend that concerned conservatives are grossly exaggerating the security issue. If that is the case, then why haven’t other nations the Obama administration is so eager to please — nations adamantly decrying the existence of the facility — stepped up to help offer a solution and accept the detainees? Because they’re not stupid! They do not want to throw out the welcome mat to trained, unrepentant terrorists who have dedicated themselves to murder and destruction. Hence our current predicament. Yet the Obama administration is so eager to win brownie points with foreign countries that it is willing to sacrifice the safety of its own. Unfortunately, this administration is so firmly plugged into campaign mode and unplugged from reality, it is not aware that a major problem in U.S. prisons is recruiting by radical Muslims within the prison system. What happens if you add to that prison system the most effective terrorist recruiters in world history? Once on American soil and in our federal prison system, their world of manipulation reopens. During my trip latest trip to Gitmo a few months ago, I was made aware of the conniving efforts of detainees to successfully throw urine or feces onto our U.S. military guards about three dozen times a day. I was aghast, and as a former law and order judge, I wanted to know what was being done. It turns out that the soldiers are not allowed to react at all. One guard allowed his immediate anger to bring forth a retort of "You (??) terrorist," and he received an Article 15 (non-judicial punishment of restriction and extra duty). The commander said that in most prisons an inmate assaulting a guard would be placed in isolation. However, there are so many international groups whose biggest concern is that these terrorists not be placed into isolation that it never occurs. They do usually lose a couple of hours of their movie watching privileges or, if it is a bad enough incident, lose a couple of their several hours outside. Once in a U.S. prison, these terrorists who recruit new terrorists will have a field day. What a formula for disaster! Have we so lost the stomach for defending ourselves that we have no chance of perpetuating a peaceful national existence? Some of the most infamous terrorists captured and currently held at Guantanamo include Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the driving force behind the attacks on 9/11; Abu Zubaydah, who trained three of the 9/11 hijackers; Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, mastermind of the USS Cole bombing; and several others. In their unrepentant pleading, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and several other of the 9/11 masterminds currently being held at Guantanamo Bay stated: Killing you and fighting you, destroying you and terrorizing you, responding back to your attacks, all are considered to be great legitimate duty in our religion. These actions are offerings to God. …Our religion is a religion of fear and terror to the enemies of God: the Jews, Christians, and pagans. With God’s willing, we are terrorists to the bone. So, many thanks to God. Just so you understand the allegedly brutal conditions at Gitmo, every day the detainees are given prayer rugs, Korans with special holders so that they’re never touched by Americans, and even an arrow on the floor that points toward Mecca so that they can offer their daily prayers to Allah. They’re granted outdoor activity time and hours to watch movies. And it’s extremely important to note that no waterboarding has ever taken place at Guantanamo. Guantanamo Bay is the most humane facility where these terrorists can be held, but President Obama is convinced that our nation needs an image makeover to make some other countries happy. Since the president is closing Guantanamo, the effect of his action will be to aid the terrorists in reaching their ultimate goal by getting them into the United States. Once in this country, there are judges who will let some of these men loose. The safety of this nation cannot afford that. For those terrorists found guilty, there are no detention facilities in the U.S. that will keep them away from American prisoners, and they would surely be housed near them. It is also not far-fetched to have fellow terrorists decide that the next attack needs to be in the community nearest where the terrorists are being held, demanding their release or threatening further local murder on a broad scale. The pleading filed by Khalid Sheikh Mohammed closes with: We have news for you, the news is: You will be greatly defeated in Afghanistan and Iraq and that America will fall, politically, militarily, and economically. Your end is very near and your fall will be just as the fall of the towers on the blessed 9/11 day. These terrorists have declared war on our way of life and are proud of their roles in the attacks. They will not stop until they destroy us or we put them back into Pandora’s Box. It is imperative that Guantanamo stays open and these dangerous men not be brought to U.S. soil or released within our borders. America doesn’t need an image consultant; it needs a commander in chief who will ensure that these enemies are not given another chance to destroy us. Congressman Louie Gohmert represents the first district of Texas. He is a ranking member on the Judiciary subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. Gohmert was a captain in the U.S. Army.
05.19.2009	EAST TEXAS – Dozens of employers are seeking to fill more than 1,000 positions that East Texas job seekers will have the opportunity to apply for at Congressman Louie Gohmert’s upcoming East Texas Job Fairs. share: f t Dozens of employers are seeking to fill more than 1,000 positions that East Texas job seekers will have the opportunity to apply for at Congressman Louie Gohmert’s upcoming East Texas Job Fairs. These numbers are expected to grow as more businesses and entities continue to sign up for the events that will be held in Lufkin and Longview during the month of June. Hiring employers still have time to register their business or entity for the free job fairs, and job seekers with a range of background and experiences are encouraged to attend. Rep. Gohmert stated, “It’s easy to be discouraged by the gloomy economic forecasts broadcast by national leaders and media, but the truth is there is hope and there are jobs out there. Dozens of employers will be at our Job Fairs to meet with hardworking East Texans to fill over 1,000 available positions. My office and our partnering organizations want to do everything we can to help bring together the diverse East Texas job market with our capable citizens for the greater benefit of our community and economy. We look forward to seeing more employers register for these events and a strong turnout from East Texas job seekers.” UPDATED INFORMATION ON REP. GOHMERT'S EAST TEXAS JOB FAIRS: Monday, June 1, 10AM-1PM Location: LUFKIN, First Baptist Church - Family Life Center, 106 E. Bremond Ave, 75901 Employers Registered to Date: 1st Choice Personnel, A American Home Care, Angelina College, The Bair Foundation, Brookshire Brothers, Castle Pines, Century 21 Bryan Realty, City of Lufkin, City of Nacogdoches, Deep East Texas Council of Governments (DETCOG), Department of Assistive & Rehabilitative Services (DARS) Division for Blind Services, Etech, Inc., Family Crisis Center, Grace Care Center, Lockheed Martin, Lufkin State School, Pilgrims Pride, Social Security Administration, Southern Chrysler Dodge Jeep, Spherion, St. Giles Living Centers, Inc., Stephen F. Austin State University, Suddenlink Communications, University of Phoenix, U.S. Army, U.S. Census Bureau, U.S. Navy, Vector Marketing, Workforce Solutions. *This event is being coordinated in cooperation with Angelina County Chamber of Commerce, Deep East Texas Council of Governments, Lufkin/Angelina County Economic Development Corporation, and Workforce Solutions Angelina Count. Monday, June 29, 9AM-12PM Location: LONGVIEW,LeTourneau University – Solheim Arena, 2100 South Mobberly Ave, 75607 Employers Registered to Date: 1st Choice Personnel, Career Personnel, City of Longview, Convergys, Good Shepherd Medical Center, Kelly Services, KYTX-CBS 19, Longview Independent School District, Longview Police Dept., Express Employment Professionals, The Made Rite Company, Pre-Paid Legal Services, Inc., Suddenlink Communications, TCIM Services, Inc., University of Phoenix, U.S. Census Bureau. Texas State Technical Colleges (TSTC) will be on site to discuss opportunities regarding job training. * This event is being coordinated in cooperation with Longview Partnership, Longview Economic Development Corporation, and East Texas Council of Governments. Employer participation and job seeker admission are FREE. Employers can register online at www.gohmert.house.gov; job seekers do not need to RSVP. For more information, please call Rep. Louie Gohmert’s office toll free at 866-535-6302. # # #
05.05.2009	EAST TEXAS – Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) has announced that he is partnering with local organizations to launch two East Texas Job Fairs during the month of June, one to be held in Lufkin and the latter in Longview. share: f t Rep. Gohmert Announces 2009 East Texas Job Fairs Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) has announced that he is partnering with local organizations to launch two East Texas Job Fairs during the month of June, one to be held in Lufkin and the latter in Longview. The Congressman encourages employers seeking to hire qualified candidates and motivated job seekers to participate. Rep. Gohmert stated, “Our country’s economy and many here in East Texas have done some struggling. That is why I am joining with some others to host two Job Fairs in East Texas to bring together businesses that need employees and people looking for jobs. My office and partnering organizations are dedicated to making these events as successful possible, which will require active participation from both employers and job seekers. All types of employers and job seekers with a range of experiences are welcome to attend these free events. East Texas has a diverse job market and strong workforce, and I hope these fairs will help bring the two together to benefit the economic health of East Texas and its citizens.” Employer participation and job seeker admission are FREE. Employers can register online at www.gohmert.house.gov; job seekers do not need to RSVP. 2009 East Texas Job Fairs: Monday, June 1, 2009 10:00am – 1:00pm First Baptist Church - Family Life Center 106 E. Bremond Ave Lufkin, TX 75901 *In cooperation with Angelina County Chamber of Commerce, Deep East Texas Council of Governments, Lufkin/Angelina County Economic Development, and Workforce Solutions Angelina County Monday, June 29, 2009 9:00am – 12:00pm LeTourneau University - Solheim Arena 2100 South Mobberly Avenue Longview, TX 75607 * In cooperation with Longview Partnership, Longview Economic Development Corporation, and East Texas Council of Governments For more information, please call Rep. Louie Gohmert’s office toll free at 866-535-6302.
04.29.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) rallied with fellow Members, religious leaders, and conservative organizations today to voice their strong opposition to the Hate Crimes bill, H.R. 1913, which is expected to be swiftly taken up on the House Floor this week. share: f t Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) rallied with fellow Members, religious leaders, and conservative organizations today to voice their strong opposition to the Hate Crimes bill, H.R. 1913, which is expected to be swiftly taken up on the House Floor this week. Gohmert and other representatives warned of the dangers federal hate crimes legislation poses to religious freedoms and teachings on morality, its elevation of special classes of protected people over other crime victims, and its encroachment on issues traditionally handled by the state. People who act out of hate deserve to be punished harshly under our existing criminal laws. However, hate crime laws send a message that random, senseless acts of violence are far more preferable in society than violence with a motive. Rep. Gohmert, a former judge, stated, "The bottom line message of Hate Crime Law is this: If you are going to hurt me, shoot me, brutalize me, please don't hate me. Make it a random, senseless crime of violence. You’ll walk free from the federal charges under the new Hate Crimes bill if you do.” Rep. Gohmert went on to discuss other potential applications that would make religious leaders vulnerable as well if the Hate Crimes bill is passed. “A minister, rabbi, or imam might preach that homosexuality is wrong and leads to the ultimate destruction of moral society. Perhaps one might even quote language in sacred writing saying homosexuality is an "abomination." Then some nut who hears such preaching goes out and shoots a homosexual. When arrested, the mental defective says that the teaching of the minister/rabbi/imam is what "induced" him into committing the act. The minister/rabbi/imam could be argued to have induced the shooter. It raises a fact question that a prosecutor could demand be submitted to the jury at the religious leader's trial. This well intentioned legislation would expose religious leaders to prosecution for the actions of others and would send shivers throughout the religious community. It could even lead to their arrest for attempting to induce violence." Other attendees at today's event included Rep. Trent Franks (AZ-02); Rep. Jim Jordan (OH-04); Rep. Paul Broun (GA-10); Bishop Harry Jackson, Chairman, High Impact Leadership Coalition (HILC); Andrea Lafferty, Executive Director, Traditional Values Coalition; Wendy Wright, Concerned Women for America (CWA); Barrett Duke, The Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission, Southern Baptist Convention; Maureen Wiebe, Legislative Director, American Association of Christian Schools; Dave Wiedis, Chief Operating Officer, The Providence Forum; Apostle Ardell Daniels, Spoken Word Ministries. ###
04.15.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX-01) and U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R–TX) toured the Capacity of Texas Manufacturing Plant in Longview and participated in a press conference to discuss the launch of the plug-in hybrid terminal tractor. share: f t U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX-01) and U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R–TX) toured the Capacity of Texas Manufacturing Plant in Longview and participated in a press conference to discuss the launch of the plug-in hybrid terminal tractor. Rep. Gohmert stated, "Efficiency and wise use of resources are critical roles that were achieved by the hard work and innovation of Capacity of Texas. Their hybrid electric tractor will not only significantly reduce harmful emissions but could also reduce fuel costs by 90%, saving businesses valuable money that will help them stay competitive. This will also help preserve and create American jobs. I'm very grateful to Capacity of Texas and everyone involved in the creation of this hybrid tractor which has highlighted East Texas as a global leader in the development and utilization of alternative energy. It will be exciting to see what else this innovative company will do to improve our future." Sen. Hutchison said, “Today we had the opportunity to see firsthand an innovative new plug-in hybrid terminal tractor that was designed and built by Texans. “I am proud to say that Capacity is the only American owned and operated manufacturer of this kind of product in the world. And it’s right here in Longview, Texas. It is our hope that this technology will bring opportunities and job growth to the region.” The plug-in hybrid electric terminal tractor, which was designed and will be produced in Longview, will reduce operational emissions at ports, intermodal transportation yards, and warehousing or distribution centers worldwide. Capacity of Texas, Inc., based in Longview, is the largest American-owned and operated manufacturer of terminal tractors in North America, offering a full product line of terminal trucks used throughout the world. The manufacturer is launching a plug-in hybrid terminal tractor that will dramatically reduce carbon emissions. This one-of-a-kind technology will cut emissions by 60% -- below even the cleanest-burning diesel engines. Rep. Gohmert represents the First Congressional District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives and serves on the Natural Resources Committee. He can be reached at www.gohmert.house.gov.
04.03.2009	Background on H. Con. Res. 185 (Passed by the House, Gohmert Voted Against): share: f t Background on H. Con. Res. 185 (Passed by the House, Gohmert Voted Against): Spending: H.Con.Res. 85 would set the federal government's budget policies over a five-year window between Fiscal Years 2010 and 2014, with a total five-year cost of $18.258 trillion. Total spending in FY 2010 would be $3.550 trillion. The budget assumes a deficit of $1.694 trillion in FY 2009, which falls to $585 billion in FY 2013 before beginning to rise again in FY 2014. Under the Democrat budget, the debt held by the public would reach $11.577 trillion in FY 2014, or 67 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), according to estimates by the Congressional Budget Office. The budget would also increase the statutory debt limit to $13.223 trillion in 2010, or 9.2% above the current debt limit. "Cap and Tax": The President's budget proposes a $646 billion national energy tax that would require businesses to purchase permits or "allowances" for their emissions-an effective tax on all energy consumption. According to a study by researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, this tax will cost each average American household up to $3,128 per year in increased energy costs. Government Run Health Care: The President's budget proposes a "reserve fund" of more than $630 billion in new spending on health care as a mere "down payment" for additional spending to come. The prime focus of their agenda is the establishment of a government-run health insurance plan, designed to "compete" against private health insurance and remove individuals’ ability to have more say in their own healthcare. Student Loans: The President's budget proposes an effective end to federally guaranteed private-sector college loans, which would result in the government taking control of most student loans. Unprecedented Deficits: The budget resolution proposes the six largest nominal deficits in U.S. history. The lowest deficit proposed by the budget resolution—the $586 billion deficit in FY 2013—is $127 billion or 27.7% greater than the highest deficit in U.S. history (last year’s $459 billion deficit). Colossal Tax Increases: The budget resolution proposes total tax collections equal to $14.3 trillion over five years. Compared to a baseline that assumes the extension of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts and the “AMT patch,” the budget resolution assumes a five-year tax increase of $574 billion. The Democrat budget resolution assumes that much of this tax relief will expire. Unsustainable Borrowing: The budget resolution would increase the national debt to $17.1 trillion in five years, an increase of $6.3 trillion or 58% since January 20, 2009. But this increase is actually understated in two respects. First, the Democrat budget resolution hides what its policies would lead to over the full ten-year budget window. Second, the Democrat budget resolution does not “budget” for several items that are likely to either reduce revenue or increase spending (such as the AMT “patch”). Skyrocketing Discretionary Spending: The budget resolution sets a 302(a) discretionary spending allocation equal to $1.099 trillion for FY2010 regular appropriations (excluding emergency spending), an 8.6% increase compared to FY2009. Background on Alternative Budget Proposals 1.) Summary of the Republican Budget Alternative (Gohmert Voted in Favor): - Spends $4.8 trillion less than the Democrats’ budget over 10 years. - Brings spending back down to 20.7% of gross domestic product (GDP), in line with the historical average, instead of climbing to 24.5% of GDP as proposed in the Obama budget. - Freezes non-defense/non-veterans spending, instead of increasing non-defense spending by over 9% as proposed in the Obama budget. - Brings debt under control, borrowing $3.6 trillion less than the Obama budget over 10 years. - The GOP budget holds debt to 65% of GDP, instead of soaring to over 82% of GDP and nearly tripling over the 10-year period as proposed in the Democrats’ budget. - Puts forward a long-term budget to bring debt under control, instead of burying our children under a mountain of debt that will result from the Democrats’ budget. - Does not raise taxes. Instead of imposing $1.5 trillion in tax increases on investors, small businesses, and families as proposed in the Obama budget, the Republican budget extends tax relief avoiding tax increases during a recession. - Avoids scheduled tax increases in 2010 by permanently extending 2001 and 2003 tax relief. -Permanently fixes the Alternative Minimum Tax. - Creates 2.1 million more Jobs than the Democrats’ Budget. Instead of a big government strategy in which Washington attempts to spend, tax, and borrow America to prosperity, the Republican budget puts its faith in individuals, small business and private sector investment to generate economic and job growth. - Suspends capital gains taxes through 2010 instead of increasing taxes on investment as proposed in the Obama budget. -Reforms the tax code making it simpler, more pro-growth, and more competitive, instead of making it more burdensome and complex as proposed in the President’s budget. - Reduces corporate tax rate to 25% (from 35%, second highest in the industrialized world) to make U.S. companies more competitive and create American jobs. - Funds National Priorities - Increases the Defense budget by $5 billion over the Obama budget and reserves the $50 billion annual “placeholder” for the war or unmet DOD needs. - Increases Veterans funding by $540 million over the President’s budget. - Provides for health and retirement security by reforming programs to ensure they can provide benefits for future beneficiaries. 2.) Overview of the Republican Study Committee (RSC) Budget Proposal (Gohmert Voted in Favor): - Improves the budget outlook in every single year - Balances the budget by FY 2019 - Cuts the national debt by more than $6 trillion compared to the President’s budget - Provides an extension of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, the AMT “patch,” and a two-year suspension of the capital gains tax—with reconciliation instructions - Makes NO changes to Social Security - Allows Medicare spending to increase at the rate of average, projected economic growth (4.2%)—a similar proposal was included in the 1995 Contract with America budget ?? Allows Medicaid spending to increase at the rate of average, projected inflation (1.1%)—a similar proposal was included in the 1995 Contract with America budget - Requires each committee to find savings equal to one percent of total mandatory spending under its jurisdiction from activities that are determined to be wasteful, unnecessary, or lower-priority. - Assumes repeal of most of the cost of the “stimulus” and the extra spending in the FY 2009 omnibus - Provides full defense funding, equal to the President’s request (plus money for overseas operations) - Assumes NO cuts to veterans spending - Makes real reductions to non-defense discretionary spending: a “zero-growth” baseline for non-defense spending, PLUS a one percent annual reduction to non-defense spending, plus additional savings from lower priority programs
04.02.2009	Washington, DC – This morning, Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) Congressman Ron Klein (D-FL) introduced critical legislation to bring missing children home safely. share: f t This morning, Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX) Congressman Ron Klein (D-FL) introduced critical legislation to bring missing children home safely. The bill, the A Child Is Missing Alert and Recovery Center Act, fills a critical void in time when authorities search for a missing child, senior citizen or adult with disabilities. The legislation builds on the work of a South Florida non-profit, A Child Is Missing, which utilizes the latest technology to place thousands of immediate, emergency phone calls after a disappearance. By acting in the first critical minutes after a child is abducted, lost or runs away, this program has brought hundreds of children home safely. The Klein-Gohmert bill creates regional centers to expand the operations and coverage of this lifesaving service, and has broad support from law enforcement agencies nationwide. Congressman Gohmert, a former Texas state judge, is the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security. ###
03.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congress’ Majority Leadership has gotten so eager to ram legislation through Congress that they aren’t able to keep up with their own lightning fast pace, as much of the policy being passed is not reviewed by a House committee or read even by the members of the committee of jurisdiction. share: f t Congress’ Majority Leadership has gotten so eager to ram legislation through Congress that they aren’t able to keep up with their own lightning fast pace, as much of the policy being passed is not reviewed by a House committee or read even by the members of the committee of jurisdiction. Democrats put on their best “shocked” and “outraged” faces on the floor last week after dealing with the consequences of their hastily crafted and recklessly passed stimulus bill, and after today’s passage of the whopping Omnibus Public Lands Act, Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) encouraged them to keep on practicing their surprised expressions. Gohmert, a member of the Natural Resources Committee, pointed out that of the 170 independent bills lumped together in the 1,246 page omnibus, about 100 of them have not followed the proper process in the House. The Chairman of the Natural Resources Committee had commented in his floor speech that the arguments by opponents of the bill were “petty.” Gohmert facetiously noted that after the $1.6 or so trillion rammed through the House by the Democrat majority leadership, maybe $10 billion seemed “petty,” but to most Americans, $10 billion is still a very big deal. “At a time when gasoline and energy prices are rising, the economy's struggling, people are losing jobs, and having their pay cut, what is this Congress going to do to help? It’s going to put more land and desperately needed energy off limits so those in this country can’t help themselves. Hoarding our resources may be a good idea if this is a long term plan to stay stocked while we wait for the rest of the world to use up it’s energy resources, but let’s be honest – Congress doesn’t have that kind of foresight,” Gohmert stated. “Even more frightening, there are 100 bills in this package that haven’t been fully reviewed by the House and whose consequences haven’t been thoroughly considered. So some in this Congress need to again practice yelling, “I’m shocked! I’m outraged!” and they should start now. Because once people start finding out what's in the bill, what provisions weren’t discussed in hearings that could have been tweaked to avoid the outrages that are to come, we'll need to have people crying, “I’m shocked! I’m outraged!” in front of the cameras to save their jobs.” While Americans are struggling to make ends meet under a lagging economy, as well as facing rising gas prices and the upcoming summer season’s higher energy costs, the Omnibus Public Lands Management Bill will make energy even more scarce as it blocks millions of acres of land from new oil and gas leasing, logging, mining, and other development activity. Rep. Gohmert voted against the massive Public Lands bill. Video of his full floor statement can be viewed here. ###
03.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.– While many in Congress are expressing outrage at the AIG bonuses, Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) is outraged that they were not outraged at the bad bills they voted for that left the door wide open for this kind of abuse. share: f t While many in Congress are expressing outrage at the AIG bonuses, Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) is outraged that they were not outraged at the bad bills they voted for that left the door wide open for this kind of abuse. After pointing out the prior abuses of bailout money and recent reports that AIG paid $165 million in executive bonuses after receiving $173 billion in taxpayer-funded government bailouts, the Texas Congressman wondered out loud where was the President’s promised “Change.” In a heated floor speech this afternoon, Gohmert stated that he didn’t support Congress’ deficit spending when the Republicans held the Majority and had hoped the “change” in power would at least reverse the spending trend. However, despite Democrats’ promises of “change,” Gohmert noted the runaway spending has reached unprecedented levels, and he urged the President to stop the madness. Gohmert clearly disdained the bonuses going to those responsible for running one of the country’s largest businesses into the ground and that those executives still have their jobs. He sarcastically noted that their achieving all of this and THEN convincing the government to give them $173 billion in taxpayer money may be a big enough accomplishment to deserve a bonus, but he did not think so. After the floor speech, Rep. Gohmert stated, “Every time this Administration has overseen one dime of tax dollars being transferred to AIG, it had the legal and moral authority to dictate new terms including no bonuses.” Gohmert further complained that the President broke his promise during his address to a Joint Session of Congress last month when his Administration hastily provided more in the way of bailouts without implementing the proper restrictions to ensure accountability and protect American taxpayers from such abuse. Gohmert recalled the words of the President during February’s address to Congress, when Pres. Obama stated, “I understand that on any given day, Wall Street may be more comforted by an approach that gives banks bailouts with no strings attached, and that holds nobody accountable for their reckless decisions. But such an approach won't solve the problem…This time, CEOs won't be able to use taxpayer money to pad their paychecks or buy fancy drapes or disappear on a private jet. Those days are over.” However, this week’s revelation of AIG’s lavish rewards proved those days are, in reality, alive and well. The Judge-turned-Congressman said President Obama should be implementing policies that lead to true change rather than just reading the words from a teleprompter. To view Gohmert’s full speech, click here. ###
03.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s executive order to use tax dollars for funding embryonic stem cell research, forcing taxpayers with moral objections to subsidize the destruction of human life at its most vulnerable stage share: f t Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s executive order to use tax dollars for funding embryonic stem cell research, forcing taxpayers with moral objections to subsidize the destruction of human life at its most vulnerable stage: “Significant advancements have been made in amniotic and adult stem cell research, with vital information gathered from these studies already being used to treat threatening medical conditions. Many Americans, including me, completely support stem cell research that not only has delivered proven results but also respects the sanctity of human life. In fact, the most positive results have actually come from non-embryonic stem cells. “However, President Obama’s decision to provide tax dollars for embryonic stem cell research is a tragic misstep and falsely asserts that we must sacrifice life for the sake of ‘scientific progress.’ We've seen stem cells from non-controversial sources like umbilical cord blood and amniotic fluid being used to effectively treat dozens of different illnesses, while embryonic stem cells have failed to result in a single successful treatment. “Furthermore, it is unconscionable to pry money from tax-payers who believe it is immoral and unethical to kill a living embryo for that very purpose. Not only is the government diverting desperately needed funding to ethically controversial and non-proven practices, it is forcing taxpayers to contribute to this destruction of human life at its most fundamental stage. We do not have to sacrifice innocent lives to save others. Once we begin saying that these lives in their earliest stages are not as important as lives in their later stages, we set ourselves up for terrible decisions ahead as to which lives are permissible to sacrifice and which persons are socially worthy of their assistance. “Most of us have experienced the heartbreak of watching someone we love suffer or die from illnesses and conditions that medical science has yet to fully understand. We want to see our loved ones made whole again, and research can help make this possible. But, we should focus our efforts on non-embryonic stem cell research that shows the most promise and the most respect for human life while not forcing Americans to betray their consciences.” Rep. Louie Gohmert represents the First District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives and can be reached at www.gohmert.house.gov. # # #
03.05.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Louie Gohmert released the following statement following the House’s passage of H.R. 1106, the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009, a bill that allows bankruptcy judges to “cram-down” the principal balance of mortgage loans for borrowers facing home foreclosure and unfairly leaving responsible borrowers to pay for the homes of their neighbors share: f t Congressman Louie Gohmert released the following statement following the House’s passage of H.R. 1106, the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009, a bill that allows bankruptcy judges to “cram-down” the principal balance of mortgage loans for borrowers facing home foreclosure and unfairly leaving responsible borrowers to pay for the homes of their neighbors: “A home is one of the greatest American symbols of security and stability. Many individuals work hard every day so that they may own and build a life in their own homes. During this difficult economic time, they need to know that the government is not going to destroy that dream for which they’ve worked so hard. However, this mortgage “cram-down” helps only those who have made poor decisions at the expense of the 92% of homeowners who have responsibly chosen to live within their means. This bill will create uncertainty for banks that will be forced to require years of credit history to better insure that a potential borrower is not a bankruptcy risk. That means that at a time when we are casting more and more of our debt on the young people in the country, this bill will force many of them to delay potentially for years the purchase of their first home. This “cram-down” bill will also cause banks or credit unions to raise rates on their best customers to cover borrowers who made bad decisions. It will even allow bankruptcy judges, if they wish, to force banks to extend current loans into “no interest” loans for up to 30 years. Since banks do not get their money for free, other good customers will have to pay more for their loans. Congress will be forcing responsible, hardworking families and individuals who are trying to pay their own bills to be liable for the misdeeds of others. “Furthermore, stable, community banks will be left in uncertainty as bankruptcy judges are able to change the actual principal on mortgages as they wish. This is not what the economy needs at a time when the government continues to throw hundreds of billions of dollars at the most irresponsible investment banks on Wall Street, while hurting the most responsible lenders in the country. We should not drag down the very people who make this economy strong. It is time for our government to support those who have made responsible choices rather than continue to bailout those whose poor decisions have contributed to our dire economic situation.” Gohmert voted against the bill, which passed the House 234-191. To view Rep. Gohmert’s comments made on the House floor today regarding H.R. 1106, click here. # # #
02.12.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner’s vague and disappointing bank rescue plan has left everyone from Wall Street to Main Street increasingly skeptical of the government’s insatiable spending and misguided intervention in the private sector. share: f t Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner’s vague and disappointing bank rescue plan has left everyone from Wall Street to Main Street increasingly skeptical of the government’s insatiable spending and misguided intervention in the private sector. This week’s flop has further bolstered the case for Rep. Louie Gohmert’s (R-TX) TARP alternative, a two month federal tax holiday that provides direct relief for Americans. Gohmert issued the following statement: “We must take very seriously the economic challenges facing our nation, and in the process of seeking solutions, one of our top priorities should be accountability to the American people. However, some arrogant leaders in Washington have forsaken this essential principle, believing the federal government knows all and controls all, recklessly forging ahead with failed policies that impose tremendous and increasing risk to Americans. “Sec. Geithner openly admitted that his predecessor’s policy “was always behind the curve,” and “added to public anxiety and to investor uncertainty.” Yet in the same breath he unveiled his own so-called ‘plan’ that’s no plan at all, but rather a continuation of Paulson’s doomed design and an ambiguous outline that leaves Americans and investors without answers. But even without crucial details, our taxpayers, citizens, and Wall Street know enough to be able to discern that the government’s spending rampage and continued meddling is wrong, and they will not go along with Geithner’s game of follow the leader. “Billions of taxpayer dollars for bailouts has snowballed into trillions, and those overseeing the situation have said still more money will be needed. Furthermore, there is no proof that Geithner’s ‘bad bank’ will increase lending, but we do know it will expose taxpayers to greater risk. Our leaders mustn’t gamble with the livelihoods of citizens and the future of Americans who have yet to be born. Economic confidence and stability can only be achieved once our leaders show they are looking out for the little guy, not taking them for all they’re worth. “There are more effective solutions that guarantee Americans immediate relief through free market solutions. My proposal for a two month federal tax holiday serves as an alternative to the bailout and has gained overwhelming support from across the country. It does not require new government spending in this time when every penny counts, and it puts money earned by taxpayers immediately and directly back in their hands. Individuals will be able to catch up financially and stimulate ailing industries by paying of mortgages and credit card debt, buying more efficient vehicles, investing in stock deals, remodeling homes, having enough cash to effectively refinance, buying long delayed but needed purchases, and spending it where we need it most. What is more, it will help them return to having some semblance of confidence in the economy again, which is one of THE most critical needs in this nation. “It is imperative that Americans contact their representatives, senators, and the White House to let them know they want to be the ones to decide on the recipients of their own hard-earned money through this tax holiday before Geithner squanders and demands even more.” Gohmert has spoken with President Obama and White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel regarding his tax holiday alternative, but the Congressman urges Americans to contact the Administration to put further pressure on their leaders to support the plan. According to Moody’s Economy, a payroll tax holiday is the most effective tax policy in increasing the national GDP in one year, and recent Rasmussen polls reveal a growing majority of Americans want more tax cuts and less government spending. ###
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Less than one month into the new Administration, House Democratic leaders have already approved over $1 trillion in deficit spending, first throwing $350 billion at bailouts and now adding about $820 billion on top of that for their pork-laden "stimulus" plan. share: f t Less than one month into the new Administration, House Democratic leaders have already approved over $1 trillion in deficit spending, first throwing $350 billion at bailouts and now adding about $820 billion on top of that for their pork-laden "stimulus" plan. This staggering amount of money is almost equal to what the federal government will collect in individual income taxes for the entire 2008 year. Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) released the following statement after voting against the Democrats’ costly and misleading “stimulus” bill: “The Members of this House are agreed that American citizens are in dire need of help in this time when our economy is struggling. With a new Administration and a new Congress, we have the opportunity to affirm the trust Americans put in the leaders they’ve elected. Now is the time for our government to focus on implementing incentives that will create and save jobs for hard-working citizens. “Although many great ideas were offered to provide relief for our nation, some in Washington saw an opportunity and got greedy. Underneath the guise of buzz words like “stimulus” and “economic recovery,” Democratic leaders turned our nation’s crisis into an opportunity to massively expand the federal government and push through unrelated spending. “Let’s call this bill what it really is – a bloated spending bill. I had hoped that when President Obama delivered such inspiring speeches about change, we were finally moving away from our past eight years of dangerous deficit spending. Instead, we are actually increasing at an alarming rate our pace down that same road. Now, just two weeks into this new Administration, the House has approved excessive and irresponsible spending that will cost roughly what the federal government collects in individual income taxes for the entire year. For decades, our citizens, children, and grandchildren will have to pay the price for this bill that will fail to significantly create jobs or stimulate the economy at the present time. “We owe more than that to our constituents and their families. They deserve help, but it is not going to come in the form of this loaded spending bill.” ###
01.19.2009	Rep. Louie Gohmert delivered the following speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives share: f t The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a previous order of the House, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gohmert) is recognized for 5 minutes. Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, we took up the issue of the Troubled Asset Recovery, whatever TARP stands for. $350 billion has been thrown, as one man wished it to be, as he directed. There's another $350 billion that has been allocated. Now, the question is, who's going to spend it? Now, I've got a bill that I filed, it was, I think, the first bill laid down over here on the Clerk's desk the minute after we were sworn in, and it's a bill to allow the people that earned the money to spend it. The Treasury Secretary would have to put it in the general revenue and use that to cover any shortfalls from withholding not coming in. This isn't some rebate where we spend millions to let people know you may get a rebate check, and then millions to process it, and then by and by, pie in the sky, they get a rebate check down the road for $300, $600. This is real money we're talking about, in the account, in the hands of those who earned it as soon as they get their paycheck. If we pass this bill next Thursday that I've proposed, people on their Friday paychecks could have all of their Federal withholding in that check, all of their FICA withholding in that check. So anybody that's working, performing services, including self-employed, they have a 2-month tax holiday. That money is immediately in their hands, in the economy, not some bureaucrat in Washington who is so arrogant that he thinks you couldn't possibly know where to spend that money to help the economy and help yourself. So, we've asked, we surveyed people who have e-mailed in and asked, what would you--look at the withholding and see what, tell us what you would use your money for. Number 1 answer? Pay off credit cards, catch up on loans, including the mortgage. Well, Paulson's out there spending hundreds of billions of dollars to try to loosen up lending so people can refinance and borrow more money to catch up on the mortgage they got behind on in the last year, many, back when gas prices were $4 a gallon. Let them catch up with their own money. They don't need another loan. Others said they'd go out to eat. They'd stop, they'd use it for entertainment. Others said they'd invest it in their small business to develop it. Others said they'd invest it in the stock markets. That would help the market. Ten percent of those said they'd use it to buy a new home. That would help them with their down payment. There's so much in the withholding. Others said they'd use it to buy a car. Some said they'd put it in savings. But that would give banks more money to make more loans, so that would be a good thing as well. Some got very specific. They said they'd buy farm supplies, help with their college education this year. Some said they'd buy insulation for their home to help on the energy bill. One said he'd buy a stove and an oven. Another said he'd use--well, there were many who said they'd repair and remodel their home. Others said they'd pay for medical procedures that they need. How about that? It's not some guy in Washington paying. It's the people that earned the money that would get to spend it. Another was going to put on a new roof for his home so his family would be dryer and warmer. The people that earned the money know what to do with it. It is the height of arrogance that in this body, we'd say, no, no, no, Gohmert's got this bill, H.R. 143, that lets the people that earned it have a 2-month tax holiday. We can't do that. We can't let that come to the floor for a vote. I proposed this amendment yesterday. Got shut out. They didn't want it on the floor. Probably pass. People would be afraid to vote against the people. And that's what that vote is. But I just submit, Madam Speaker, if this continues, and I keep being shut out on getting this idea from the people for the people by the people, and the votes keep being that we can't bring a bill like that to the floor for a vote, it may be, come November of 2010 that the voters will say, we want to elect somebody that will do what needs doing and not helping their cronies. Oh, yes, we heard, well, the leadership over here in the House has the idea for this great TARP money. We're going to use it for infrastructure. Oh, yeah. Well, apparently the bill being proposed only has 5 or 6 percent for infrastructure. You let people have their own money, you let them spend it where they need spending, the money will be in the economy, the economy will increase, and everybody will be better off and the people will have heard from us as they wanted.
01.19.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX) is challenging President-elect Obama’s choice of Treasury Secretary nominee Timothy Geithner and demanding answers to the obvious question, “How can such overwhelming authority over taxpayers be entrusted to a man who repeatedly evaded paying taxes himself?” share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX) is challenging President-elect Obama’s choice of Treasury Secretary nominee Timothy Geithner and demanding answers to the obvious question, “How can such overwhelming authority over taxpayers be entrusted to a man who repeatedly evaded paying taxes himself?” Gohmert stated, “There is an air of excitement in Washington this week as millions have gathered to see the events surrounding President-elect Obama’s inauguration. Americans are eager and expectant to see him lead this country in what we hope will be the right direction. It is truly historic and even around the world people are excited. We also know that he nominated Mr. Geithner as Treasury Secretary out of the best of intentions as his tax improprieties had not yet come to light. Now that we know of his many failures to pay his taxes, Geithner’s appointment and confirmation would be a direct contradiction to President-elect Obama’s commitment to an ethical administration, and more importantly, it would undermine his promise to those who elected him. He does not need that kind of ethical blot on his administration from the start. “Mr. Geithner’s tax infidelity was apparently not an innocent mistake - reports indicate that he actively avoided paying Social Security and Medicare taxes for 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004, and still refused to pay after receiving explicit material making him aware of the error of his ways. It took an IRS audit to finally get him to pay the taxes he owed from 2003 and 2004, and he didn’t pay the remainder of the back taxes until the Senate Finance Committee Staff revealed his indiscretions during his Secretary nomination process. “When it comes to following the law, there should be no double standard between taxpayers and those in authority forcing people to pay taxes. Geithner has had to pay nearly $50,000 in interest and back taxes, yet the IRS has not fined him, and now he is being rewarded with a key position in the Administration. How many small business owners and American citizens can evade taxes and avoid a fine, much less be rewarded with a plum appointment? “Not only is it a slap in the face of this country for Mr. Geithner to be put in charge of taking taxes from the rest of us, but it is especially insulting when there is an expressed intent by the incoming Administration to raise taxes on already over-burdened Americans. This nomination violates everything that the President-elect called for in the way of ethics and could destroy trust by the American taxpayers. “Mr. Geithner should not be Secretary of the Treasury, and I urge President-elect Obama to withdraw his nomination. If President-Elect Obama does not, then our Senators must make it clear that they will not permit a tax evader to become the Secretary of the Treasury. It is imperative that our nation’s leaders block this nomination to let Americans know that the law applies justly to all. The incoming administration has brought so much hope into the nation’s Capitol - it shouldn’t be destroyed by one sophisticated tax dodger.”
01.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) reached out to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson today, urging him to follow through with what he promised would be accomplished through the enormous economic bailout - freed up lending and the extension of credit by banks to qualified borrowers. share: f t Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) reached out to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson today, urging him to follow through with what he promised would be accomplished through the enormous economic bailout - freed up lending and the extension of credit by banks to qualified borrowers. Though some banks have sought and accepted billions of taxpayer dollars which they claimed are, “important to restoring the funds to consumers and businesses, large and small, who are at the core of our economy,” it appears that the banks have instead tightened lending and made loans even more difficult to obtain by worthy borrowers. In his letter to Paulson, Gohmert noted that automotive dealers showed him communications from banks that received bailout funds which are now telling worthy, qualified dealers that the banks are no longer making automotive loans or providing necessary credit lines, no mater how reliable or qualified the dealer may be. Though some of the big banks are using bailout tax dollars to purchase smaller, more successful community banks, they are then refusing to loan to businesses in what they consider the less metropolitan areas. Gohmert continued, “After receiving the massive federal handout, they are quick to abandon a large sector of small businesses which employ millions of people around the country … Such a situation makes a bailout to automakers even more obtuse when a number of banks you bailout are either cancelling floorplanning for dealerships or making car loans less available. It will not help to give Detroit billions of dollars if dealers go out of business and people cannot get loans to buy cars.” He closed, “Mr. Secretary, we urge you to prohibit banks that have accepted or are seeking funds under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act from refusing to extend credit lines to worthy dealers or borrowers. Of course banks should not be loaning to people who cannot afford the loans, but to arbitrarily announce that NO loans will be made to dealers or car loan borrowers when Detroit is being bailed out is simply asinine … Community banks who were very strong are having to compete with the giant banks who were mismanaged and now have massive taxpayer dollars to allow further unfair competition.” Gohmert opposed the bailout both times it came before the House for a vote. He has proposed an alternative plan to more government bailouts of a two month federal income tax and FICA tax holiday. His bill, H.R. 143, would provide relief to Americans by allowing them to keep more of their money and better stimulate the economy by deciding for themselves which companies and businesses deserve their hard-earned dollars, all for less than half of the remaining $350 billion of the original bailout bill. Gohmert represents the First District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives and can be reached at www.gohmert.house.gov.
01.06.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX) wasted no time in continuing his fight against Washington’s excessive bailouts as the 111th Congress convened today for its first day of session. share: f t Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX) wasted no time in continuing his fight against Washington’s excessive bailouts as the 111th Congress convened today for its first day of session. Moments after the House opened for official business, the Congressman introduced an updated version of his two month tax holiday proposal that gained extensive national support over the past month, clearly signaling that he intends to push the issue until the majority party brings this bill to the Floor of the House for a vote. Whereas Gohmert’s original bill called for the holiday to take effect during January and February 2009, his latest version designates the two month time span to begin the first full month after the bill’s passage, thereby allowing the proposal to still be a viable bailout alternative even though the new year has begun. Less than one full day into the new Congress, the legislation already has fifty cosponsors, and the list of supporters is expected to grow. Gohmert stated, “From the overwhelming number of voices across the nation that have expressed their support for this tax holiday, it is clear that this fight is far from over. Americans are fed up with chunks of their paychecks going to bail out mismanaged, private companies. My bill will provide relief to taxpayers and do a better job of stimulating our economy by letting the people who know the market best decide which companies or industries are most deserving of their hard-earned dollars. “I voted against the bailout both times it came to the floor. I believe it was a terrible plan that undermined the founding democratic principles that made us the greatest nation in the world. There is still time to put to better use the remaining $350 billion of bailout funds. Americans have done a terrific job of letting me and their own representatives know that they want this tax holiday as a bailout alternative, and they must continue to make their voices heard if we want to see our country thrive and preserve its strong, free-market principles.” Gohmert is encouraging people to urge their own Representatives and Senators to support the tax holiday over more bailouts and has also asked them to take it a step further by letting their leaders know what they could be doing with the extra money they would save through the tax holiday plan. According to American Solutions, a conservative think tank founded by former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, Americans pay $101.6 billion per month in personal income tax and $65.6 billion per month in FICA tax. A two-month reprieve from these taxes would cost less than the remaining $350 billion in bailout funds sought by Paulson and provide taxpayers with a nearly 17% reduction in income tax for 2009. Under Gohmert’s plan, the ordinary income from wages or services performed in the two months designated for a tax holiday would be entirely federal tax free, and Americans would immediately see that money retained in their paychecks. They would therefore only pay income tax on 10 months of earnings. Rep. Gohmert currently represents the First District of Texas for his third term in the U.S. House of Representatives. He can be reached at www.gohmert.house.gov.
01.06.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was sworn in today to his third term as the 111th United States Congress convened on its first day of session. share: f t U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) was sworn in today to his third term as the 111th United States Congress convened on its first day of session. Gohmert released the following statement shortly following the ceremony: “It is a humbling honor to be allowed to serve east Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives for another two-year term. Having been born and raised in east Texas, its well-being remains dear to my heart, and I want nothing more than to be an accurate voice representing east Texas sensibility in Washington D.C. East Texans are great about providing plenty of feedback so that I am better able to represent their interests as well as those of our nation. “Though some adjustments must be made as we settle into both a new Congress and new Administration, the issues facing us are far too important not to address. This is a crucial moment in time when our government must not fail to once again set a proper example for the world as to how difficult problems can be addressed without abandoning the principles that made us the greatest nation. Uniting for the country’s good behind our founding fundamentals is particularly important.” Rep. Gohmert will continue to serve on his previous House committee assignments of Judiciary, Natural Resources, and Small Business along with numerous related subcommittees. He can be reached at www.gohmert.house.gov.
