02.14.2019	Washington D.C. – Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Mike Kelly (R-PA), both members of the Ways and Means Committee, today introduced legislation to drive private sector investment in improving public building infrastructure. The bill would permit state and local governments to access $5 billion in private activity bonds (PABs) to finance construction of critical infrastructure projects for public buildings around the country, such as schools, hospitals, courthouses, universities, and fire stations. “It’s no secret that all sectors of American infrastructure are falling apart and we’re falling behind,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “The Public Buildings Renewal Act will spur billions of dollars of investment in our nation’s schools, publicly-owned hospitals, and other public buildings. We can’t continue to underinvest in facilities that serve our students, patients, and educators. They deserve better.” “The Public Buildings Renewal Act is a win-win-win for American infrastructure, jobs, and taxpayers. There is desperate need to repair aging buildings throughout our country, and public-private partnerships are a great way to achieve that goal. This is a chance to repair countless schools, hospitals, courthouses, and more, while reviving our local economies. The bill was scored by the non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation, which indicated we can accomplish this at a relatively low cost. We can’t afford to let this opportunity slip away” said Rep. Kelly. The Public Buildings Renewal Act would significantly improve the state of our nation’s infrastructure by opening the American public building market to the private sector to enter into public-private partnerships. These partnerships have primarily been used for transportation projects but currently public building projects are ineligible to use federal tax-exempt facility bonds to address the more than $500 billion in school infrastructure needs nationwide. With the passage of the Public Buildings Renewal Act, State and local governments would be able to enter into long-term contracts with a private sector company to design, build, finance and/or operate the building for a defined period of time, creating jobs and spurring investment in rebuilding critical public infrastructure. In addition to Reps. Blumenauer and Kelly, the bill was cosponsored by Reps. Larson (D-CT), Marchant (R-TX), Kind (D-WI), Walorski (R-IN), Suozzi (D-NY), Zeldin (R-NY), Tonko (D-NY), Hurd (R-TX) You can find an infographic on the economic benefits of the Public Buildings Renewal Act here. ###
02.11.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, today issued the following statement: “Last fall when we introduced our blueprint for action in the 116th Congress on cannabis reform, we identified the access to banking issue as one of the first dominos that should fall. With Chairwoman Waters scheduling a hearing on the historic legislation by Congressmen Heck and Perlmutter, we are finally making progress toward addressing the irrational, unfair, and unsafe denial of regular banking services for state legal marijuana businesses around the country.” “Congressmen Heck and Perlmutter have been tireless champions of this new and vibrant industry and this is an important step forward toward ultimately ending the failed prohibition of marijuana.” ###
02.06.2019	Portland, OR – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, today announced that he is an orginal co-sponsored Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’ Green New Deal resolution. The resolution, which outlines the scope and scale of the Green New Deal, included provisions from Blumenauer. “Our climate is in a crisis, and we need big ideas and massive energy to create the movement that will address it, said Congressman Earl Blumenauer. “We must invest in clean energy jobs, green infrastructure, and sustainable agriculture in a way that is equitable and just. I am excited about this bold vision being driven by Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez and am proud to back this resolution as our first step towards enacting the Green New Deal.” The resolution would be accomplished through a 10-year plan that takes on a series of industrial and infrastructure projects that transform every sector of the American economy. It seeks to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, create high wage jobs, invest in green infrastructure, secure clean air, water and food for a sustainable environment, and promote justice and equity for frontline and vulnerable communtiies. ###
01.28.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), along with Congressman Tom Reed (R-NY), today introduced the Promoting Access to DiabeticShoes Act. Currently, physicians’ assistants (PAs) and nurse practitioners (NPs) must send their diabetic Medicare patients who need therapeutic shoes to a physician to certify need. This bipartisan legislation would authorize PAs to certify a patient’s need for therapeutic shoes. “This bill addresses the burdensome gap in care for those suffering from diabetes,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “PA’s are federally recognized care providers and should continue to provide high-quality care to patients with diabetes. We will continue our work to improve timely access to care for Medicare patients.” “It makes no sense that physician assistants and nurse practitioners can manage a patient’s diabetes and other complex chronic conditions, but currently are not permitted by Medicare to order diabetic shoes,” Congressman Reed said. “This isn’t fair, and we will continue our work to improve the quality and timeliness of care for all of those suffering from this disease.” “The American Association of Nurse Practitioners would like to commend Congressmen Blumenauer (D-OR) and Reed (R-NY) for introducing the Promoting Access to Diabetic Shoes Act. Nurse practitioners deliver health care in nearly every health care setting, caring for patients of all walks of life, including patients with diabetes. This bill will ensure that Medicare patients who receive care from a nurse practitioner will have timely access to therapeutic shoes. It’s time to make this change to the Medicare program” said AANP President, Joyce Knestrick, PhD, C-FNP, APRN, FAANP. ###
01.28.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) led their colleagues in sending a letter today to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency asking the Acting Administrator, Andrew Wheeler, to familiarize himself with the U.S. Global Change Research Program’s Fourth National Climate Assessment. The Members wrote: “Although we are relieved that you acknowledged that climate change poses an existential threat to our way of life, it is unacceptable that you admitted you have not been fully briefed on the U.S. Global Change Research Program’s Fourth National Climate Assessment.” The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is one of the 13 participating agencies in the U.S. Global Change Research Program. EPA scientists contributed to the National Climate Assessment (NCA) and worked through a collaborative, peer-reviewed process to inform its findings. It is the most comprehensive science-based evaluation of the consequences of climate change, the risks of inaction, and potential adaptation strategies for the United States to date. “The findings of the National Climate Assessment are incredibly dire for the U.S. economy and the environment, which the EPA is tasked with protecting. The Assessment outlines the devastating effects that climate change will have including catastrophic wildfires, crop failures, dramatic sea level rise, more acidic oceans, and crumbling infrastructure. The Assessment also makes clear that greenhouse gas emissions from human activities are the only explanation for the observed global warming over the last six decades and carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere are now higher than at any time in the last three million years.” In addition to Blumenauer and Bonamici, the letter was co-signed by House Ways & Means Committee Chairman Richard E. Neal, Oregon Congressman & Infrastructure Subcommittee Chairman Peter DeFazio, U.S. Representatives Alan Lowenthal, Debbie Dingell, Thomas R. Suozzi, Charlie Crist, Ro Khanna, A. Donald McEachin, James P McGovern, Sean Casten, Gilbert R. Cisneros Jr., Nanette Diaz Barragán, Donald S. Beyer Jr., Katie Hill, Brendan F. Boyle, Zoe Lofgren, Derek Kilmer, Salud Carbajal, Adriano Espaillat, Kathy Castor, Yvette D. Clarke, Diana DeGette, Peter Welch, Bobby L. Rush, Gerald E. Connolly, Betty McCollum, Jerry McNerney, Albio Sires, Harley Rouda, Doris Matsui, Bill Foster, Jan Schakowsky, Paul D. Tonko, Judy Chu, Eliot L. Engel, Frederica S. Wilson, Mike Quigley, Brenda L. Lawrence, Dina Titus, and Mike Levin. Read the full letter HERE. Read the National Climate Assessment HERE. ###
01.17.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) along with Congresswoman Jackie Walorski (R-Ind.) today introduced the Comprehensive Care for Seniors Act of 2019. This bipartisan legislation urges the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to improve Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), a program that provides high-quality, comprehensive community-based care to seniors with medically complex conditions who wish to live at home. “Elderly individuals and those living with disabilities in communities across the country greatly benefit from the PACE program and they deserve top-notch care in the comfort of their own home,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “PACE programs operate under regulations last updated in 2006. This legislation will force this administration to modernize this program and make it available to Americans in need.” “Throughout its history PACE has benefited from strong champions in Congress like Rep. Blumenauer," said Shawn Bloom, president and CEO of the National PACE Association. "We applaud the Representative's leadership and thank him for reintroducing The Comprehensive Care for Seniors Act. The lack of an updated rule hampers the ability of PACE programs to innovate and grow to meet the increasing number of seniors who want to live at home as long as possible as well as their family members" “Seniors facing health challenges should be able to get the health care and services they need while continuing to live at home,” Congresswoman Walorski said. “PACE programs allow seniors to live safely in their communities by providing fully-integrated services, resulting in longer lives, better health outcomes, and fewer hospital visits. When I visited Saint Joseph PACE in Mishawaka last year, I saw firsthand how these effective and innovative programs can change people’s lives for the better. However, PACE regulations are long overdue for an update, and I am committed to working across the aisle to ensure CMS finally modernizes these programs so more Hoosier seniors can live at home longer.” Ellen Garcia, Executive Director of Providence Elderplace, a PACE Center in Portland, Oregon, said “Rep. Blumenauer and his staff have been instrumental in advancing the mission of PACE to serve vulnerable seniors. Providence St. Joseph Health is grateful for his vision and leadership on this bill.” PACE provides Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries 55 years of age or older, who meet the criteria for a nursing home level of care but wish to live at home, with the entire spectrum of medical and long-term care services and supports, and addresses all other biopsychosocial needs. Multiple studies show that people receiving care from PACE organizations live longer, experience better health, have fewer hospitalizations and spend more time living at home than those receiving care through other programs. ###
01.09.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, today introduced H.R. 420, the Regulate Marijuana like Alcohol Act. “While the bill number may be a bit tongue-in-cheek, the issue is very serious. Our federal marijuana laws are outdated, out of touch and have negatively impacted countless lives,” said Congressman Blumenauer. "Congress cannot continue to be out of touch with a movement that a growing majority of Americans support. It’s time to end this senseless prohibition.” This legislation would legalize marijuana by removing it from the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) and allow for a nationally regulated industry under the oversight of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Blumenauer, a leading voice for marijuana policy reform, last year authored a comprehensive blueprint for marijuana legalization in the 116th Congress. ###
01.09.2019	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a leading advocate for cannabis policy reform and founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, today announced the launch of the Caucus for the 116th Congress. The Caucus leadership team includes Representative Barbara Lee (D-CA), who will become the first woman of color to Co-Chair the Caucus; Representative Dave Joyce (R-OH), who newly joins the leadership team; and returning Co-Chair, Representative Don Young (R-AK-At-Large). The bipartisan Caucus provides a forum for members of the U.S. House of Representatives to discuss, learn, and work together to establish a better and more rational approach to federal cannabis policy. “The Cannabis Caucus was the first of its kind to create a forum for elected officials to collaborate on ways to address our outdated federal marijuana laws” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Congress is clearly out of step with the American people on cannabis when national support for federal marijuana legalization is at an all-time high and we saw several states move toward legalization last November.” “Over the last decade, I’ve worked to build understanding and consensus on the need for reform and our movement is cresting. I’m looking forward to working alongside Reps. Lee, Joyce and Young to build on the bipartisan work we’ve done to end the senseless federal prohibition on marijuana once and for all.” “For far too long, communities of color and women have been left out of the conversation on cannabis. I am committed to ensuring that marijuana reform goes hand-in-hand with criminal justice reform so we can repair some of the harm of the failed War on Drugs. We must also work to build an industry that is equitable and inclusive of the communities most impacted by cannabis prohibition,” said Rep. Lee. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in leading the effort to implement responsible, commonsense cannabis policies,” said Rep. Joyce. “It is critical that we protect the rights of the states across the country, like Ohio, that have already done so at the state level. The federal government’s interference in this arena has stifled important medical research, interfered with doctors and patients making treatment decisions and harmed state-legal businesses. I look forward to working with Congressman Blumenauer, Congressman Young and Congresswoman Lee to advance sensible cannabis reforms that will benefit our nation’s veterans, patients, and businesses across the country.” “Since the initial launch of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus we’ve seen an exponential growth in interest, legislation, and membership many would not have expected”, said Rep. Young. “The idea of States’ Rights has been a central tenet of this movement and one that I believe will ultimately carry the day. I encourage all Members to join us in this debate and explore the varying issues.” “It’s good to be back with Representative Blumenauer, showing that bipartisanship can still shine. I’d also like to welcome Representatives Joyce and Lee as Co-Chairs of this important Caucus and I know they’ll be as asset. They follow in the footsteps of former Representatives Rohrabacher and Polis, who helped make this all possible with their long standing advocacy and dedication and we wish them the best.” Background: Federal cannabis laws are increasingly out of touch with the American people. Ninety-eight percent of Americans now live in states or territories that permit, to varying degrees, legal access to medical marijuana, and/or cannabis derivatives, with even more states considering expanded access this year. Additionally, a quarter of all Americans now live in a state with legal access to the adult use of marijuana. It’s time for Congress to catch up, and the Congressional Cannabis Caucus is another step in the right direction. ###
01.04.2019	United States House of Representatives ***PRESS RELEASE*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 4, 2019 Blumenauer Co-Sponsors Comprehensive Democracy Reform Package on Opening Day of 116th Congress Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) cosponsored a comprehensive democracy reform package in the House of Representatives alongside Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD), Chair of the Democracy Reform Task Force. This legislation is the first bill introduced in the 116th Congress and includes key provisions that pave the way toward implementing Oregon’s successful vote-by-mail and automatic voter registration model. “Our democracy should be made available to everyone. Oregon has been a model of that sentiment and I’m proud that our way is being recognized at the federal level, said Congressman Blumenauer. “I’ve been working on voting reform since my early days in public service and now more than ever, access to the ballot is under threat across the country. My hope is that this comprehensive reform will eradicate any roadblock to actively participating in our democracy.” “Earl Blumenauer has been a crucial partner in developing H.R. 1, the For the People Act – a once-in-a-generation opportunity to clean up Washington and return to government of, by and for the people,” said Congressman John Sarbanes, the lead author of H.R. 1 and Chair of the Democracy Reform Task Force. “His leadership on reform issues – especially when it comes to expanding access to voting-by-mail – is a key reason why we’ve been able to present the American people with such a robust and sweeping set of reforms to end the dominance of big money in politics, make public officials actually serve the public, and make it easier, not harder, to vote.” House Democrats formally introduced House Resolution 1, the For the People Act, to improve our election system, end the influence of big money in politics, and strengthen ethics law. In addition to expanding vote-by-mail and automatic voter registration, the legislation improves access to the ballot box, fully restores the Voting Rights Act, and improves election security. It also increases campaign finance transparency, establishes public financing on small-dollar donations, and improves campaign finance oversight by restructuring the Federal Election Commission and ending Super PAC-candidate coordination. Finally, the legislation requires sitting presidents and vice presidents and candidates for the presidency and vice presidency release the tax returns for the 10 previous years. ###
12.20.2018	Washington, DC – The House today passed the First Step Act, a bipartisan bill to reform the criminal justice system, after the Senate approved the bill earlier this week. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), leading advocate in Congress for drug policy reform, issued the following statement: “This bill is called the First Step Act for a reason as it is merely the first step toward long overdue reform. After decades, it is time to finally address the worst aspects of this broken system like mandatory minimums, unreasonable sentences, and programs to reduce recidivism rates. Those who are actually looking to champion criminal justice reform should work with us on key elements surrounding our outdated federal marijuana policy, like federal decriminalization and expungement for non-violent drug offenses. Congress needs to do more to transform our justice system from punitive to rehabilitative. I’ll support this bill, but again, this is just the first step. This has a relatively small impact on our nationwide issue of mass incarceration and we are long overdue to fix this unfair, expensive and ineffective system. We can’t stop here.” ###
12.11.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement in opposition of the newest Farm Bill expected to be considered in the House this week: “Congress is bringing up yet another bad Farm Bill that pays too much to the wrong people to grow the wrong foods in the wrong places. After more American people spoke up in opposition, this is a missed opportunity to make real improvements for farmers, the climate, and the food we eat every single day,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “While the agriculture committees have been drafting this disappointing proposal behind closed doors, I spent three years listening to the needs of farmers around the country and this bill does not address those needs. This bill cuts an important conservation program and expands subsidies paid to non-farming cousins, nieces and nephews. My Food and Farm Act is an example of how it could be done right. We can and must do better.” Last year, Blumenauer introduced an alternative bill that comprehensively advances reforms on four principles: 1) focusing resources on those who need it most; (2) fostering innovation; (3) encouraging investments in people and the planet; (4) ensuring access to healthy foods. Blumenauer’s legislation is the result of his Sing Your Own Farm Bill project, a multi-year effort to engage a wide variety of stakeholders. As part of this project, Blumenauer met with agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutritionists, small and mid-sized farmers and ranchers, conservationists and advocates committed to creating a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill Click here to learn more about Blumenauer’s Food and Farm Act. Click here to read Blumenauer’s report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” ###
12.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) led five of his colleagues in the Oregon Congressional delegation in urging Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to rescind her proposed changes to the definition of “public charge,” a longstanding component of federal immigration law. After sending the letter, Blumenauer released the following statement: “This is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to reduce legal immigration by further complicating the process for those who decide to immigrate legally to the United States. As if separating children at the border wasn’t enough, people will now be penalized for applying to programs that support their basic needs. Secretary Nielsen must withdraw this proposal.” Under current immigration law, the federal government can deny entry or adjust legal permanent resident status to any individual if he or she is determined to likely become a public charge, or receive benefits considered to be cash assistance, like Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF). Under the proposed new rule, immigration officials would also consider benefits that are not cash assistance, including programs like Medicaid and SNAP. If implemented, this rule would impact nearly 300,000 people in Oregon, including more than 113,000 children, and result in worse health outcomes, increased rates of poverty and housing instability, and higher levels of food instability. ###
12.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) led five of his colleagues in the Oregon Congressional delegation in urging Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to rescind her proposed changes to the definition of “public charge,” a longstanding component of federal immigration law. After sending the letter, Blumenauer released the following statement: “This is a transparent attempt by the Trump administration to reduce legal immigration by further complicating the process for those who decide to immigrate legally to the United States. As if separating children at the border wasn’t enough, people will now be penalized for applying to programs that support their basic needs. Secretary Nielsen must withdraw this proposal.” Under current immigration law, the federal government can deny entry or adjust legal permanent resident status to any individual if he or she is determined to likely become a public charge, or receive benefits considered to be cash assistance, like Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF). Under the proposed new rule, immigration officials would also consider benefits that are not cash assistance, including programs like Medicaid and SNAP. If implemented, this rule would impact nearly 300,000 people in Oregon, including more than 113,000 children, and result in worse health outcomes, increased rates of poverty and housing instability, and higher levels of food instability. ###
11.28.2018	Washington, DC – Yesterday, House Republicans unexpectedly released a 297 page, end of the year tax bill they hope to move forward during the lame-duck session of Congress. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement: “You would think after losing a national election, creating a blue wave, and exploding the budget deficit, Republicans would have learned that tax cuts for the wealthy and powerful are not popular. Not so. They just dropped another tax bill that does more of the same. Voters elected Democrats to actually listen to the needs of our families, especially those who struggle to pay for healthcare and their children’s education. We must reject the latest Republican attempt to make the tax system worse without helping those who need help the most. It’s time Congress commit to working with Americans.”
11.26.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement on reports that the Trump administration ordered United States Border Patrol agents to fire tear gas at a group of migrants seeking asylum at the southern border: “In the last six months, Donald Trump has defended murder, befriended dictators, and put children in cages. Add the tear-gassing of migrants seeking asylum to the despicable human rights record of this administration. It’s reprehensible. This is another unnecessary ‘crisis’ entirely of Trump's making. We should be treating desperate people fleeing violence with dignity and respect. It’s just another black eye for Trump and sadly, the United States.”
11.09.2018	Blumenauer Statement on the Resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Donald Trump forcing Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign: “Jeff Sessions is one of the worst Attorneys General we’ve ever had. He was an unapologetic facilitator of Trump’s racist, xenophobic, anti-immigrant agenda and his departure is long overdue. But our next focus must be protecting Robert Mueller, because we have a president seeking to pick a judge for his own trial in Matthew Whittaker. I’m working on legislation that protects the Mueller investigation and Congress must make sure that any nominee put forward will be committed to protecting the rule of law and not just Trump.” ###
10.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement on reports that the Trump administration will attempt to alter the legal definition of “transgender” in federal programs: “Trump’s latest attempt to egregiously disrespect members of the transgender community is reprehensible. Bigotry and hate run rampant through this administration and this latest attack on the fundamental equality of LGTBQ+ people once again shows him losing another battle with reality.” A member of the LGBTQ Equality Caucus, Congressman Blumenauer received a 100% rating from the Human Rights Campaign in the 115th Congress and cosponsored the Equality Act, legislation that would ensure equal protections for all Americans.
10.10.2018	Washington, D.C.— Following the Senate's vote to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “The Senate vote approving Brett Kavanaugh’s lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court completes the hostile takeover of that body by Republicans. Every bit as important, if not more than the politics and future direction of the court, is the appalling lack of fundamental respect for women in our society. This is a defining moment in our history, and it comes more than a quarter century after Anita Hill was also unjustly dismissed by the Senate. In the past year, the “Me Too” movement has ushered in countless revelations of the horrific treatment of women that is all too normalized. The refusal to treat Dr. Ford with respect to thoroughly investigate her allegations of sexual assault is, unfortunately, not new. Trump’s mockery of Dr. Ford’s brave testimony is not new. This vivid disparity of her treatment versus Kavanaugh’s is not new. This moment reveals so much about the challenges we face today and have faced throughout our history. It’s an outrageous display of how a woman’s experience is valued less than a man’s reputation. It’s misogyny. This Republican takeover of the Supreme Court has been years in the making, a recent low point being the refusal by Mitch McConnell and the Republicans to even hold a vote on Judge Merrick Garland, keeping the vacancy open 238 days in hopes of a Republican election victory. And, unfortunately, they got exactly what they wanted. They now advanced a highly partisan nominee, with huge gaps in his official record from the Bush administration. At best, Kavanaugh gave highly misleading answers while testifying under oath. At worst, he flat out lied. And I believe he lied. He showed an extreme lack of judicial temperament and gave every indication that he would not be a dispassionate dispenser of justice. The result is a deeply flawed and compromised Supreme Court Justice who will cast a cloud over every decision in which he participates It will take years to restore the balance and credibility of the Supreme Court, but that battle is being waged in every House and Senate seat in this election. We all have our part to play in electing people who will hold this administration and Republicans accountable and who flat out, actually, respect women. Let us start today by doubling our efforts to electing people who will uphold the highest standards and not just demand accountability, but work for it the moment they are elected.” ###
09.27.2018	Washington, DC—Today, 65 Democratic Members of Congress sent a statement to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell: “Once again, we are urgently requesting that Senate leadership postpone any proceedings on Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court until a thorough FBI investigation into the multiple allegations of sexual assault and misconduct has been completed. We have heard credible allegations from three women – Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, Deborah Ramirez, and Julie Swetnick – who bravely shared their traumatizing experiences of sexual assault and misconduct at the hands of Judge Kavanaugh. We urge you to give these allegations the respect and seriousness they deserve. Anything short of that is an insult to women and girls everywhere and sends a chilling message that survivors should not come forward because they will not be believed. In 1991, the Senate disrespected Anita Hill, questioned her credibility, and discounted her experiences. Now, 27 years later, Senate leadership has an opportunity to do better. These courageous women have nothing to gain by speaking their truth and every reason to stay silent and avoid the harassment and death threats they are currently receiving for coming forward. Survivors deserve to be heard and believed. As a lifetime appointment to our nation’s highest court is on the line, we implore you to abandon the artificial timeline you have created, support these women who have come forward, and do your duty to the American people by conducting a fair and balanced nomination process. Please remember that the women and girls of the world are watching and looking to you for leadership. We hope you will rise to the occasion.” ### This statement was signed by: Reps. Lois Frankel, Brenda Lawrence, Jackie Speier, Barbara Lee, Diana DeGette, Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer, Alma S. Adams, Karen Bass, Joyce Beatty, Earl Blumenauer, Lisa Blunt Rochester, Suzanne Bonamici, Madeleine Bordallo, Anthony Brown, Julia Brownley, Cheri Bustos, G. K. Butterfield, Joaquin Castro, Katherine Clark, Gerry Connolly, Elijah E. Cummings, Susan Davis, Rosa DeLauro, Val Demings, Debbie Dingell, John Garamendi, Raúl Grijalva, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Colleen Hanabusa, Jared Huffman, Pramila Jayapal, Robin Kelly, Ro Khanna, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Ann McLane Kuster, Al Lawson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Ted W. Lieu, Zoe Lofgren, Nita M. Lowey, Ben Ray Luján, Carolyn Maloney, Doris Matsui, Betty McCollum, James P. McGovern, Grace Meng, Gwen S. Moore, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Scott Peters, Chellie Pingree, David Price, Mike Quigley, Jamie Raskin, Jacky Rosen, Dutch Ruppersberger, Linda Sanchez, Jan Schakowsky, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Terri Sewell, Carol Shea-Porter, Adam Smith, Mark Takano, Dina Titus, Norma Torres, Nydia Velazquez.
09.11.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, condemned Republican leadership in Congress for failing to include his Veterans Equal Access amendment in the final FY 2019 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations legislation released today. The House is expected to consider the bill this week. Blumenauer’s bipartisan amendment would make it easier for qualified veterans to access state-legal medical marijuana. Blumenauer released the following statement: “Denying veterans the care they need by the doctors they trust is shameful. The Senate passed this amendment. It has broad bipartisan support in the House. This should have been a no brainer. Yet, Republican leadership has once again stymied progress toward fair and equal treatment for our veterans. Their continued neglect of commonsense and the will of the American people is a disgrace.” Background on the Veterans Equal Access Amendment: Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms allowing a qualified veteran to participate in a state medical marijuana program. This forces veterans out of the VA system to seek a simple recommendation for treatment for eligible conditions under state laws. Blumenauer’s Veterans Equal Access amendment ensures that no funds made available to the VA can be used to implement this prohibition, which would, in effect, strike it down. House Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions blocked consideration of the amendment in the House earlier this year. ###
09.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Oregon’s Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden, along with Representatives Earl Blumenauer, Suzanne Bonamici, Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader, today pressed the Trump Administration to hold a public hearing in Oregon on its proposed freeze of fuel economy standards. In addition to freezing nationwide standards at 37 miles per gallon (mpg), the proposal would also bar individual states from setting their own, more stringent standards. Oregon, along with 12 other states and the District of Columbia, has chosen to better protect air quality and public health by following stricter standards initially set by California. “This proposed rule… would have a significant impact on the economy, the environment, and consumers in our state and around the country,” the Members of Congress wrote to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao and Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler. “Our constituents deserve an opportunity for public engagement on a rule with such clear ramifications.” The EPA’s proposed rule, entitled “The Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient (SAFE) Vehicles Rule for Model Years 2021-2026 Passenger Cars and Light Trucks,” would freeze the light-duty fleet’s fuel economy standards at 37 mpg and carbon dioxide emissions at around 240 grams per mile from model year 2020 through model year 2026. Improvements in fuel economy have been critical to keeping the U.S. auto industry competitive, reducing pollution and associated negative health impacts, and saving consumers billions at the fuel pump. By 2030, the previous fuel standards would have saved the average car owner more than $6,000 over the life of the car, cut new vehicles carbon emissions by 50%, sustained 288,000 jobs, and reduced the U.S.’s oil consumption 2.4 million barrels per day. Currently, the Administration has proposed only one west coast public hearing, in Fresno, California, despite the fact that the entire West Coast would be disproportionately impacted by the loss of the California standards. “Elected officials from the west coast region, representing more than 55 million people with a combined GDP of $3 trillion dollars, have already spoken out against changes to the fuel economy and vehicle greenhouse gas emissions standards,” wrote the Members of Congress. “One public hearing on the West Coast is not adequate to hear these concerns. Therefore, we respectfully request that the Department of Transportation and Environmental Protection Agency provide our constituents an in-person opportunity to voice their concerns with this proposal and its impacts.” The full text of the letter is available here and follows below. ### Dear Secretary Chao and Acting Administrator Wheeler: We write to request that the Department of Transportation and Environmental Protection Agency hold a public hearing in Oregon on the recently proposed rule to freeze the fuel economy and vehicle greenhouse gas emissions tailpipe standards. This proposed rule, entitled “The Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient (SAFE) Vehicles Rule for Model Years 2021-2026 Passenger Cars and Light Trucks,” would have a significant impact on the economy, the environment, and consumers in our state and around the country. Our constituents deserve an opportunity for public engagement on a rule with such clear ramifications. This proposed rule would freeze the light-duty fleet’s fuel economy standards at 37 mpg and carbon dioxide emissions at around 240 grams per mile from model year 2020 through model year 2026. Improvements in fuel economy have been critical to keeping the U.S. auto industry competitive, reducing pollution and associated negative health impacts, and saving consumers billions at the fuel pump. By 2030, the previous fuel standards would have saved the average car owner more than $6,000 over the life of the car, cut new vehicles carbon emissions by 50%, sustain 288,000 jobs, and reduce U.S. nation’s oil consumption 2.4 million barrels per day. The Administration’s analysis of its own proposal shows how badly it would hit consumers’ wallets, the climate, and the American auto industry, including a loss of 60,000 jobs by 2030. Outside experts note this figure may actually underestimate the damage: the Union of Concerned Scientists found that freezing the fuel economy standards would cause consumers to spend an additional $50 billion on gasoline by 2035 and would reduce gross domestic product by $8 billion in 2025. The proposal also announces the agencies’ intent to prevent California from setting its state-level vehicle greenhouse gas emissions standards, as explicitly allowed in the Clean Air Act. Oregon, along with 12 other states and the District of Columbia, has chosen to follow California’s more stringent requirements to protect air quality and public health, as explicitly permitted by the Clean Air Act. Oregonians should have an opportunity for a public hearing to voice concerns over a proposal that takes away the ability to set their own environmental and public health standards. The Administration should appreciate that this is especially important at a time when wildfires are leading to dangerous air quality levels for much of the state. Elected officials from the west coast region, representing more than 55 million people with a combined GDP of $3 trillion dollars, have already spoken out against changes to the fuel economy and vehicle greenhouse gas emissions standards. One public hearing on the West Coast is not adequate to hear these concerns. Therefore, we respectfully request that the Department of Transportation and Environmental Protection Agency provide our constituents an in-person opportunity to voice their concerns with this proposal and its impacts. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely,
09.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) led 53 additional members of the U.S. House of Representatives in urging the Department of Transportation (DOT) to fulfill its obligations and immediately administer funding for transit capital projects that have met all requirements but face bureaucratic objections and roadblocks. In March 2018, Congress passed and Donald Trump agreed to the highest-ever funding for the Capital Investment Grants (CIG) program, a program that funds transit expansions for heavy rail, commuter rail, light rail, streetcars, and bus rapid transit. Since then, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) has refused to obligate new funding, leading to cost overruns and project delays across the country. Despite directives to administer the program in accordance with requirements set forth in statute, a May 2018 GAO report found that FTA officials do not plan to fully administer the program because Trump would like to phase out the program. In a letter to Secretary Elaine Chao, the lawmakers wrote: “[T]he FTA has stalled projects past their anticipated receipt of full funding grant agreements which has contributed to the project delays, cost overruns, and red tape so frequently excoriated by this administration. … Across the country, local taxpayers have already stepped up to support transit projects and are relying on the federal government to be a strong partner, rather than inject uncertainty.” The full text of the letter is below. Click here for an electronic version. September 10, 2018 The Honorable Elaine Chao Secretary of Transportation United States Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Chao: We write to express our concern with the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) delay in obligating appropriated funds for the Capital Investment Grant (CIG) Program and urge you to immediately begin entering into new Full Funding and Small Starts Grant Agreements for projects that have met all requirements. Should these delays continue, we will push for more strict obligating requirements in any Consolidated Fiscal Year 2019 Appropriations bill. Year after year, Congress has reaffirmed its commitment to transit capital projects – most recently in March 2018 when Congress passed and the President agreed to the highest-ever CIG funding level and directed the Secretary of Transportation to administer the program “in accordance with the procedural and substantive requirements of section 5309 of [Title 49, U.S.C.].” Yet nearly six months later, the FTA has stalled projects past their anticipated receipt of full funding grant agreements which has contributed to the project delays, cost overruns, and red tape so frequently excoriated by this administration. Throughout its existence, the CIG program has generated regional economic benefits, attracted businesses to project corridors, connected workers to their employers, and relieved freight congestion chokepoints. The benefits of a project also extend well beyond the project corridor. Across the country, local taxpayers have already stepped up to support transit projects and are relying on the federal government to be a strong partner, rather than inject uncertainty. We urge you fulfill your promises and immediately begin entering into new Full Funding and Small Start Grant Agreements. Sincerely, ###
07.12.2018	Washington, DC – Today, during a House Ways & Means Committee markup, Republicans passed legislation that will impact the quality and affordability of health care for millions of women and families in Oregon. H.R. 6311 denies federal subsidies for health care to all residents living in states (Oregon, California, Washington, New York) that allow plans to cover comprehensive women’s health services, including abortion. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) joined Democratic colleagues in offering an amendment that would strike these restrictions from the legislation. The amendment failed on a party line vote. If H.R. 6311 becomes law, its impacts will be felt deeply in states like Oregon that require abortions to be covered by all insurance plans. In Oregon alone, over 100,000 individuals and families stand to lose the assistance they currently receive to make their health insurance more affordable. “This is another callous attempt to insert Congress into the most personal of conversations between a woman and her physician,” said Blumenauer. “Ways and Means Republicans today made it clear that they would rather risk the health and coverage of hundreds of thousands of families in order to achieve a political ‘victory.’ It’s shameful.” H.R. 6311 is expected to be considered on the House floor in the coming weeks. ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today joined U.S. Representatives Mark Pocan (WI-02), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) and Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) in introducing the Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act. The legislation would convene a commission of experts to provide a roadmap for Congress to implement a humane immigration enforcement system that upholds the dignity of all individuals, which includes terminating the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE) within one year of enactment. “We should be prioritizing the protection of families and our borders in a humane and thoughtful way. People should be treated with compassion and respect. ICE is simply not doing that,” said Blumenauer. “Trump and his administration have made the agency so toxic that it’s time to abolish ICE, and start over.” “President Trump’s blanket directive to round up and target all undocumented immigrants underscores the unchecked power which ICE has used to terrorize our communities. From conducting raids at garden centers and meatpacking plants, to targeting families outside churches and schools, the President is using ICE as a mass-deportation force to rip apart the moral fabric of our nation,” said Pocan. “Sadly, President Trump has so misused ICE that the agency can no longer accomplish its goals effectively. As a result, the best path forward is this legislation, which would end ICE and transfer its critical functions to other executive agencies.” “There was enforcement of our immigration laws before ICE was created and there will be after ICE, as an agency, is gone. As it stands, ICE is out of control – contracting much of its work out to private, for-profit contractors that cost the taxpayers far more than is necessary, failing to even identify and address deficiencies in their system and allowing deaths due to substandard in their custody, as numerous Inspector General reports have found. The agency is simply unable to do the work that is most necessary for national security, instead taking away necessary resources from functions that are critical to protect our national security, including investigating terrorism, drug smuggling, and trade fraud,” said Jayapal. “We should eliminate the agency as it stands and start from scratch to restructure its functions. This legislation would establish a commission to look at transitioning essential ICE functions to a new agency that would have accountability, transparency and oversight built in from its inception. It’s time to change the system to one that is accountable, efficient, humane and transparent. There will still be enforcement of immigration laws, but it must be without cruelty and abuse.” “We are pushing to bring an end to ICE as the agency has strayed too far from its original mission, intent and purpose,” said Espaillat. “In the era of President Trump, ICE has been granted an unlimited range to terrorize Latino communities around the country, regardless of citizenship or status. The agency has a very broad jurisdiction and was created to combat terrorism, human trafficking, and drugs. Yet, ICE now spends the majority of its time detaining and separating mothers and fathers seeking safety for themselves and their children - instead of focusing on hardened criminals, gangs and terrorists set out to hurt our country and negatively impact our quality of life. We are witnessing a human rights crisis, and our bill would bring forward a new model and dismantle ICE once and for all.” Congress created ICE in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks with the primary mission of preventing “acts of terrorism by targeting the people, money, and materials that support terrorist and criminal activities.” However, since then, ICE has become synonymous with immigration raids, home invasions, family separation, abusive detention practices, and chronic noncompliance with the law. Recently, ICE agents themselves recognized the irreparable damage being done by President Trump’s actions when nineteen ICE agents wrote to Kirstjen Nielsen, Secretary of Homeland Security, stating that investigations, “have been perceived as targeting undocumented aliens, instead of the transnational criminal organizations that facilitate cross border crimes impacting our communities and national security.” The authors of the letter agree that the agency is now failing to perform its core mission and that the best path forward would be to end it and start fresh. Ending ICE and developing a more humane immigration system that complies with constitutional protections, domestic law, and binding international treaties, while treating every person with respect and dignity is a strong step forward. The Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act would: Convene a commission of experts to provide a roadmap for Congress to implement a humane immigration enforcement system that upholds the dignity of all individuals. This will include transferring issues like organized crime, drug smuggling, and human trafficking to other government agencies that are well-equipped to handle them and have proven track records of transparency, accountability and compliance with the law; Prior to the termination of the agency, direct Congress to act on the recommendations authored by the commission, including the transfer of necessary functions to relevant agencies and the implementation of the new immigration enforcement regime; and Terminate the agency within one year of enactment. The legislation is cosponsored by U.S. Representatives Mark Pocan (WI-02), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), Jim McGovern (MA-02), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Adam Smith (WA-09), and Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07). The bill text of the Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act is available here. A fact sheet on the Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act is available here. A section-by-section breakdown on the Establishing a Humane Immigration Enforcement System Act is available here. ###
06.28.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a leading voice in Congress for reforming our nation’s agriculture policy, released the following statement: “The Senate bill may not be as egregious as the House GOP’s, but that doesn’t mean it’s good. It’s more of the same—policymaking at the behest of large agribusinesses and their lobbyists. It’s upsetting that Congress doesn’t have the courage to enact reforms so desperately needed.” In November, Blumenauer introduced a comprehensive alternative Farm Bill. H.R. 4425, the Food and Farm Act, that advances Farm Bill reforms based on four principles: (1) focusing resources on those who need it most; (2) fostering innovation; (3) encouraging investments in people and the planet; and (4) ensuring access to healthy foods. Blumenauer’s legislation is the result of his “Sing Your Own Farm Bill” project, a multi-year effort to engage a wide variety of stakeholders in creating a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill. As part of this project, Blumenauer has met with agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutrition advocates, conservation interests, winemakers, nurseries, wheat growers, small and mid-sized farmers and ranchers, processors, agricultural policy advocates, and more. Together, they have brainstormed how federal agricultural policies could be shaped to better meet everyone’s needs—not just a select few. The Food and Farm Act includes the policy priorities that have grown out of this feedback. Click here to learn more about Blumenauer’s Food and Farm Act. Click here to read Blumenauer’s report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” ###
06.28.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) announced that he will join Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02) to introduce legislation that would abolish Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). The legislation, which will be introduced in the coming weeks, would dismantle ICE and establish a commission to provide recommendations to Congress on how to restore a more humane and service-oriented system that both protects Americans and respects immigrants. “We should be prioritizing the protection of families and our borders in a humane and thoughtful way. People should be treated with compassion and respect. ICE is simply not doing that,” said Blumenauer. “Trump and his administration have made the agency so toxic that it’s time to abolish ICE, and start over.” In 2002, Blumenauer voted against the formation of ICE and the Department of Homeland Security. He was one of the first members of Congress to call for ICE to be abolished, making his announcement on Sunday, June 24. ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a leading voice in Congress for reforming our nation’s agriculture policy, released the following statement: “It is another shameful day in the House. With passage of this bill, Republicans have turned their backs on family farmers and ranchers, vulnerable communities, the health of all Americans, and the environment. “This fight isn't over. Now we have to work even harder to make sure this disastrous bill doesn't become law.” In November, Blumenauer introduced a comprehensive alternative Farm Bill. H.R. 4425, the Food and Farm Act, that advances Farm Bill reforms based on four principles: (1) focusing resources on those who need it most; (2) fostering innovation; (3) encouraging investments in people and the planet; and (4) ensuring access to healthy foods. Blumenauer’s legislation is the result of his “Sing Your Own Farm Bill” project, a multi-year effort to engage a wide variety of stakeholders in creating a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill. As part of this project, Blumenauer has met with agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutrition advocates, conservation interests, winemakers, nurseries, wheat growers, small and mid-sized farmers and ranchers, processors, agricultural policy advocates, and more. Together, they have brainstormed how federal agricultural policies could be shaped to better meet everyone’s needs—not just a select few. The Food and Farm Act includes the policy priorities that have grown out of this feedback. Click here to learn more about Blumenauer’s Food and Farm Act. Click here to read Blumenauer’s report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “Today’s immigration votes are shallow and mean. They get us no further along in our fight against Trump’s unjust and unnecessary assault on vulnerable families and merely reflect how Republicans are holding American values hostage to their own politics. “The current immigration crisis is the one Donald Trump created. It is past time that Republicans of conscience join Democrats to pass immigration reform and call Trump’s bluff.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a leading voice in Congress for reforming our nation’s agriculture policy, released the following statement on the decision of House Republican leadership to bring their disastrous Farm Bill to the House floor for another vote later this afternoon: “This legislation continues Republican corporate cronyism—helping mega corporations at the expense of family farms, vulnerable families, our health, and the environment. This bill is a disaster and deserves to fail again.” In November, Blumenauer introduced a comprehensive alternative Farm Bill. H.R. 4425, the Food and Farm Act, that advances Farm Bill reforms based on four principles: (1) focusing resources on those who need it most; (2) fostering innovation; (3) encouraging investments in people and the planet; and (4) ensuring access to healthy foods. Blumenauer’s legislation is the result of his “Sing Your Own Farm Bill” project, a multi-year effort to engage a wide variety of stakeholders in creating a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill. As part of this project, Blumenauer has met with agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutrition advocates, conservation interests, winemakers, nurseries, wheat growers, small and mid-sized farmers and ranchers, processors, agricultural policy advocates, and more. Together, they have brainstormed how federal agricultural policies could be shaped to better meet everyone’s needs—not just a select few. The Food and Farm Act includes the policy priorities that have grown out of this feedback. Click here to learn more about Blumenauer’s Food and Farm Act. Click here to read Blumenauer’s report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “This is far from over. Children and families are still being held hostage. Those fleeing persecution are still being treated like criminals. Victims of domestic violence are still being turned away. “Trump needs to end his cruel and inhumane ‘zero tolerance’ policy.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC –Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Overdose Prevention and Patient Safety Act, legislation introduced by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) that helps to address the opioid crisis by ensuring that medical providers have access to the full medical history of patients suffering from substance use disorders. “As the opioid crisis grips the nation, it makes no sense that doctors are currently treating patients without the ability to see or understand their full medical history,” said Blumenauer. “Keeping substance use treatment records separate from the medical record only perpetuates stigma towards treatment and recovery and leads to uncoordinated care and poor outcomes for patients.” Currently, because of an antiquated law from 1972, substance use treatment records are kept expressly separate from a patient’s medical record. This life-threatening barrier prevents medical providers who treat patients in recovery for substance use disorders from knowing their full medical history, which can lead to poor, and in some cases, tragic patient outcomes. Blumenauer’s bipartisan legislation, cosponsored by Congressman Markwayne Mullin (OK-2), aligns the outdated and restrictive law, known as 42 CFR Part 2 (or “Part 2”), with the patient privacy protections currently in place under HIPAA, ensuring substance use records are treated as all other medical records. The legislation also incorporates language to guard against unauthorized invasions of patient privacy, discriminatory activities, and authorizes penalties and breach notification requirements for these transgressions not currently available under Part 2. Blumenauer continued, “Ultimately, we need universal health care, including coverage for substance use treatment and mental health services. We need alternative pain management treatments for patients with chronic pain, and we must continue to educate health care providers on the dangers of over-prescribing. Today’s passage is a small step forward, but it’s a sign of progress. I hope we can build on this momentum.” ###
06.12.2018	PORTLAND, OR – Oregon’s U.S. Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden, with House members Reps. Suzanne Bonamici, Earl Blumenauer, Peter DeFazio and Kurt Schrader, on Monday demanded that the acting director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) immediately allow individuals being held at a federal prison in Sheridan, Ore., under the Trump administration’s “zero-tolerance policy” to access legal services through free phone calls. “We are deeply concerned by reports that [Bureau of Prisons] and ICE are hindering detainees’ access to legal counsel, consular staff, and family communication in this facility. We request that you immediately allow detainees to access legal service providers through free telephone calls,” the delegation wrote. “This policy should already be in place at all ICE-contracted facilities, based on your published guidance for detainee communication rights.” At least 123 immigrant civil detainees are being held at the Sheridan Federal Corrections Institution under an inter-agency agreement between ICE and the Bureau of Prisons. The detainees are among the more than 1,600 people that ICE is holding in federal prisons across the United States as it enforces President Trump’s “zero-tolerance policy” on immigration. Under the policy, the Trump Administration is dividing families who arrive together and is tearing children away from their parents, detaining them in separate facilities even if their parents are seeking asylum from violence in their home countries. According to the ICE Performance Based Detention Standards, detainees are supposed to be allowed the fundamental right to legal counsel: “each facility shall permit detainees to make direct or free calls to … legal representatives, to obtain legal representation, or for consultation when subject to expedited removal.” Attorneys and immigrant legal defense groups have told Oregon delegation members that they are ready to assist these individuals, including working to establish a hotline to easily facilitate attorney-client communication. The full letter is found here and below. June 11, 2018 Thomas Homan Acting Director U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 500 12th Street SW, Mail Stop 5003 Washington, DC 20536-5003 Dear Director Homan, It is our understanding that at least 123 immigrant civil detainees are being held at the federal detention center portion of the Sheridan Federal Corrections Institution in Sheridan, Oregon under an inter-agency agreement between Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Bureau of Prisons (BOP). We are deeply concerned by reports that BOP and ICE are hindering detainees’ access to legal counsel, consular staff, and family communication in this facility. We request that you immediately allow detainees to access legal service providers through free telephone calls. This policy should already be in place at all ICE-contracted facilities, based on your published guidance for detainee communication rights. According to the ICE Performance Based Detention Standards, the rules for legal access generally provide that “each facility shall permit detainees to make direct or free calls to…legal representatives, to obtain legal representation, or for consultation when subject to expedited removal.” Our offices are aware of multiple attorneys and immigrant legal defense groups who have committed to assist these individuals and are working to establish a hotline to facilitate attorney-client communication. Again, we request you provide immediate guidance to Sheridan Federal Corrections Institution and BOP explicitly granting all detainees prompt access to legal service providers though free telephone calls. Thank you for giving this request your immediate attention. ###
06.06.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, today condemned House Republican leadership for blocking his amendment to make it easier for qualified veterans to access state-legal medical marijuana. The vote by the House Rules Committee—led by Chairman Pete Sessions—prevents Blumenauer from offering the amendment when the House considers the FY 2019 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill later this week. Last year, the amendment was blocked by Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions. In 2016, the amendment passed on the House floor by 233-189, but was ultimately stripped out of the final legislation that became law. Blumenauer released the following statement: “For the second year, Pete Sessions has shown that he does not care about the health and well-being of our veterans—who are speaking out across the country. All they want is fair and equal treatment, and the ability to consult with their own physician on all treatment options. By blocking this vote, Chairman Sessions has turned his back on our wounded warriors, commonsense, and the will of the American people. He should be ashamed.” The bipartisan amendment was co-sponsored by Reps. Justin Amash (R-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Matthew Gaetz (R-FL), Dina Titus (D-NV), Walter Jones (R-NC), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Tom McClintock (R-CA), Lou Correa (D-CA), Tom Reed (R-NY), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Donald Young (R-AK), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Mark Sanford (R-SC). The Rules Committee also blocked an amendment offered by Blumenauer that would ensure veterans have continued access to health benefits offered by the VA when they use marijuana in compliance with state law. Background on the Veterans Equal Access Amendment: Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms allowing a qualified veteran to participate in a state medical marijuana program. This forces veterans out of the VA system to seek a simple recommendation for treatment for eligible conditions under state laws. Blumenauer’s Veterans Equal Access amendment ensures that no funds made available to the VA can be used to implement this prohibition, which would, in effect, strike it down. ###
05.25.2018	Portland, Ore. – Rep. Earl Blumenauer, Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, and Reps. Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, and Suzanne Bonamici today strongly urged Amtrak Police to utilize all available resources to promptly investigate the case of Aaron Salazar, a Portland State University student who was brutally injured on an Amtrak train. In a letter to Richard Anderson, President and CEO of Amtrak, the Oregon lawmakers requested that Amtrak quickly provide a full report on the investigation of the case to the delegation and to Salazar’s family. The full text of the letter is below. An electronic copy of the letter can be found here. May 25, 2018 Richard Anderson President and CEO, Amtrak 1 Massachusetts Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20001 Dear Mr. Anderson, We write today in great dismay at the news that Aaron Salazar, a Portland State University student, is fighting for his life in a coma, with serious injuries to his brain stem and a broken pelvis. Aaron is a person of color who also identifies as gay, and his injuries suggest that this incident may have been a hate crime against him during an Amtrak layover in Truckee, California. We understand that the Amtrak Police Department, in coordination with the Truckee Police Department, is conducting an investigation and that the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been contacted. We also urge Amtrak to utilize all available resources to promptly investigate this case. We have seen an increase in hate crimes across the country. The timing of this incident happens just one year after a white supremacist began harassing two women of color on Portland transit. Of the three people who stepped in to intervene, two were killed and one was seriously injured. There are too many stories like these and too many lives lost or injured due to hate crimes in our communities. We expect a full report on the investigation of this crime, to our federal delegation and to Aaron’s family. Sincerely, ###
05.22.2018	Today, on the heels of EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s anti-democratic step barring news organizations from covering an EPA event, U.S. Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR03) and his co-chairs of the House Democratic Environmental Message Team, Kathy Castor (FL14), Jared Huffman (CA2), and Donald McEachin (VA4), released ‘Trump’s Toxic Team,’ detailing the extent of the corruption, self-dealing and abuse of taxpayer money at the EPA, Department of Interior, and Department of Energy and the impact it is having on the health and safety of the American people. Trump’s Toxic Team Polluting the water we drink and the air we breathe The Trump Administration is perpetuating an unprecedented culture of corruption, cronyism and abuse of taxpayer money . Nowhere is that more visible – or more damaging – than in the Trump Toxic Team’s sell-out of our environment to their polluter donors. The Trump Toxic Team is beholden to their special interest friends’ dirty energy agenda, and are launching an all-out assault on the clean air our children breathe and the clean water they drink. A staggering number of top Trump officials are racing to weaken critical environmental protections, sell off our sacred, protected lands and give big corporations the green light to pollute our communities and threaten the health and well-being of our families. An overwhelming majority of Americans believe in protecting the natural heritage that has made America the greatest country in the world. Our government should be working to protect and preserve our environment for future generations, and investing in the good-paying, clean energy jobs of the future. Yet, Republicans in Congress refuse to hold Trump’s Toxic Team accountable. House Democrats will continue to demand answers from this Administration and pursue policies that protect our environment and natural resources for future generations. Below is a Who’s Who of Trump’s Toxic Team and the impact of their corruption on the health of our nation. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)Corruption, Cronyism and Abuse of Taxpayer Money Scott Pruitt, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator: Raised millions of dollars as Attorney General of Oklahoma from oil, gas and coal companies for his campaign and chaired a dark money group which organized state challenges to environmental regulations that could hurt polluters. Sued the EPA 14 times as Oklahoma AG to block public health protections, in exchange for campaign contributions from his polluter co-litigants. Facing more than 12 federal investigations into Pruitt’s corruption, influence peddling, and waste of millions in taxpayer money on his lavish lifestyle, including a trip to Disneyworld and the Rose Bowl. Cost taxpayers millions for a secret, private phone booth for his office and 24/7 security. Skirted EPA’s ethics and conflicts of interest rules as well as the White House’s Ethics Pledge to bring Karen Beck, a former chemical industry lobbyist, on board to regulate chemical safety. Bill Wehrum, EPA Assistant Administrator, Office of Air and Radiation: Dedicated his career to increasing toxic air pollution and eroding environmental laws, while suing EPA 31 times on behalf of his corporate polluter clients. Rejected by the Senate in 2006 for confirmation to the position he now holds for being a “doctrinal hit man” and a hired gun for polluters. Attempting to resurrect the most dangerous and illegal dirty air policies that he championed during the George W. Bush Administration, violating the Clean Air Act more often and allowing more illegal air pollution than any previous EPA administration. John Konkus, EPA Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Public Affairs: Received an ethics waiver from Pruitt to work for undisclosed private clients while serving at the Agency despite being a former political consultant for Koch Brothers entities. Screens research and education grants at EPA for “political suitability” including any mention of climate change, which he calls “the double c-word,” and blocks EPA scientists from attending conferences and presenting research on climate change’s impact. Jeff Sands, Former EPA Senior Agricultural Advisor: Received a waiver from ethics rules allowing him to work on the issue such as pesticide regulations that he once lobbied EPA on behalf of his former employer. In February 2018, EPA drastically reduced a fine against his former employer, Syngenta, for violating pesticide rules from $4.9 million to $150,000 without explanation or documentation. Sands left EPA the following month. Patrick Traylor, EPA Deputy Assistant Administrator, Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance: Represented clients like chemical terminals operators, coal-fired power plant owners and operators, mining firms and powerful trade associations, many of whom were under investigation for serious Clean Air Act violations. Why It Matters to You: Established by President Nixon out of a growing concern about environmental pollution, the EPA has protected the health and well-being of our communities and our environment for nearly 50 years. Rather than further this vital mandate, Administrator Pruitt and his Toxic Team have given a free pass to corporate polluters to spew tons of cancerous toxins into our air and water with zero consequence. Their rejection of scientific facts in the face of the growing climate crisis, blatant influence peddling and giveaways to the world’s worst polluters has cost the American people millions and risks the lives and future of our nation’s children. Environmental enforcement at EPA has dropped 44 percent in the face of increased reports of children born with lead in their system due to air and water pollution. EPA officials have given dirty coal- and oil-burning power plants a 15 year amnesty by blocking improved rules to limit mercury and other air toxics emissions. EPA projected those improved Obama era standards would avoid up to 11,000 premature deaths and 130,000 asthma attacks every year, which would have a net health benefits to Americans worth over $80 billion annually. Consumers stand to pay more at the pump because of EPA’s decision to delay protections from methane pollution and reduce fuel efficiency standards. Pruitt has made it easier to hide the health risks caused by a chemical that has been linked to kidney cancer, birth defects, immune system disorders and other serious health problems. EPA reversed a ban of the use of a pesticide on food that’s blamed for developmental disabilities in children, and indefinitely delayed banning other chemicals that have caused dozens of deaths or developmental and reproductive harms. Department of the Interior (DOI)Corruption, Cronyism and Abuse of Taxpayer Money Ryan Zinke, Secretary of the Interior: Repeatedly demonstrated a lack of respect for the American taxpayer, and has faced an unprecedented number of federal investigations for misuse of taxpayer funds and lavish, politically-motivated travel. Threatened to withhold vital funding from the people of Alaska in retribution for Senator Murkowski’s vote to save their health care. A federal investigation by the U.S. Government Accountability Office for this unethical behavior could not proceed because Zinke refused to cooperate. Recklessly put forward an unprecedented reorganization of the Department of the Interior to weaken the agency and make it easier for dirty drilling and mining companies to evade life-saving protections for clean air, clean water, endangered species and a stable climate. Fought to open 67 million acres of formally protected public lands in 11 states to drilling and mining, ignoring overwhelming opposition by the majority of residents living in those states. Proposed weakening the Well Control Rule, created to prevent future environmentally and economically disastrous oil spills like Deepwater Horizon – which resulted in the death of 11 workers, devastated the Gulf fishing industry and local economy, and cost nearly $62 billion. Proposed drastically raising fees for our National Parks by as much as 180% to pay for draconian budget cuts, making it harder for hard-working Americans to access these iconic national treasures. David Bernhardt, Deputy Secretary of the Interior: Spent a lifetime representing the interests of big corporate polluters, including more than a dozen companies that have regular business before the Interior Department. He has come under fire for meddling with scientific findings to advance his anti-environmental agenda. Under his leadership, clients of his former lobbying firm have benefitted greatly. One such company, Cadiz, Inc., was able to move forward on a contentious pipeline project in California, potentially triggering irreparable damage to the Mojave Desert. Daniel Jorjani, Principal Deputy Solicitor, Department of the Interior: Held numerous meetings with wealthy oil and gas lobbyists, after which he eliminated accountability for oil and gas companies whose operations kill migratory birds, overturning a longstanding bipartisan measure. Issued a legal decision that undermined protections for Minnesota’s wilderness to directly benefit a company with ties to Jared and Ivanka Trump. Why It Matters to You: Secretary Zinke and his cadre of corrupt cronies have steamrolled over their solemn duty to protect America’s national heritage, turning the Department of Interior into a tool to further enrich wealthy special interests and big corporate donors. The American people deserve an Interior Department committed to preserving our parks, coastlines, forests and waterways, but this Toxic Team is selling off our natural resources and public lands to the highest bidder, jeopardizing the strength of local economies and undermining the stability of hard-working families. Department of EnergyCorruption, Cronyism and Abuse of Taxpayer Money Rick Perry, Secretary of Energy: Received more than $11 million in campaign contributions from big oil, gas and coal mining companies, like the CEO of Murray Energy. Complicit with his son’s creation of an energy investment fund that refuses to disclose either its donors or investments, making possible conflicts of interest nearly impossible to spot. Condoned his presidential campaign manager, Jeff Miller, becoming a lobbyist for Energy Transfer Partners, the company pushing the Dakota Access pipeline, and AECOM, who is lobbying for Energy Department contracts at nuclear sites. Miller’s firm earned more than $2 million in lobbying income, the biggest chunk from the oil and gas industry. Why It Matters to You: Instead of working on behalf of the American people to achieve energy independence and promote renewal energy sources that will be the foundation of the 21st Century economy, Perry and his Toxic Team are selling off our health and safety to the highest bidder. Secretary Perry has proposed making American consumers pay more for electricity by propping up uncompetitive dirty energy companies. While these policies make Perry popular with donors, they make America less competitive globally as other countries make advancements to transform their energy infrastructure, resulting in a devastating impact on our nation’s economic growth moving forward. ###
05.22.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), co-chair of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, released the following statement on the Trump administration’s decision to roll back protections for animals in national preserves in Alaska: “The Trump administration’s decision to roll back these sensible animal protections is outrageous. Without this ban, the hunting of bear cubs and wolf pups in their dens and the shooting of bears from airplanes will return. Without wildlife, our national preserves are just scenery. These practices have no place on our public lands and in our society.” ###
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the Pro-Choice Caucus, today released the following statement on reports that the Trump Administration will propose a rule to cut Title X family-planning funds to services and providers that perform or support abortion services or refer to abortion as a method of family planning: “For nearly 50 years, the Title X family planning program has served as a lifeline to patients, offering critical birth control and preventive services—including breast and cervical cancer detection and STD testing and treatment in communities across Oregon. This decision by the Trump Administration is yet another advancement of an anti-women, anti-healthcare, and anti-reproductive rights agenda. “EVERYONE, regardless of gender, income, or zip code deserves access to high-quality, unbiased health care information and services. I strongly oppose any attempts to limit choice, access to abortion, and other reproductive health services. We will fight back to protect Title X funding for ALL providers and patients.” ###
05.18.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a leading voice in Congress for reforming our nation’s agriculture policy, released the following statement: “Much like the tax scam bill, attacks on Medicaid, or efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the House GOP Farm Bill empowers special corporate interests at the expense of those most in need, the health of American farms and families, and our planet. "Its failure today is a small victory in our fight for a just, sustainable, and equitable food system. But this is far from over. Republican leadership will redouble their efforts to pass their bill. Now is the time to redouble our efforts for a Farm Bill that works for everyone.” In November, Blumenauer introduced a comprehensive alternative Farm Bill. H.R. 4425, the Food and Farm Act, that advances Farm Bill reforms based on four principles: (1) focusing resources on those who need it most; (2) fostering innovation; (3) encouraging investments in people and the planet; and (4) ensuring access to healthy foods. Blumenauer’s legislation is the result of his “Sing Your Own Farm Bill” project, a multi-year effort to engage a wide variety of stakeholders in creating a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill. As part of this project, Blumenauer has met with agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutrition advocates, conservation interests, winemakers, nurseries, wheat growers, small and mid-sized farmers and ranchers, processors, agricultural policy advocates, and others. Together, they have brainstormed how federal agricultural policies could be shaped to better meet everyone’s needs—not just a select few. The Food and Farm Act includes the policy priorities that have grown out of this feedback. Click here to learn more about Blumenauer’s Food and Farm Act. Click here to read Blumenauer’s report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” ###
05.18.2018	Washington, DC – Today, in recognition of Bike to Work Day, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Joe Crowley (NY-14), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released a new proposal to modify and expand the bicycle commuter tax benefit to encourage more employees to bike to work. The proposal increases the monthly limitation currently set on bicycle commuting expenses and modifies the bicycle commuter tax benefit to allow employees to take full advantage of the bicycle benefit. It also expands the bicycle commuter tax benefit to include bikeshare memberships as a qualifying expense. "Cycling is the most efficient form of urban transportation ever devised," said Rep. Blumenauer. "With more Americans cycling to work than ever before, it’s past time that the federal government provide the flexibility and incentives needed to encourage bike commuting and offer more transportation choices." “Giving employees the ability to easily and affordably bike to work will benefit our economy, our environment, and our communities,” said Chairman Crowley. “On Bike Work Day, I’m proud to team up with Congressman Blumenauer to help more Americans get on the road – on a bike!” “This week, we certified 114 new and renewing bicycle friendly businesses, including Target HQ, 3M and our first car dealership, Mitchell Auto Group from Simsbury CT,” said Bill Nesper, Executive Director of the League of American Bicyclists. “These employers have found that increasing commuter options for their employees is a smart choice for business. We thank Representatives Blumenauer and Crowley for leading on this issue. We believe that including a bicycle commuter benefit will help more businesses and communities offer healthy, safe commuter options.” “During the last decade, bicycle commuting has grown by more than 50 percent nationwide, leading to reduced traffic congestion and the promotion of good health,” said Jenn Dice, Vice President, Business Network and Government Relations, PeopleForBikes. “The reinstated bicycle commuter benefit will encourage additional Americans to commute by bike, and further reduce traffic congestion throughout the country. We thank Rep. Blumenauer and Rep. Crowley for their leadership on this issue.” “Bike benefits are an important tool that can be used to provide employees with multimodal commuting options,” said the Coalition for Smarter Transportation. “Bringing back tax benefits for bicycle users will help all users of the transportation system by reducing congestion.” The Bicycle Commuter Act of 2018 will be formally introduced later this year. Congressmen Blumenauer and Crowley released the proposal today to provide the public and key stakeholders an opportunity to comment on the draft amidst a rapidly-changing transportation system before the draft becomes formal legislation. Read more about the proposal here. ###
05.14.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the outbreak of violence in Gaza: “I am deeply troubled by the violence and tragic loss of life on the Gaza border. This is devastating for supporters of a peaceful, two-state solution to this decades-long conflict, as well as for supporters of Israel. “Israel has the right to defend itself, but Palestinians have the right to peacefully demonstrate. Where Israel’s use of deadly force against unarmed protestors is absolutely unjustifiable, Palestinian demonstrators have an obligation to renounce terror and violence. “One thing is clear – Trump’s decision to move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem in this manner and at this time has exacerbated tensions rather than reduced them, fueled violence, empowered extremists on both sides of the conflict, and undermined prospects for peace. He should be ashamed.” ###
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement on reports that Donald Trump will announce that he will withdraw the United States from the Iran nuclear agreement: “Trump is putting Iran squarely back on track toward a nuclear bomb. This isn't just about our relationship with Iran – it diminishes U.S. leadership on the world stage and undercuts our ability to negotiate an agreement with North Korea. Trump is creating an international crisis. “Trump attempted to argue that the agreement needs ‘fixing,’ but no one took the bait, not Congress and not our allies. The fact of the matter is that opponents of the Iran agreement didn’t have a better answer in 2015 when it was crafted, and they don’t have a better answer today—especially because the agreement is working. “Trump has scoffed at diplomacy as a foreign policy tool, undermined our national security interests, further isolated the United States, and eliminated a key off-ramp to war.” ###
04.26.2018	“We are deeply concerned by the violence and the tragic loss of life along the border of Gaza. As strong supporters of Israel and advocates for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we respect Israel’s right to defend itself. However, short of a threat to human life, we call on the Israeli Defense Forces to immediately stop using deadly force against unarmed protestors. Likewise, we respect the Palestinians who are advocating for change through peaceful means. However, we call on the Palestinian demonstrators to renounce the violence and inflammatory rhetoric expressed by Hamas. With demonstrations expected to last into May, we urge both Israelis and Palestinians to refrain from any actions that would further escalate tensions and cause further bloodshed. Both the Israelis and Palestinians have a right to a just, safe, and secure future, which can only be achieved through diplomacy—not military action.” ###
04.18.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a leading voice in Congress for reforming our nation’s agriculture policy, released the following statement ahead of the Agriculture Committee markup of the House Republican Farm Bill: “Our nation’s food policy is woefully out of step with what Americans need and want. For too long, we’ve paid too much to the wrong people to grow the wrong foods in the wrong places. The House GOP Farm Bill doubles down on this failed philosophy, helping those who need it the least at the expense of those who need help the most. “We can and should do better. We need food and farm policies that increase — not reduce— access to healthy foods; support ALL farmers — not just the wealthy few; invest in conservation efforts—not undercut them; and much more. The House GOP Farm Bill utterly fails to enact the reforms we desperately need, and will instead make things worse for families, farmers, and the environment.” In November, Blumenauer introduced a comprehensive alternative Farm Bill. H.R. 4425, the Food and Farm Act, that advances Farm Bill reforms based on four principles: (1) focusing resources on those who need it most; (2) fostering innovation; (3) encouraging investments in people and the planet; and (4) ensuring access to healthy foods. Blumenauer’s legislation is the result of his “Sing Your Own Farm Bill” project, a multi-year effort to engage a wide variety of stakeholders in creating a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill. As part of this project, Blumenauer has met with agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutrition advocates, conservation interests, winemakers, nurseries, wheat growers, small and mid-sized farmers and ranchers, processors, agricultural policy advocates, and more. Together, they have brainstormed how federal agricultural policies could be shaped to better meet everyone’s needs—not just a select few. The Food and Farm Act includes the policy priorities that have grown out of this feedback. Click here to learn more about Blumenauer’s Food and Farm Act. Click here to read Blumenauer’s report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” ###
04.12.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a leading voice in Congress for Farm Bill reforms, released the following statement on the draft 2018 Farm Bill reauthorization legislation released by House Agriculture Committee Republicans: “To no one’s surprise, House Agriculture Committee Republicans have failed to reform the Farm Bill to prioritize the needs of America for a FOOD and farm policy, rather than just a select few. This draft gives more to industrial Ag to shortchange family farmers and slash assistance for those who need it most. “It doesn’t have to be this way. As the legislative process moves along, our resources must be refocused to better helping small- and medium-sized farmers, growing good food, expanding access to nutrition, and protecting the environment.” In November, Blumenauer introduced a comprehensive alternative Farm Bill. H.R. 4425, the Food and Farm Act, advances Farm Bill reforms based on four principles: (1) focusing resources on those who need it most; (2) fostering innovation; (3) encouraging investments in people and the planet; and (4) ensuring access to healthy foods. Blumenauer’s legislation is the result of his “Sing Your Own Farm Bill” project, a multi-year effort to engage a wide variety of stakeholders in creating a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill. As part of this project, Blumenauer has met with agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutrition advocates, conservation interests, winemakers, nurseries, wheat growers, small and mid-sized farmers and ranchers, processors, agricultural policy advocates, and more. Together, they have brainstormed how federal agricultural policies could be shaped to better meet everyone’s needs—not just a select few. The Food and Farm Act includes the policy priorities that have grown out of this feedback. Click here to learn more about Blumenauer’s Food and Farm Act. Click here to read Blumenauer’s report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” ###
04.04.2018	Portland, OR - Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Trump's plan to send National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border: "Trump's plans to deploy National Guard troops to our southern border is a complete misuse of our armed forces. Last year, the number of undocumented immigrants apprehended at the border was at its lowest level since 1971. This has absolutely nothing to do with our safety, and everything to do with fearmongering and Trump’s instability. "Recent history shows that troop deployments to the border have provided little in the way of slowing the trickle of illegal immigration compared to the costs involved with mobilizing National Guard units. The cost is substantial to the federal government, but even more so to the National Guard troops that have to put their lives on hold to fulfill this frivolous mission. It’s also disruptive to their families and their employers. "Our military is stretched to the breaking point. The men and women in the National Guard paid a heavy price for the disastrous war in Iraq. They had incredible responsibilities in Afghanistan, and have stepped up again and again in times of natural disaster. We cannot afford to be wasting our precious human resources on an objective that is so clearly political. The vast majority of these individuals are simply fleeing violence and persecution in search of a better life. They pose no threat to our national security. Mobilizing the National Guard against them is asinine and flat out wrong. "This is all about Trump’s ego and a foolish campaign promise. The National Guard should not have to pay the price, again." ###
03.26.2018	Washington, DC – Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Adam Smith (WA-09), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Mike Quigley (IL-05), and 39 additional Members of the U.S. House of Representatives today sent a letter to Donald Trump opposing the 2018 Nuclear Posture Review (NPR). The lawmakers expressed deep concern that, if implemented, the NPR would likely increase tensions with Russia and other major world powers and make the United States less secure, while imposing significant economic burdens and undermining decades of U.S. leadership to prevent the use and spread of nuclear weapons. “Thwarting diplomatic efforts, inciting fear, and spewing fiery rhetoric does nothing to help us address the threats posed by nuclear weapons. But that’s been Trump’s approach thus far,” said Blumenauer. “This plan is another step in the wrong direction, further undermining decades of American leadership and putting us at risk of starting a new arms race. These are weapons we don’t need, shouldn’t use, and can’t afford. Congress must intervene.” “President Trump’s Nuclear Posture Review takes the United States in a dangerous direction that will undermine our defense posture and further aggravate our national security budgeting difficulties,” said Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “We already have an extremely robust, highly credible nuclear deterrent that is capable of responding to any attack and defending our allies with decisive force. By advancing more new warfighting programs and adding new low-yield nuclear weapons on top of the existing, unrealistic $1.2 trillion nuclear weapons upgrade plan, this approach would siphon resources away from the capabilities we need to best counter our near-peer adversaries. It would lower the threshold for using nuclear weapons, feed a nuclear arms race, increase the risk of miscalculation that could precipitate a nuclear war, and could potentially undermine our most survivable nuclear forces.” “The Trump Administration’s Nuclear Posture Review ends decades of bipartisan consensus around nuclear arms reductions and reignites a global arms race,” said Lee. “Instead of bringing us closer to peace, it funnels billions to build new, unnecessary nuclear weapons. Congress must step in to protect the global progress towards disarmament before it’s too late. American families shouldn’t have to live under the threat of nuclear war.” “As tensions continue to rise in response to North Korea’s nuclear ambitions, this Administration’s Nuclear Posture Review sends the world the wrong message that the U.S. is doubling down on a failed nuclear weapons strategy that will do little to keep us safe,” said Quigley. “By diverting precious resources to fund billions in new warheads and missiles, we weaken our ability to respond to pressing national security concerns, such as soft-target terrorism, cyber-hacking, and climate change. We can, and must, maintain an effective nuclear deterrent without neglecting our numerous security needs or provoking our adversaries into a devastating nuclear conflict.” Click here to read the letter. ###
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, released the following statement on the extension of medical marijuana protections through September 30 in the fiscal year 2018 omnibus funding legislation that Congress is considering this week: “While I’m glad that our medical marijuana protections are included, there is nothing to celebrate since Congress only maintained the status quo. These protections have been law since 2014. This matter should be settled once and for all. Poll after poll shows that the majority of Americans, across every party, strongly favor the right to use medical marijuana. “Instead, Attorney General Jeff Sessions is doubling down on the failed War on Drugs and Republican leadership in Congress—led by Chairman Pete Sessions—is stonewalling. They’re ignoring the will of the American people by blocking protections for state adult-use laws and cannabis banking. They even refused our veterans access to lifesaving medicine. “Republican leadership is hopelessly out of touch, and they should be held accountable. I will not rest until Congress gets this right.” ###
03.07.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today led House Ways & Means Democrats in sending a letter to Chairman Kevin Brady, urging him to ensure that the Committee will assert its jurisdiction as Congress considers the Trump administration’s infrastructure proposal and to allow for a full and open debate of any legislation. The lawmakers wrote: “Historically, the Ways and Means Committee has played a critical role in enacting legislation impacting our nation’s infrastructure. However, it has been nearly three years since our Committee held a hearing on these matters as they relate to infrastructure, and last year, major legislation regarding overhauling our country’s aviation system bypassed its referral to Ways and Means. We urge you to not let that happen again as Congress considers the Trump administration’s infrastructure proposal.” In their letter, the lawmakers pressed Chairman Brady to commit to a series of hearings and a full legislative markup of any infrastructure proposals before the Congress. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
03.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Lee Zeldin (R-NY) released the following statement on the introduction of their legislation celebrating America’s wineries and vineyards and recognizing the importance of distinctive American winegrowing regions: “This year marks the 40th anniversary of the creation of American Viticulture Area designation, which allows vintners to more accurately describe the origin of their wines and help them build and enhance the reputation and value of the wines they produce. “With more than 10,000 wineries operating in all 50 states, American wines contribute to the economic and cultural life of our nation. Our wineries generate hundreds of billions of dollars for the U.S. economy in any given year and employ nearly 1 million Americans. “We look forward to continuing to work with our colleagues to promote awareness of, and appreciation for, distinctive American wineries and vineyards for years to come.” ###
02.14.2018	Washington, DC – Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Jim McGovern (MA-02) today introduced the Saving America’s Pollinators Act to protect the health of honey bees and other critical pollinators. The United States lost an estimated one-third of its honeybee colonies between 2016 and 2017, with similar losses in prior years. To end this dramatic trend, the legislation suspends the use of bee-toxic insecticides known as neonicotinoids, which have been linked to declining pollinator populations. It also requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to complete a thorough assessment and ensure that any uses of these insecticides do not cause unreasonable and adverse effects on pollinators. “The health of our food system depends on the health of our pollinators. The status quo is like flying blind – we shouldn’t be using these pesticides when we don’t know their full impact,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “The EPA has a responsibility to get to the bottom of this issue and protect pollinators.” “Pollinators are the backbone of America’s agriculture system. Acting now to protect them and stop their decline is essential to the sustainability of our nation’s food supply,” Rep. McGovern said. “Simply taking the word of the manufacturers that their products are safe is not an option. Consumers need strong oversight. That is why I am proud to join Congressman Blumenauer in demanding the EPA fully investigate the effect that certain harmful pesticides may have on the vitality of our pollinators.” Over the past decade, documented incidents of honey bee colony collapse disorder and other forms of excess bee mortality have reached a record high. In some cases, beekeepers have repeatedly lost 100 percent of their operations. Thousands of scientific studies have implicated neonicotinoids as key contributors to declining pollinator populations. U.S. agriculture heavily relies on honey bees and native bees, which jointly provide an estimated $18 to $27 billion in pollination service annually. One of every three bites of food we eat is from a crop pollinated by bees. The Saving America’s Pollinator Act protects the health of our pollinators and food system until the EPA determines the risks associated with neonicotinoids. ###
02.12.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, released the following statement: “It’s been over 1,000 days since Trump tweeted ‘The only one to fix the infrastructure of our country is me.’ Bridges are crumbling. Commuters are stuck in traffic. There’s lead in our water. This crisis demands a solution. But this effort falls far short. “Trump’s misguided ‘plan’ fails to renew the federal government’s partnership. Instead, it shifts the burden to cash-strapped state and local governments, while setting up a feeding frenzy that will only deepen political divisions and geographic inequality. “Any serious proposal would provide more than a laundry list of wishes and budgetary gimmicks, but this is not a serious plan. The American people are being sold a bill of goods. With our roads, bridges, and transit systems in disrepair, Trump’s proposal just doesn’t cut it.” “It doesn’t have to be this way. There is a broad coalition willing to do their part in Congress to improve our infrastructure. Let’s rebuild and renew America.” Blumenauer is a leading advocate for increased and sustainable federal investment in U.S. infrastructure, including increasing the variety of transportation choices available to Americans in every community and reducing the transportation’s sector’s impact on climate change. These investments are essential to making our communities safer, healthier, and more economically secure. ###
01.31.2018	Portland, Ore. – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), who boycotted tonight’s State of the Union address, released the following statement. “Another performance by the reality TV star president doesn’t matter,” said Blumenauer. “His destructive actions and divisive rhetoric over the last year, and their impacts on Americans—that’s what matters.” Blumenauer was the first member of Congress to announce that he would not attend tonight’s address. Instead he is in Oregon, where he hosted a “Citizens’ State of the Union” to hear directly from his constituents about their thoughts on the state of the union. Blumenauer sent Oregon DREAMer Aldo Solano, Advocacy Director for the Oregon Latino Health Coalition, to attend the State of the Union in his place. “I can think of no one better to be there in my place than Aldo Solano. While I’m in Oregon with my constituents, Aldo is speaking for me, Oregonians, and the hundreds of thousands of DREAMers whose lives are at stake. If you need any more proof of how flawed Trump’s policies are, you should listen to Aldo’s powerful message,” said Blumenauer. “Throughout the last couple of years, I’ve had the honor to work in community, with community, for community in the areas of education, youth empowerment, and health care access,” said Solano “Without DACA, none of this would have been possible. DACA has allowed me to serve my community in ways that bring about real, meaningful change. But I am not done. I want to do more. Let me do more! ###
01.22.2018	Washington, DC--Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: "My vote today is the same as my vote the prior time: No. The situation today is the same as it was then, except there is one-week fewer to actually get something done. "This legislation represents a fundamental failure on the part of Republicans to govern. This bill does next to nothing for Community Health Centers, the Children’s Health Insurance Program, our veterans, our pension systems—some of which are in a state of crisis, and the victims of natural disasters. Hundreds of thousands of people in Puerto Rico remain without power. And, most glaringly, this bill does nothing to improve the situation of two-thirds of a million Dreamers, who deserve certainty and protection but whose lives Trump’s reckless actions have turned upside down. "The situation continues to be outrageous, and it doesn't have to be this way. The priorities I'm fighting for are broadly supported by the American public. We should be able to address them directly and quickly, but I fear that we will be in the exact same spot in three weeks." ###
01.20.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “Republicans have complete control of our government—the White House, the Senate, and the House. This is their shutdown. “It was Donald Trump who decided to throw Dreamers in limbo. It was Congressional Republicans who refused to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program when it expired last fall. These are bipartisan issues. If Republican leadership had the courage to allow a vote on our bipartisan bills that would fix these issues, they would pass overwhelmingly. “Democrats don’t want a shutdown. Republicans should stop holding the American people hostage—and work with us.” ###
01.05.2018	Portland, Ore. – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “Rather than listening to yet another destructive and divisive speech by Trump, I will not attend this year’s annual address to Congress. “Instead, like I did during Trump’s Inauguration, I will be working here at home listening to Oregonians about what they think about the State of the Union. “Hearing from Oregonians and working together to protect our values and advance policies that actually strengthen our communities is a more productive use of my time.” ###
01.04.2018	*Comments from 4:12 to 4:42*
01.04.2018	Portland, Ore. – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, today released the following statement on reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions will rescind the “Cole Memo”—guidance established by the Obama Administration in 2013 to allow states to implement responsible marijuana laws without federal interference. “This is outrageous. Going against the majority of Americans—including a majority of Republican voters—who want the federal government to stay out of the way is perhaps one of the stupidest decisions the Attorney General has made. One wonders if Trump was consulted—it is Jeff Sessions after all—because this would violate his campaign promise not to interfere with state marijuana laws. “It’s time for anyone who cares about this issue to mobilize and push back strongly against this decision.” ###
12.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congress voted to extend protections for state medical marijuana programs through January 19. The provision, known as the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer amendment, was continued in legislation to fund the government for a month. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus and champion of the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer amendment, released the following statement: “Patients around the country who rely on medical marijuana for treatment—and the businesses that serve them—now have some measure of certainty. Our fight, however, continues to maintain these important protections in the next funding bill passed by Congress.” ###
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, released the following statement opposing the Republican tax bill: “This bill represents the largest transfer of wealth in our nation’s history—financed by mortgaging our children’s future with a mountain of increased debt. It is not tax reform. It’s not even a policy. Rather, it is a collection of special interest provisions, disguised behind a set of false promises. “This legislation fails utterly to invest in the American people—it’s no wonder the public is opposed. They are right, and the Republicans are wrong.” ###
12.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today voted to extend protections for state medical marijuana programs through December 22. The provision, known as the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer amendment, was continued in legislation to fund the government for two weeks. This short-term funding legislation now advances to the Senate. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus and champion of the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer amendment, released the following statement: “While we are pleased that these critical protections will continue, two weeks is not enough certainty for the millions of Americans who rely on medical marijuana for treatment and the businesses who serve them. As Congress works out a long-term funding bill, it must also include these protections. And ultimately, Congress must act to put an end to the cycle of uncertainty and permanently protect state medical marijuana programs—and adult use—from federal interference. The American people have spoken. It’s past time that Congress catch up.” ###
12.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement on Trump’s executive order to dramatically shrink the size of the Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monuments in Utah: “This is an unprecedented and arguably illegal move that threatens our heritage. These places, like so many other public lands (including Oregon’s own Cascade-Siskiyou), hold cultural, environmental, economic, and recreational value that belong to all Americans, not just a select few. Honoring Native American cultural artifacts and celebrating the incredible biodiversity of these places should be of paramount importance for our nation’s leaders. Instead, the administration is opening the door for private industry to strip them bare. “Americans overwhelmingly support protections for these remarkable treasures—and we will continue our fight to keep public lands in public hands.” ###
11.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following the threat by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to withhold Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne JAG) funding to the state of Oregon and Multnomah County, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, and Reps. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05), today urged the DOJ to distribute the funds for the current fiscal year as soon as possible. The Byrne JAG program pays for community policing initiatives, drug treatment and mental health programs, indigent defense, and proactive crime prevention efforts at the state and local level. The state of Oregon and a number of local jurisdictions were scheduled to receive approximately $3 million in Byrne JAG funding for FY17. In a letter to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the lawmakers wrote: “The Byrne JAG program enables state and local law enforcement to effectively protect the 4.1 million people who call Oregon home. … Threats to withhold these critical funds severely jeopardizes state and local efforts to adequately protect the citizens of Oregon.” The lawmakers also expressed concern around the motives behind these threats, stating: “We are deeply concerned about DOJ’s threats to withhold Byrne JAG funding to the state of Oregon as a means of coercing sanctuary jurisdictions into changing their policies. Thus, this decision may constitute a violation of the federal court order passed down by U.S. District Judge Harry D. Leinenweber this September, which blocked the DOJ’s implementation of such harmful and retaliatory tactics nationwide.” Linked here and below is the full text of the letter. November 17, 2017 Attorney General Jeff Sessions U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Ave., NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Sessions, We write to urge the Department of Justice (DOJ) to move forward with disbursing Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (Byrne JAG) funds for Fiscal Year 2017 (FY17) to the state of Oregon and Multnomah County as soon as possible. The Byrne JAG program enables state and local law enforcement to effectively protect the 4.1 million people who call Oregon home. These critical federal dollars fund community policing initiatives, drug treatment and mental health programs, indigent defense, and proactive crime prevention efforts. For more than a decade, Byrne JAG funds have supported essential programs to reduce crime and ensure the safety and health of our communities. Threats to withhold these critical funds severely jeopardizes state and local efforts to adequately protect the citizens of Oregon. The state of Oregon and a number of local jurisdictions were scheduled to receive approximately $3 million in Byrne JAG funding for FY17. We are deeply concerned about DOJ’s threats to withhold Byrne JAG funding to the state of Oregon as a means of coercing sanctuary jurisdictions into changing their policies. Thus, this decision may constitute a violation of the federal court order passed down by U.S. District Judge Harry D. Leinenweber this September, which blocked the DOJ’s implementation of such harmful and retaliatory tactics nationwide. Furthermore, the decision to withhold funding undermines your department’s stated objective of curbing violent crime by crippling every level of state and local law enforcement. In delaying the disbursement of Byrne JAG funds, the DOJ is directly imperiling American families. We urge you to release the aforementioned funds to the state of Oregon and its municipalities as soon as possible and hope to work cooperatively with your agency to properly serve and protect all of our communities in the future. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s decision to reverse the ban on elephant trophy imports: “African elephants are a threatened species and face extinction in our lifetime. As part of the international effort to reverse this trend, we strongly support the ban on imports of elephant ‘trophies’ from Zambia and Zimbabwe. We are deeply disappointed by reports that there are plans to remove this ban, and as co-chairs of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, we are united in our effort to maintain the existing ban.” ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today brought together a broad range of experts and stakeholders for a forum, “A Call for Reform: Fix the Farm Bill,” focusing on the need to create a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill. The forum featured a keynote address by Michael Pollan, author of The Omnivore’s Dilemma and In Defense of Food. “For the sake of our farmers, planet, fiscal sanity, and our health, we can’t afford to continue the status quo. We saw firsthand today that there is a growing movement to improve our food and farm policy for all Americans,” said Blumenauer. “It’s time Congress pays attention to what the people want and reforms the Farm Bill now.” “Historically, the farm bill has been treated as a very parochial, special-interest piece of legislation,” Michael Pollan said. “But in fact, it is the most important piece of health legislation likely to pass next year as well as the most important piece of environmental legislation likely to pass next year. That means everyone—farmers as well as eaters—has a stake in this issue, and is why it is time to bring forward this Food and Farm Act, which for the first time in decades re-envisions food policy from the bottom up.” Hopelessly complex and expensive, the Farm Bill currently prioritizes federal investments in our food and farm system that favors large-scale commodity growers at the expense of rural and urban America. With the Farm Bill set to expire in 2018, Blumenauer’s forum aimed to bring together the diverse, yet overlapping, interests of farmers, food policy experts, fiscal hawks, environmentalists, nutrition stakeholders, and animal welfare advocates, to discuss their ideas for reform. In addition to Michael Pollan’s keynote remarks, the forum featured a panel discussion with an all-star group of policy experts: Ricardo Salvador, Senior Scientist and Director, Food & Environment Program, Union of Concerned Scientists; Suzanne McMillan, Farm Animal Campaign Content Director, ASPCA; Scott Faber, Vice President of Government Affairs, Environmental Working Group; Monica Mills, Executive Director, Food Policy Action; Wayne Pacelle, CEO and President, Humane Society of the United States; Ryan Alexander, President, Taxpayers for Common Sense; and Bill Wenzel, Food and Farming Program Director, U.S. PIRG. Introduction of the Food and Farm Act At the event, Blumenauer also announced the introduction of his comprehensive alternative Farm Bill. This legislation, the Food and Farm Act, advances Farm Bill reforms based on four principles: (1) focusing resources on those who need it most; (2) fostering innovation; (3) encouraging investments in people and the planet; and (4) ensuring access to healthy foods. The Food and Farm Act will: Cut, cap, and clarify the existing farm subsidy programs that are available in the commodity, conservation, and crop insurance titles of the Farm Bill; Reform existing conservation programs by distributing resources based on how effectively a project achieves conservation goals and minimizes environmental impact; Give greater flexibility to food assistance programs, allowing the United States the ability to feed more people in more places; Invest resources to expand access to healthy food in underserved areas, in schools, and at farmers’ markets; Provide support for beginning farmers and ranchers to enter and stay in the agriculture sector; Establish the first Food Waste Title of the Farm Bill to focus the federal government on food waste reduction; Invest in research and education programs that improve sustainable agriculture practices; Establish the first Animal Welfare Title in the Farm Bill to ensure that the treatment of animals is a central part of the country’s agriculture policy; and Invest in existing programs and create new initiatives that support vibrant local and regional food systems. Click here to learn more about Blumenauer’s Food and Farm Act. “For decades the Farm Bill has ignored vital animal welfare needs and incentivized a callous industrial agriculture model that has brought unnecessary suffering on billions of farm animals,” said Matt Bershadker, President and CEO, ASPCA. “The ASPCA commends Congressman Blumenauer for envisioning not only a better Farm Bill, but also a better food system in the United States. For the sake of vulnerable farm animals and on behalf of responsible farmers and conscientious consumers, we encourage Congress to include the more humane measures outlined in the Food and Farm Act while drafting the next Farm Bill.” “We need a Farm Bill that provides a strong safety net for farmers but that also meets America’s big hunger and public health challenges, including drinking water pollution. The status quo is not working. Too many rural communities get tap water contaminated with farm chemicals and too many kids are going to bed hungry. Meanwhile, some of the wealthiest households in American receive millions in farm subsidies. This bill provides a road map to a Farm Bill that help farmers weather the ups and down of agriculture while also addressing hunger and health,” said Ken Cook, President and Co-Founder of Environmental Working Group. “Congressman Blumenauer's Food and Farm Act is the result of an unprecedented effort to listen to Oregon's family farmers and ranchers and seek their input in crafting important legislation that affects all Americans," said Ivan Maluski, Policy Director for Friends of Family Farmers in Salem, Oregon. “This bill would enact long-overdue Farm Bill reforms to support small and mid-sized family farms, advance public health and new investments in local and regional food systems, strengthen rural and urban economic viability, and promote animal welfare and the protection of our shared natural resources.” “Our food system is out of balance, and food should not be a partisan issue,” said Monica Mills, Executive Director of Food Policy Action. “Together, we can make access to healthy food more inclusive for all Americans, ending malnutrition and hunger. To that end, we must protect SNAP and make our food system more balanced.” “We commend Rep. Earl Blumenauer for introducing this legislation to build a more humane and sustainable agricultural economy that provides nourishing, affordable food to Americans and people throughout the world,” said Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of The Humane Society of the United States. “This bill provides opportunities to help consumers and family farmers, but also animals, since they are at the center of the enterprise. All animals deserve humane treatment.” “Taxpayers for Common Sense applauds Mr. Blumenauer for spearheading this critical conversation on the federal farm bill. By many measures, Washington is broken. The complex, convoluted, and increasingly costly farm bill is a shining example of what today’s broken legislative process will produce. Mr. Blumenauer’s efforts to engage everyone from farmers, to environmentalists, to fiscal conservatives in developing a farm bill that works for Oregon, is a process we need repeated in Ohio, in Oklahoma, and ultimately in our nation’s capital. Today needs to be just one of many conversations to bring more people to the farm bill negotiating table in order to make a farm bill that works for everyone,” said Ryan Alexander, President of Taxpayers for Common Sense. “Existing farm policy largely ignores consumer interests in sustainably produced foods to prop up and support farming practices and systems that have real downsides for the environment and the public health,” said Bill Wenzel, Food and Farm Program Director for the U.S. Public Interest Research Group (PIRG). “By eliminating the preferential treatment of commodity producers and factory farm livestock and poultry producers in farm support programs, reforming conservation programs to ensure that the taxpayer gets environmental bang for the buck and investing in sustainable food production businesses and infrastructure, the Food and Farm Act provides new opportunities for farmers and farming systems that are good for the environment and the public health.” Blumenauer’s legislation is the result of his Sing Your Own Farm Bill project, a multi-year effort to engage a wide variety of stakeholders in creating a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill. As part of this project, Blumenauer has met with agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutrition advocates, conservation interests, winemakers, nurseries, wheat growers, small and mid-sized farmers and ranchers, processors, agricultural policy advocates, and more. Together, they have brainstormed how federal agricultural policies could be best shaped to meet Oregon’s distinct and varied needs. Blumenauer’s legislation includes policy priorities that have grown out of this feedback. Click here to read Blumenauer’s report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, released the following statement: “Today’s vote by House Republicans passing their tax bill is an early Christmas gift to Donald Trump. It’s perfectly designed for his benefit. “It eliminates the alternative minimum tax, one of the few ways Trump pays any tax at all. It abolishes the inheritance tax, allowing him to pass on, tax free, hundreds of millions of dollars to his family. It expands access to the lower pass-through tax rates for many large and profitable businesses—and Trump has hundreds of pass-through entities listed on his financial disclosure forms. “Trump claims to be the “King of Debt.” This monstrosity of a tax bill is fueled by increasing our national debt by an additional $2.3 trillion dollars. It cuts taxes for the wealthy, while burdening our children and grandchildren with long term debt that will strangle economic growth. “Despite Republican promises to the contrary, this bill breaks the bipartisan commitment to the wind energy industry. Stock prices are already falling for renewable energy companies, while the bill jeopardizes billions of dollars of projects and puts tens of thousands of jobs at risk. This is the only retroactive provision in the bill, and it is designed precisely to break a bipartisan commitment that many of us worked on with the renewable energy industry. “The cruelest element of the Republican legislation is what I call the Alzheimer’s tax. This bill repeals the medical expense deduction used by over nine million middle class Americans, who saved almost $90 billion dollars in 2015. It’s totally wiped out. “This stunning action places huge additional burdens on many elderly and vulnerable middle-income families who are trying to plan ahead for the crushing financial burden of dealing with Alzheimer’s and other medical issues. We never had a hearing on anything like this, because Republicans knew it wouldn’t stand the light of day. “This bill is shameful. It rewards the wrong people while it burdens our future. It sets the stage for massive cuts to Medicare and Social Security. I know it is possible to build a more equitable and efficient tax system. This legislation does not come close. For trillions of reasons, I opposed this legislation. ###
11.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – During House Ways & Means Committee consideration of the Republican tax bill, Republicans today showed no confidence in their absurd claims that their proposed tax cuts would not add to the deficit and voted down Congressman Earl Blumenauer’s (OR-03) “circuit-breaker” amendment. The amendment failed 23-16. By providing a massive tax cut to the nation’s wealthiest individuals and corporations, Republicans are projected to add an estimated $1.5 trillion or more to deficits that will pile onto the national debt. This massive burden will either be paid by our grandchildren, or by the beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, or both. To hold Republicans accountable for their absurd claims that ‘tax cuts pay for themselves’ and lead to economic growth, Blumenauer’s amendment would have suspended these tax cuts if the deficit increases. Click here to read the amendment. “Republicans proved today that they have zero confidence in their claims that ‘tax cuts pay for themselves,’” said Blumenauer. “History shows that massive tax cuts like they’re proposing will not lead to robust economic growth and a surge in revenue, but rather produce even larger deficits. Unicorns, fairy dust, or Jack’s magic beans won’t change that reality.” Blumenauer called on his Republican colleagues to approve his amendment in an op-ed published in The Hill yesterday. Click here to read the op-ed. ###
11.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – During House Ways & Means Committee consideration of the Republican tax bill, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) will offer an amendment to call into question Republican leadership’s false claims on their proposed tax cuts and the deficit. By providing a massive tax cut to the nation’s wealthiest individuals and corporations, Republicans are projected to add an estimated $1.5 trillion or more to deficits that will pile onto the national debt. This massive burden will either be paid by our grandchildren, or by the beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. To hold Republicans accountable for their absurd claims that ‘tax cuts pay for themselves’ and lead to economic growth, Blumenauer’s amendment will automatically suspend these tax cuts if deficits continue to increase. “For years, my Republican colleagues have complained about our rising national debt. Now they want to add $1.5 trillion to the deficit—not to invest in our communities, but to give massive tax cuts to those who need it the least,” said Blumenauer. “No economist will say with a straight face that tax cuts pay for themselves. For the sake of our fiscal health and to protect the American people, Republicans must be held accountable for their absurd claims. And if they truly buy the rosy picture they are painting for the American public, they should have no problem incorporating my amendment into their bill.” Blumenauer today called on his Republican colleagues to approve his amendment in an op-ed in The Hill. Click here to read the op-ed. ###
11.03.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) released the following statement after Republican leaders unveiled their new tax plan. Blumenauer sits on the Ways & Means Committee, the chief tax-writing committee of the U.S. House of Representatives. "The Republican tax proposal is not just a lost opportunity for tax reform, it represents a genuine threat to American economy and to tens of millions of American families. "It’s appropriate that they waited until after Halloween because this is a trick on Americans. It does not do anything for families who are really struggling. It actually raises taxes on almost 13 million middle-class families making less than $100,000. Other middle income people who think they’re going to get a few dollars a day tax relief will see those benefits disappear in five years. At the same time, because of an accounting formula change, more American families are going to receive a tax increase by being pulled up into higher tax brackets than under existing law. "Most perniciously, this bill dedicates more than 80 percent of the benefit to the wealthy and to corporations. This bill is the opposite of the famous tax reform of 1986 in almost every respect. That proposal was bipartisan and the result of a very open, comprehensive process where changes were widely understood and debated. Taxes were raised on business and reduced on individuals, although the tax increases were uniform and rational. "In contrast, this Republican proposal increases the burden on individuals in order to reduce taxes on the very wealthy and corporations. It has been rushed, hidden, and confused. It even reverses one of the most important reforms of the Reagan era tax bill preventing “bracket creep.” This is where individuals are pulled into higher tax brackets because of inflation. The change in calculating cost-of-living means that over the years more and more families are going to pay higher taxes than they would under the current system simply because of inflation. The bottom line is that this is a partisan give away to the wealthy and corporations and unfair to most Americans. "Of course, all of this is predicated on the Republican plan successfully holding the deficit explosion to just $1.5 trillion by essentially enacting the same draconian cuts to Medicare and Medicaid that the American public so fiercely resisted in their healthcare proposals. Republicans will create an automatic system of forced budget cuts for the next ten years that the American public has already signaled they oppose. "The more Oregonians--indeed the more most Americans--look at this giveaway to big corporations and the wealthy, support will continue to evaporate. This proposal may pass the House, but it will never be enacted into law. The question is how much damage we can prevent and how much real reform we can salvage. The answer depends upon how deeply Americans are involved and how effectively they are being heard." ###
11.03.2017	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement today in response to the passage of the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, H.R. 3922: "The CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act would reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Community Health Centers (CHCs), and other expiring public health initiatives. I support the permanent reauthorization of CHIP and CHCs, whose authorizing authority expired over a month ago, on September 30, 2017. Congress should never have let this critical safety net funding lapse in the first place, and while H.R. 3922 would extend these programs, it would do so by cutting the Prevention and Public Health Fund, sabotaging the Affordable Care Act, and raising Medicare premiums for Seniors. These are false tradeoffs, and I voted ‘no’ on H.R. 3922. This, of course, occurred a day after Congressional Republicans introduced a tax plan that would raise the deficit by $1.5 trillion. The GOP’s actions this week are simply a disgrace; cutting taxes for the wealthy and corporations while holding children’s health care and our safety-net hostage. We can and we must do better." ###
10.30.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Sens. Patty Murray (D-WA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Ron Wyden (D-OR) joined Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) to demand answers from the Trump Administration after it denied a request to allow the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (Army Corps) to move forward with The Dalles Dam Tribal Housing Village Development Plan. In a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, the lawmakers urged the Administration to reconsider its decision so this critical work can continue to address unmet obligations to four Columbia River Treaty Tribes. The construction of The Dalles Dam flooded tribal communities, houses, and traditional hunting and fishing sites along the Columbia River. The Tribes have a treaty-protected right to fish along the river in their usual and accustomed places. “We have seen first-hand the cramped, outdated, makeshift housing with limited access to reliable utilities and restrooms that tribal members are living in today,” the lawmakers wrote in their letter. “This is a matter of public health and safety, upholding treaty rights, and requires immediate attention. We strongly urge you to reconsider your decision.” Find a copy of the letter here. For text, see below: Dear Director Mulvaney: We write with grave concern regarding the Office of Management and Budget’s recent decision not to move forward with The Dalles Dam Tribal Housing Village Development Plan. The federal government has a legal and moral responsibility to address the unmet obligations of the United States to the four Columbia River Treaty Tribes – the Nez Perce Tribe, the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation, the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation, and the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Nation – for the loss of tribal homes and villages associated with the construction of The Dalles Dam more than 65 years ago. Native Americans, including ancestors of the four Columbia River Treaty Tribes, have lived and fished along the banks of the Columbia River since time immemorial. These tribes signed treaties with the federal government in the 1850s, ceding most of their lands to the United States government. The treaties reserved for tribal signatories the rights to fish, hunt, and gather at “all usual and accustomed fishing places.” Beginning in the 1930s, construction of federal dams along the Columbia River inundated tribal communities, houses, and traditional hunting and fishing sites along the river, significantly impacting tribal members’ ability to exercise their treaty rights. Since 1939, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Army Corps) and treaty tribes have entered into several agreements to address the needs of the tribes, including the acquisition and construction of in-lieu and treaty fishing access sites. Under the Columbia River Treaty Fishing Access Sites (P.L. 100-581), the Army Corps constructed treaty fishing access sites and in-lieu sites on the Bonneville Pool, The Dalles Pool, and John Day Pool in Washington and Oregon. These sites were designed primarily for day-use fishing and some temporary camping. However, out of a need for housing and a desire to be closer to the Columbia River, many tribal members use these sites as year-round, permanent residences, in addition to seasonal homes during fishing seasons. As these sites were not designed for such high volume and regular use, tribal members are living in extremely unsafe and unsanitary conditions. The four Columbia River Treaty Tribes have worked for years to raise concerns with this growing tribal housing crisis and the federal government’s failure to provide relocation assistance or replacement housing for the tribal homes and villages that were lost in the construction of federal dams. A November 2013 Fact-Finding Review on Tribal Housing, conducted by the Portland District Army Corps, verified that between 44 and 85 tribal families who lived near the Bonneville and The Dalles dams prior to construction did not receive relocation assistance. In March 2016, the Army Corps found that Section 204 of the Flood Control Act of 1950 (P.L. 81-516) authorizing construction of The Dalles Dam “specifically provide[s] for the construction of a new Indian village satisfactory to the Indians and the Bureau of Indian Affairs” and that “a new Indian village can be constructed pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1950 because this authority has not yet been used to construct a new Indian village.” Since then the Army Corps has worked to comply with The Dalles Dam authorization to mitigate the construction of this federal dam, fulfill a federal responsibility, and meet tribal trust responsibilities. While much progress has been made with the support of Fiscal Year 2017 funding, according to an October 24, 2017 letter from the Army Corps “funds for work on The Dalles Dam Tribal Housing Village Development Plan (VDP) are almost fully expended and future work on the VDP will cease until the remaining funds are received.” We understand $1.526 million is needed to complete the VDP, the Army Corps has proposed to reprogram funding to support this work, and that you have denied this request. Some of us, and many of our staff, have toured the treaty fishing access sites and in-lieu sites. We have seen first-hand the cramped, outdated, makeshift housing with limited access to reliable utilities and restrooms that tribal members are living in today. This is a matter of public health and safety, upholding treaty rights, and requires immediate attention. We strongly urge you to reconsider your decision and approve the Army Corps’ request to reprogram $1.526 million to complete The Dalles Dam Tribal Housing Village Development Plan. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, ###
10.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today Representatives Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) released the response they received from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) after the lawmakers repeatedly asked about the agency’s policies and procedures. In September, Bonamici and Blumenauer asked ICE Acting Director Thomas Homan and ICE Acting Field Office Director Elizabeth Godfrey to investigate a September 18 incident near the Washington County Courthouse and to provide answers about ICE agency policies for interrogation and apprehension. The Acting Field Office Director in Portland responded to the lawmakers inquiry. The lawmakers again pressed ICE Acting Director Homan for answers after plainclothes ICE officers entered a private home in Oregon without a warrant and arrested an individual on October 19. You can download a copy of the response from ICE headquarters here. Bonamici and Blumenauer responded, “Though we appreciate ICE acknowledging our letter, the response is highly contradictory. If the two Oregon incidents are under review, how can ICE also conclude that officers followed all policies and procedures?” “Our constituents in Oregon are deeply concerned by these aggressive actions. ICE must be held accountable when enforcement encroaches on civil liberties.” This week, the lawmakers called on the Judiciary and the Oversight and Government Reform Committees to exercise their oversight authority of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and hold hearings about the agency’s policies and procedures. ###
10.25.2017	Washington, DC – Today Representatives Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) called on the Judiciary and the Oversight and Government Reform Committees to exercise their oversight authority of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and hold hearings about the agency’s policies and procedures. In September, Bonamici and Blumenauer asked ICE Acting Director Thomas Homan and ICE Acting Field Office Director Elizabeth Godfrey to investigate a September 18 incident near the Washington County Courthouse and to provide answers about ICE agency policies for interrogation and apprehension. Last week, the lawmakers again pressed ICE Acting Director Homan for answers after plainclothes ICE officers entered a private home in Oregon without a warrant and arrested an individual on October 19. “These incidents, several of which are recorded on video, call into question whether ICE officials are conducting themselves in full accordance with federal law and agency policies and procedures,” wrote the lawmakers. “In the last several months there have been multiple allegations of ICE officers around the country failing to follow proper protocol, potentially acting in violation of an individual’s constitutional rights in some instances.” Earlier this year, Bonamici, Blumenauer, and Schrader introduced legislation to prohibit immigration enforcement actions, including arrests, interviews, searches, and surveillance, at “sensitive locations,” including courthouses. The letter to the House Judiciary Committee continues, “These questionable actions by ICE are perpetuating fear in our communities and raising concerns about safety. At this hearing, we also hope you will discuss H.R. 1815, the Protecting Sensitive Locations Act. This legislation would codify existing ICE guidance regarding enforcement actions at community spaces deemed “sensitive locations,” and would expand the definition to include courthouses and other places where members of our communities access vital public services. Codifying this policy would be a significant step in protecting public safety and making sure that all community members, both citizens and non-citizens, are not deterred from accessing services such as education, health care, and the justice system.” The full text of the letters to the House Judiciary Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee is available below. Dear Chairmen and Ranking Members, We write to respectfully request that you immediately convene a hearing to investigate recent incidents of grave concern involving U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials in our home state and around the country. These incidents, several of which are recorded on video, call into question whether ICE officials are conducting themselves in full accordance with federal law and agency policies and procedures. In the last several months there have been multiple allegations of ICE officers around the country failing to follow proper protocol, potentially acting in violation of an individual’s constitutional rights in some instances. If those officers were in fact following procedure, they clearly conducted themselves in a troubling manner that raises questions about whether those procedures need to be improved and if officers receive sufficient training. We would like to bring to your attention two particular events that occurred recently in Oregon. On September 18, 2017, plainclothes ICE officers approached Isidro Andrade-Tafolla, a United States citizen, and his wife near the Washington County Courthouse in Hillsboro, Oregon. The officers began asking questions and demanded that Isidro provide identification, yet the officers ignored multiple requests by Mr. Andrade-Tafolla and his wife to show credentials or identify themselves. When the officers realized Mr. Andrade-Tafolla was not the intended target of their enforcement action, they left without providing any explanation. Additionally, on October 19, 2017, plainclothes ICE officers reportedly entered a private residence in apparent violation of the Fourth Amendment without a warrant or permission to enter and arrested an individual working in the home. ICE has since stated that the matter is under agency review. These events demonstrate the urgent need for your Committee to provide additional Congressional oversight. Following these two disturbing events, we sent several inquiries to ICE requesting information. On September 22, 2017, we joined Ranking Member Conyers and Ranking Member Lofgren in sending a letter to ICE Acting Director Thomas Homan expressing our concerns and requesting answers to a list of questions by October 9, 2017. We have yet to receive a response from Acting Director Homan. After the most recent ICE incident in our state, we sent Director Homan a subsequent letter dated October 20, 2017. These questionable actions by ICE are perpetuating fear in our communities and raising concerns about safety. At this hearing, we also hope you will discuss H.R. 1815, the Protecting Sensitive Locations Act. This legislation would codify existing ICE guidance regarding enforcement actions at community spaces deemed “sensitive locations,” and would expand the definition to include courthouses and other places where members of our communities access vital public services. Codifying this policy would be a significant step in protecting public safety and making sure that all community members, both citizens and non-citizens, are not deterred from accessing services such as education, health care, and the justice system. We look forward to working with you to provide continued oversight of ICE in order to improve its policies, procedures, and training. We are confident you share our goals of increased public accountability, trust, and safety. Sincerely, ###
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a leader in Congress on reducing the development, threat and spread of nuclear weapons and establishing more rational U.S. nuclear policies, released the following statement today in response to Donald Trump’s decision to withhold certification of the Iran nuclear agreement: “Trump’s refusal today to recertify the historic nuclear agreement with Iran is an affront to peace and diplomacy across the globe, weakens the U.S. role with our allies, emboldens North Korea, and makes a nuclear-armed Iran more likely—if not inevitable. “Iran has complied with the agreement. It has removed thousands of centrifuges from service, halted enrichment beyond 3.67 percent, limited the size of its enriched uranium stockpile, and filled the core of its heavy-water nuclear reactor with cement. Without the framework in place, the amount of time it would take for Iran to build a nuclear weapon could go from one year to mere weeks. “Even his own Secretary of Defense, James Mattis, agreed last week that keeping this agreement intact is critical to our national security. “Further, Trump’s proposals to ‘renegotiate’ and attach new conditions to ‘get a better deal’ demonstrate a total lack of understanding of how diplomacy works. All sides have made compromises to get this agreement. If we renege, Iran will be free to walk away with the money it received when international sanctions were lifted and the right to develop its own nuclear weapons. We will also not be able to marshal the international community to help negotiate and enforce any future deal. “One of the most devastating consequences of his decision will be the damage to American leadership. The announcement indicates to our allies that the United States will not keep its promises and that it doesn’t take nuclear nonproliferation seriously. I met with Former Secretaries Kerry and Moniz and Ambassadors from the UK, EU, France, and Germany earlier this week. They all agree it would be a tragic mistake for the United States to weaken the agreement. If we walk away while Iran has kept its end of the bargain, America will be on its own. “Trump’s disdain for this carefully crafted framework also sends a clear signal to North Korea that it makes no sense to negotiate with the United States. If he turns his back on an agreement that Iran has upheld, why should North Korea ever come to the negotiating table? “Now, Congress has 60 days to decide whether it will act to reinstate the sanctions that were lifted under the nuclear deal. Sadly, already the damage to our reputation and credibility has been inflicted. Trump has empowered Iranian hardliners, isolated our European partners, and undermined global confidence in the United States. It is said credibility takes a lifetime to build and only moments to destroy. So it is with our country’s reputation. These damaging actions will not be easily reversed. Why hand Iran this victory?” ###
10.06.2017	Portland, Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement after the Trump administration moved to end the federal requirement for employers to cover basic contraception in their health insurance plans: “Since Trump’s inauguration, Republicans have advanced an anti-women, anti-health care, and anti-reproductive rights agenda. Sadly, today is no different. Birth control is fundamental helath care—and any attempt to take it away or make it unaffordable is discriminatory and wrong. This is a dangerous decision by the Trump administration and will put the health of countless women at risk. “This decision comes on the heels of H.R. 36, an across-the-board 20-week abortion ban passed by House Republicans earlier this week. H.R. 36 ignores the fact that women are the best decision-makers when it comes to their health and that every pregnancy is different. I VOTED NO. “Taken together, this week’s efforts are nothing more than a cruel disregard for personal circumstances of women’s lives. I strongly oppose any attempts to limit choice or access to abortion and reproductive health services. I will not support actions that impose the will of an intolerant minority on our mothers, sisters, and daughters. Instead, I will continue to support women, and be their ally in their nation’s capital.” ###
10.03.2017	Washington, DC – Shocked by reports that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has awarded Equifax a sole source contract to “verify taxpayer identity” and “assist in ongoing identity verification and validations,” Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today sent a letter to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen demanding an explanation for the decision. The full text of the letter is below. Click here for an electronic version. October 3, 2017 Dear Commissioner Koskinen: It has come to my attention that on September 30th your agency awarded a sole source contract to Equifax to "verify taxpayer identity" and "assist in ongoing identity verification and validations.” I was initially under the impression that my staff was sharing a copy of the Onion, until I realized this story was, in fact, true. As I’m sure you are aware, Equifax is the firm that appears to have been grossly negligent in allowing a massive data hack of the personal information of 145 million Americans. What’s more, this news was public in early September, giving your agency plenty of time to re-evaluate this decision. As a result, I am shocked that the IRS would contract with this firm for activities that they are clearly unfit to carry out. Please share with me the materials you used for the internal deliberations regarding this contract, and the rationale to award this activity to Equifax. It is deeply ironic and saddening that today Equifax’s now ex-CEO testified to the Energy and Commerce Committee: "I am here today to say to each and every person affected by this breach, I am truly and deeply sorry for what happened." I look forward to your response. Sincerely,
10.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement on the mass shooting in Las Vegas: “The right-wing – and NRA – messaging point that nothing could have been done to prevent the horrific attack in Las Vegas is just wrong. Over two years ago, I released a comprehensive plan to deal with gun violence like the public health epidemic that it is. The solutions shouldn’t be hard – but sadly, none of the proposals I’ve laid out have even been considered by Congress. “From Orlando to Roseburg, OR and now Las Vegas, the carnage has only continued. ‘Thoughts and prayers’ will not stop future tragedy. Enough is enough. My hope is that sanity will prevail, and Republican leadership in Congress will muster up the courage to act.” Click here to read Blumenauer’s report, “Enough is Enough: A Comprehensive Plan to Improve Gun Safety.” ###
09.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement condemning Trump’s fiery rhetoric on North Korea and calling for a diplomatic approach: “The North Korean regime has not just tested a nuclear bomb and intercontinental ballistic missiles, it’s testing American patience and resolve. Obviously, the North Korean problem is not going away any time soon. It is a crisis that has been building for years. It must be dealt with directly and carefully. “Yet, Trump continues his failure of American leadership when it comes to Pyongyang. His use of inflammatory rhetoric increases the national security risk to the United Sates and our allies. His statements escalate tensions, increase the potential for accidental conflict, and serve only to embolden the regime. During his first speech to the United Nations General Assembly, he stated that the United States may have no choice but to ‘totally destroy North Korea.’ “At the same time, he has threatened to end the agreement America reached with Iran and five major world powers to curb Iran’s nuclear weapons program – inviting them to walk away from the agreement itself. His disdain for this carefully crafted framework sends a clear signal to North Korea that it makes no sense to negotiate with Donald Trump. If he turns his back on an agreement that Iran has upheld, why would North Korea negotiate with such an unstable individual? “And Iran isn’t the only example. Trump has also made reckless references to treaties with Japan and South Korea. He has demonstrated a lack of understanding of the threat of nuclear proliferation. “By all means, let’s go as far as we can with sanctions to increase pressure on North Korea. Yet, they have proven adept at developing techniques to evade them and have marched forward. When it comes to dealing with difficult countries like North Korea and Iran, the administration must ultimately recognize and embrace a strong, multilateral, diplomatic approach. This is the only way to deal with the challenges posed by a nuclear North Korea and to constrain Iran from becoming a nuclear power. “This is why over 80 percent of Americans support diplomacy. Whether it’s working with international partners to pursue multilateral negotiations, or establishing a private, diplomatic back-channel to reach an accord, diplomacy is the only path forward to safety, peace, and stability.” Blumenauer is a leader in Congress on establishing more rational nuclear policies. He’s worked throughout his career to reduce the development and threat of nuclear weapons for the sake of our safety, global stability and fiscal sanity. This year, he introduced legislation, the Smarter Approach to Nuclear Expenditures (SANE) Act that would cut or eliminate redundant nuclear weapons programs, while saving the United States more than $100 billion over the next 10 years. He also joined Rep. Ted Lieu to introduce H.R. 669, legislation prohibiting any president—including the present one—from conducting a first-use nuclear strike without prior authorization from Congress. ###
09.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today called for immediate federal assistance for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands: “The unprecedented devastation in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands is heartbreaking. These American communities need more than ‘thoughts and prayers.’ They need help, and they need it now. This is a humanitarian crisis, and the Trump administration must step up its assistance to all of those affected by this disaster. Congress should also come together and put forward a comprehensive package to provide both immediate and long-term relief. “The people of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are American citizens – and deserve to be treated as such.” ###
09.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement on Donald Trump’s attacks on athletes protesting racial injustice: “Trump’s attacks over the weekend are repugnant and beneath the dignity of the office of the president. At a time when the people of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands—U.S. citizens—are facing a humanitarian crisis, his focus should be on recovery efforts. Instead, he chose to attack athletes rightfully protesting injustice. “Perhaps most disturbing, Trump was quicker to condemn these athletes—patriotic citizens exercising their First Amendment right to free speech in the face of rampant and systemic racism—than he was the white supremacists responsible for the terrorist attack in Charlottesville. It’s shameful, and only further shows that his priorities are wrong and deeply misguided. “In times of tragedy, a president has the responsibility to bring the country together and lead. Instead, Trump incites further division and hate through both his words and actions. Despite this, NFL teams across the nation came together on Sunday. Their unity—and the bravery of all of the players taking a stand against injustice—capture the true American spirit.” ###
09.20.2017	HILLSBORO, OR – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) today sent a letter to the highest-ranking U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) official in Oregon urging an investigation into the actions of multiple agents toward a U.S. citizen outside of the Washington County Courthouse on September 18, 2017. According to a report in the Oregonian, ICE agents mistook Mr. Isidro Andrade-Tafolla, a long-time employee of Washington County, for an undocumented immigrant. The agents demanded Andrade-Tafolla provide his name and identification without identifying themselves as federal officers, then left without providing any explanation or apology. “We urge an investigation into the events which occurred outside of the Washington County Courthouse,” wrote the lawmakers. “Demanding identification from United States citizens is unacceptable. Should the account in the Oregonian of the event be corroborated by an internal investigation, please describe to us the nature of any retraining or discipline that would result.” Earlier this year, Bonamici– supported by Blumenauer – introduced legislation to prohibit immigration enforcement actions including arrests, interviews, searches, and surveillance at "sensitive locations," including courthouses, medical or health care facilities, public and private schools, places of worship, and locations that provide emergency services. The full text of the letter is below. Dear Director Godfrey: We were greatly disturbed to read an account in the Oregonian of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents attempting to detain a US citizen, Isidro Andrade-Tafolla, outside of the Washington County Courthouse on September 18, 2017. As Oregon officials have repeatedly made clear, targeting immigration enforcement in areas near courthouses deters individuals from accessing our justice system and is contrary to the fair administration of law in Oregon. More seriously, targeting U.S. citizens on the basis of race is a clear violation of their constitutional rights. Based on Isidro’s account, the ICE agents demanded both his name and identification, yet the agents never explained why the information was needed. The ICE agents, furthermore, failed to identify themselves during their questioning. If true, this is contrary to our understanding of how federal officials faithfully execute the law. We urge an investigation into the events which occurred outside of the Washington County Courthouse. Demanding identification from United States citizens is unacceptable. Should the account in the Oregonian of the event be corroborated by an internal investigation, please describe to us the nature of any retraining or discipline that would result Additionally, to help us better understand how these events could occur, please supply answers to the following questions: Under ICE procedures, can ICE agents remain anonymous when they choose to detain or question a person? If so, please provide us the legal authority authorizing this practice. If ICE agents conceal their identity during attempts to detain individuals, please provide evidence demonstrating that this practice improves public safety. Under what legal authority can ICE agents demand the identification of United States citizens when questioning a person? We look forward to your responses. At minimum, we hope that your agency sees fit to apologize to Mr. Andrade-Tafolla for this mistreatment. Sincerely, ###
09.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today introduced the Sustainable Farmland for the Future Act to expand conservation compliance in the federal crop insurance program. This bill introduction coincides with the release of an Environmental Working Group report titled, “Less Farm Pollution, More Clean Water: An Agenda for Conservation in the 2018 Farm Bill.” Blumenauer’s legislation requires all farmers who receive crop insurance premium subsidies to abide by basic conservation requirements and gives the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) increased authority to review conservation plans. The bill also sets aside funding for technical assistance to help subsidy recipients reduce their environmental impact and strengthens enforcement of conservation standards for wetlands. “The majority of our farmers are stewards of the land and deserve government support, but some aren’t meeting their obligations to the American taxpayer,” said Blumenauer. “This bill ensures that federal subsidies go to farmers who are improving water quality, reducing carbon emissions, and limiting soil erosion for future generations.” “The conservation compact between farmers and taxpayers enacted in 1985 sparked dramatic progress in cutting runoff from the most vulnerable cropland and saving wetlands,” said Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group. “Expanding the conservation compact to include all cropland, as Congressman Blumenauer’s bill seeks to do, could be the single most effective way in the next farm bill to meaningfully cut farm pollution runoff, and protect drinking water, soil and clean air. It is more than fair to expect farmers and landowners to expand their efforts to protect the environment in return for the generous farm and insurance subsidies they receive year after year.” ###
09.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) today introduced the Safe Communities Act. As Oregon and the rest of the northwest experience another summer of destructive wildfires and the southeast deals with the aftermath of back-to-back damaging hurricanes, this bill would provide grants to states and local communities to help them plan for and mitigate the most damaging aspects of disasters. Specifically, the legislation would create a new grant program to support state, local and regional planning activities aimed at reducing threats posed by natural and human-caused disasters. Grant-eligible projects include comprehensive risk assessment and inventory of critical infrastructure, land-use planning for natural hazards and terrorism security, and updating building codes and urban design techniques for risk-reduction. “The devastation of the wildfires at home in Oregon and the hurricanes in the southeast requires our urgent efforts to help the victims of these tragic events, but also shows how vital it is to reduce future risks,” said Blumenauer. “The grants authorized by the Safe Communities Act will help communities plan for the future, prevent damage, and save money.” Blumenauer is a leader in Congress on disaster preparedness, mitigation, and recovery. He and Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI) today published an editorial in Bloomberg View on the need to reform the federal flood insurance program. ###
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Oregon’s Sens. Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden and Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Kurt Schrader, Suzanne Bonamici, Peter DeFazio, and Greg Walden today urged federal land management agencies to heed Oregon Gov. Kate Brown’s request for additional fire suppression resources to address 17 large wildfires raging across the state, including two that have been designated as the highest national priority wildfire. In a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, the Oregon lawmakers stressed the need to be creative and assertive in identifying additional resources to fight the fires, which will continue burning — threatening communities and treasured landscapes — until the rain begins to fall. “Like Montana and other parts of the west, Oregon is enduring a severe fire season that has stretched resources thin. With those resource challenges in mind, we are writing in support of Governor Brown’s request for additional capacity on the ground to suppress these fires,” the lawmakers wrote. “We know that fire suppression is currently the top priority for your departments, but it is clear that there simply are not enough suppression resources available to meet the needs of all of the fires currently burning. We support the governor’s request and encourage your agencies to be creative and assertive in expanding the pool of resources available to fight the fires, including advocating with other agencies and the White House as appropriate.” Last week, Congress passed legislation that will make it possible, starting Oct. 1, for the Forest Service to quickly repay funds it will need to borrow in the coming weeks to continue fighting the nearly 1.5 million acres of land currently burning in nine western states. Almost one-third of those acres are in Oregon. The delegation continues to stress the importance of better forest management to prevent these fires, minimizing their cost and damage in the first place. Read the full letter here. ###
09.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), co-chairs of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, welcomed passage of legislation to extend protections for state medical marijuana programs through December 8. The provision, which prevents the Department of Justice from interfering with state medical marijuana laws, was included in a broader legislative package passed by Congress last week to fund the government and provide disaster relief. Blumenauer and Rohrabacher released the following statement: “While this action provides a measure of certainty for the millions of medical marijuana patients and the clinics and business that support them, much more needs to be done. More than 95 percent of Americans now have state-legal access to some form of medical marijuana. The American people have spoken, and Congress needs to hear them. Ultimately, we need permanent protections for state-legal medical marijuana programs, as well as adult-use. Prohibition is a failed policy resulting in nothing more than wasted resources and lives.” With this legislation, Congress has funded the federal government through December 8. In the meantime, Congress will work to develop a longer-term funding plan. While the Senate Appropriations Committee-approved version of the bill includes the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer amendment, the House version of the legislation will not, due to the decision by House Rules Committee leadership to block the amendment. Blumenauer, Rohrabacher, and their allies are fighting to reverse this wrongheaded decision and include protections for state medical marijuana protections in the FY 2018 funding bills. ###
09.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), co-chairs of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, today condemned the decision by House Rules Committee leadership to block their amendment that prevents the Department of Justice from interfering with state medical marijuana laws. Because of this decision, Rohrabacher and Blumenauer will not be able to offer their amendment when the House considers Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 funding legislation this week. The Senate Appropriations Committee approved the amendment language in July. The amendment has been included in every annual appropriations law since 2014. Blumenauer and Rohrabacher released the following statement: “By blocking our amendment, Committee leadership is putting at risk the millions of patients who rely on medical marijuana for treatment, as well as the clinics and businesses that support them. This decision goes against the will of the American people, who overwhelmingly oppose federal interference with state marijuana laws. These critical protections are supported by a majority of our colleagues on both sides of the aisle. There’s no question: If a vote were allowed, our amendment would pass on the House floor, as it has several times before. “Our fight to protect medical marijuana patients is far from over. The marijuana reform movement is large and growing. This bad decision by the House Rules Committee is an affront to the 46 states and the District of Columbia that have legalized use and distribution of some form of medical marijuana. These programs serve millions of Americans. This setback, however, is not the final word. As House and Senate leadership negotiate a long-term funding bill, we will fight to maintain current protections.” ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), along with Reps. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Greg Walden (OR-02), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) today sent a letter to House leaders requesting that emergency funding for wildland fire suppression be included in the Hurricane Harvey emergency supplemental appropriations bill the House will take up later this week. The United States Forest Service (USFS) is expected to exhaust its funding for wildfire suppression within days. Dangerous wildfires have forced thousands of Oregonians to evacuate their homes and businesses and degraded air quality has caused serious health issues across Oregon. Currently, Oregon’s Chetco Bar fire has consumed more than 167,000 acres. It is estimated that the Chetco fire will not be contained until the end of October. To make matters worse, there are 23 other Oregon fires, including the Eagle Creek fire now threatening the Portland metro area and Columbia River Gorge communities. In total, these fires have burned over 340,000 acres to date. The lawmakers write, “Thousands of people have been evacuated, and homes and businesses have been destroyed. It is likely the USFS will exhaust all funding for wildfire suppression within days. Once that occurs, the agency is forced to borrow from other USFS accounts to pay for wildland fire suppression. Often the accounts that are depleted fund the very activities that help reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires, creating a vicious cycle.” To view a PDF version of the letter, click here. ###
09.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement on Donald Trump’s decision to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “This move is cruel and heartless, and there are 800,000 reasons why. DREAMers call the United States home. They are our neighbors, friends, colleagues, and classmates—and they put their faith in the U.S. government by coming forward and registering for this program. “Trump may try to break our commitment to them, but Americans overwhelmingly stand with DREAMers and want a path forward for them here in the United States. Republican leadership must heed this call.Words are not enough. Passing legislation to permanently protect DREAMers is the least we should do. Now is also the time to bring up the bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform legislation that passed in the Senate in 2013. In the face of Trump’s hateful anti-immigrant agenda, Congress must advance a more rational, compassionate approach.” ###
08.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today joined Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), and 75 other Members of Congress to introduce a resolution censuring Donald Trump for the comments he made on August 15, 2017 that “both sides” were to blame for the horrific violence that took place in Charlottesville, VA. By reverting back to his earlier stance, Trump again equated the actions of white supremacy groups with those of the counter-protestors. “The vast majority of Americans are forcefully speaking out against Trump’s behavior that serves only to embolden these white nationalists,” said Blumenauer. “Congress must act now to send a strong statement against hatred, white supremacy, and Nazism and to those who support and enable them, including the President of the United States.” The resolution both censures and condemns Trump for his inadequate response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 12, 2017, including his failure to immediately name and denounce the white supremacist groups responsible for the domestic terrorism, and urges Trump to fire any and all White House advisors who urged him to cater to the alt-Right movement in the United States. ###
08.15.2017	Portland, Ore. -- Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement after Donald Trump doubled down on his statement that "many sides" were responsible for the domestic terrorist attack in Charlottesville, Virginia: “The neo-Nazis and white supremacists who were marching with torches and chanting racial and anti-Semitic slurs are solely responsible for the act of domestic terrorism in Charlottesville. There should be no question. The fact that Trump is suggesting otherwise is shameful and disgusting. If Trump refuses to make it clear that in our America, we reject hate, racism, bigotry, and violence – then we must. It is more important than ever that Oregonians and people across the nation speak up and stand together in solidarity for love, tolerance, and mutual support.” ###
08.15.2017	Portland, Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement on Governor Kate Brown’s decision not to veto Section 83 of House Bill 5006, which would provide $2,050,857 for City of Portland SW Capitol Highway safety improvements. “I’m glad that Governor Brown listened to the facts on the ground and decided not to follow through on her threats to veto this much-needed funding. The safety of pedestrians, cyclists, and motorists on SW Capitol Highway would have been in jeopardy if she had decided to veto. I am grateful for the civic leaders, community members, and all who spoke in support of this project. Their efforts made the difference.” Following threats by Governor Brown to veto the funding for these safety improvements, last week Blumenauer sent a letter to Governor Brown imploring her to reconsider. Click here to read the letter. ###
08.12.2017	Portland, Ore. -- Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “What happened in Charlottesville is domestic terrorism and should be condemned by everyone in the strongest possible terms. In Our America, there is no place for white supremacists, white nationalists, and neo-Nazis. We reject hate, racism, bigotry, and violence. Oregonians and people across the nation stand together in solidarity for love, tolerance, and mutual support.” ###
08.11.2017	Portland, Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) yesterday sent a letter to Governor Kate Brown urging her not to veto Section 83 of House Bill 5006, which would provide $2,050,857 for City of Portland SW Capitol Highway safety improvements. In the letter, Congressman Blumenauer wrote, “Your veto would be unprecedented in undermining more than two decades of planning and work on this much-needed project … This project was carefully vetted and considered on its own merits by both chambers of the legislature. To imply otherwise is misguided and wrong.” The full text of the letter is below: August 10, 2017 The Honorable Kate Brown Governor of Oregon 900 Court Street N. Salem, OR 97301 Dear Governor Brown, I am writing regarding your stated intention to veto Section 83 of House Bill 5006, providing $2,050,857 for City of Portland SW Capitol Highway safety improvements. Your veto would be unprecedented in undermining more than two decades of planning and work on this much-needed project, continuing to put in jeopardy the safety and accessibility of pedestrians, cyclists and motorists on SW Capitol Highway. As a former City Commissioner for the City of Portland in charge of transportation, I am very aware of the tremendous need for these improvements. While you can give accolades to the overall transportation package that was passed during the legislative session, the suggestion that the SW Capitol Highway has not been appropriately vetted or carefully considered is completely false. The Portland City Council adopted the Capitol Highway Improvement Plan in 1996 after years of neighborhood advocacy and community involvement. The City was finally able to secure funding of $8 million for the project in 2016 after voters approved the Fixing Our Streets funding program. The project’s completion hinges on the State of Oregon’s investment of $2 million. This project was carefully vetted and considered on its own merits by both chambers of the legislature. To imply otherwise is misguided and wrong. I urge you in the strongest terms possible to prioritize the safety in the SW Capitol Highway corridor and rescind your veto threat for Section 83 of House Bill 5006. Sincerely, Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress ###
08.09.2017	Portland, Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue inviting him to visit Oregon as he travels the country seeking feedback for the next Farm Bill. In the letter, Blumenauer encourages Secretary Perdue to hear from Oregon food and farm stakeholders about how the Farm Bill should be changed to better serve Oregon's needs and improve U.S. food and farm policies. Oregon was not a stop on Secretary Perdue’s “Back to Our Roots” RV tour. Over the last two years, Blumenauer has gathered feedback from a diverse range of food and farm stakeholders about their priorities for the next Farm Bill. He announced last week that he will soon introduce comprehensive food and farm legislation that incorporates this feedback. The legislation will refocus federal resources on those who need it most, foster innovation, encourage investments in people and the planet, and ensure access to healthy foods. Blumenauer also released his report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” The full letter to Secretary Perdue is below. Click here for an electronic version of the letter. August 9, 2017 The Honorable Sonny Perdue Secretary of Agriculture U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave., S.W. Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Perdue: As you wrap up your Back to Our Roots RV tour across the Midwestern states, I invite you to next expand your horizons and visit my home state of Oregon, where exciting things are happening in our food and farm industries, but additional federal investment through the Farm Bill is needed. Producing more than 220 commodities as part of its agriculture and fisheries, Oregon may be small, but it is a powerful player in specialty, sustainable, and organic crop production. With 12 agricultural commodities exceeding $100 million in production value, Oregon is different from many Midwestern states, which rely upon a small handful of crops. It’s worth your time to see this difference and hear from Oregon food and farm interests as you gather information from states in advance of the reauthorization of the Farm Bill. Given my constituents’ interest in sustainable agriculture and access to healthy food, I have already done some of the work for you. Over the course of two years, I gathered feedback from a diverse range of food and farm stakeholders – farmers, ranchers, agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutrition advocates, conservation interests, winemakers, nurseries, wheatgrowers, processors, agricultural policy advocates, and more – about their priorities for the next Farm Bill. This feedback is documented in the enclosed report, entitled Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American. Some of these proposals were even included in your Fiscal Year 2018 Budget. I invite you to take a look. Oregon has much to offer and is similar to many states that are underserved by Farm Bill programs. Please consider visiting our state as you tour the country seeking input on the next bill. You won’t be disappointed. Sincerely, ###
08.01.2017	Portland, Ore. – As Congress begins the process of reauthorizing the Farm Bill, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today announced that he will soon introduce comprehensive food and farm legislation to refocus federal resources on those who need it most, foster innovation, encourage investments in people and the planet, and ensure access to healthy foods. Blumenauer announced the legislation—which will be introduced in the fall—at an event with local farmers, conservationists, chefs, nutrition advocates, and other stakeholders, many of whom have engaged with him on ways the Farm Bill should be changed to better serve Oregon's needs and improve our nation’s food and farm policies. Today, Blumenauer also released his report, “Growing Opportunities: Reforming the Farm Bill for Every American.” “For too long the Farm Bill has helped the wrong people grow the wrong food in the wrong places,” said Blumenauer. “We need the right food and farm policy that will help all families and farmers, as well as the environment.” Blumenauer’s legislation will ensure more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective U.S. agricultural policies by: Reining in excessive spending in commodity programs; Cutting wasteful crop insurance and making it work better for farmers who need it; Investing in the future of American farmers through increased resources and land access for beginning and small farmers; Strengthening nutrition programs and feeding more Americans; Reducing food waste and ensuring that more resources go to the needy; Reforming conservation programs to be more cost-effective and outcome-driven; Enhancing innovative research and development towards organic and sustainable agriculture; and Focusing federal investments in local and regional food systems. Click here to read a full summary. Background on Blumenauer’s Food & Farm Efforts Blumenauer’s legislation is the result of his Sing Your Own Farm Bill project, a multi-year effort to engage a wide variety of stakeholders in creating a more visionary, equitable, and cost-effective Farm Bill. As part of this project, Blumenauer has met with agricultural researchers, farmworkers, nutrition advocates, conservation interests, winemakers, nurseries, wheat growers, small and mid-sized farmers and ranchers, processors, agricultural policy advocates, and more. Together, they have brainstormed how federal agricultural policies could be best shaped to meet Oregon’s distinct and varied needs. Blumenauer’s legislation includes the policy priorities that have grown out of this feedback. ###
07.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, condemned the House Rules Committee decision to block his amendment to make it easier for qualified veterans to access state-legal medical marijuana. The Committee’s vote prevents Blumenauer from offering the amendment when the House considers the FY 2018 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill later this week. Blumenauer released the following statement: “All we want is equal treatment for our wounded warriors. This provision overwhelmingly passed on the House floor last year – and bipartisan support has only grown. It’s outrageous that the Rules Committee won’t even allow a vote for our veterans. They deserve better. They deserve compassion. “Given that veterans are more likely to commit suicide or die from opiate overdoses than civilians, our fight to provide them safer alternatives won’t stop here. We have stronger support in the House and Senate than ever before, and we will keep advocating for a more rational approach.” The bipartisan amendment was co-sponsored by: Representatives Justin Amash (R-MI), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Luis Correa (D-CA), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Matt Gaetz (R-FL), Tom Garrett (R-VA), Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Tom McClintock (R-CA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Tom Reed (R-NY), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), and Don Young (R-AK). A similar amendment passed in the Senate Appropriations Committee earlier this month by a 24-7 vote. Background: Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms allowing a qualified veteran to participate in a state medical marijuana program. This forces veterans out of the VA system to seek a simple recommendation for treatment for eligible conditions under state laws. Blumenauer’s amendment ensures that no funds made available to the VA can be used to implement this prohibition, which would, in effect, strike it down. Last year, the amendment passed on the House floor by 233-189, but was ultimately stripped out of the final legislation that became law. ###
07.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Congressman Vern Buchanan (FL-16), co-chairs of the Congressional Bike Caucus, introduced the Bikeshare Transit Act. This bipartisan legislation supports local bikeshare programs by helping communities access federal funds for bikeshare facilities and equipment. While some existing bikeshare programs receive federal dollars, the lack of an established funding source is an impediment to many projects. The Bikeshare Transit Act makes clear that bikeshare projects are eligible for existing federal funding and defines bikeshare in federal transportation law, giving much-needed certainty to business owners, city and local officials, and commuters alike. This bill coincides with the one-year anniversary of Portland’s successful BIKETOWN bikeshare launch. Since its launch, more than 75,000 Portlanders and visitors have taken hundreds of thousands of trips, covering more than half a million miles. Additionally, over 100 communities across the country now have bikeshare systems, supporting a network of 4,800 stations and over 42,000 bikes. Since 2010, riders around the country have taken more than 88 million trips, with the number of trips and systems increasing each year. “Bikeshare systems are tremendous assets in communities. They’re fun and practical to use, provide more options for people to get around town, and promote economic development,” Blumenauer said. “Our legislation will remove significant barriers facing new and existing bikeshare projects applying for federal funding, giving more people much-needed access to efficient, carbon-free transportation.” “Bikeshare programs help people stay active, promote a clean environment and are good for the economy,” Buchanan said. “I’m excited to join Congressman Blumenauer in supporting legislation that will make it easier for more of these programs to receive federal funding.” ###
07.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the first meeting of Trump’s “Presidential Commission on Election Integrity.” Blumenauer has introduced legislation that would ensure automatic voter registration is available to all Americans and expand Oregon’s successful vote-by-mail model nationwide. Additionally, he has joined colleagues in introducing legislation to: Support early voting and weekend voting opportunities; Prohibit discriminatory photo identification requirements; Require that states provide same-day voter registration. “This commission is a step backward in the centuries-long fight for equal access to the ballot. The fact that it’s being headed by elected officials from two states with a long history of voter suppression – Mike Pence from Indiana and Kris Kobach from Kansas – is revealing of its underlying nature. The commission is nothing but an attempt to further disenfranchise American voters and feed Trump’s ego. “Trump’s commission is masking the real problem with our electoral system: voter suppression is on the rise in states across the country. That’s why I’ve worked to make it easier to vote by promoting Oregon’s successful automatic voter registration and vote-by-mail systems at the national level. “Voting is a fundamental right, and any attempts to undermine it must be stopped.” ###
07.14.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Ted Poe (TX-02) welcomed news that Israel and the Palestinians have reached an agreement to provide some much-needed drinking water to severely water-stressed Palestinian communities, especially to those in Gaza. In May, Blumenauer and Poe led a bipartisan group of members in urging the Trump administration to prioritize the issue of water in its effort to build peace between Israelis and Palestinians. Last week, while Blumenauer was in Israel, he met with Israeli and Palestinian officials at the highest levels and encouraged them to prioritize water and sanitation relief for the Gaza strip. Currently, 97 percent of the water is not safe for human consumption, and its quality is getting worse. “We’ve worked on this issue for years now, and it’s gratifying to see a tangible expression of what’s possible. While the agreement is modest in terms of the overall need, the cooperation is significant,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The health and security implications of unsafe water and non-existent sanitation are a threat not just to people in Gaza, but to those in Israel. We hope this issue will receive the priority that it needs and that the United States builds on its successful participation.” “Water is a basic necessity for us all, and an issue of mutual interest among people on both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,” said Congressman Poe. “Today we learned that such a deal has indeed been reached, which not only addresses the vital issue of access to water but could also represent a crucial confidence building measure between two adversaries. It is my sincere hope that this cooperative step will mark a new mutually beneficial chapter in the bloody history of the Holy Land.” “Bipartisan congressional leadership led by Congressmen Blumenauer and Poe that called on the Trump Administration to move quickly on water issues today bore fruit,” said Gidon Bromberg, Israeli co-Director EcoPeace Middle East. “The water now to flow into Gaza is the most critical and shows clearly that greater efforts need to be made on electricity supply to Gaza.” ###
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), co-chair of the Animal Protection Caucus, today condemned the House Appropriations Committee for voting to overturn the longstanding ban on horse slaughter. Blumenauer is an original cosponsor of legislation to permanently ban this practice and issued the following statement: “Why the Appropriations Committee would undermine years of precedent and protections for America’s horses makes absolutely no sense. Today’s vote is unconscionable. Congress has repeatedly banned inspections of horse meat processing facilities to make sure that horses are not slaughtered and consumed by people within our borders. “While some members of the Appropriations Committee may think it’s their job to roll back these common-sense safeguards, there is a strong bipartisan coalition in the House and Senate who agrees with the American public that horse slaughter must end. This isn’t over, and we will look for opportunities to reinstate the ban as the appropriations process continues.” ###
06.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) rebuked false claims made by Smart Approaches to Marijuana (SAM) that critical medical marijuana protections were stripped from Fiscal Year 2018 funding legislation. The policy championed by Representatives Blumenauer and Rohrabacher that prevents the Department of Justice from interfering in the ability of states to implement legal medical marijuana laws (previously known as “Rohrabacher-Farr”) has never been included in the base Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies (CJS) Subcommittee Appropriations bill. Rather, in previous years, Congress has amended the base CJS bill to include these critical protections. Representative Blumenauer said: “The folks at SAM clearly don’t understand the legislative process. Our amendment has never been in the CJS Subcommittee’s bill. There is no news here. We are exactly where we thought we would be in the legislative process and look forward to amending the underlying bill once again this year to make sure medical marijuana programs, and the patients who rely on them, are protected. Voters in states across the country have acted to legalize medical marijuana. Congress should not act against the will of the people who elected us.” ###
06.27.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the Trump administration’s proposal to repeal the Clean Water Rule, finalized by the Obama Administration. “As Republicans in Congress and the Administration work to eliminate health care coverage for millions of Americans, Trump’s also gutting protections for clean water. “This is absolutely shameful. Everyone has a right to clean and safe drinking water – that’s why Congress passed the Clean Water Act in the first place. We need to be doing more to improve water quality at home in Oregon and across the country, not less. “Donald Trump and Scott Pruitt have displayed little regard for that right, not to mention endangering public health and ignoring science. This Administration continues to roll back critical regulations in order to mollify industry polluters, undermining the basic scientific integrity of agency experts, and putting our environment at risk. “There will undoubtedly be more attacks like these ahead. We must stay loud in our opposition to these rollbacks. The health of our country depends on it.” ###
06.19.2017	Washington, DC – In an interview today on CNBC’s Squawk Box, Secretary of Energy Rick Perry denied that CO2 emissions are primarily responsible for climate change, stating instead that “the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in.” In response, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today sent a letter to Perry with educational materials outlining the basic established science behind climate change. Blumenauer and 32 of his colleagues sent the same materials to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt in March following Pruitt’s similar comments on CO2 emissions. “This is a disturbing case of déjà vu, as two of the administration’s top energy and environment ‘leaders’ continue to ignore basic climate science,” said Blumenauer. “Their assertions are wrong and go against conclusions drawn by NASA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and 97 percent of climate scientists. Their jobs demand at least a basic understanding of established science, and the American people demand climate action.” The full text of Blumenauer’s letter to Secretary Perry is below: Dear Secretary Perry: Please find enclosed a copy of materials 32 of my colleagues and I sent to EPA Administrator Pruitt after he claimed on CNBC’s Squawk Box that carbon dioxide is not a primary contributor to climate change. Your appearance on the same show and remarks to the same effect make clear that you too need to read the enclosed reports. Sincerely, Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Enclosed with the letter was a copy of the U.S. Global Change Research Program’s Climate Literacy Guide, a climate-oriented approach for learners of all ages. This guide was developed by current climate scientists, formal and informal educators, and representatives of a range of U.S. agencies in order to explain a number of important concepts behind climate change. In addition, the letter included a copy of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis report, and the highlights from the latest U.S. National Climate Assessment. ###
06.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement on Trump’s decision to roll back key elements of the Obama Administration’s Cuba policy: “This decision is ridiculous. The United States is returning to its shortsighted and counterproductive policies of the past. They did no good before and will do no good now. “The U.S. embargo has done little to affect real change on the ground, but has done much to hurt the ordinary citizens of Cuba. In fact, a renewed policy of isolation will likely empower Cuban hardliners. If Trump wants to help Cuba move toward a more open, democratic system, then he needs to constructively engage with the country, not reverse course.” ###
06.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Blumenauer today released the following statement on the decision by the Department of Homeland Security to roll back the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) program and continue the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “The decision to revoke DAPA is heartless and inhumane. These are the parents of American citizens. Imagine a young child being torn apart from his or her parents. Instilling fear and uncertainty will do nothing but harm. “I implore Trump to take a step back, drop his hateful immigration agenda, and pursue a more rational and compassionate approach. “The only bright spot is that the DACA program remains intact, at least for now. With ICE agents targeting DREAMers in recent months, it’s all the more critical we hold this administration accountable to keep our commitment to those children who put their faith in us.” ###
06.13.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Adam Smith (WA-09), Barbara Lee (CA-13), and Mike Quigley (IL-05) today led a group of more than 40 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in urging Donald Trump to implement a more rational approach to U.S. nuclear policy as his administration develops its Nuclear Posture Review – a Congressionally-mandated review of U.S. nuclear policy that the Pentagon must complete every four years. In a letter to Trump, the lawmakers urge him to: 1) reaffirm U.S. leadership for reducing the role and number of nuclear weapons globally; 2) support U.S.-led efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and materials; 3) pursue a more cost-effective approach to sustaining and upgrading the U.S. nuclear arsenal; and 4) include all relevant voices – including outside experts – in the Nuclear Posture Review process. “The United States should be leading the fight against the spread of nuclear weapons. Trump’s dismissal of international efforts, like New START, and his proposed budget plans to accelerate nuclear weapons spending, are taking us in the wrong direction,” said Blumenauer. “Trump and his administration owe it to the American people, and to future generations, to take a hard look and reevaluate nuclear weapons planning, for the sake of global stability and fiscal sanity.” “The Nuclear Posture Review must be a meaningful, substantive assessment of what is necessary and affordable to maintain our nuclear forces, not simply a rubber-stamp for the $1.2 trillion modernization and sustainment plan that is unaffordable and unnecessary,” said Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “According to former STRATCOM Commander Adm. Cecil Haney, this nuclear modernization plan could cost nearly 10% of the defense budget. We need to know whether that is really the best use of defense funds. This posture review is a key opportunity to make decisions that will strengthen strategic stability and reduce the risks of a costly and dangerous nuclear arms race.” “President Trump has sent alarming signals that he will abandon the international consensus on nuclear disarmament and instead pursue a dangerous global arms race,” said Lee. “This would be a grave mistake. As the Trump Administration writes a new Nuclear Posture Review, I urge them to remember their sacred responsibility to create a safer world for the next generation. The reduction of our nuclear arsenal has long been a bipartisan priority; it’s past time for President Trump to show he shares this commitment to the principles of global nuclear de-escalation and non-proliferation.” “Escalating tensions with North Korea reinforce the need for a strong multilateral diplomatic approach to rolling back the rouge nation’s nuclear program and intensifying our global efforts to prevent a 21st century nuclear arms race,” said Quigley. “President Trump’s past statements on the issue have shown a clear lack of concern or understanding of the threat of nuclear proliferation. The Nuclear Posture Review can serve as an opportunity to clear up any confusion and reassure our allies around the world that it remains one of America’s top national security priorities to prevent terrorists and rouge states from acquiring nuclear materials and weapons. It can also illustrate our commitment to reducing our own deployed nuclear arsenal, which the Pentagon has determined can be cut by one-third without compromising our security requirements.” Click here to read the letter. ###
06.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today will introduce legislation to ensure Donald Trump has a stake in the catastrophic consequences of ignoring climate science. The Prohibiting Aid for Recipients Ignoring Science (PARIS) Act will prevent properties owned by a president or his or her family from receiving federally subsidized flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Introduction of the legislation follows Trump’s efforts to undermine environmental protections and reject the science of climate change – including his decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord. Most recently, media reports on Sunday indicate that Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt left a G7 two-day session on climate early. The United States today also refused to sign a G7 commitment on climate action. “The American people should not be responsible for bailing out leaders who ignore science to gain political points, while subjecting the United States – and the rest of the world – to the catastrophic effects of climate change,” said Blumenauer. “Trump may choose to reject science, but he can’t ignore the impacts – especially as they happen in his own backyard.” Climate change is already affecting us as sea levels are rising at an accelerated pace in communities in coastal Florida and elsewhere in the United States. Many of Trump’s own properties in Florida are prone to flooding. A recent analysis predicts that in 30 years Mar-a-Lago could be under at least a foot of water for more than half the year. With intensifying flooding and severe storms to come, the PARIS Act makes sure that Trump and his family do not receive the benefit of federally subsidized flood insurance while he ignores the science of climate change. The PARIS Act is co-sponsored by Representatives Gerald Connolly (VA-11), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03), Ro Khanna (CA-17), and Jamie Raskin (MD-08). In response to Trump’s decision, Blumenauer also led a group of West Coast members of Congress urging the Governors of Oregon, California, and Washington to maintain a “green wall” of resistance by continuing their climate leadership and upholding the core tenets and goals of the landmark Paris Climate Accord. ###
06.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Sens. Mark R. Warner (D-VA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA), both members of the Senate Finance Committee, and Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Phil Roe (R-TN), a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, introduced bipartisan legislation designed to give people with serious illness new tools to plan for their care, and empower them to have those choices honored. The Patient Choice and Quality Care Act of 2017 offers a person-centered approach to planning for care and treatment of patients with advanced illness by testing and evaluating new models for the delivery of care to patients with serious illnesses, and enhancing existing Medicare coverage for end-of-life services to help ensure that the care a patient receives is in line with their values and choices. The bill also provides $50 million in grants to promote public and provider education about advance care planning and care. “When faced with a serious illness, we must empower individuals to have the freedom to control how they will live and be taken care of for the rest of their lives. Having early conversations on this very difficult topic can help families and patients have their wishes known and their voices heard,” said Sen. Warner, whose mother, Marjorie, passed away from Alzheimer’s disease in 2010 at the age of 81.“One of my biggest regrets is not having these discussions with my own mother, who suffered for 11 years with Alzheimer’s. Nine of those years, she couldn’t speak. Our bill will help patients get the care that they want, and allows their doctor and providers to better understand the choices they and their loved ones have made for their future. “I strongly believe that, when a person is faced with life-threatening illness, having a face-to-face conversation with their doctors, caregivers and religious advisors is crucial to wise decision-making,” said Sen. Isakson. “The Patient Choice and Quality Care Act of 2017 empowers patients to take charge of their own health care by providing them with the opportunity to make more informed choices and the power to have those choices honored. From my own experience with my parents, I understand how difficult these decisions can be, and having a plan helps offer a higher quality of life during a loved one’s last days.” “Our healthcare system fails to support families confronting serious medical decisions. I’ve worked for a decade to make sure patients and their loved ones can work with their doctor to navigate the health care process at the end of life,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “This bipartisan, bicameral legislation builds on the progress we’ve made to deliver patient-centered care, and it gives providers, families, and caregivers the tools they need to face these challenging issues.” “As a physician, some of the hardest discussions I’ve ever had were about a patient’s end-of-life wishes. Whether it was with a patient of mine, or someone in my own family, these conversations – while difficult – are so critically important in providing certainty and comfort when caring for a loved one with a serious illness, which is why I’m proud to partner with Rep. Blumenauer to introduce the Patient Choice and Quality Care Act,” said Rep. Roe. “Encouraging patients and their families to have these conversations with their physician helps provide peace of mind and undoubtedly increases the likelihood a patient’s care will be consistent with their wishes.” This legislation has the support of both national and local health care and elder advocacy organizations including: Alzheimer’s Association, American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) American Bar Association, American Geriatrics Society, American Heart Association, American Osteopathic Association (AOA), American Society of Aging, Blue Cross Blue Shield of California, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Cambia Health Solutions, Capital Caring Hospice, Catholic Health Association, Coalition to Transform Advanced Care (C-TAC), Commonwealth Care Alliance, Compassus, LeadingAge, National Association for Home Care & Hospice, National Coalition on Healthcare, National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization (NHPCO), National Partnership for Hospice Innovation (NPHI), National POLST Task Force, Pew Charitable Trusts, Social Work Hospice & Palliative Care Network, Third Way, and Visiting Nurses Associations of America. The Patient Choice and Quality Care Act: Establishes an advance illness care and management Medicare model, which would test new ways to enable individuals to voluntarily engage in a team-based planning process designed to align the care a patient receives with his or her goals of care, values, and preferences. Members of an interdisciplinary team would work together to meet the physical, medical, psychosocial, emotional, and spiritual needs of the patient and caregivers by providing important information and services. Provides grants for increasing public awareness of advance care planning and advance illness care by appropriating $50 million for a public education campaign. Enhances Medicare’s existing coverage of advance care planning services by allowing appropriately trained or experienced clinical social workers to provide advance care planning services, and ensuring that costs are not a barrier to patients using these services. Facilitates increased coordination and alignment between the public and private sector through quality measures, which includes a review of current measuring concepts and preferred practices in end-of-life care. It also requires the National Institute of Health to conduct a study regarding the development of measures related to key gaps, such as ensuring that care aligns with patient wishes, to better understand the population that would benefit from palliative care and advance care planning, and decide the appropriate transitions to hospice. The holistic review culminates in an annual study issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Improves of policies related to the use and portability of advance directives and portable orders by requiring Medicare providers of services and entities to follow individuals’ preferences, regardless of the state or site of care. Sets-up an Advance Care Planning Advisory Council to advise the HSS Secretary on these issues and institutes additional requirements for facilities to assure that care plans made while an individual receives care are appropriately documented prior to discharge and sent to appropriate providers and facilities upon discharge. “AARP is pleased to endorse the bipartisan Patient Choice and Quality Care Act of 2017. We appreciate the bipartisan leadership of Senators Warner (D-VA) and Isakson (R-GA) and Representatives Blumenauer (D-OR) and Roe, MD (R-TN) in sponsoring this legislation to help provide individuals with information about their options to help them make the decisions that are best for them and communicate those choices to others. Importantly for AARP, this legislation recognizes and supports the role that family caregivers often play in providing and coordinating care for their loved ones,” said Joyce A. Rogers, AARP’s Senior Vice President, Government Affairs. “Persons facing serious illness or approaching the end of life need compassionate, coordinated, patient and family-centered care based on their needs and wishes. This legislation would help ensure that Medicare patients facing serious or life-threatening illness have enhanced access to care planning and coordination of services to ensure patients receive the care they want and need. As our country looks for ways to improve health care quality for persons with serious illness, we commend Sens. Warner and Isakson and Reps. Blumenauer and Roe for working to improve access to patient-centered and coordinated care planning to help us reach this goal,” said Sr. Carol Keehan, DC, President and CEO of the Catholic Health Association of the United States. "C-TAC applauds the introduction of the Patient Choice and Quality Care Act of 2017. This bipartisan - and bicameral – legislation is a critical step forward to ensure that all Americans with advanced illness receive high-quality, person-centered care that is consistent with their goals, values, and wishes. C-TAC congratulates Senators Warner and Isakson and Representatives Blumenauer and Roe on their leadership to improve advanced illness and end-of-life care and we look forward to working toward the passage of this critical legislation,” said Bill Novelli, Co-Chair of C-TAC’s Board of Directors. “The American Heart Association thanks Senators Warner and Isakson, as well as Representatives Blumenauer and Roe for leading this bipartisan effort to better support people who depend on Medicare and are confronting chronic illness, including heart disease and stroke,” said American Heart Association CEO Nancy Brown. “Advanced care planning is particularly important for heart failure and stroke patients given the complex and changing nature of these illnesses. Many of these patients, like others facing serious illness, are seeking relief from suffering and a greater sense of control that allows them to cherish time with loved ones and alleviate the burden on their family members, who often act as their primary caregivers. Palliative care helps accomplish these goals by focusing on supporting the patient and their individual needs and wishes, and this bill will help more Americans with heart disease and stroke obtain these critically needed care and services.” “Individuals with serious and advanced illness are often faced with difficult, complicated or overwhelming health care decisions,” said Edo Banach, NHPCO President and CEO. “This legislation would provide much-needed support to those patients as they traverse the health care system, and would also ensure that their emotional, spiritual and family needs are met. We applaud the Sens. Warner and Isakson, and Reps. Blumenauer and Roe for their leadership on behalf of individuals with serious and advanced illness.” “The Patient Care and Quality Choice Act is a tremendous step forward in providing access to advanced illness care for Medicare beneficiaries around the country. The National Partnership for Hospice Innovation (NPHI) is thrilled to support this transformative bill and its promotion of high quality, advanced illness care by community-based hospices and other providers,” said Tom Koutsoumpas, President and CEO of National Partnership for Hospice Innovations. Sens. Warner and Isakson and Reps. Blumenauer and Roe have been longstanding advocates in Congress for improved access and quality of medical care for some of our country’s most vulnerable patients. They have previously introduced legislation to expand advance care planning options. For more information on this bill, click here. ###
06.07.2017	Dear Friends, Our costly, redundant nuclear expansion is already draining resources – the latest 30-year price tag for this overhaul is set at more than $1.2 trillion dollars! And now, with someone who I feel is unpredictable and reckless in charge of the nuclear button, I believe there is a renewed need for reassessing the U.S. nuclear posture. Throughout my career, I’ve worked to reduce the development and threat of nuclear weapons. It’s critical to our safety and fiscal sanity, and for that of future generations. The United States already has more than enough of these weapons to destroy the earth multiple times, and they do not help us face our strategic challenges. It makes no sense and it’s irresponsible. How do nuclear weapons help us address the threat posed by the Islamic State? How does spending another trillion dollars on nukes encourage North Korea to temper its nuclear ambitions? The steps we take directly impact decisions of other nations. We need to change this approach. For one, the decision to use a nuclear weapon should never be made by one person alone. Earlier this year, I joined Representative Ted Lieu to introduce H.R. 669, legislation prohibiting any president—including the present one—from conducting a first-use nuclear strike without prior authorization from Congress. This legislation is more critical than ever. (Twitter, in my view, does not provide the best forum for serious national security policy.) The United States also faces budgetary constraints. I’d argue that the $1.2 trillion we’re going to spend to upgrade the entire nuclear arsenal would be better spent on other defense priorities and our veterans, to say nothing of roads, bridges and schools. That’s why I’m working on three legislative proposals with my colleagues to cut unnecessary spending: I’ve reintroduced my Smarter Approach to Nuclear Expenditures (SANE) Act to save the United States more than $100 billion over the next 10 years by reducing or eliminating redundant nuclear weapons programs. I’ve also introduced legislation that would limit funding for the Air Force's new nuclear air-launched cruise missile. We can maintain an effective bomber component of our arsenal without such a weapon, but the Air Force plans to replace 575 existing air-launched cruise missiles with 1,000 or more of these new weapons. Finally, I’m working with Senator Ed Markey on legislation that would cancel the Ground-Based Strategic Deterrent program, the replacement system for our land-based leg of the nuclear triad. We have more than 400 intercontinental ballistic missile systems across the country. While these forces may have provided accuracy that the rest of our arsenal did not during the Cold War, this is no longer the case. We are robbing America’s future to pay for weapons of the past that we can’t afford and that make us less secure, not safer. A more rational nuclear posture is the best expression of American leadership for a more peaceful future. Courage, Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress
06.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), along with members of the Oregon Congressional delegation, today led a moment of silence on the House floor to honor the heroism of Rick Best, Taliesin Myrddin Namkai-Meche, and Micah David-Cole Fletcher. On May 26, these brave individuals were brutally stabbed on local transit in Portland, OR as they protected two young women who were the targets of threatening anti-Muslim hate speech. Watch Blumenauer’s remarks here. Blumenauer, joined by Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley and Representatives Suzanne Bonamici, Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, and Greg Walden, last week introduced a joint resolution calling on Congress to honor these American heroes and to support efforts to overcome hatred, bigotry, and violence. The text of the resolution can be found here. ###
06.02.2017	Portland, Ore. – Representative Earl Blumenauer, Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, and Representatives Suzanne Bonamici, Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, and Greg Walden today announced that they will introduce a joint resolution to honor the heroism of Rick Best, Taliesin Myrddin Namkai-Meche, and Micah David-Cole Fletcher. On Friday, May 26, these brave individuals were brutally stabbed on local transit in Portland, OR as they protected two young women who were the targets of threatening anti-Muslim hate speech. The resolution calls on Congress to honor these American heroes and to support efforts to overcome hatred, bigotry, and violence. The text of the resolution can be found here. ###
06.01.2017	Portland, Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) yesterday named Patipon Ketmanee, a senior from David Douglas High School, as the winner of his art competition for high school students in the Third Congressional District. The announcement was made at Blumenauer’s public forum on protecting the arts, humanities, and public broadcasting. Patipon immigrated to the United States from Thailand three years ago and will study Art at the University of Oregon this fall. His artwork, titled “Dream House” will hang in the Congressman’s Washington, DC office. “Now more than ever, we need to be encouraging young artists to express their voices, not stifling them. Proud to have Patipon Ketmanee as our winner and looking forward to having his artwork in my D.C. office,” said Congressman Blumenauer. "Dream House" by Patipon Ketmanee Background on Decision to Boycott the Congressional Art Competition In April, Blumenauer decided his office would not participate in the Congressional Art Competition for the first time ever, and instead would hold its own art competition for high school students in the Third Congressional District. The decision followed the censorship of a student artist earlier this year. The competition sparked controversy when some Republican members of the House silenced a student artist from Missouri by repeatedly removing a painting from display. The painting portrayed conflict between the African American community and law enforcement in Ferguson after the death of Michael Brown, an unarmed black teen. Following pressure from Republican leadership, the painting was permanently removed – deemed a violation of a rule that artwork in the Capitol cannot “depict contemporary political controversy, or of a sensationalistic or gruesome nature.” Competition organizers intend to enforce this rule going forward. ###
05.31.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Jared Huffman (CA-02), and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) today led a group of 18 other West Coast members of the U.S House of Representatives in calling on the Governors of Oregon, California, and Washington to continue their climate leadership and to uphold the core tenets and goals of the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change. The letter to Governors Kate Brown, Jerry Brown, and Jay Inslee follows reports that Donald Trump is planning to withdraw the United States from the agreement. “Given the vacuum in climate leadership that has resulted from the election of Donald Trump, our states must continue to form a ‘green wall’ in the West that will maintain climate leadership in the United States. The Paris Agreement calls for significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, and if Donald Trump’s administration won’t lead, our states must,” the lawmakers wrote. “We call on you to continue to uphold our commitments made under the Paris Agreement, and to show international leadership where the current Administration has failed.” With the potential for catastrophic impacts if the United States fails to act on climate, Oregon, California, and Washington have made significant climate progress at the state level, helping to reduce carbon pollution in the United States and bolster the states’ economies. Oregon recently revised its Renewable Portfolio Standard to require 50 percent of the state’s electricity to come from renewable energy sources by 2040, which will substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel energy. California implemented an aggressive state-wide carbon reduction goals by requiring a 40 percent reduction below 1990 levels by 2030, leading to the emergence of thousands of clean jobs that bolster the economy. Washington state earlier this year implemented the Clean Air Rule, effectively putting a price on carbon pollution. The lawmakers commended these efforts and urged for continued state leadership, writing: “While President Trump continues to ignore reality, we are particularly grateful for your efforts. In order to send a signal to the international community, and to uphold our obligations to current and future generations, we encourage you to continue to aggressively address the threat of climate change and abide by this international effort.” The letter was signed by Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Adam Smith (WA-09), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), John Garamendi (CA-03), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Ted W. Lieu (CA-33), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24), Susan A. Davis (CA-53), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Adam B. Schiff (CA-28), and Denny Heck (WA-10). The full text of the letter is below. Click here for an electronic version of the letter. Dear Governor Brown, Governor Brown, and Governor Inslee: We applaud your leadership in combatting climate change and your contributions to the global effort to curb greenhouse gas emissions. As members of Congress representing states on the West Coast of the United States, we all know how much we have to lose if we are unable to address this threat, and it is vital to our constituents that we do everything we can to address it. If the Trump Administration decides to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement on climate change, we urge you to continue to uphold the core tenets and goals of this important international plan. We strongly disagree with President Trump’s decision to abdicate America’s leadership role, allowing other nations to lead on clean energy and job creation. As you know, on December 12, 2015, the United States signed the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Under President Obama’s leadership, our nation joined the rest of the international community in taking a concrete step to address climate change. The agreement provided a blueprint to keep global temperatures from increasing above 2°Celcius, with a goal of limiting the increase to 1.5°Celcius, a level that would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change. The Paris Agreement strengthened the ability of vulnerable countries to deal with the impacts of climate change, and aimed to make financing adequate to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing climate resiliency. The signing of this landmark agreement was the culmination of decades of diplomatic efforts, based on clear scientific consensus. It involved nearly every country in the world. Unfortunately, our current President has cast serious doubts on the veracity of the very basic underlying science of climate change, and has made it his goal to limit the United States’ actions on climate change altogether. Any misguided action to force the United States to leave the Paris Agreement would undermine years of diplomatic work and threatens our nation’s reputation and credibility with the rest of the world. In our home states of California, Oregon, and Washington we could see catastrophic impacts from rising sea levels on our coastlines to delicate ecosystems torn apart by higher temperatures, changing streamflows, and increases in pests and disease. In fact, we are already seeing some of the effects of delayed action, with record droughts impacting our agriculture, forestry, and recreation industries and ocean acidification rippling through shellfish hatcheries across our coasts. President Trump either does not understand the seriousness of these impacts, or does not care. California, Oregon, and Washington have made significant progress in addressing climate change. At the state level, California has led the way by implementing an aggressive state-wide carbon reduction goals by requiring a 40 percent reduction below 1990 levels by 2030, leading to the emergence of thousands of clean jobs that bolster the economy. In Oregon, the state recently revised its Renewable Energy Portfolio to require 50 percent of the state’s electricity to come from renewable energy sources by 2040, which will substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel energy. In Washington state, the Clean Air Rule was implemented earlier this year, effectively putting a price on carbon dioxide. All of these efforts have had a significant impact on reducing carbon pollution in the United States and bolstering our states economies. Given the vacuum in climate leadership that has resulted from the election of Donald Trump, our states must continue to form a “green wall” in the West that will maintain climate leadership in the United States. The Paris Agreement calls for significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, and if Donald Trump’s administration won’t lead, our states must. We call on you to continue to uphold our commitments made under the Paris Agreement, and to show international leadership where the current Administration has failed. While President Trump continues to ignore reality, we are particularly grateful for your efforts. In order to send a signal to the international community, and to uphold our obligations to current and future generations, we encourage you to continue to aggressively address the threat of climate change and abide by this international effort. Sincerely, ###
05.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement after reports that Donald Trump is planning to withdraw the United States from the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change. “If Donald Trump thinks that he can put his head in the sand, ignore climate change, and instead subject the world to rising sea levels, stronger storms, and harsh droughts then he is wrong. As the second largest emitter of carbon pollution, the United States has an obligation and a commitment to protect our planet from climate change. Instead, Donald Trump has made it clear he’d rather have our country join Syria and Nicaragua as the only nonparticipants to the Paris Agreement. He cannot repeal economics, he cannot repeal technology, and he cannot repeal science. If Trump won't provide climate leadership, Oregon will.” ###
05.25.2017	Washington (May 25, 2017) – Following release of a Trump administration budget that proposes to increase spending on nuclear weapons by billions of dollars, Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) today introduced bicameral legislation that would cut $100 billion from the wasteful nuclear weapons budget over the next decade. The Smarter Approach to Nuclear Expenditures (SANE) Act improves national security and budgetary sanity by cutting redundant and destabilizing nuclear programs. Upgrading and maintaining nuclear warheads and production facilities over the next 30 years is expected to cost nearly $1 trillion. The legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.). The House bill has 11 co-sponsors. “It is time we inserted some desperately-needed sanity into America’s budget priorities,” said Senator Markey. “As President Trump proposes devastating cuts to Medicare, food assistance, and Head Start, it makes no sense to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on new nuclear weapons that undermine deterrence and make Americans less safe. We should fund education, not annihilation. The SANE Act cuts nuclear weapons and delivery systems that we don’t need so we can invest in the people and programs that will make America safe and prosperous in the future.” “Nuclear weapons are not going to make us safer and they’re not going to help us deal with the threats we face today,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Why would we spend $1 trillion on them over the next 30 years? It makes no sense. With Trump’s budget proposal, it’s even more critical we have a serious conversation about dialing back unnecessary – and dangerous – weapons systems.” The Smarter Approach to Nuclear Expenditures (SANE) Act will: Reduce the purchase of Columbia-class submarines from 12 to 8, cut the existing ICBM fleet from over 400 to 150, and reduce deployed strategic warheads from approximately 1,500 to 1,000 – saving $17 billion Cancel the life extension program for the tactical B61 gravity bomb and cancel the development of a new air-launched cruise missile, the LRSO – saving $10 billion Cancel development of new ICBMs and cut the life extension program for the IW-1 warhead – saving $22 billion Delay the new B-21 long range bomber and remove the nuclear mission from the F-35 – saving more than $46.1 billion Cancel construction of new nuclear processing facilities – saving $8 billion A copy of the SANE Act can be found HERE. “As the Trump administration seeks to slash spending on health care and other essential programs, the United States simply cannot afford to spend over $1 Trillion on nuclear weapons, as President Trump plans to do,” said Tom Z. Collina, Director of Policy at Ploughshares Fund. “We must prioritize the needs of Main Street USA over defense contractors. The SANE Act lays out a common sense approach to saving hundreds of billions in nuclear spending that will actually enhance US national security.” “As a new nuclear arms race looms and wasteful Pentagon spending soars at the expense of diplomacy, the SANE Act is a measured, responsible policy that ensures that war is not our first resort,” said Megan Amundson, Executive Director of Women's Action for New Directions. “The current, all-of-the-above plan for replacing and upgrading the U.S. nuclear arsenal being pursued by the Trump administration is unaffordable and would rob resources from other vital national priorities. The current plan would maintain a force level that exceeds defense requirements by at least one-third according to a 2013 Pentagon assessment,” said Daryl G. Kimball, executive director of the nonpartisan Arms Control Association. "With the SANE Act, Sen. Markey and others show that there are other options that would save taxpayer dollars by trimming, delaying or cancelling new weapons programs, while still maintaining a formidable nuclear force capable of deterring any nuclear adversary. We urge Congress to pursue a more cost effective and common sense strategy.” “60 years ago, Peace Action, then called, The Committee for a SANE Nuclear Policy formed because of public concern that a nuclear war between Russia and the U.S. would end humanity. Unfortunately, we still face that risk today. Today, Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) reintroduced the Smarter Approach to Nuclear Expenditures (SANE) Act with 14 other Members of Congress that will reduce the risk of nuclear war and make Americans safer. Not only is this bill SANE, it’s a smart way to save taxpayer dollars at a time when voters need job creation, education, health care and other security priorities,” said Paul Kawika Martin, Senior Director, Policy and Political Affairs, Peace Action (formerly SANE/Freeze). ###
05.23.2017	Trump’s budget plan would eviscerate working families across America, hitting hardest the poor, disabled, elderly, and rural communities. Trump wants to gut Medicaid, CHIP (the program that provides health care to low-income kids), disability benefits, SNAP, Meals on Wheels, the student loan forgiveness program, as well as critical agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Interior. Everyone should examine the details and hard realities of this plan. I hope the public adds its voice to make it more likely Congress will do its job and reject the reckless, misplaced priorities of this administration. Here are some highlights of his proposed budget, that if enacted would make us less safe, less healthy, and less economically secure. Reduces Social Security benefits by up to $63 billion over 10 years, and targets Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI). Eliminates all federal funding for Planned Parenthood, which would disproportionately impact low-income women and families. Slashes Medicaid funding by $610 billion, which would force states to eliminate people’s health insurance coverage or reduce vital services. Proposes a 22% reduction in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). For Oregon, that means nearly $65 million NIH grant dollars lost in Fiscal Year 2018. Reduces $191 billion in funding from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). To make up for the lacking federal partnership, the state of Oregon would have to come up with $268 million. Cuts the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) block grant by 10%. Eliminates the HOME Investment Partnership Program, which helps produce affordable housing options. This includes a more than $30 million dollar cut to the HOME program here in Oregon. Proposes a 43% percent cut to important Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) programs. That means more than 85,400 Oregonians would lose access to job training and employment services. Eliminates $100 billion in funding from the Highway Trust Fund, which analysts estimate would cost Oregonians 15,064 jobs between FY 2021 and FY 2027. Slashes the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by 31%. This includes a 30% cut to the Superfund program – established to fund cleanup of hazardous waste sites. The budget proposal also eliminates the EPA Lead Categorical Grants program, which Oregon has benefitted from to fund lead-based paint abatement and renovation, minimizing lead dust hazards. Decreases the Department of the Interior budget by $1.6 billion. This agency operates the National Park Service, so the potential impact on national parks is deeply concerning. Eliminates $143 billion from federal student loans. This includes the elimination of federally subsidized loans and loan forgiveness programs for nurses, police officers, and teachers. This past year, in the Third Congressional District alone, 19,530 students received subsidized loans, totaling more than $74 million dollars. Slashes funding for the State Department and USAID by 31%. This means less funding for our global health programs (including a more than $150 million cut to international water, sanitation, and hygiene funding), international peacekeeping efforts, and contributions to international organizations, to name a few critical initiatives. Phases out public broadcasting by providing funding only for shutdown costs. In addition to halting federal support for public broadcasting, the budget zeros out three other pots of money for the Arts & Humanities — the National Endowment for the Arts ($148 million allocated last year), the National Endowment for the Humanities ($148 million), and the Institute of Museum and Library Services ($230 million). Calls for $639 billion in defense spending – a $52 billion boost above caps set by the Budget Control Act. Earmarks $1.6 billion to begin building a southern border wall.
05.11.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), released the following statement on Donald Trump’s issuance of an executive order to establish a “Presidential Commission on Election Integrity”: “This commission is nothing but an attempt to further disenfranchise American voters. The fact that it’s headed by elected officials from two states with a long history of voter suppression – Mike Pence from Indiana and Kris Kobach from Kansas – is revealing of its underlying nature. “We have independent analysis showing that Trump’s claim of, “millions of people,” voting illegally in the 2016 election is not only false, but entirely unfounded. He needs to let this go. This is just another shameless attempt to deflect attention from his Administration’s ties to Russia and controversy around his firing of James Comey. “Trump’s claims of voter fraud are masking the real problem with our electoral system: voter suppression is happening in states across the country. “We need to improve access to the ballot and make it easier to vote, not harder. That’s why Senator Wyden and I have been pushing for legislation to enact federal reform of our voting system to expand a tried and true solution: Oregon’s Vote By Mail program. “Voting is a fundamental right, and any attempts by the Trump regime to undermine that must be stopped.” ###
05.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, following the firing of FBI Director James Comey, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) re-issued his call for an independent prosecutor to investigate Russian interference in our election and ties to Donald Trump’s campaign and administration. “For months, I’ve been calling for an independent prosecutor. The firing of Comey only further solidifies the need for one NOW. “We cannot let Trump silence or stop this investigation. Congress has the power of oversight, and should put it to use. Despite this responsibility, Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell have failed the American people through their inaction. With something this grave that puts our constitutional system of justice at stake, turning a blind eye and not fully investigating to protect your president is wrong. If there was ever a time to put country over party, now is it.” In addition to pressing for an independent prosecutor, Blumenauer also joined colleagues earlier this year to introduce legislation that would create an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate Russian interference in the election, the Protecting our Democracy Act. ###
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Without an updated score from the Congressional Budget Office, House Republicans today forced a vote and passed their reckless legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act and destroy Medicaid. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) voted against the bill and released the following statement on its passage: “Today’s vote is a disgrace. There will be real-life, devastating consequences for working families, people with disabilities and pre-existing conditions, women and children, and seniors. Republicans should be ashamed. America will hold them accountable.” ###
05.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) welcomed the 2,500 additional visas for the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program included in the fiscal year 2017 (FY17) omnibus legislation. The bill is expected to be passed by Congress later this week. In March, the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan reported that it stopped scheduling visa interviews for Afghan SIV program applicants due to a shortage of visas. In response, Blumenauer and Kinzinger urged the Appropriations Committee to include additional visas in the FY17 omnibus bill and led a bipartisan group of 26 members to introduce H.R.1544, the Keeping Our Promise to Our Afghan Allies Act, to authorize 2,500 visas. “We need to bring our faithful allies to safety faster and more effectively, and today is a major step forward in support of that effort,” said Blumenauer. “We are going to continue fighting to keep this program alive, no matter the hurdle. This is the bare minimum we can do for those who risked their lives, and the lives of their families, to help our country.” “We made a promise to the men and women who served alongside us on the battlefield, and we must uphold that promise to leave no man behind. I’m glad to see the increased number of visas included in the budget. A good step in the right direction to show our support for those allies who have risked their lives to advance the cause of freedom, and protect the United States,” said Kinzinger. The Afghan SIV program was established to bring to safety brave men and women who risked their lives to help the U.S. mission on the ground in Afghanistan. As one of the key architects of the program in 2008, Blumenauer has long fought to keep it intact by passing legislation to maintain eligibility guidelines and ensure that there are enough visas allotted to keep the U.S. commitment to our allies. ###
05.01.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), co-chair of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, welcomed the extension of critical marijuana policy provisions through September 30 in the fiscal year 2017 omnibus funding legislation. The legislation is expected to be passed by Congress later this week. The funding bill includes: The policy championed by Representatives Blumenauer and Dana Rohrabacher that prevents the Department of Justice from interfering in the ability of states to implement legal medical marijuana laws (previously known as “Rohrabacher-Farr”); and Language that supports industrial hemp research allowed under Section 7606 of the 2014 Farm Bill. “Medical marijuana patients and the businesses that support them now have a measure of certainty,” said Blumenauer. “But this annual challenge must end. We need permanent protections for state-legal medical marijuana programs, as well as adult-use.” ###
04.26.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Donald Trump’s executive order on the Antiquities Act: “No surprise, Donald Trump is trying to cover up for his failed 100 days with another executive order that threatens our nation’s public lands. While this order claims to require a ‘review’ of more than two dozen monument designations, it is really just a thinly-veiled attempt to undermine important protections for some of our nation’s most remarkable treasures. “The Antiquities Act is a vital tool for protecting culturally and environmentally sensitive lands and sites – from the Grand Canyon to Stonewall Inn, Bears Ears to Oregon’s Cascade Siskiyou. These treasures are a boon to the economy, fueling tremendous growth in outdoor recreation and local tourism. National monuments should be celebrated, not sold off to the highest bidder. “Now is the time to be recognizing the cultural history, conservation legacy, and economic importance of our public lands. I will resist against any attempts by Donald Trump and the Republicans in Congress to weaken these critical components of our American identity.” ###
04.06.2017	Portland, Ore. -- Congressman Earl Blumenauer released the following statement on U.S. airstrikes in Syria: "While it is clear that Assad’s use of chemical weapons is reprehensible, the missile attack on Syria tonight is disturbing. Besides the fact that Congress was not consulted, this was a complete reversal of Trump’s previous positions. This turning on a dime makes it hard to believe he has thought this out and has a sense of where this all leads. "If Trump's concern for the Syrian people is real, he should start by allowing refugees back in the country, fully funding humanitarian assistance, working on a comprehensive strategy to provide stability in that region, and obtaining a new and current Authorization for Use of Military Force from Congress." ###
04.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) announced that for the first time ever his office will not participate in the Congressional Art Competition. This decision follows the censorship of a student artist earlier this year, and the competition’s organizers decision to enforce a rule that would prohibit submissions that “depict contemporary political controversy, or of a sensationalistic or gruesome nature.” The Office of Congressman Blumenauer will hold its own art competition for high school students in the Third Congressional District. The winning entry will hang in Congressman Blumenauer’s Washington, DC office. “Artistic expression is critical to a healthy and vibrant democracy. In good conscience, I cannot be part of a contest that restricts the expression of young artists and their first amendment rights,” said Blumenauer. “We must defend the Arts – now under attack by the Trump Administration as it seeks to slash cherished programs like the National Endowment of the Arts. We can’t let artists lose their voices. The minute we let censorship take hold, the closer we get to an authoritarian regime.” Background The Congressional Art Competition allows high school students to submit artwork to their Congressional representative, and one submission from each district is selected as the winner. The artwork is then featured in the Capitol, alongside pieces from Congressional districts across the nation, to be enjoyed by members of Congress, staff, and visitors alike. Earlier this year, the competition sparked controversy when some Republican members of the House silenced a student artist from Missouri by repeatedly removing a painting from display. The painting portrayed conflict between the African American community and law enforcement in Ferguson after the death of Michael Brown, an unarmed black teen. Following pressure from Republican leadership, the painting was permanently removed – deemed a violation of a rule that artwork in the Capitol cannot “depict contemporary political controversy, or of a sensationalistic or gruesome nature.” Competition organizers intend to enforce this rule going forward. ###
03.30.2017	Empowers states to implement own marijuana laws WASHINGTON – Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden, D-Ore., along with senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee Representative Earl Blumenauer, D-Ore., today introduced three pieces of legislation to preserve the integrity of state marijuana laws and provide a path for responsible federal legalization and regulation of the marijuana industry. The Path to Marijuana Reform includes the bipartisan Small Business Tax Equity Act, which prevents legal marijuana businesses from getting hit with an unfair tax bill. The package also includes measures to shrink the gap between federal and state marijuana policies and responsibly de-schedule, tax and regulate marijuana. More than 20 percent of Americans live in states that permit adult use of marijuana. The industry is expected to produce nearly 300,000 jobs by 2020 and grow to $24 billion in annual revenue by 2025. “The federal government must respect the decision Oregonians made at the polls and allow law-abiding marijuana businesses to go to the bank just like any other legal business.” Sen. Wyden said. “This three-step approach will spur job growth and boost our economy all while ensuring the industry is being held to a fair standard.” “As more states follow Oregon’s leadership in legalizing and regulating marijuana, too many people are trapped between federal and state laws,” Rep. Blumenauer said. “It’s not right, and it’s not fair. We need change now – and this bill is the way to do it.” The Path to Marijuana Reform includes the following three bills: The Small Business Tax Equity Act This legislation would treat state-legal marijuana businesses like other small businesses by repealing the tax penalty that singles out marijuana businesses and bars them from claiming deductions and tax credits. Senator Rand Paul, R-Ky., is a cosponsor of Wyden’s Senate bill and Representative Carlos Curbelo, R-Fla., is sponsoring companion legislation in the House. Responsibly Addressing the Marijuana Policy Gap Act This legislation would reduce the gap between federal and state laws by removing federal criminal penalties and civil asset forfeiture for individuals and businesses complying with state law. It would also reduce barriers for state-legal marijuana businesses by ensuring access to banking, bankruptcy protection, marijuana research and advertising. It would protect individual marijuana consumers in states that have legalized marijuana by providing an expungement process for certain marijuana violations, ensuring access to public housing and federal financial aid for higher education, and ensuring that a person cannot be deported or denied entry to the U.S. solely for consuming marijuana in compliance with state law. Finally, it would remove unfair burdens by ensuring veterans have access to state-legal medical marijuana, and protect Native American tribes from punishment under federal marijuana laws. Marijuana Revenue and Regulation Act This legislation would responsibly de-schedule, tax and regulate marijuana. It would impose an excise tax on marijuana products similar to current federal excise taxes on alcohol and tobacco, escalating annually to a top rate equal to 25 percent of the sales price. Marijuana producers, importers and wholesalers would be required to obtain a permit from the Department of Treasury, and the marijuana industry would be regulated in a manner similar to alcohol. Strict rules would prohibit sale or distribution of marijuana in states where it is illegal under state law. Representative Jared Polis, D-Colo., is sponsoring a portion of this legislation in the House. Text of the bills can be found here, here and here. ###
03.28.2017	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Donald Trump’s executive order reversing landmark climate policies. "Today's announcement confirms that Donald Trump is in an all-out war against our planet. His Executive Order reversing President Obama's landmark climate policies is disastrous. It comes at the expense of important progress made over the last eight years, the stability of our climate, and the future of our children. "Under President Obama, the Clean Power Plan restricted carbon pollution from new and existing power plants, imposed a moratorium on federal coal leasing, and prioritized how climate change is accounted for in federal decision-making under the National Environmental Policy Act. These were important pieces of our global leadership on climate change and critical steps in our trajectory towards a clean energy future. The Trump administration and special interest fossil fuel groups are unraveling key initiatives put in place to protect our planet for future generations, who will fear we did too little too late, not too much too fast. "We will not stand for this. I will fight rollbacks of common-sense and progressive reforms. Right now, our economy creates vast amounts of greenhouse gases that harm our environment and put out planet’s future in jeopardy. The good news is that our action for the last ten years have created hundreds of thousands of jobs and new economic opportunities while we start to come to grips with this challenge. We should be doing everything we can to build on the steps taken by the Obama Administration to address this issue, not rolling them back. "If the Trump administration will not provide climate leadership, we can. I will continue fighting for a clean energy future, supporting renewable resources and expanding incentives for energy efficiency, protecting our environment, and working for a price on carbon. I invite you to join me. It is our obligation to our planet and to future generations.” ###
03.27.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) opposes S.J.Res. 34, a reckless bill that would rollback Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules for how Internet providers deal with customer data. These rules require providers to request and receive permission from consumers before sharing or selling internet data like browsing history, app usage, even the content of personal emails. “Republicans are determined to roll back these consumer-protecting rules,” said Blumenauer. “Internet providers want to profit from your data, and don’t want to ask permission before they sell your data to advertisers. S.J.Res. 34 is an attack on privacy and consumer rights, and is a blatant giveaway at the expense of your privacy. It’s shameful, and I will vote no when it comes to the House floor.” ###
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement: "We did it. Resistance works, and we've derailed the destruction of the Affordable Care Act, at least for now. Let's keep this up." ###
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Donald Trump’s budget. “Those of us resisting this reckless administration have a new assignment to fight Donald Trump’s budget. It is shocking in its dramatic reduction to programs that Americans – especially working families – need and hold dear. “His priorities for our country are wrong. Proposals to unnecessarily expand an already bloated defense budget and to build a wall come at the expense of affordable housing, clean air and water, life-saving medical research, diplomacy, and so much more. “Trump has made clear that he has no interest in investing in American families. As Americans find their voice in opposition to this plan, he should be held accountable, and Congress should find its spine and do its job by rejecting these misguided proposals.” ###
03.14.2017	Washington, DC – In a recent interview on CNBC’s Squawk Box, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt said carbon dioxide is not a “primary contributor” to climate change. In response, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and 32 of his colleagues will send a letter to Pruitt with educational materials outlining the basic established science behind climate change. As Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt must understand these non-controversial concepts, and this letter seeks to educate him. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Administrator Pruitt, We saw your comments last week on CNBC's Squawk Box. It’s clear that you need to read the enclosed reports. We look forward to hearing your response. Sincerely, Enclosed with the letter is a copy of the U.S. Global Change Research Program’s Climate Literacy Guide, a climate-oriented approach for learners of all ages. This guide was developed by current climate scientists, formal and informal educators, and representatives of a range of U.S. agencies in order to explain a number of the important concepts behind climate change. In addition, the letter includes a copy of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis report, and highlights from the latest U.S. National Climate Assessment. The letter was signed by Representatives Blumenauer, Donald S. Beyer Jr., Suzanne Bonamici, Emanuel Cleaver II, Steve Cohen, Peter DeFazio, Mark DeSaulnier, Lloyd Doggett, Adriano Espaillat, Raul Grijalva, Colleen Hanabusa, Alcee L. Hastings, Denny Heck, Pramila Jayapal, Brenda L. Lawrence, Barbara Lee, Ted Lieu, Betty McCollum, Donald McEachin, James P. McGovern, Jerrold Nadler, Ed Perlmutter, Mark Pocan, Jared Polis, Mike Quigley, Jamie Raskin, Jan Schakowsky, Darren Soto, Niki Tsongas, Juan Vargas, Nydia M. Velázquez, Bonnie Watson Coleman, and John Yarmuth. ###
03.10.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) expressed deep concern about reports that the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan has stopped scheduling visa interviews for Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program applicants. Because Congress has failed to authorize additional visas, the program is in jeopardy. The Afghan SIV program was established to bring to safety brave men and women who risked their lives to help the U.S. mission on the ground. As one of the key lawmakers who helped establish the program in 2008, Blumenauer has long fought to keep it intact by passing legislation to maintain eligibility guidelines and ensure that there are enough visas allotted to keep the U.S. commitment to these faithful allies. “It feels like one fight after another to make sure this program isn’t torn apart. We have a bipartisan coalition in the House and Senate that are working to keep these people safe. Yet, Congress is still failing to do its job. It shouldn’t be this hard. "Especially as Donald Trump continues to advance discriminatory immigration policy and reckless foreign policy that only put our troops in harm’s way, keeping faith with our Afghan allies is more important than ever. The viability of the Afghan SIV program must be a priority. If we don’t help our allies on the ground now when they become threatened, why would anyone help the United States in the future? “This is unacceptable. Congress needs to be doing more, not less, to bring more people to safety. We need more visas. I will do everything in my power to make sure we protect our brave allies who put their lives, and the lives of their families, in danger to help our personnel.” ###
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced the No Taxpayer Revenue Used to Monetize the Presidency (No TRUMP) Act to prohibit the use of taxpayer funds to pay for events, overnight stays, food, or other miscellaneous expenses at hotels owned or operated by a president or his or her relatives. “Trump and his family are riddled with conflicts of interests. Putting a strain on government resources for Trump to hold meetings with U.S. officials at Mar-a-Lago or for the Trump children to travel the world to promote the family business are just more examples,” said Blumenauer. “Presidents should not financially benefit from holding the office. No taxpayer money should be spent at Trump hotels. Period.” The No TRUMP Act is an important check on the office of the presidency. It would ensure that there is no personal financial incentive by the current or any future president or his/her family to stay or hold official meetings or events at certain properties across the United States or abroad. In the interest of safety, the bill would allow the Secret Service to continue guarding Trump residences – Trump Towers in New York and Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach. “With new conflicts of interest arising almost daily within the current administration, Republican leadership in Congress has failed to follow through on the President's promise to ‘drain the swamp,’” said Aaron Scherb, Common Cause's director of legislative affairs. “We applaud Congressman Blumenauer's leadership in introducing this legislation to help ensure that the presidency cannot be used to enrich oneself.” ###
03.09.2017	Washington, DC – Today, despite stringent opposition from Democrats, the House Ways and Means Committee took its first step in moving the Republican “health care” proposal toward the House Floor. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) voted against the bill and released the following statement: “The GOP is being recklessly cavalier with the healthcare coverage of millions of Americans. The GOP is trying to ram this legislation through without adequate feedback from experts, stakeholders, and the American public. There’s a reason that doctors, seniors, hospitals, consumer groups, and budget watchdogs oppose this legislation. “The Republican plan strips away subsidies and protections that ensure access to high-quality care. It sabotages the Medicaid expansion that has allowed Oregon to expand coverage to more than 400,000 Oregonians. The bill requires seniors to pay up to five times more than others for weaker coverage. Americans 50-64 years of age will face 60 percent higher insurance premiums. It imposes strict penalties on those who lose insurance coverage, even when they are not at fault. By charging people without insurance 30 percent more it will encourage people to go without insurance and to wait until they get sick, destabilizing insurance for everyone. “The American people deserve better. We have to stop this trainwreck. We will use every tool we have to try to stop this dismantling of our healthcare.” ###
03.08.2017	Washington, DC – Today, as the Ways and Means Committee considers the GOP’s reckless health care legislation, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) offered an amendment prohibiting the bill from going into effect until it meets Donald Trump’s promise to the American people that the new health care plan provide, “insurance for everybody,” in a “much less expensive and much better” way. But because Trump’s words are empty, the GOP refused to allow a vote on Blumenauer’s amendment. According to most analysts, the Republican bill raises the cost of insurance, pushing healthcare out of reach for millions of Americans. “Trump lied to the American people. Sadly, it’s no surprise. This is what he does. Trump is a salesman first,” said Blumenauer. "The GOP kept their plan secret, making it public just two days ago, and still have refused to release any official cost estimates. Trump must be held accountable for his words, and so should the Republicans.” ###
03.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenuaer (OR-03) released the following statement on the executive order Donald Trump signed today to reinstate his travel ban targeting refugees and Muslims. The executive order bans individuals from six majority-Muslim countries from entering the United States and suspends all refugee admissions to the United States for 120 days. The executive order also lowers the cap on U.S. refugee admissions from 110,000 to 50,000 for this year. “Donald Trump and his team have made a mockery of the process of governing. He’s turning away an entire population due to broad-brush mischaracterizations of those who practice Islam. Terrorism is not confined to a specific group or religion. The ban is discriminatory, has the same intentions as his first executive order and will have the same harmful effects on American security. “The low cap on the number of refugees the United States is allowed to accept this year is devastating. There is no more fertile ground for instilling extremist ideas than refugee camps devoid of basic services and educational and economic opportunities. “The administration is still failing to explain to the American people how preventing these individuals from coming to our country will boost national security. We already have a rigorous vetting process in place that often takes years. Plus, an internal memo from his own Department of Homeland Security says there is no proof to show that this executive action will make us safer! “This new, revamped order is un-American and is an assault on the world’s most vulnerable. ###
03.02.2017	Washington, DC -- Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement reports that Jeff Sessions lied under oath during his confirmation hearings about meetings with Russian officials: "The news that Jeff Sessions lied under oath about contacts with Russian officials during the campaign only further confirms what we already knew -- he is unfit to serve as Attorney General. "He should resign his position, and if he doesn't resign, the House should immediately begin investigative proceedings that could lead to his removal from office. He’s said it himself, those who commit perjury should be removed. We now have strong evidence that Sessions presented a knowing and deliberate falsehood under oath during his confirmation hearings when he denied contact with the Russian Ambassador during the Trump campaign. "This administration's connections with Russia are beyond troubling. I'm not going to stop demanding we get answers. I'm not going to stop demanding there be an independent commission to investigate just how deep this goes. I'm not going to stop demanding we see Donald Trump's tax returns, which would also shed some light. I'm not going to stop." ###
02.28.2017	Washington, DC -- Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: "Resist." ###
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on last week’s Kansas shooting of two Indian engineers, Alok Madasani and Srinivas Kuchibhotla. Mr. Madasani was wounded and Mr. Kuchibhotla was killed. "I was concluding a recent trip to India when the news of the horrific, erratic shooting of two Indian engineers in Kansas broke, including the cold-blooded murder of one. Americans across the country — and millions of Indian Americans — were shocked and horrified. "Indian citizens, like all immigrants in the United States, play important roles in our communities. We have more than 165,000 Indians who travel to the United States to study every year, many come to my community in Portland, Oregon. To say the very least, this shooting has sent shockwaves through both communities in both countries. “This hate crime — and others like it — must be condemned in the strongest possible terms, especially by this administration which has taken extreme government action against immigrants and has done nothing but signal intolerance. This extreme rhetoric and action is unacceptable for a U.S. President. He cannot continue to single out and target specific races and religions. "Trump must start sending different signals, starting with expression of deep sympathy and rejection of bigotry. "The lack of acknowledgment or sympathy from Trump comes as information from his own administration says there is no proof showing his executive action banning Muslims will make us safer, and as we are seeing a rise in hate crimes, in particular the desecration of Jewish cemeteries and houses of worship. "This needs to stop now. Trump should promote tolerance, inclusion and mutual support." ###
02.27.2017	Washington, DC – Following Donald Trump’s Muslim ban and his plans to sign a new refugee and immigration executive order this week, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) announced today that he will bring Wajdi Said, a Muslim community leader in Oregon, as his guest to Donald Trump’s address to Congress on Tuesday, February 28. Mr. Said is President & Co-founder of the Muslim Educational Trust and Co-founder of the Oregon Coalition for Muslim Values, the Arab-Jewish-Muslim Dialogue, the Institute for Christian/Muslim Understanding, and the Interfaith Council of Greater Portland. “Donald Trump has only been in office for six weeks, but he’s made spewing hate and promoting a xenophobic, discriminatory agenda a top priority. One of the most troubling aspects of this agenda is the targeted attacks on our Muslim friends,” said Blumenauer. “I’m bringing Mr. Said — a steadfast advocate for respect, understanding, and inclusivity — to tomorrow’s address to show Donald Trump and his supporters that in Portland and in our America, we will not stand for such hateful discrimination. Mr. Said and his critical work should be an example to us all: diversity is a strength, not a weakness. I stand with the Muslim community and all communities now under threat.” ###
02.23.2017	Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer released the following statement in response to White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer’s statement that the Trump Administration may start “greater enforcement” of adult use of marijuana. “I am deeply disappointed by Sean Spicer’s statement that he expects states to see 'greater enforcement' and crackdown on adult use of marijuana. The national prohibition of cannabis has been a failure, and millions of voters across the country have demanded a more sensible approach. I’m looking forward to working with the leadership of our newly formed cannabis caucus to ensure that Oregonian’s wishes are protected and that we end the failed prohibition on marijuana.” ###
02.21.2017	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on threats to Jewish communities across the country: "Sadly, it’s no surprise that acts of hate are on the rise with this Administration continuing to promote divisiveness and bigotry. Religious freedom isn't up for debate in our America. Bomb threats and vandalism targeting Jewish community members are disturbing and hateful. I’m glad Trump decried these acts, but he needs to take responsibility for embracing the alt-right that feeds this intolerance and spews hate." ###
02.19.2017	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement: “In our America, we have a responsibility to help those around the world struggling to lift their communities out of poverty. The United States has a proud history of helping the world's most vulnerable. I've led that work in Congress, increasing access to safe drinking water and sanitation by hundreds of millions of dollars. These efforts are critically important to saving lives, empowering women and children, preventing and mitigating conflict and human rights abuses, and even strengthening our own national security. “This work is now threatened under the new Trump regime. “Now more than ever, it is important to continue this work to help the poor. I'm in India this week to examine more closely issues that have global impact and consequences. From poverty and inequality, to how they address their energy and climate change commitments, and even terrorism, India is facing serious challenges. And in just over a decade, India will be the most populous country in the world. Meeting these challenges has implications for the United States and the entire world.” ###
02.17.2017	Washington, DC – Following a bipartisan letter to Donald Trump led by Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Co-Chair of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) today announced that the agency is restoring some animal welfare data that was taken off its website earlier this month. Blumenauer released the following statement: “While I'm glad USDA is starting the process of restoring some information online, there is no excuse for the agency’s abrupt actions to reduce transparency and prevent Americans from knowing about animal abuse. I call on the agency to do the right thing and restore the remaining information so that animal abusers are held accountable for their actions.” ###
02.17.2017	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the leaked Department of Homeland Security proposal to use National Guard troops for immigration enforcement: “To even consider this level of deployment to round up individuals—many who are law-abiding, tax-paying, productive members of society who have never been convicted of a crime—is unconscionable and unprecedented. “What we’ve seen over the course of the last weeks are not, 'routine, targeted operations,' as the Trump regime calls them. These operations, and this leaked proposal, are the result of Trump’s hateful immigration agenda that serves only to instill fear and destroy lives. All of us need to continue to fight back." ###
02.14.2017	Washington, DC – Tomorrow, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) will announce plans to create a working group to clarify and strengthen the 25th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. He will deliver remarks on the House floor for Morning Hour at approximately 10:00 a.m. (ET). “Like many people, I’ve noticed a renewed interest in the 25th Amendment as we’ve seen erratic behavior out of the White House. As I examined the Amendment, it became clear that in the case of mental or emotional incapacity, there is a glaring flaw,” Blumenauer said. “In the absence of Congressional action, the constitutional language depends on action by the cabinet who may be fired by the President, undermining this ostensible check on an unstable president. It’s time to revisit and strengthen the Amendment and make sure there is a reliable mechanism in place.” This amendment, adopted 50 years ago in the wake of President Kennedy’s assassination, provides a mechanism for the succession of the president for his or her replacement in the event he or she proves unfit to serve. Under the amendment, the vice president and a majority of either the cabinet or some “other body” designated by Congress, may remove the president from office. While the language is straightforward, it raises a host of questions. In particular, the Amendment allows Congress to select some “other body” other than the cabinet to determine whether the president is capable of discharging the duties required, and remove him or her if necessary. Yet, this body is undefined, and there is no guidance for how it should operate. After examining the issue, Blumenauer believes living former presidents and vice presidents could constitute the body. Blumenauer is creating a working group to explore these challenges and answer these questions. He will send a letter tomorrow inviting members of the U.S. House to participate and join this effort. ###
02.14.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Co-Chair of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, will join Representatives Martha McSally, Lou Barletta, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Vern Buchanan, Donald S. Beyer Jr., and nearly 100 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives in leading a letter to Donald Trump urging him to ensure USDA restores online access to key documents regarding violations of the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) and the Horse Protection Act (HPA). The letter will be sent later today. “Public access to this data is critical to enforcing our nation’s animal welfare laws and ensuring transparency for taxpayers. This issue goes beyond puppy mills. Even the federal government has been involved with animal abuse and has failed to enforce the Animal Welfare Act. Forcing more time and labor to be spent—at the expense of citizens concerned about animal welfare—to get this basic information for enforcement and oversight marks a dangerous step backwards." Included below and here is the full text of the letter. February 14, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump, We are writing today in response to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service’s (APHIS) decision to remove from its website key documents regarding enforcement and oversight of the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) and Horse Protection Act (HPA), including inspection reports for all regulated entities and annual reports submitted by research laboratories. We join a broad coalition of organizations – from animal welfare groups to pet store chains, biomedical research groups, and accredited zoos and aquariums – in urging the agency to restore comprehensive online, searchable access to these documents immediately in order to maintain ongoing transparency. Congress passed the Animal Welfare Act and the Horse Protection Act decades ago, and in recent years Congress has provided tens of millions of dollars for enforcement of these laws. USDA annually inspects approximately 9,000 licensed facilities including commercial dog and cat breeding facilities, laboratories, zoos, circuses, airlines, Tennessee walking horse shows, and other operations. The work product of USDA employees executing these enforcement programs – invaluable information about both compliant and non-compliant licensees – is valued by lawmakers; the media; a variety of industries that use animals in commerce, exhibition, and research; the animal welfare community; and the general public. These are two of our nation’s most important and broadly supported animal welfare programs. The public has a right to know if regulated entities have subjected animals in their care to abuse or otherwise failed to meet basic welfare standards. Public access to information can guide consumer decision-making and plays an important role in deterring regulated entities from violating the law. Public release of inspection reports and laboratory annual reports increases pressure on entities to abide by the rules. Access to these records has enabled the public to learn about many animal-care violations including by puppy mills, roadside zoos, and training barns engaged in cruel horse soring. It has also provided accountability for research facilities that violate the law, and allowed assessment of how many animals are used (often with taxpayer funding) for research that causes unrelieved pain. Lack of access to AWA and HPA documents not only undermines these federal laws, but also interferes with state and local laws meant to protect animals and consumers. For example, seven states currently prohibit the sale of dogs from breeding operations with a history of serious AWA violations. Without ready access to inspection reports, dog sellers in those states will have no practical way to comply with these laws, and state and local law enforcement efforts will be severely impeded. While the agency has indicated that the public can access these documents by submitting a request under the Freedom of Information Act, history has shown that such requests can take months, and even years, to fulfill. We should be increasing government transparency, not diminishing it and shielding those cited for violations of these key animal welfare laws. We hope you will immediately restore what was removed from USDA’s website regarding the Animal Welfare Act and Horse Protection Act, and resume posting inspection reports, annual reports, and other animal welfare related documents so that the public can access them in an efficient and timely way. Sincerely, Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress ###
02.13.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement in support of the Resolution of Inquiry introduced by Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) that would direct the Department of Justice to provide Congress with any and all information related to Trump and his associates’ conflicts of interest, ethical violations, and ties to Russia. “The questions surrounding the resignation of General Michael Flynn and the allegations regarding campaign chairman Paul Manafort highlight the many unknowns about Trump and his connections to Russia and foreign governments. What communications did Trump and his organization have with Russia and potentially other countries prior to the inauguration? Does Trump have financial ties to Russia? Why won’t Trump release his tax returns? What other possible conflicts of interest should the American people be aware of? “Republicans continue to stand in the way of efforts to hold Trump and his staff accountable. We should not have to resort to parliamentary tactics to get to the bottom of these allegations – the American public deserves answers.” ###
02.10.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement regarding National Security Adviser Michael Flynn’s conversations with Russian government officials in late December: “Too many questions remain unanswered about Donald Trump’s and his administration’s ties to Russia. Michael Flynn’s discussions with Russian Ambassador to the United States Sergey Kislyak are yet another concerning example. "There needs to be a full investigation into the nature of Flynn’s discussions, including his references to the election-related sanctions on Russia. “Until such an investigation is complete and the American people get the answers they deserve, Flynn should be immediately suspended and denied access to classified materials. That’s why I’m joining Rep. Eric Swalwell’s effort to demand Donald Trump do just that. “Flynn’s actions may be illegal, and if so, he should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. If not illegal, his decisions show a serious lack of judgment – begging the question of whether he is capable of keeping Americans safe and secure.” ###
02.07.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement in opposition to HR 861, a reckless Republican proposal to abolish the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “Since its foundation in 1970, the EPA has been a stalwart protector of the environment, cracking down on polluters who would rather make taxpayers pay for the consequences of their pollution rather than cleaning up their act. “The agency has saved countless lives, protected public health, and reduced pollution in almost every sector of our economy. H.R. 861 would take us back to the days when rivers were literally burning from pollution and industries built communities on top of toxic waste dumps. I bet Richard Nixon is spinning in his grave. “With the fate of the planet under threat from climate change, an ever-increasing encroachment on the wonders of nature, and the public rightly questioning its drinking water and air quality, we should be working to strengthen the EPA, not undermine it. “I strongly oppose H.R. 861 and will do everything I can to defend the EPA from this and every assault.” ###
02.03.2017	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement opposing Donald Trump’s executive order to weaken regulations in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act: “Trump's executive order undermines the regulations we carefully put in place to protect consumers from the horrific abuses by Wall Street that led to the 2008 economic crisis. This action is shameful and irresponsible. “The 2008 crisis was among the greatest challenges that our country ever faced. It cost us 8 million jobs. It limited investment and put families on the street. It wiped out millions of dollars of retiree savings. It also ushered in a sense of financial anxiety that impacted American imagination and opportunity. “Because of this, Congress passed legislation to rein in Wall Street, end taxpayer bailouts of big banks, and protect consumers. Among the most important provisions of this legislation is the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Just as American consumers are protected from products that can cause serious physical harm, they should also be protected from products that can cause financial ruin. The CFPB keeps big banks in line and holds Wall Street accountable. “Trump is trying to take us back to the days when Wall Street ruled and at the expense of the little people. The taxpayers should never again pay the price for Wall Street’s irresponsibility.” ###
01.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court of the United States: “My Democratic colleagues in the Senate should give Neil Gorsuch the same treatment Senate Republicans gave Merrick Garland." ###
01.30.2017	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) joined Representative Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) in introducing the Statue of Liberty Values (SOLVe) Act, legislation to block Donald Trump’s cruel and unjustified executive order turning away immigrants and refugees. Additionally, as one of the key lawmakers who helped establish the Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program, he joined a bipartisan group of members of the House in sending a letter to Donald Trump, urging the United States to keep its commitment to faithful allies in Iraq — a commitment his executive order undermines. Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement: “This executive order is callous and disgraceful. Turning away individuals based on broad-brush characterizations of religious affiliation is wrong and un-American. That’s why I joined Rep. Lofgren and others to introduce legislation nullifying and defunding Donald Trump’s executive order. “The entire order is abhorrent, but one part in particular dismisses the needs of our Iraqi allies who performed vital support roles with the United States mission in Iraq. These Iraqis worked with our military and agency personnel as interpreters, guides, firefighters, and drivers, to name a few, and then became the target of threats because of the assistance they provided to our country. Turning our backs on the partners who fought for us and who we promised to protect is morally reprehensible. "Secretary of Defense James Mattis is pushing for an exemption to the executive order for our Iraqi allies. I joined colleagues from across the aisle in supporting this effort. We differ in our views of the executive order as a whole, but at least they support minimal changes. "Allowing an exemption to the order for Iraqis who worked with the U.S. government is absolutely not enough. It’s a tiny, commonsense piece of an executive order that needs to be completely thrown out. ###
01.29.2017	Donald Trump’s cruel and unjustified executive order to turn away immigrants from predominantly Muslim countries, as well as refugees, is already tearing families apart. Our office has reached out to and is coordinating with various legal organizations and continues to monitor the situation in Portland. Congressman Blumenauer will continue to do everything he can to help in the fight against this cruel action and to make sure our constitution, laws, and moral responsibilities are respected and upheld. Click here to contact our office.
01.29.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Donald Trump’s reorganization of the National Security Council and placement of Steve Bannon on the Principals Committee. “I’ve said it before, and I’ll say it again – there is no place for a white nationalist in the White House. And, there is especially no place for one on the National Security Council. Steve Bannon is dangerous, and we’re already seeing the horrific impact of his extremist views and role in the White House. “Donald Trump says he wants to put ‘America first.’ He says we need to make America safer. Demoting the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Director of National Intelligence while giving a political advisor a permanent role does not make us safer. This move is concerning and unprecedented – even top Republicans agree. “I will soon be joining Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy in introducing legislation to prevent Bannon from serving in this role.” ###
01.27.2017	Washington, DC – This week, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) joined Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-33) and seven other Democratic members to introduce H.R. 669, the Restricting First Use of Nuclear Weapons Act of 2017, legislation that would prohibit Donald Trump from conducting a first-use nuclear strike without authorization from Congress. “Such a monumental decision that could lead to the deaths of hundreds of millions of people should NEVER be made by one person alone. This legislation is more critical now than ever with the recent election of Donald Trump — a man who time and time again has demonstrated his lack of understanding of nuclear weapons policy,” said Blumenauer. “A shift to no-first-use just makes sense. I can’t imagine a scenario where we would need to respond with the use of a nuclear weapon. Our conventional forces are some of the strongest in the world and are perfectly capable of responding to an attack. This bill is a no-brainer.” ###
01.27.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Donald Trump’s executive order to block visas for anyone traveling to the United States from seven predominantly Muslim countries, including Syria; and to ban refugees from entering the United States. “Attempts by Donald Trump to relate our national security issues to refugee resettlement or religious beliefs are unsettling — and very dangerous. Terrorism is not confined to a specific group or religion. Rather, it relies on the belief that the use of hate and violence, or threats of violence, can achieve a political end. “Our nation thrives when people of many cultures, and religions stand together. No individual should be discriminated against because of religious beliefs—or lack of religious beliefs. Turning away from an entire population due to broad-brush characterizations of those who practice a certain faith goes against our core values as a nation. “Some of the individuals this order would turn away are threatened allies who have worked with the U.S. government on the ground helping Americans and are seeking refuge in our country through the Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa program, a program I helped establish. We have a moral obligation to keep our commitment to those who risked their lives to help us. “Further, the situation of refugee families displaced from their homes and forced to start new lives is heartbreaking. We make ourselves less secure by allowing vulnerable populations to continue living in extreme poverty and terror. The United States has a proud tradition of offering protection and a new life to those fleeing persecution and war. We should lead by example to provide help to refugees, while rallying other countries to also assist. “I will continue to fight against discrimination and work to promote religious freedom and protect human rights at home and abroad.” ###
01.25.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Donald Trump’s executive orders to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and other border “security” measures, and to target sanctuary cities: “Donald Trump’s executive actions today are toothless and only serve to instill fear. A wall will not work. He’s putting the US taxpayers on the hook for something that is unrealistic, costly, and unnecessary. True leadership would be working on a bipartisan basis with Congress on comprehensive immigration reform. Democrats tried – and continue to try – to make this happen. House Republicans, however, put the brakes on any momentum we had toward progress. “As a result, communities across the country – including Portland – have stepped up to protect thousands of families who now call the United States home. They should not be punished because House Republicans failed to do their jobs. “Additionally, it’s still unclear what Trump’s plans are for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. I will continue to fight for this critical program and the DREAMers who put their faith in the U.S. government. We cannot turn our backs on them.” ###
01.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Six Oregon lawmakers today told the White House that its decision to freeze grants administered by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) poses a serious threat to fundamental public health and environmental protections in Oregon and nationwide. “Americans deserve to know whether the EPA will protect their health and safety and defend their communities from air, land, and water contamination,’’ said the letter to the president from Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, and Reps. Peter DeFazio, Earl Blumenauer, Suzanne Bonamici and Kurt Schrader “Unfortunately, this freeze creates uncertainty and could have negative consequences that affects every air-breathing and water-drinking American,” they wrote. ”Given these concerns, we respectfully ask that the review of EPA grants and contracts be completed as quickly as possible.” Even a temporary EPA grants freeze, they wrote, could delay critical projects nationwide and in Oregon, including projects in Clackamas County, Portland, Tigard, Baker City and Eugene. Click here for a copy of the letter. ###
01.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Blumenauer (OR-03) joined Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13) to introduce H.R. 676, the Expanded & Improved Medicare for All Act, legislation to establish a single-payer health care system. Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement: “The Affordable Care Act has led to the lowest uninsured rate in history and the slowest growth in health care costs in 50 years. We are going to continue to fight against the repeal of the ACA and work to improve it. What has become more and more clear, however, is that the ACA alone will not resolve health inequality, bring down costs, or guarantee access to care. “This country needs a truly universal, single-payer health care system – similar to the less costly and more efficient systems in Western Europe, Australia, and Canada. “Health care must be recognized as a right, not a privilege. Ultimately, we need a universal system that covers everyone from cradle to grave.” ###
01.24.2017	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on legislation (H.R. 193) that would terminate U.S. membership in the United Nations (UN) and prohibit U.S. funding of UN operations: "Republican efforts to withdraw the United States from the United Nations (UN), like H.R. 193, are senseless and shameful. "We live in a deeply interconnected world where global stability and human well-being are inextricably bound. We not only have a responsibility, but a global interest, in ensuring that the United Nations is an effective organization. "The United States cannot go it alone. Now, more than ever, international cooperation is necessary to address human rights crises and conflicts across the globe. This cooperative body makes the world a safer, more peaceful place. "Furthermore, failure to fully fund the UN is an attack on poor people around the globe. The UN’s humanitarian programs to help children access education, feed the hungry, and offer basic medical care should NOT be a casualty of partisan assault." ###
01.23.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Republican efforts to limit women’s access to safe reproductive health care: “Days after hundreds of thousands of women marched in Portland and cities across the world, Congressional Republicans once again are seeking to limit women’s access to safe reproductive health care. H.R. 7 is a sweeping ban on abortion coverage and another callous attempt to insert Congress into the most personal of conversations between a woman and her physician. I strongly oppose this legislation. “This legislation comes on the same week we mark the 44th anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision, Roe v. Wade and the same week Donald Trump reinstated the global gag rule, or ‘Mexico City policy,’ which bans all foreign non-profits that receive U.S. aid from offering abortion-related services. H.R. 7 and the Mexico City policy are flawed and ineffective policies that will harm health and economic security of women around the world. “I have repeatedly voted against attempts to limit a woman’s right to a safe and legal abortion. Once again, these actions by Congressional Republicans and the Trump-Pence administration make it clear that the GOP does not care about the rights and autonomy of women anywhere – not just in the United States. “As we clearly saw this past weekend, Republicans have no mandate to take away women’s basic rights. Women everywhere will continue to fight these harmful policies, and I will continue to be one of their strongest allies in this fight.” ###
01.17.2017	Washington, DC – Today, following the confirmation hearing of Betsy DeVos for Secretary of Education, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “The nomination of Betsy DeVos to lead the Department of Education has been a train wreck from the start. Even the notion of DeVos – a billionaire who has made a career out of undermining public education – heading the Department of Education is deeply offensive to Oregonians and the federal government’s longstanding commitment to public education. I can only assume that her nomination is a precursor to attempts to completely dismantle the federal role in education. “DeVos’s hearing itself was an affront to the bipartisan nature of the confirmation process, delayed to keep media coverage to a minimum and shortened to limit the questioning of democratic Senators. This hearing revealed disturbing gaps in DeVos’s experience and her fundamental lack of knowledge of education policy, from the worsening student debt crisis to federal law protecting students with disabilities. Her stance on guns in schools is shocking and dangerous. Her refusal to commit to not working to privatize public education is anathema to the mission of the Department she would head. DeVos’s policy views aside, her numerous ethical conflicts of interest alone should disqualify her for the office. “I urge my colleagues to reject Betsy DeVos. I hope Donald Trump takes this rare opportunity to save face by withdrawing her nomination.” ###
12.13.2016	Portland, OR – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today condemned the nomination of ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State and expected nomination of former Governor of Texas Rick Perry as Secretary of Energy. Blumenauer released the following statement on the nomination of Tillerson as Secretary of State: “Donald Trump continues to stack his Cabinet with people out of touch with the American people. Rex Tillerson has a history of putting business interests above those of American families, and he has very questionable ‘friends.’ As Secretary of State, he would have huge conflicts of interest with his stakes in ExxonMobil. It’s also not entirely clear where he stands on many key U.S. foreign policy issues. It’s an outrageous choice, and we deserve better. “In light of the CIA assessment on Russian interference in our election in favor of Donald Trump, perhaps most concerning about this selection is Tillerson’s ties to Vladimir Putin. The Senate should not confirm him until we have a full accounting of Russian interference in the election.” Blumenauer released the following statement on the announcement that Perry will be nominated for Secretary of Energy: “This nomination is a farce – unless you consider a failed stint on ‘Dancing with the Stars’ a qualifier for being our nation’s lead nuclear scientist. Rick Perry in the past has promised to dismantle the Department of Energy – though, he couldn’t remember the agency’s name. He favors big oil over renewable energy and is a Board Member for the company pushing for the Dakota Access Pipeline. There are several more reasons for concern. The Senate has a responsibility to the American people to vote no on this confirmation. “ ###
12.12.2016	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA) and Ron Wyden (D-OR), as well as Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), announced that provisions to help fulfill long-unmet housing obligations to tribes along the Columbia River have passed both the House and Senate as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA), now the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act. The bill will now be sent to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Beginning in the 1930s, the construction of the three lower Columbia River dams displaced members of the four Columbia River Treaty tribes: Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Indian Reservation, Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation, Nez Perce Tribe, and Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Indian Nation of the Yakama Reservation. These Tribes have a treaty-protected right to fish along the Columbia River in their usual and accustomed places. The Senators and Congressman have been fighting to address the urgent need for adequate housing and infrastructure at tribal fishing access sites constructed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Army Corps) following construction of The Dalles, Bonneville, and John Day dams. The Army Corps designed the sites to be used primarily for daily, in-season fishing access and temporary camping; however, in many cases tribal members now use the areas as longer-term or even permanent residences. A Fact-Finding Review on Tribal Housing prepared by the Army Corps found that as many as 85 tribal families who lived on the banks of the Columbia River prior to construction of the Bonneville and The Dalles dams did not receive relocation assistance, despite the fact that several non-tribal communities inundated by dam construction did receive such assistance. “Leaving our tribes displaced without safe, reliable housing is simply wrong,” said Merkley. “Ever since the construction of the Columbia River unjustly displaced these tribes starting over 75 years ago, the federal government has owed it to them to provide the housing and infrastructure that was promised. These provisions bring us one step closer to making good on our commitments.” “This is an incredibly important step toward repairing decades of injustice in the Pacific Northwest, but our work does not end here,” said Murray. “In the coming months and years, we must continue the fight to ensure our country honors its promise to respect tribal treaty rights and uphold this region’s rich legacy of salmon fishing.” “Today, the Congress has made real progress toward starting to repair a long and painful history of injustice against Native American communities and their families,” Wyden said. “It is only right to protect children and families from serious health and safety hazards along the Columbia River by providing safe and permanent housing for tribal communities that have been displaced.” “I’m proud we’re on our way to righting this wrong,” said Blumenauer. “We will not stop fighting until the federal government meets its basic responsibilities to improve the conditions of these sites and deal with unmet tribal housing needs.” Specifically, the provisions that passed the Congress as part of WRDA today will help fulfill unmet housing obligations by: Authorizing the Army Corps to provide relocation assistance to Native families displaced by the construction of Bonneville Dam; and Authorizing the Army Corps to conduct a study of Native families displaced by the construction of John Day Dam and make recommendations to Congress with a plan to address unmet obligations for relocation assistance. ###
12.12.2016	Legislation was included in water infrastructure package Washington, DC – Today, Oregon’s Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-4) announced that the Columbia River Restoration Act has passed in the House and the Senate as part of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The legislation will now be sent to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “Nobody wants to worry that the water they are drinking or fishing in or swimming in is tainted, but 8 million inhabitants of the Columbia River Basin have had their health, safety and environment endangered by toxins in the river. Now Congress is finally doing something about it,” said Merkley. “This bill will provide a much needed boost to the health and economy of our beloved Columbia River. “Pacific Northwesterners count on the Columbia River as a vital economic resource and environmental treasure,” Wyden said. “Preserving and protecting the river is a must to ensure the river remains the clean and healthy lifeblood of our region.” “This is a significant win for our efforts to reduce pollution and improve the water quality of the Columbia River,” said Blumenauer. “We have a responsibility to protect this critical resource, and we’ll keep pushing to help restore this iconic river system. “The Columbia River is a powerful economic force in Oregon,” said Congresswoman Bonamici. “The river carries goods to market, serves as a valuable source of energy, and provides salmon to tribal populations and others. We must reduce pollution and contamination of this critical resource. I am pleased the Columbia River Basin Restoration Act has passed Congress and is on its way to the President's desk. “The Columbia River is one of the most bountiful natural resources in Oregon, providing cultural, economic, and ecological benefits to many states,” said Representative DeFazio, Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and a lead negotiator on the bill. “Rising levels of toxins in the Columbia River Basin threaten Oregon’s salmon and the livelihood of tribal communities and other Oregonians. I was proud to play a major role in securing this new program that will fund Columbia River restoration projects to improve water quality and reduce pollution.” The legislation would authorize the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish a voluntary, competitive Columbia Basin grants program for projects that assist in eliminating or reducing pollution, cleaning up contaminated sites, improving water quality, monitoring the basin, and promoting citizen engagement. Toxins are present throughout the Columbia Basin, and are harmful to humans, fish, and wildlife. These contaminants make their way into fish tissue and can be dangerous to humans if consumed. Some of these toxins are known to cause cancer and have been linked with neurological, developmental, and reproductive problems, including birth defects and learning disabilities. The Columbia River is the largest river in the Pacific Northwest, and the only large aquatic ecosystem in the United States that currently receives no dedicated funding to clean up and monitor toxic chemicals. It is 1,243 miles long and its drainage basin extends into seven states. Approximately eight million people inhabit the Basin, including members of several Tribal nations and angling groups who frequently fish in its waters. Historically, the Columbia and its tributaries have constituted the largest salmon-producing river system in the world, with annual returns peaking at 16 million fish. The Columbia River Restoration Act is supported by a diverse group of stakeholders including the Lower Columbia Estuary Partnership, Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission, Pacific Northwest Waterways Association, and Salmon-Safe. ###
12.10.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “Foreign intervention in the U.S. election is something that all Americans — Republican, Democrat or non-affiliated voters — should be deeply concerned about. “I echo Representatives Swalwell and Cumming's call for a bipartisan and independent commission to investigate foreign interference in the election. I’m also calling on House and Senate leadership to hold investigative hearings on this issue. We need to figure out how this happened so that we can protect our democracy. “Democrats may be in the minority in Congress, but we represent the majority of Americans. The more noise we make, the better chance there is that this happens.” ###
12.09.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on a questionnaire sent by the Donald Trump Transition Team to Department of Energy employees on their climate change work: “This questionnaire is deeply troubling and begs the question of whether or not it’s intended to instill fear of retribution for those public servants who have done their duty in implementing the Obama Administration’s policies to address climate change. “If Donald Trump engages in an anti-science, highly partisan witch hunt to drive out hard working analysts and scientists who understand the risks of climate change, I will fight and do everything I can to protect their rights and voices. “From this questionnaire, to the nomination of climate-denier Scott Pruitt as head of the EPA, and to the various statements made by Trump and his advisors, all signs indicate that the Trump Administration plans to undermine President Obama’s critical work to combat climate change. This will not be tolerated. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our generation, and none of Trump’s delusions will stop the seas from rising, and the earth from warming.” ###
12.04.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “I'm encouraged by the Administration's decision today to not grant the easements needed for the Dakota Access Pipeline and to explore different routes. “Given the scale of the project and its environmental and other risks, this should have happened sooner. I was disappointed with the failure of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to properly engage and consult with tribal governments, and to fully examine the potential environmental impacts of the routing of the pipeline. I was also distressed at the actions by law enforcement and what appeared to me and many others as excessive and unnecessary force used against the protestors. “For many people, this protest has come to represent more than a decision over constructing a pipeline. It is a flashpoint after decades of mistreatment and misunderstanding. Re-routing the pipeline is a necessary first step in the right direction. Now we owe the parties here, and the generations to come, greater efforts to build relationships and more action toward righting the mistreatment and misunderstanding of the past.” As a member of the Congressional Native American Caucus, Blumenauer stood with the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and called upon President Obama to engage in real, meaningful, government-to-government consultation and collaboration with tribal officials. He also joined with his colleagues in the House to urge the president to withdraw the permits for the pipeline, halt construction of the project in areas of federal jurisdiction, and conduct a comprehensive environmental review and transparent permitting process that includes public notice and participation. ###
12.02.2016	Washington, DC – Yesterday evening on the House floor, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) called on Congress to do everything it can to protect DREAMers, those brought to the United States as children and registered in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “… The notion of sending these young people back who … came here as children – they didn’t have any choice. What four-year-old, three-year-old, two-year-old, or infant is making this perilous journey on their own? They were brought here. They were raised here. Many of these young people … have had amazing records of success. And, they took the United States government and its president at his word, and came forward and took a little bit of a risk because they wanted to be part of the fabric of this country,” Blumenauer said. “… I think it would be a tragedy if we were to punish people who took the president at his word, who put confidence in this Congress to unwind this unfortunate situation. I think it’s important that all of us add our voices, that we connect with the people at home who are desperate and apprehensive and vulnerable, and make sure the American public knows what’s at stake. Because if we add our voices, our examples, and engage, there’s no doubt in my mind that there will be enough public pressure to prevent a tragedy of immense proportions.” Blumenauer is also part of a group of House members calling on President Obama to provide retroactive and prospective pardon of categorical civil immigration violations for these young people granted DACA status. For many DREAMers, this could clear a path to legal status. ###
11.30.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) provisions in the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report: “We’ve come a long way since we began this process earlier this year. Working with a bipartisan coalition in the House and Senate, we’ve fought to keep intact a program critical to those brave Afghan men and women who risked their lives, and those of their families, by helping the US mission on the ground. I am encouraged that this program will be extended through 2020, and that additional visas will be authorized. “Our work, however, is far from done to meet our obligations to these faithful allies. With an estimated backlog of nearly 10,000 applicants, and almost no visas left, we need more visas. We also need to ease these new eligibility requirements, so that all of those at risk because of their help can make it out of harm’s way. We will continue to pursue any and every opportunity we have to fight for this program.” ###
11.21.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) joined the call of his colleagues, asking President Obama to do everything he can before Donald Trump become president to protect DREAMers, those brought to the United States as children and registered in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. “As we prepare for the Thanksgiving holiday, I'm thinking of the children and families who are afraid of being be torn away from their homes, schools, or places of worship under a Trump presidency,” said Blumenauer. “I am joining my colleagues in asking President Obama to do everything he can to protect DREAMers before Donald Trump takes office. These are young people, and they are scared. We must show compassion.” ###
11.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “The thought of Jeff Sessions at the helm of our justice system is deeply disturbing. He is anti-immigrant. He is anti-criminal justice reform. In 1986, the Republican-controlled Senate rejected his confirmation to a federal judgeship because of racist comments and actions. This is a person who was once quoted as saying he thought the Klu Klux Klan was OK until ‘I found out they smoked pot.’ Jeff Sessions should not be our country’s next chief law enforcement officer. The Senate should do its job by rejecting him again.” “This nomination is also concerning in terms of our cannabis reform efforts – as Sessions has implied he does not support legalization. I am hopeful that the next administration, regardless of the Attorney General's personal feelings, will respect the 10th amendment and states’ rights to set their own policy in regards to cannabis. On top of this, there is a bipartisan majority in each chamber of Congress, that wants to see states lead on this issue. Cannabis reform has been embraced by the voters in red and blue states alike, and by Republicans, Democrats, and nonaffiliated voters.” ###
11.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “The thought of Jeff Sessions at the helm of our justice system is deeply disturbing. He is anti-immigrant. He is anti-criminal justice reform. In 1986, the Republican-controlled Senate rejected his confirmation to a federal judgeship because of racist comments and actions. This is a person who was once quoted as saying he thought the Klu Klux Klan was OK until ‘I found out they smoked pot.’ Jeff Sessions should not be our country’s next chief law enforcement officer. The Senate should do its job by rejecting him again.” “This nomination is also concerning in terms of our cannabis reform efforts – as Sessions has implied he does not support legalization. I am hopeful that the next administration, regardless of the Attorney General's personal feelings, will respect the 10th amendment and states’ rights to set their own policy in regards to cannabis. On top of this, there is a bipartisan majority in each chamber of Congress, that wants to see states lead on this issue. Cannabis reform has been embraced by the voters in red and blue states alike, and by Republicans, Democrats, and nonaffiliated voters.” ###
11.16.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) decried an increase in hate speech following the campaign and election of Donald Trump as President. “I've been deeply disturbed by the increase in hate speech and intimidation against those of a different color, gender, religion, and sexual orientation – as well as outbreaks of violence. Oregon’s largest school district, Portland Public Schools, just sent a letter to families about the increase they have seen since last Wednesday, and how we as a community need to unite to stop this,” said Blumenauer. “One thing we can all agree on is that the protection of all our citizens, especially our children, is not a partisan issue. I hope we can agree to send a loud, direct, and forceful message that intimidation, harassment, and hate speech has no place in our country. We can start by rejecting the appointment of Steve Bannon.” On Monday, Blumenauer called on President-elect Trump to rescind the appointment of alt-right movement leader and Breitbart News executive chairman Steve Bannon as Chief Strategist to the White House. Today, Blumenauer joined 168 members of the U.S. House in sending a letter to the President-elect, demanding he withdraw the appointment. ###
11.14.2016	Washington, DC -- U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on President-elect Donald Trump's decision to name alt-right movement leader and Breitbart News executive chairman Steve Bannon as Chief Strategist to the White House: “It is appalling and deeply troubling that President-elect Donald Trump has named a white nationalist to be one his closest advisors. There is no place for hate, discrimination, or bigotry in the White House. Mr. Trump should revoke the appointment of Steve Bannon immediately. “I make no secret of not respecting the person who has run the most dishonest, inflammatory, and divisive presidential campaign in history. I do, however, respect the presidency. If Donald Trump truly wants to lead and bring the country together to move forward, he needs to not only withdraw this appointment, but also apologize to the American people for the destruction and pain his campaign has caused. America deserves better.”
10.13.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the passing of King Bhumibol. "As previous co-chair of the Congressional Friends of Thailand Caucus, I offer my deepest condolences to the people of Thailand for the loss of their beloved King Bhumibol Adulyadej. King Bhumibol inherited the throne as a youth of 18. He guided his people with a steady hand through more than 70 years of troubled times. As Southeast Asia experienced unprecedented change, he remained a constant. Devoted to his country and revered by its citizens, he will be sorely missed. "His passing provides the Thai regime with a unique opportunity for reflection on the country’s state of affairs. The controversy surrounding the appropriate line of succession represents a unique historical juncture. A constitutional monarchy since 1932, the country has seen consistent military coups which have undermined democratically-elected governments. Some argue that today’s ruling junta is one of the harshest we’ve seen thus far with its attempts to suppress dissidents. "During this period of deep grieving, I hope that Thailand’s royalists, generals, politicians and citizens will take seriously their now increased responsibilities to the Thai people. The junta should take steps to move towards democracy and keep its promises to its citizens by holding new elections as soon as possible. Additionally, Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha should put to a referendum a new constitution that strengthens civil liberties and the rule of law. These are critical steps in the right direction. "Now is the time to mourn a cherished King, but also to ensure a brighter future for Thailand." ###
10.03.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer recognized October as National Community Planning Month and urged his colleagues to do the same. This year’s theme, “Civic Engagement,” acknowledges that thoughtful local planning cannot happen without meaningful community involvement. Recognizing National Community Planning Month provides an opportunity to highlight the essential role that planning plays in creating communities of lasting value. “In my home state of Oregon, our commitment to planning became an official part of our state policy structure in 1973 with the passage of Senate Bill 100,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “We developed a strong planning program with nineteen Statewide Planning Goals, including promoting citizen involvement, stimulating economic development, and preserving ocean resources. Over forty years later, the ‘Oregon Story’ of economic growth, sustainability, and deliberate development is as compelling as ever.” As founder of the Congressional Livable Communities Task Force and Co-Chair of the Congressional Bike Caucus, Congressman Blumenauer has sought to rebuild and renew America’s infrastructure, protect our natural and urban resources, and support programs that enhance public health. Our country’s planners are instrumental in this effort. ###
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Despite Congress’s rush to get out of town, Republican leadership still found time to use the continuing resolution legislation to block Congressman Earl Blumenauer’s Veterans Equal Access provision to make it easier for qualified veterans to access state-legal medical marijuana. The provision was passed by both the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate with broad bipartisan support earlier this year. Republican leadership, however, removed the provision from the final Department of Veterans Affairs funding bill that passed Congress on Wednesday night. “It’s incredibly frustrating and disappointing that despite broad bipartisan, bicameral support, a handful of out-of-touch lawmakers put politics over the well-being of America’s wounded warriors. Our veterans deserve better,” said Blumenauer. “We will continue to seek every opportunity to make sure they have fair and equal treatment and the ability to consult with, and seek a recommendation from, their personal VA physician about medical marijuana.” Since 2014, Blumenauer has led the effort to make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana – which can be used in many states to treat a variety of conditions, including post-traumatic stress and traumatic brain injuries frequently suffered by veterans. The House this year passed, with broad bipartisan support, his Veterans Equal Access amendment to strike down the Department of Veterans Affairs policy that specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms allowing a qualified veteran to participate in a state medical marijuana program. The Senate passed a similar proposal. Despite bipartisan and bicameral support, the language was stripped from the final legislation by Republican leadership in a closed-door conference committee. In response, Blumenauer and a bipartisan and bicameral group of lawmakers urged Congressional leadership to include the provision in the final funding bill sent to the president. In August, Blumenauer released an open letter to U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL), a vocal opponent of the proposal during Senate consideration and on the conference committee that determined the final language of the legislation, calling on him to show respect and compassion for veterans, change course, and support the bipartisan proposal. ###
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today on the House floor, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, condemned the House Judiciary Committee hearing on the threatened impeachment of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen as a “shameful display.” Click here to watch Representative Blumenauer’s remarks. A full transcript is included below. “Mr. Speaker, currently in the House Judiciary Committee, there is an unusual spectacle unfolding. “Now, a number of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have made it a crusade, a war, against the IRS. They have cut staff, budgets, refused to help it collect money that is due and owed. They’ve made it easier for cheats to avoid their obligations. “But this assault on the IRS Commissioner takes that war to a new low. I would invite anyone listening to this presentation right now to go to the internal channel in the House, number 42, or go to CSPAN.org to be able to watch it yourself. Walk down to room 2237 Rayburn, and watch this play out. “I’ve had a chance to know John Koskinen, the IRS Commissioner, over the course of this last year, and I have come to respect and admire him. I would suggest to anybody who’s trying to put this in context, trying to understand the give and take, ‘Google’ Mr. Koskinen, and then ‘Google’ some of his fiercest critics who are going to be on display at the Judiciary Committee today. “Which of his critics would you imagine to be entrusted with being the chair of the board of trustees for their prestigious university—should they have attended one? Mr. Koskinen was. “Which of them would have been successful in business as a turn-around artist in some of the most difficult and challenging commercial transactions? Mr. Koskinen was. “And then walk away from material and business success and volunteer for some of the most challenging jobs in business? Mr. Koskinen did. “Which of these members of the Judiciary Committee that is attacking Mr. Koskinen would have been picked by a President of their own party to take some of the most challenging and difficult and important tasks? Mr. Koskinen was the ‘Y2K’ czar when we were concerned about what would happen in the year 2000 and the integrity of computer systems. Mr. Koskinen was administrator for the District of Columbia when that city was turned around. “Which of them would have been asked by a President of the other party to step in and handle a major systemic challenge? The IRS Commissioner, a Democrat, was asked by the Bush Administration to step in and right the ship of Freddie Mac and the meltdown of the global economy. “And he came back, volunteering for one of the most difficult tasks in government to try to deal with an IRS that has been underfunded, understaffed, while Congress makes its job almost impossible by making the tax code more complex each and every year. John Koskinen did. “‘Google’ the people who are attacking him and see if any of them have accomplishments that are remotely equal to what this distinguished American did, has done, and continues to do. “This is a shameful display. This gentleman is being attacked for things that predated his tenure—not high crimes, misdemeanors, and corruption, but because they don’t like what went on there, and they’re trying to find somebody to blame other than themselves. “Look at what’s going on in the Judiciary Committee, ‘Google’ these people, evaluate for yourselves. The American people deserve better what is going on now. And certainly Mr. Koskinen does.” ###
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) announced the advancement of his efforts to invest in maintaining and improving our water infrastructure. “Access to safe water is increasingly one of the most pressing challenges we face today, from Flint, Michigan to schools in Portland. Too often out of sight and out of mind, our water systems are literally falling apart while we ignore the problem,” said Blumenauer. “I hope we build on steps taken today, and that Congress will do more to meet our desperate need for water infrastructure investments – critical to the health, safety, and economic vitality of our communities.” Senate Passes Blumenauer Provisions to Help States Invest in Critical Clean and Drinking Water Projects The U.S. Senate today passed S. 2848, the Water Resources Development Act, that included provisions to help states make overdue investments in clean and drinking water infrastructure. The provisions are nearly identical to Blumenauer’s Water Infrastructure Trust Fund Act, an effort he’s led for nearly a decade. Blumenauer, joined by Representatives John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) and Richard Hanna (R-NY), earlier this year re-introduced the Water Infrastructure Trust Fund Act, legislation that creates a dedicated source of revenue for states and local governments to fund critical clean water and drinking water projects by creating a voluntary labeling and contributory system to which businesses that rely on a clean water source could opt-in, encouraging creative public-private partnerships. Blumenauer Joins Effort to Help Schools Test for Lead & Remove Lead Contamination from Water Today, Blumenauer also joined Representative Jackie Speier (CA-14) to introduce the No Lead in School Water Act, legislation to help schools test for lead and remove lead contamination in drinking water. Currently, an estimated 90,000 public schools and half a million child-care facilities are not required by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to test their drinking water regularly for lead. As a result and because of limited resources, many of these schools do not test for lead contamination. Congress attempted to mandate state testing of schools for lead through passage of the Lead Contamination Control Act of 1988; however, it was ruled unconstitutional. The No Lead in School Water Act fixes the law by creating voluntary grant programs under EPA for state-based lead testing and remediation for school drinking water. To meet funding requirements, participating states must comply with a set of national standards, including: mandatory school testing, consumption site testing, an EPA/ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention directed remediation action level, public posting of test results, and creation of test result explanation materials for families. ###
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) joined Representative Jackie Speier (CA-14) to introduce the No Lead in School Water Act, legislation to help schools test for lead and remove lead contamination in drinking water. “Our community was shocked to learn of widespread lead contamination in drinking water at our schools that was much worse than the initial results first reported. Portland is not alone. Schools across Oregon and the country are facing similar crises of lead in drinking water, and we’ve all let it happen,” said Blumenauer. “We need regular, rigorous, and transparent testing for lead and other contaminants, and more resources to fix the problem – especially as our water infrastructure continues to age. It’s past time to act to protect the health of our children.” “I share the frustration of so many families in Oregon and across the nation whose children have been exposed to lead in their school drinking water," said Bonamici. “As the devastating public health crisis in Flint, Michigan, continues, many families across Oregon have learned that their children have been exposed to lead-tainted water. This is unacceptable. As a mom and a policymaker, I will continue to advocate for more resources and transparency and for mandatory screening for lead in drinking water in schools” “We can’t continue to stick our heads in the sand in the hope that lead contamination will just go away,” said Speier. “Lead is extremely toxic to children, and there is no safe level of exposure. Congress did try to address this national health risk with the Lead Contamination Control Act of 1988, but the way the act was written resulted in it being deemed unconstitutional under the Tenth Amendment, and so it failed. My bill fixes the issues in the original act by making the grant program voluntary with a set of national standards tied to funding opportunities. It’s time to protect our most vulnerable citizens once and for all.” Currently, an estimated 90,000 public schools and half a million child-care facilities are not required by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to test their drinking water regularly for lead. As a result and because of limited resources, many of these schools do not test for lead contamination. Congress attempted to mandate state testing of schools for lead through passage of the Lead Contamination Control Act of 1988; however, it was ruled unconstitutional. The No Lead in School Water Act fixes the law by creating voluntary grant programs under EPA for state-based lead testing and remediation for school drinking water. To meet funding requirements, participating states must comply with a set of national standards, including: mandatory school testing, consumption site testing, an EPA / Centers for Disease Control and Prevention directed remediation action level, public posting of test results, and creation of test result explanation materials for families. ###
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Recently, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) led a letter to the Ambassador of Japan to the United States, with 15 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives, urging the government of Japan to implement a domestic ban on ivory ahead of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) meeting later this month. According to the recent Great Elephant Census, African elephant populations are dwindling significantly because they continue to be subject to intense poaching. An estimated 100,000 African Elephants were killed for their ivory between 2010 and 2012. Currently, Japan has more ivory retailers, ivory manufacturers, and ivory wholesalers than any other nation. Growing momentum and progress may be undermined if Japan remains a major consumer of elephant ivory. In June, the United States announced a near-total ban on the domestic sale of African elephant ivory and will be part of an effort at the CITES meeting to ask other nations to adopt similar bans. Additionally, some states, including California, New York, New Jersey, and Washington, have enacted total statewide bans on the sale of elephant ivory, and other states, such as Oregon, are working to pass similar bans. Click here to read the letter. ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) introduced a bipartisan resolution to recognize September as National Suicide Prevention Month. Primarily, H. Res. 850 seeks to spread awareness and recognize suicide as a preventable and national public health crisis and to promote awareness about mental health, because where there is help, there is hope. “Suicide is a national crisis and a tragedy that has touched many families, including my own,” said Blumenauer. “Let’s all make the commitment to make September – and every month – suicide prevention month because there’s so much at stake for those we hold dear.” “According to the Center for Disease Control, there is a suicide every 12 minutes – this is the result of mental health being pushed into the shadows of shame and stigma for decades,” said Murphy. “I am proud to join Rep. Blumenauer and my colleagues in Congress to bring awareness to suicide and mental health.” Click here to watch Congressman Blumenauer’s remarks on the resolution on the House floor today. Here is a full transcript: “Thank you, Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure for me to follow my good friend Dr. Murphy on the floor. I appreciate his tireless efforts in terms of mental health, in terms of suicide prevention. I was pleased, this week, to introduce with him legislation to designate September as National Suicide Prevention Month. “We have this ritual of designating certain days, weeks, and months in honor of both issues that are momentous, sometimes arcane, but this one is existential. “We are looking at a time perhaps of great division in Congress, but in American society suicide prevention ought to be a great unifier. We lose five lives every hour to a cause that is treatable and preventable. The nature of the suicide epidemic, which has been increasing every year for the last decade, has the power to unite and bring people together to make a difference. “I applaud him [Dr. Murphy] for the work on the mental health legislation. I hope that we are all encouraged and emboldened as particularly it relates to our Veterans, and his work there is commendable. “We are losing almost a Veteran an hour to suicide. It’s also the second leading cause of death among young people ages of 10 and 34, and yet people who commit suicide almost always show symptoms that could be diagnosed and treated. “In addition to the tragic disruption on individuals and family, it’s estimated that suicide results in $44 billion in combined economic and work costs. “It is a national crisis and a tragedy that has touched almost every family I know. “The area of suicide prevention is one of shared passions that can contribute to solutions. For mental health professionals, it is rich with possibilities. “If you’re concerned about gun violence, this is an area of opportunity. Those who attempt suicide with a firearm are successful about 85% of the time. “Drug and alcohol abuse is a factor in many cases, due to the underlying substance abuse issues, individual actions clouded by the influence of drugs or alcohol when suicide is attempted. “There’s a role for each and every one of us to play as advocates, as individuals for treatment and suicide prevention counseling, recovering, to support the grief of family members left behind. “I’m excited about the network of organizations across the country often with major volunteer input who are making a difference. I visited one recently in my community, Lines for Life, that has volunteers manning 24-hour phone lines to help people in a time of crisis. It’s overseen by licensed clinicians; they handle, this one volunteer-driven organization, nearly 55,000 calls offering immediate assistance to people who want to overcome substance abuse, prevent suicide and find treatment for happier, more productive lives. “Mr. Speaker, I am hopeful that we will in fact designate as Suicide Prevention Month, September, but that every month will be suicide prevention month and that we will all rededicate ourselves to combating this epidemic that touches lives in every one of our communities.” ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced the Limiting Inhumane Federal Trapping (LIFT) for Public Safety Act, legislation to reign in unsafe and inhumane trapping on public lands and by public officials. Countless pets and wild animals are injured and killed each year in body-gripping traps such as leg and foothold, Conibear, and snare traps. Despite the existence of viable non-lethal alternatives, body-gripping traps are used by federal agencies, state and local governments, private entities, and individual trappers to catch creatures for their fur, keep animals away from livestock and crops, and even for recreational purposes. Unfortunately, these traps often subject captured animals to excruciating pain for hours or even days, before they eventually die from dehydration, injuries, or predation, or when the trapper eventually finds them. Additionally, these traps are indiscriminate in their victims, and while intended for certain species or “problem animals,” they may capture – and even kill – companion animals if hidden along popular trails or waterways. Humans also risk being inadvertently caught in poorly placed traps, or attack from distressed captured animals they try to free. “We’ve seen too many concerning examples of wild animals suffering and pets falling victim to body-gripping traps. It’s disgusting such inhumane traps are so widely used,” said Representative Blumenauer. “With many effective non-lethal methods that can be used in place of these cruel traps, the federal government should not and cannot continue to endorse their use.” Wildlife Services, a federal agency notorious for its secrecy and use of inhumane animal management techniques, is responsible for the death or capture of thousands of animals per year in cruel body-gripping traps, often used as a first resort. Wildlife Services also advises and enters into contracts and cooperative agreements with state and local governments, as well as with private entities, to kill animals using these traps. Other federal agencies, too, allow or use body-gripping traps to control animal species – too often without attempting or requiring more humane and non-lethal control options first. The LIFT for Public Safety Act acknowledges the inhumane nature of body-gripping traps and takes a two-pronged approach to severely restricting use of these traps to protect public safety and reduce animal suffering: First, the bill prohibits officials and contractors of the U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Interior – including Wildlife Services and agencies like the Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, and Fish & Wildlife Service – from using or recommending the use of these inhumane traps. Second, it prohibits use of these traps on land managed by the U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Interior, such as National Forests, Bureau of Land Management land, and National Wildlife Refuges. The legislation contains limited exceptions for certain lands, the protection of endangered species, and the control of invasive species, while promoting transparency and requiring use and documentation of non-lethal methods first. ###
09.07.2016	WASHINTON, DC – Today, on the House floor, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, condemned the threatened impeachment of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen as “beneath America’s elected officials.” “If we are ever going to make [the IRS] better, more efficient, and fairer, it’s going to require a degree of cooperation, candor, and hard work,” Representative Blumenauer said. “The current spectacle of destroying the reputation of a distinguished public servant and accomplished businessman is going to make that task even harder.” Click here to watch Representative Blumenauer’s remarks. A full transcript is included below. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. To understand what’s wrong with American politics, especially the dysfunctional Republican House of Representatives, look no further than the spectacle surrounding the IRS and the impeachment of its commissioner. “The Internal Revenue Service impacts 150 million American taxpayers every year, virtually every family and all legal businesses. This is how we finance essential services, from Social Security to medical research, our national defense, national parks, Veterans’ services, and so much more. Everything that matters to Americans depends on the ability to finance government efficiently and fairly. “Look, Americans from the dawn of our Republic have chafed at paying taxes, continuing a tradition that dates back to biblical times. And, almost everybody says they hate the IRS, which is the cheapest, quickest applause line for any politician. “Yet over the years, we have managed to collect money that allows us to win wars, struggle through depressions, and provide what used to be some of the finest public services on the face of the planet. “Yes, the Internal Revenue Service administers a hopelessly complex, convoluted, and unfair tax code, because that’s what the American Congress has given them to work with. Congress created this mess, and then blames the people who tried to administer it. “If we are ever to make it better, more efficient, and fairer, it’s going to require a degree of cooperation, candor, and hard work. The current spectacle of destroying the reputation of a distinguished public servant and accomplished businessman is going to make that task even harder. “Make no mistake: The treatment of John Koskinen, with the possibility of being the first cabinet official impeached in nearly 140 years, is not just embarrassing for the people who are perpetrating it— it represents a threat to the ability to administer the IRS. “John Koskinen came to this position after a lifetime of success in business, as a turnaround expert at the highest levels, as well as in public service, holding senior positions in both Republican and Democratic administrations. The Bush Administration turned to him to prevent the implosion of the housing finance giant Freddie Mac, and he spent three years guiding and rebuilding it. “There is absolutely no evidence that he did anything wrong. The Republican Inspector General, a former Republican staff member, found nothing wrong. This impeachment action is going nowhere in the Senate. “It’s got to be embarrassment to the Speaker, the Committee Chairmen, and to Republicans everywhere. It only serves to highlight ideological divisions, lack of respect for due process, and the exaggerated power of the Republican echo chamber of right wing talk radio. “But, it does more than add to the disdain for the political process, it’s a cloud over public service. While people claim we don’t need the IRS, or that our tax filing can be reduced to a postcard and that we can generate all the money we need with reduced tax rates and more exemptions, it’s a fantasy that any responsible Republican businessperson or independent economist will verify. “Going down this impeachment path will make it harder to recruit somebody for the hardest job in government and will only deepen the divides at a time when we need clear thinking and non-partisan cooperation to fix a broken IRS, establish the trust and hard work to make the mechanics of revenue collection work, and avoid the breakdown of the system. “This is playing with fire and is beneath American elected officials. And tarnishing the stellar reputation of an outstanding citizen who is doing his country a favor by volunteering to take this thankless task is simply something that should not be tolerated.” ###
08.31.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed the U.S. Department of Transportation’s decision, announced yesterday, to award funding to the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT). ODOT is the recipient of two grants established by the recently-passed Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act: 1) a grant to expand and improve the ongoing “OReGO” volunteer demonstration program, which charges for road use based on miles traveled as an alternative to the state gas tax; and 2) a grant to explore a regional road user fee system with partner states, members of the Western Road User Charge Consortium. “A century ago Oregon led the way with the gas tax, and now, we are pioneering a method that is more fair, effective, and sustainable,” said Representative Blumenauer. “With these grants, the federal government recognizes and supports Oregon’s leadership. This work is vital for the future of our transportation system.” Representative Blumenauer, a member of the Ways and Means Committee, has long been a leader in advocating for sustainable, long-term solutions to the transportation funding crisis. To address the insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund, he introduced a bill that would raise the federal gas tax for the first time in 23 years. While an increased and indexed gas tax is the only viable path for 21st century infrastructure in the short-term, the long-term funding solution must move away from a model dependent on gallons of gas consumed to a user fee based on miles traveled. Blumenauer’s legislation to fund state pilot projects like OReGO to explore such an alternative was incorporated in the FAST Act. The grants announced by the U.S. Department of Transportation yesterday are the first round of funding awarded. ###
08.10.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the Drug Enforcement Administration’s (DEA) expected decision to remove the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) monopoly on the production of marijuana for medical research. “I welcome the decision to lessen barriers to medical marijuana research. More than half the states—and counting—have legalized some form of medical marijuana. It’s outrageous that federal policy has blocked science for so long. “However, this decision doesn’t go far enough and is further evidence that the DEA doesn’t get it. Keeping marijuana at Schedule I continues an outdated, failed approach—leaving patients and marijuana businesses trapped between state and federal laws. This decision does not address other key concerns like the need for banking services and tax equity for small businesses, operating legally in half the states. It’s not right or fair. “Americans have spoken, with a majority supporting full legalization. It’s not enough to remove some barriers to medical research. Marijuana shouldn’t be listed as Schedule I; it shouldn’t be listed at all. It is imperative, as part of the most progressive Administration on marijuana in history, that the DEA work to end the failed prohibition of marijuana.” ###
08.10.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Steve Stivers (R-OH), and 26 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter urging Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conferees to extend the Afghan special immigrant visa (SIV) program, authorize additional visas, and retain the future viability of the program by protecting current SIV eligibility guidelines. “We urge you to stand in strong support of our national security and, in recognition of the sacrifice of our Afghan allies, to authorize additional visas for SIV applicants and to protect current SIV guidelines,” the bipartisan group of lawmakers wrote. “In previous years, Congress has used the NDAA to demonstrate our strong support to these important allies while assuring others across the globe that the United States will stand by its commitments in future missions. We urge you to continue to do so. On July 14, the Senate overwhelmingly passed a motion to instruct NDAA conferees to extend the program for one year and to provide additional visas. In their letter, the lawmakers encouraged conferees to follow the Senate-passed motion. Additionally, the lawmakers urged conferees to retain current eligibility guidelines for the Afghan SIV program. During House consideration of NDAA, language was included that would restrict program eligibility to exclude Afghans who worked in U.S. consulates, embassies, or military bases. These restrictions could have a harmful impact not only on those Afghans that worked on-base with U.S. troops, or in any number of capacities with U.S. diplomats, but also on future military operations that may rely on the support services of local populations. Included below is the letter. Click here for an electronic copy. August 10, 2016 The Honorable John McCain The Honorable Jack Reed Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Armed Services Committee on Armed Services United States Senate United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Mac Thornberry The Honorable Adam Smith Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Armed Services Committee on Armed Services U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen McCain and Thornberry, Ranking Members Reed and Smith, and Conferees: During conference committee consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017, we encourage you to follow the Senate-passed motion to instruct conferees to include language to extend the Afghan special immigrant visa (SIV) program and authorize additional visas, while also retaining the future viability of this critical program. The Afghan SIV program was first enacted through the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 to provide a life-saving path to safety for Afghan nationals who worked alongside U.S. troops, diplomats, and contractors, and who face serious danger as a result of that work. Since then, the program has been extended and reformed numerous times, each time with significant bipartisan and bicameral support. This year, Congress must act so that the State Department can continue to issue visas to Afghans who face imminent threat from the Taliban and other hostile groups because of their service to the U.S. and our allies. Prominent military leaders, diplomats, and national security experts, including Gen. John Nicholson, Gen. Stanley McChrystal, Gen. David Petraeus, and Amb. Ryan Crocker, have urged Congress to take action, noting that this program is essential to U.S. national security and credibility amongst our allies. The Administration aims to issue the remaining authorized visas by the end of this calendar year. Meanwhile, there are thousands of Afghans at some stage in the SIV process and qualified individuals continue to apply. That is why the President, in his FY2017 budget, asked Congress to authorize additional visas to help address the remaining backlog of applicants. Without further congressional action, the State Department will exhaust its current supply of visas, essentially halting the SIV program, stranding these valuable allies and sending a discouraging message to allies involved in future engagements. We urge you to authorize these additional visas to prevent a shutdown of the SIV program. During the House’s consideration of H.R. 4909, language was included in Section 1216 that would restrict program eligibility to exclude Afghans who worked in U.S. consulates, embassies, or military bases. These restrictions could have a harmful impact on those Afghans that worked on-base with U.S. troops, or in any number of capacities with U.S. diplomats, because they are just as likely to face danger if their service becomes known to forces hostile to the United States. We urge you to retain current eligibility guidelines for the Afghan SIV program. These allies risked their lives to serve the United States and we owe it to them to ensure their safety. We urge you to stand in strong support of our national security and, in recognition of the sacrifice of our Afghan allies, to authorize additional visas for SIV applicants and to protect current SIV guidelines. In previous years, Congress has used the NDAA to demonstrate our strong support to these important allies while assuring others across the globe that the United States will stand by its commitments in future missions. We urge you to continue to do so. Sincerely, ###
08.04.2016	PORTLAND, ORE. – Today, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the decision by the U.S. Attorney for the District of Oregon to drop charges against Oregonian teen, Devontre Thomas, for possessing a small amount of marijuana. “While I am pleased to see the U.S. Attorney drop the charges in the case of 19-year-old Devontre Thomas, I’m still concerned that this Office thought it was worth prosecuting in the first place. My hope is that this sets a precedent that federal prosecutors should not be wasting time and resources on low level marijuana crimes.” Recently, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer led a letter to U.S. Attorney for the District of Oregon, expressing concerns about the drug prosecution priorities of the U.S. Attorney’s Office. The letter was also signed by U.S. Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley. ###
08.03.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released an open letter to U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL), urging Senator Kirk to show respect and compassion for veterans, change course, and support Representative Blumenauer’s bipartisan proposal to allow Department of Veterans Affairs physicians to provide recommendations regarding the participation of a veteran in a state medical marijuana program. Since 2014, Representative Blumenauer has led the effort to make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana – which can be used in many states to treat a variety of conditions, including post-traumatic stress and traumatic brain injuries frequently suffered by veterans. The U.S. House of Representatives this year passed, with broad bipartisan support, his amendment to strike down the Department of Veterans Affairs policy that specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms allowing a qualified veteran to participate in a state medical marijuana program. The U.S. Senate passed a similar proposal. Despite bipartisan and bicameral support, the language was stripped from the final legislation in a closed-door conference committee – an occurrence that is very rare. Senator Kirk was a vocal opponent of the proposal during Senate consideration and was on the conference committee that determined the final language of the legislation. In response, Representative Blumenauer released the following open letter to Senator Kirk. An Open Letter to Senator Kirk: Show Respect and Compassion for Our Veterans Dear Senator Kirk: “I don't think we have too few high veterans out there.” These were your words about my proposal making it easier for qualified veterans to access state-legal medical marijuana programs. Our veterans are returning home with injuries that are both visible and unseen—experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder, brain injuries, chronic pain, and more. These wounded warriors should be treated with dignity, respect, and concern, and we should be helping them access the care they need. It is simply unconscionable that instead, you disparage them as drug addicts. Your statement is not only inappropriate, but dismissive of the serious issues faced by our veterans. We are in crisis mode as opioid addiction and abuse are on the rise, and the risk is higher for veterans, who are frequently prescribed opioids. Of the nearly 1 million veterans who receive opioid treatment for pain, over half continue to consume those pills beyond 90 days. They are dying of opiate overdoses at nearly double the national average. In many cases, medical marijuana can be a safer, more effective alternative to these highly addictive prescription opioids in treating certain conditions. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), however, prohibits its medical providers from completing forms allowing a qualified veteran to participate in a state medical marijuana program. This outdated and out of touch policy is forcing our veterans outside of the VA system to seek a recommendation for medical marijuana as a possible treatment option in states where it is legal, like Illinois. The proposal you spoke out against was passed by both the House and Senate with bipartisan votes. It strikes this policy down to allow veterans to consult with their personal VA physician, who know their medical history best, about medical marijuana as a possible treatment option. The proposal in no way requires a VA provider to recommend medical marijuana, but rather makes a conversation on all treatment options between doctor and patient more accessible. Instead of standing up and fighting for veterans in Illinois and around the country, you, however, introduce unwelcome mockery into the debate. Are you really opposed to giving doctors more options to treat our nation’s veterans? Where is your courage? Where is your sense of moral obligation to help those who served to protect us? I implore you to show compassion, change course, and support this bipartisan effort. Sincerely, Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress ###
07.20.2016	PORTLAND, ORE. – Today, U.S. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the decision from the Department of Justice regarding the global merger of Anheuser-Busch InBev (ABI) and SABMiller: “I welcome protections included by the Department of Justice for craft brewers and consumers. In particular, consumers will have more choice—and better beer—by protecting craft beer distribution channels and ensuring the review of future craft brewing acquisitions. The new company will exercise enormous market power, and it will be important to remain vigilant to protect consumers, entrepreneurs, and Oregon’s craft beer community.” On Tuesday, Congressman Blumenauer highlighted and underscored concerns about the effects of the merger on Oregon’s craft brewers and consumers. On February 11, 2016, he joined other members of the House Small Brewers Caucus, in calling for the Department of Justice to complete a comprehensive review of the merger and to “prevent negative effects of the proposed transaction on America's craft brewers and consumers, who may be left with fewer choices and experience higher prices.” In particular, the Small Brewers Caucus urged the Department of Justice to examine “outcome[s] that will further limit access to many U.S. markets that are currently only served by two major beer distributors.” Click here to read the Small Brewers Caucus’s letter. Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Small Brewers Caucus in the U.S. House of Representatives, and cosponsors legislation that supports the craft brewing industry in Oregon and across the United States, including the Small BREW Act, the Craft Beverage Bond Simplification Act of 2015, and the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act of 2015. Congress also recently passed his legislation supporting the craft cider industry. ###
07.19.2016	PORTLAND, ORE. – As the decision from the Department of Justice regarding the global merger of Anheuser-Busch InBev (ABI) and SABMiller is expected soon, U.S. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today again highlighted and underscored concerns about the effects of the merger on Oregon’s craft brewers and consumers. On February 11, 2016, Congressman Blumenauer joined other members of the House Small Brewers Caucus, in calling for the Department of Justice to complete a comprehensive review of the merger and to “prevent negative effects of the proposed transaction on America's craft brewers and consumers, who may be left with fewer choices and experience higher prices.” In particular, the Small Brewers Caucus urged the Department of Justice to examine “outcome[s] that will further limit access to many U.S. markets that are currently only served by two major beer distributors.” Click here to read the Small Brewers Caucus’s letter. “The merger of these two behemoths should raise alarms throughout the craft beer industry,” Congressman Blumenauer said today. “Not only may the merger further reduce choice and competition, it could also limit opportunities for Oregon’s craft entrepreneurs to get their brews to market. As I have highlighted to the administration, the Justice Department must carefully examine the proposal’s effects on the craft beer distribution system.” Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Small Brewers Caucus in the U.S. House of Representatives, and cosponsors legislation that supports the craft brewing industry in Oregon and across the United States, including the Small BREW Act, the Craft Beverage Bond Simplification Act of 2015, and the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act of 2015. Congress also recently passed his legislation supporting the craft cider industry. Congressman Blumenauer to Join Base Camp Brewing Company for New Beer Release to Highlight Efforts to Protect Precious Owyhee Canyonlands On Wednesday, July 20, at 2:00 p.m. (PT) in Portland, Congressman Earl Blumenauer will join Base Camp Brewing Company for the bottling release of its latest creation, the Owyhee Canyonlands Wild Ale, inspired by the magnificent Owyhee Canyonlands in southeastern Oregon. Members of the media are invited to cover the event. If you would like more information or to attend the event, please contact Nicole L’Esperance at nicole.lesperance@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-4811. ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 5538, FY2017 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill. “I emphatically voted ‘no’ on H.R. 5538, a parade of misguided provisions that will roll back critical environmental protections and seriously harm our climate, natural surroundings, and wildlife. We can do better than this shameful attempt at funding the agencies responsible for protecting human health and the environment. We should be supporting programs to clean our air and water, protect precious natural resources, and help us transition to a clean energy future. Instead, this legislation moves us in the opposite direction. “The bill cuts the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) operating budget and blocks spending on key programs and regulations at a time when we need greater—not fewer—resources to protect our health and guarantee clean air and clean water. This is particularly painful for communities like Flint, MI, and my hometown of Portland, OR, where the EPA is assisting with recent crises like lead in the water and pollution in the air, trying to stretch meager funding even as the stakes get higher. The legislation also continues the Republican charade of climate change denial, undermining the administration’s Clean Power Plan and the President’s bold commitments made to the international community at the Paris Climate Conference last year. “This bill takes multiple steps backwards when we should be ramping up efforts to protect, conserve, and take better care of our natural world. It underfunds key Department of Interior agencies, such as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, National Park Service, and Bureau of Indian Affairs, tasked with protecting and conserving lands and wildlife. It slashes the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which has been fundamental for protecting public land and recreation in Oregon and across the country. One of the bill’s more offensive provisions blocks Presidential declarations under the Antiquities Act, eliminating the potential of a national monument in southeastern Oregon’s magnificent Owyhee Canyonlands and other threatened areas of natural beauty throughout the United States. “My Republican colleagues took this opportunity to score political points by tacking on damaging policies that have no place in the appropriations process. These provisions block funding for implementation of common sense regulations like the Well Control Rule, the Obama Administration’s National Ocean Policy, the Bureau of Land Management’s hydraulic fracturing rule, to name a few. There are also provisions added that would stall progress we’ve made in preventing drilling in the Arctic Ocean, prevent the Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Park Service from setting minimum standards for hunting on federal lands in Alaska, block federal protection of species like the iconic gray wolf and Preble’s Meadow Jumping Mouse, roll back the Clean Air Act and stop additional action to prevent climate change, the greatest environmental challenge of our time. Even closer to home, one proposed amendment would have blocked the historic agreement between Oregon, California, PacifiCorp, and conservation organizations to remove four dams on the Klamath River, but luckily it was not successful. “This was a shameful showing by the House of Representatives. While I joined my colleagues in efforts to block many of the most harmful provisions, ultimately the Republican majority let big polluters and special interests rule the day, playing politics with what should have been an opportunity to sensibly fund important parts of the government. Our legacy should be one of conservation, careful investment in preservation of precious natural resources, and protection of human health and our fragile climate. This bill could not be more damaging to that legacy. Congress should restore funding and reject these harmful policies as it continues to consider funding for the federal government’s operations. We must fight harder for the future our planet deserves.” ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03) and U.S. Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) introduced the Columbia River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing Access Sites Improvement Act, bicameral legislation to enable the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs to make important safety and sanitation improvements at federally-owned tribal treaty fishing sites along the Columbia River. “While we work to provide longer-term relief through the construction of permanent housing, this legislation calls for immediate action to improve conditions at the tribal fishing sites along the Columbia River,” said Blumenauer. “Urgent upgrades are needed for electrical, sewer, and other basic improvements to address safety, sanitation, and other conditions. The federal government shouldn’t let more time pass without helping to make sure that the basic necessities of clean and safe conditions are pursued. The status quo is unacceptable.” “It is long past time that we honored our commitment to tribal members along the Columbia River and this legislation is another step in the right direction,” said Merkley. “Tribal members shouldn’t have to live in unsafe or unsanitary conditions without running water or electricity. This bill will help make much needed improvements at the 31 tribal fishing sites along the Columbia River. “This legislation begins to undo a shameful legacy of shabby treatment for tribal members who have long deserved better,” Wyden said. “These glaring public health and safety hazards for children and families must be addressed now as an essential part of repairing a sad history of injustice.” “I believe it is critical for there to be safe, reliable housing along the Columbia River so treaty tribes can exercise their protected rights,” said Murray. “Salmon fishing is an integral part of the Native American legacy, and this legislation aims to make long-overdue improvements to tribal fishing access rights while we work on the longer-term need for additional housing. This is an important step toward honoring tribal rights.” Western development, including construction of the three lower Columbia River dams beginning in the 1930s, displaced many members of the four Columbia River Treaty tribes: the Warm Springs, Umatilla, Nez Perce, and Yakama Nation. Those Tribes have a treaty-protected right to fish along the river in their usual and accustomed places, and were also promised housing to replace what was flooded after the dams became operational. That promise has largely not been kept, and the Tribes and their citizens have never been fully compensated for these losses. As a result, today, many tribal members live year-round in makeshift housing at 31 small sites along the Columbia River that were designed primarily for daily, in-season fishing access and temporary camping and cannot sustainably accommodate this intense use. In fact, many people at these sites are living in extremely distressed, unsafe, and unsanitary conditions, and the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs has not committed the resources necessary to ensure the basic necessities of clean and safe living conditions there. The Columbia River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing Access Sites Improvement Act will address the urgent need for improved conditions by: Calling on the Bureau of Indian Affairs to conduct a much-needed assessment of current safety and sanitation conditions at the sites, in coordination with the affected Columbia River Treaty Tribes; and Directing the Bureau to work on improving sanitation and safety conditions in several key areas such as structural improvements (restrooms, washrooms, and other buildings), safety improvements (wells and infrastructure to address fire concerns, and more), electrical infrastructure to ensure safe electrical hookups, and basic sewer and septic infrastructure. “The Nez Perce Tribe appreciates the leadership of Congressman Blumenauer and Senator Merkley in introducing the Columbia River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing Access Sites Improvement Act to address the conditions at tribal fishing sites along the Columbia River. The Nez Perce Tribe has invested a tremendous amount of time and resources to help restore the fishing resources that were drastically impacted by the construction of the Columbia River Power System. Unfortunately, access to this resource is affected by the conditions of these sites. It is our hope that this legislation will provide solutions to the problems that prevent tribal members from being able to exercise their treaty rights in safe and sanitary conditions,” said McCoy Oatman, Vice-Chairman of the Nez Perce Tribal Executive Committee. “The Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation (CTUIR) offer our support for the ‘Columbia River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing Access Sites Improvement Act.’ This legislation is intended to provide a safe and healthy place for tribal members to exercise their Treaty Rights and support their families and their communities. Fishing is one of the critical means to cultural food gathering by CTUIR and this legislation will help our fishers continue the practices of their ancestors, practices that have been carried on since time immemorial,” said Gary Burke, Chair, Board of Trustees, Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation. “We need to start by providing some basic human necessities such as clean water, basic sanitation, and fire safety infrastructure to tribal fishing sites along the Columbia River,” said Jeremy Red Star Wolf, Chairman of the Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission. “The bill introduced today in both chambers of Congress highlights the importance of this near-term need and lays a path for the Bureau of Indian Affairs to remedy many of these problems now. We appreciate the Delegation’s commitment and their multi-faceted approach to addressing the problems and continuing to do so into the future.” ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) led a bipartisan group of members of the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter to Israeli Minister of National Infrastructures, Energy, and Water Resources Yuval Steinitz and Israeli Minister of Defense Avigdor Lieberman supporting a long-term approach to supplying energy to the Gaza Strip to address the water crisis. In the letter, the lawmakers praise Israel’s commitment to increase the sale of electricity to Gaza to support the operation of the Northern Gaza Emergency Sewage Treatment Project (NGEST). The operation of NGEST will have an immediate impact on the health and security of the Gaza Strip, as well as limiting the flow of raw sewage into the Mediterranean. The lawmakers urged Ministers Steinitz and Lieberman to consider how this energy can be sustained in the long term to keep NGEST fully operational. “The transfer of an additional 6MW through existing cross-border connections provides an emergency means to power NGEST operations, but these connections, which are already operating beyond full capacity, cannot sustainably power NGEST over the life of the project,” the lawmakers wrote. “As you consider the long-term viability of sewage treatment operations, particularly increases in operations to address growing sewage treatment needs, the sustainable provision of energy is critical.” The letter is signed by Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Ted Poe (R-TX), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Charles W. Dent (R-PA), William R. Keating (D-MA), Tom Marino (R-PA), Grace Meng (D-NY), Steve Chabot (R-OH), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Paul Cook (R-CA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Chris Gibson (R-NY), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and Blake Farenthold (R-TX). Included below is the full text of the letter. Click here for an electronic version. July 13, 2016 Yuval Steinitz, Minister of National Infrastructures, Energy and Water Resources Avigdor Lieberman, Minister of Defense Embassy of Israel to the United States 3514 International Dr. NW, Washington, DC 20008 Dear Minister Steinitz and Minister Lieberman, We praise your commitment to increase the sale of electricity to Gaza to support the operation of the Northern Gaza Emergency Sewage Treatment Project (NGEST). The sale of the additional 6MW of energy, and the subsequent operation of NGEST, will have an immediate and tangible impact on limiting the flow of raw sewage into the Mediterranean, which poses serious health risks to both Israeli and Palestinian communities along the coast. The operation of NGEST will immediately improve both the health and security of the Gaza Strip. As sanitation services and clean water access improve, communities become more stable, potentially undermining groups like Hamas that use civil unrest as a recruiting tool. In light of these benefits, we also support a long-term approach to keep NGEST fully operational. The transfer of an additional 6MW through existing cross-border connections provides an emergency means to power NGEST operations, but these connections, which are already operating beyond full capacity, cannot sustainably power NGEST over the life of the project. As you consider the long-term viability of sewage treatment operations, particularly increases in operations to address growing sewage treatment needs, the sustainable provision of energy is critical. By ensuring continuous, reliable operations, the health and safety of Israel’s southern coast will improve, and the operation of its coastal desalination facilities will be less frequently disrupted. We recognize the many threats that Israel faces from its border with Gaza. We sincerely praise and support your practical actions that benefit Israeli and Palestinian citizens alike, and protect regional natural resources. The security and health of the people of Israel, and the safe access to water and sanitation services for all people, are both major global priorities for the United States. Your efforts have furthered both of these interests simultaneously. Again, we support solutions that sustain these gains. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, ###
06.28.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Steve Daines, U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and nine members of the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives today urged Congressional leadership to include a provision in the final funding bill sent to the president that protects veterans’ ability to discuss the use of medical marijuana with VA physicians in states where it is legal. Although, the provision passed both chambers of Congress, the provision was removed in the conferenced appropriations for Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies. The Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act Conference Report failed to include Senators Daines and Jeff Merkley’s (D-OR) and Earl Blumenauer’s (D-OR) amendments that would allow for parity between VA and non-VA facilities in 26 states which have medical marijuana programs. The amendment does not change current laws preventing the possession or dispensing of marijuana on VA property, but simply allows veterans to discuss all options that are legally available in their state with their VA doctor. “The Conferees failed to include a provision passed by bipartisan votes in the House and Senate that would allow VA doctors to discuss medical marijuana and make recommendations regarding its use in states where it is legal,” the members wrote. “We strongly believe the inclusion of either the House or Senate language in the final text should have been nonnegotiable.” “We feel the failure of the Conferees to include either provision is a drastic misfortune for veterans and is contrary to the will of both chambers as demonstrated by the strong bipartisan support for these provisions,” the members continued. The letter is signed by U.S. Senators Steve Daines (R-MT), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Ron Wyden (D-OR) and U.S. Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Jared Polis (D-CO), Dina Titus (D-NV) and Ruben Gallego (D-AZ). The Senate Appropriations Committee passed the amendment with a bipartisan vote of 20-10, and a substantially similar amendment passed the U.S. House with a vote of 233-189. The full text of the letter is available below and available for download here. Dear Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McConnell, Minority Leader Reid, and Minority Leader Pelosi: We write to express our serious concern with the conferenced Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017. The Conferees failed to include a provision passed by bipartisan votes in the House and Senate that would allow VA doctors to discuss medical marijuana and make recommendations regarding its use in states where it is legal. The provisions that appeared in both the House and Senate bills were substantially similar and had broad bipartisan support. We strongly believe the inclusion of either the House or Senate language in the final text should have been nonnegotiable. Currently, twenty-six states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing for the medical use of the cannabis plant to treat certain conditions, and sixteen more have laws allowing for the use of some its constituent compounds. However, under VHA Directive 2011-004, the Veterans Health Administration effectively prohibits VA physicians from taking any steps toward providing their own clinical judgment when discussing or recommending the use of cannabis with their patients. For the second year in a row, language correcting this and giving veterans a life changing benefit has overwhelming passed the Senate after being adopted by the Senate Appropriations Committee, this year by a bipartisan vote of 20-10. A substantially similar amendment passed the House by a vote of 233-189. There is precedent and an expectation that identical or similar language is to be accepted in the final version of conferenced legislation. Additionally, both the House and Senate sponsors of the legislation wrote to the Conferees requesting inclusion of the language and providing guidance on a preferred outcome. As you will note, the texts of these provisions are drastically similar. Senate Text: SEC. 247. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Veterans Affairs in this Act may be used in a manner that would interfere with the ability of a veteran to participate in a medicinal marijuana program approved by a State; deny any services from the Department to a veteran who is participating in such a program; or limit or interfere with the ability of a health care provider of the Department to make appropriate recommendations, fill out forms, or take steps to comply with such a program. House Text: SEC. 523. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to implement, administer, or enforce Veterans Health Administration directive 2011–004 (or directive of the same substance) with respect to the prohibition on “VA providers from completing forms seeking recommendations or opinions regarding a Veteran's participation in a State marijuana program.” We feel the failure of the Conferees to include either provision is a drastic misfortune for veterans and is contrary to the will of both chambers as demonstrated by the strong bipartisan support for these provisions. We urge you to act to ensure one of these provisions is included in any final funding bill sent to the President. ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– On Wednesday, in the dead of night, as House Democrats held a sit-in for gun safety, House Republicans stripped language that would make it easier for qualified veterans to access state-legal medical marijuana from legislation to fund the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). With no transparency and little opportunity for Members to review, the House passed the legislation shortly after 3:00 AM (ET) that night. The Senate will vote on the legislation next. Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) released the following statement: “Our language ensuring fair treatment for our veterans had broad, bipartisan support and passed both Chambers—it’s outrageous that it was removed. To add insult to injury, the legislation was released in the middle of the night, not even giving Members of the House an opportunity to review the language before voting on it. This isn’t right for our veterans, or the American people. We will keep fighting to make sure our wounded warriors have equal treatment and the ability to consult with their VA medical providers about medical marijuana as a treatment option.” Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms allowing a qualified veteran to participate in a state medical marijuana program. This forces veterans out of the VA system to seek a simple recommendation for treatment for eligible conditions under state laws. On May 19, when the U.S. House of Representatives considered the FY 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, it passed Representative Blumenauer’s Veterans Equal Access Amendment, which would prevent the VA from implementing this prohibition. The amendment passed by 233-189. In April, the Senate Committee on Appropriations passed a similar amendment offered by Senator Merkley to the Senate version of the legislation. ###
06.22.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives during a sit-in organized by House Democrats to demand Republicans hold a vote on legislation to address gun violence. Included below is a transcript of his remarks: “I started today on this floor talking about two bullets that changed my life: a high school friend and my brother. All of you have stories that affected your communities and your lives. I am proud that people are finding their voice. “There is power in this room. Think for a moment about what happened with a couple dozen loose cannons on the other side of the aisle shutting down this government – embarrassing, damaging, but I think, perhaps, a lesson. “Everybody in this room represents a path forward. We know what to do to stop gun violence – treat it like the public health epidemic that it is. We all have taken strength from what we as a country did stopping the carnage on our highways. There was no single magic solution. It was years of hard work dealing with legislation, enforcement, research, engineering, public advocacy, and moms against drunk driving, and we cut the carnage in half. “I know that we’ve got dozens of simple, commonsense proposals represented by people in this room. It’s time that we get better than 37 seconds from the Speaker of the House for a moment of silence after the last carnage. I’m speaking from this side of the aisle because I want to hear from my friends on this side of the aisle. They do themselves a service by hearing what we’re saying today. “You know, if we don’t continue this action, what’s going to occur? We’re going to be voting on meaningless legislation that’s bad policy and is never going to be enacted into law. I say, let’s invest a little more time here. Let’s start with no fly, no buy. “If we can start a journey towards a safer country today, even if it means we don’t start a journey back to our districts Friday afternoon or Saturday or Sunday, it’s time to seize the power that we have to help the majority do what I think a number of them want to do in their hearts. “Thank you for being here today, and I look forward to staying on message and on task until we get the first step towards an important journey that were all committed to.” ###
06.22.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Phil Roe (R-TN) introduced the Personalize Your Care Act 2.0, legislation to strengthen end-of-life care by establishing new models of care that will better manage advanced illness, improve quality of care, and enhance training, resources, and tools for providers, patients, and their families. The Personalize Your Care Act 2.0 builds on Mr. Blumenauer and Dr. Roe’s Personalize Your Care Act of 2013, legislation to make sure patients receive care at the end of life that is consistent with their stated goals, values, and informed preferences. Following their advocacy, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services established a benefit for advance care planning. As a result, providers are now reimbursed for their time to have these complex conversations with patients and their families. Documents like advance directives and physician orders for life sustaining treatment (POLST) are a first step in providing high-quality, personalized care, but more must be done. “Medicare providers are now being reimbursed for having thoughtful and thorough conversations with patients and their families about end-of-life choices. Our legislation builds on what we’ve accomplished to further ensure patients’ wishes for care are understood, respected, and enforced.” said Blumenauer. “Conversations about end-of-life care can be difficult, but it’s extremely important for patients and their families to make these decisions with their medical providers. I’ve been on both sides of these discussions – as a physician and a family member – and I know firsthand the peace of mind that comes with knowing a patient or loved one’s wishes,” said Roe. “This bill will ensure patients, families and medical professionals have the resources and tools they need to navigate these sensitive but necessary conversations, and I am proud to partner with Congressman Blumenauer on this legislation.” The Personalize Your Care Act 2.0 aims to strengthen end-of-life care by: · Authorizing a new model of care under Medicare that integrates palliative care and supporting services by providing curative care options in addition to hospice services. · Providing grants to states to establish or expand POLST programs, which have a positive record of promoting patient autonomy through documenting and coordinating a person’s treatment preferences. · Providing grants to develop additional decision support tools for individuals, caregivers, and providers that include the importance of articulating goals of care, developing a care plan, and documentation. · Improving the accessibility and portability of advance care planning documents by ensuring that an individual’s electronic health record displays the current advance directive and/or POLST so that a patient’s goals, values, and preferences are more readily available. · Providing resources to enhance provider training in basic advance care planning and palliative care, including culturally appropriate communication skills, inter-professional collaboration, and symptom management. · Directing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to include end-of-life quality measures as part of current efforts to develop alternative payment models and payment reforms under the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA). Blumenauer Efforts to Strengthen End-of-Life Care Blumenauer—a member of the Ways and Means Committee, including the Subcommittee on Health—has been a tireless champion of empowering patients and providers to better recognize goals, values, and wishes throughout the care continuum. During the Affordable Care Act (ACA) debate, his provision to provide Medicare reimbursement for doctors who discuss end-of-life care treatment preferences with their patients was included in the House version of the bill. Since the ACA, he continued to push for these important conversations to become a Medicare benefit, which was finally recognized in the 2016 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule. ###
06.20.2016	Washington, DC — This week, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03), Andy Harris, M.D. (R-MD-01), H. Morgan Griffith (R-VA-09), and Sam Farr (D-CA-20) will be introducing the Medical Marijuana Research Act of 2016. This bill heeds the calls of the medical research community to address the burdensome processes that currently impede legitimate medical research on marijuana. This bill is a bipartisan and bicameral solution that removes barriers inhibiting medical marijuana research. Senators Brian Schatz (D-HI), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Chris Coons (D-DE), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) are introducing a similar bill in the Senate. “As a physician who has conducted NIH sponsored research, I can’t stress enough how critical this legislation is to the scientific community. Our drug policy was never intended to act as an impediment to conducting legitimate medical research. We need empirical scientific evidence to clearly determine whether marijuana has medicinal benefits and, if so, how it would be used most effectively. This legislation is crucial to that effort, because it removes the unnecessary administrative barriers that deter qualified researchers from rigorously studying medical marijuana,” said Dr. Harris. “Despite the fact that over 200 million Americans now have legal access to some form of medical marijuana, federal policy is blocking science. It’s outrageous,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “We owe it to patients and their families to allow for the research physicians need to understand marijuana’s benefits and risks and determine proper use and dosage. The federal government should get out of the way to allow for this long overdue research.” “There are countless reports of marijuana’s medicinal benefits, but patients, doctors, pharmacists, and policymakers must have more to rely on than anecdotal evidence,” said Congressman Griffith. “Removing the barriers that prevent further research on marijuana’s medicinal benefits and possible side effects is the right thing to do, plain and simple.” “This bill is about helping people. As more states pass their own medical marijuana laws, it’s time for Congress to reexamine federal policy. This bill does just that by supporting research so policy decisions about the role of medical marijuana are based on science and facts instead of rhetoric,” said Congressman Farr. The Medical Marijuana Research Act of 2016 addresses two major barriers currently faced by researchers who wish to conduct legitimate medical research with marijuana, a Schedule I drug. First, it creates a new, less cumbersome registration process specifically for marijuana, reducing approval wait times, costly security measures, and additional, unnecessary layers of protocol review. Second, once researchers have been approved to conduct this research, this bill makes it easier for those researchers to obtain the marijuana they need for their studies through reforms in both production and distribution regulations. To this end, the bill also allows for the private manufacturing and distribution of marijuana solely for research purposes. Currently, the only marijuana available to be used in research legally comes from a single contract the National Institute on Drug Abuse holds with the University of Mississippi. ###
06.17.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — This week, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Todd Young (R-IN) introduced H.R. 5506,the Dialysis PATIENT (Patient Access to Integrated-Care, Empowerment, Nephrologists, and Treatment) Demonstration Act. This bipartisan legislation increases access to high-quality, coordinated care for Americans suffering from end-stage renal disease (ESRD). “For Medicare patients living on fixed incomes, better coordinated care will spare them time, money, and multiple trips in and out of various providers’ offices,” said Young. “We know patients with end-stage renal disease are vulnerable to a host of accompanying health complications that require extra care. This comprehensive approach, which shifts the focus from treating a singular disease to caring for the whole patient, will not only bring down costs but meaningfully improve quality of life.” “Kidney disease is debilitating and costly. By giving providers better tools to coordinate care and for treatment, these patients will be better served and see better outcomes,” said Blumenauer. “This is a first step towards improving kidney care, and more broadly reassessing federal policies, to help our most vulnerable individuals live healthier lives.” – Background: -An estimated 650,000 Americans receive dialysis to treat the final stage of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD), known as End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD), in order to stay alive. The dialysis regiment typically requires four-hour treatments at least three times a week. -ESRD patients represent a very small portion of the Medicare population (1.2%) but account for a disproportionately large percentage of overall cost (6.3% of total Medicare spending or over $30 billion). H.R. 5506, the PATIENT Demonstration Act,establishes an ESRD integrated care demonstration program where interdisciplinary teams, led by a nephrologist, provide holistic management for all of the patient’s health care needs. This program utilizes the dialysis facility as a central command point for patients to access the coordinated health care services. The PATIENT Demonstration Actadopts a practical approach to care delivery that willsignificantly improve health outcomes, reduce hospitalizations and readmissions, and increase quality of life for ESRD patients. In addition to Ways and Means members Young and Blumenauer, the House bill benefits from the bipartisan contributions of original sponsors Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Tony Cardenas (D-CA). Both are members of the Energy and Commerce Committee. xxx
06.16.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Earl Blumenauer released the following statement on the tragic shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando on Sunday, June 12: Dear Friends, On Sunday, a mad man's fury and hate was directed at the LGBT community, resulting in the murder of 49 people and injuring many more. Our country is reeling from the horrifying violence in Orlando - the worst mass shooting in recent American history by someone who, in his own words, identified with ISIS. This was a homophobic attack that has shattered lives, yet another tragedy from gun violence. It's outrageous that Congress has failed to act to prevent more tragedies. Why haven't we learned? When will this stop? At what point do we say enough is enough and act? Many people have asked what I'm doing. My approach is outlined in my plan for a path forward for gun safety in America. I published this plan over a year ago, and highlighted it again last October after the shooting at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon. Since then there have been 258 mass shootings. At every turn, I work to treat gun violence like the public health epidemic it is. We can take commonsense steps to protect Americans, including: Keeping guns from the most dangerous users by closing the "private sale loophole" and implementing comprehensive and uniform background checks; Having law enforcement follow up with each person who fails the background check; Restricting assault weapons and high capacity magazines that are unsafe in any public space; Improving our mental health system to make it more accessible and available and enhancing our capacity to help individuals with mental illness; Authorizing and increasing research on gun violence to allow us to fully understand the impact and implications of current policies; Making sure guns are tested and regulated to ensure consistency and product safety for consumers; Empowering health care professionals to discuss all matters that affect their patients' health, including gun ownership; Ensuring better regulation for gun dealers and focusing compliance on the few unscrupulous gun dealers; Enforcing existing gun laws by not letting the gun lobby undermine enforcement agencies; Requiring that people purchasing a gun have liability insurance; and Providing resources for first responders, schools, and public facilities personnel to deal with active-shooter situations. I'm working on several bills in Congress that make these changes. I'm proud to stand with my colleagues in the Senate to filibustered for these efforts. No more just thoughts and prayers. Not just moments of silence. If we want to support the LGBT community and every family in America and keep our communities safe, we need to bring these bills to the floor for a vote now - and, while we're at it, bills that promote the equality agenda. Courage, Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress
06.09.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Earl Blumenauer’s amendment to H.R. 5325, the FY 2017 Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, that paves the way for Capital Bikeshare stations to be placed on U.S. Capitol grounds by requiring the Architect of the Capitol to conduct a feasibility study on the installation and operation of the stations. Currently, there are no bikeshare stations on the Capitol complex, a gaping hole in the growing bikeshare network. A study by the Architect of the Capitol is a necessary step to extending this network, and increasing transportation options for the millions of visitors to the Capitol. “Bringing bikeshare to the U.S. Capitol will increase travel options for constituents, tourists, and staff alike—especially during reduced Metro service and as the DC region continues to grow. Capital Bikeshare plays a critical role in the region’s transportation network, and it’s past time to bring this service to the Capitol,” said Blumenauer. Congressman Blumenauer (OR-03) is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Bike Caucus, and earlier this year introduced H.R. 4343, the Bikeshare Transit Act, to increase federal funding eligibility for bikeshare systems nationwide. ###
06.04.2016	Portland, Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on today’s oil train derailment in Mosier, Oregon: “Today’s oil train derailment in Mosier is a dangerous and tragic event. Thankfully, no fatalities have been reported, and we hope that those involved in the crash, first responders, and people in the surrounding community remain safe. We don’t yet know whether any of the crude oil being transported in these cars has made it into the river, but we do know it is causing significant air pollution and health concerns for the area. I hope that all safety and environmental concerns can be minimized. “Seeing our beautiful Columbia River Gorge on fire today should be a wake-up call for federal and state agencies – underscoring the need to complete comprehensive environmental reviews of oil-by-rail in the Pacific Northwest. “This also illustrates the need for safer rail transport and better preparedness for disasters such as these. Oregon fire departments are on record saying they don’t have the resources to deal with oil train fires. “Without change, this will happen again. These risks are unacceptable, and we must take action to prevent them.” In August 2015, Blumenauer sent a letter urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to prepare a comprehensive Environmental Impact Statement for the proposed oil terminal in Vancouver, WA, which would involve significant oil-by-rail transport through the Gorge. Blumenauer has also pressed the Department of Transportation for strong regulatory action on oil tank car safety. In July 2014, he sent a letter to Secretary Foxx on the issue. ###
06.03.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Barbara Lee (CA-13) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew urging the agency to end the application of the Internal Revenue Code Section 280E on marijuana businesses operating in compliance with state law and allow them to take deductions associated with the sale of marijuana like any other legal business. “Conceived and enacted at the height of the War on Drugs in 1982, § 280E was designed to thwart large drug trafficking organizations by preventing them from taking deductions for ordinary business expenses. Congress did not envision its future application to marijuana businesses caught in between state and federal laws,” the lawmakers wrote. “Yet, because it was written to disallow deductions for anyone trafficking Schedule I or II substances, marijuana dispensaries operating in accordance with state law in 24 states are subject to this provision, and to significantly higher tax rates than other businesses, threatening their financial viability.” Currently, the federal tax code prohibits anyone selling Schedule I or Schedule II substances from deducting business expenses associated with the sale of marijuana from their taxes. Marijuana is a Schedule I substance. Therefore, even businesses operating in compliance with state law are not allowed to deduct the common expenses of running a small business, such as rent, most utilities and payroll. In certain circumstances, legal marijuana businesses can pay federal income tax rates at nearly 90 percent, while the U.S. Small Business Administration estimates that many small businesses pay an effective rate of around 20 percent. “While the prohibition in § 280E has been broadly applied to date, an interpretation more in line with public opinion and the policy developments in Congress would tailor a narrower application of the rule, exempting legitimate state legal businesses,” the lawmakers wrote. Last year, Blumenauer reintroduced the Small Business Tax Equity Act, legislation that would ensure that Section 280E would not apply to state-legal cannabis businesses. Included below is the full text of the letter sent today. Click here for an electronic version. June 3, 2016 Jacob Lew Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Lew: We write to encourage your agency to undertake a revision in the scope of Internal Revenue Code § 280E and end its application to cannabis businesses operating in compliance with state and local law. Conceived and enacted at the height of the War on Drugs in 1982, § 280E was designed to thwart large drug trafficking organizations by preventing them from taking deductions for ordinary business expenses. Congress did not envision its future application to marijuana businesses caught in between state and federal laws. Yet, because it was written to disallow deductions for anyone trafficking Schedule I or II substances, marijuana dispensaries operating in accordance with state law in 24 states are subject to this provision, and to significantly higher tax rates than other businesses, threatening their financial viability. Attitudes toward cannabis are rapidly changing, and more and more states are moving toward legalization of both medical and adult use. Attitudes in the federal government are shifting as well, and Congress has twice passed a provision prohibiting the Department of Justice from interfering with state medical marijuana laws. Additionally, legislation has been introduced, H.R. 1855 in the House and S. 987 in the Senate, that if passed, would ensure that § 280E wouldn’t apply to state-legal cannabis businesses. While the prohibition in § 280E has been broadly applied to date, an interpretation more in line with public opinion and the policy developments in Congress would tailor a narrower application of the rule, exempting legitimate state legal businesses. Thank you for your consideration of this request‎. Sincerely, ###
05.26.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and John Conyers (MI-13) led 38 members of the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy expressing concerns regarding the agency’s assessment of the impacts of the widely used insecticide, imidacloprid, on pollinators. Imidacloprid is a type of neonicotinoid, a class of pesticides that has been linked to declining pollinator populations. In January, EPA released its Preliminary Pollinator Assessment to Support the Registration Review of Imidacloprid, which found that imidacloprid does pose a risk to honey bees. This assessment, however, failed to address many important issues necessary to reversing pollinator losses. In their letter, the lawmakers call on EPA to further examine the impacts of imidacloprid and other neonicotinoids by evaluating: their impacts on native bee species; the risks of other stressors on honey bees in conjunction with exposure to pesticides; and the effects when multiple pesticides are used together. “Since beekeepers began reporting massive bee die-offs more than a decade ago, the health of our nation’s honey bees and other pollinators has been a continuing source of concern,” the lawmakers wrote. “In order to meet the goals of reversing pollinator losses and restoring healthy populations laid out in this strategy, EPA must strengthen and improve the scope of its risk assessment of neonicotinoids.” Continued decline in bee populations will have serious implications to American food production and the economy. Approximately one in three bites of food benefits from bee pollination. Pollinators provide $24 billion a year to the economy, $15 billion of which is contributed by honey bees. Many crops, including almonds, cranberries, and apples, rely almost entirely on bees and other pollinators. Representatives Blumenauer and Conyers have long championed efforts to protect our pollinators. Last year, they reintroduced Saving America’s Pollinators Act, legislation that requires EPA to take swift action to prevent mass bee die-offs and protect the health of honey bees and other critical pollinators by suspending the use of neonicotinoids. It also requires the Secretary of the Interior, in coordination with the Administrator of the EPA, to monitor the health of native bee populations and to identify and publicly report the likely causes of bee kills. Included below is the full text of the letter sent today. Click here for an electronic version. May 26, 2016 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W. Washington, DC 20460 ?Dear Administrator McCarthy:? ?We write to express our concerns regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Preliminary Pollinator Assessment to Support the Registration Review of Imidacloprid for the neonicotinoid imidacloprid, which is toxic to pollinators.? ?Bees and other pollinators are essential to American food production and the economy. Approximately one in three bites of food benefits from bee pollination. Pollinators provide $24 billion a year to the economy, $15 billion of which is contributed by honey bees. Many crops, including almonds, cranberries, and apples, rely almost entirely on bees and other pollinators.? ?Since beekeepers began reporting massive bee die-offs more than a decade ago, the health of our nation’s honey bees and other pollinators has been a continuing source of concern. In June 2014, President Obama responded by issuing a memorandum and subsequent National Strategy to Promote the Health of Honey Bees and Other Pollinators, calling for a federal strategy to protect the health of honey bees and other pollinators, including the identification of existing and new methods and best practices to reduce pollinator exposure to pesticides.? ?In order to meet the goals of reversing pollinator losses and restoring healthy populations laid out in this strategy, EPA must strengthen and improve the scope of its risk assessment of neonicotinoids, a class of pesticides that is widely used and has been linked to declining pollinator populations.? ?Specifically, we encourage EPA to address the following issues: • EPA’s recent preliminary assessment for imidacloprid fails to take into account the unique risks posed to native bee species, particularly solitary ground nesting bees. Unlike honey bees, roughly 70 percent of native bees nest in the ground and may be exposed to higher levels of imidacloprid through soil applications and seed treatment uses. EPA, however, only uses honey bees in their risk assessment tests. We urge the EPA to broaden the scope of its risk assessments and evaluate and account for the specific risks posed to native bee species. • In addition to threats from pesticides, honey bees and other pollinators face many additional stressors, including diseases, parasites, poor nutrition, and habitat loss. We urge the EPA to evaluate the impact of these stressors on honey bees and other pollinators in conjunction with exposure to imidacloprid or other neonicotinoids. • It is critical that the EPA evaluate the risks from synergistic effects that occur when multiple pesticides are used together. The U.S. Government Accountability Office recently noted in its evaluation, “By identifying the pesticide mixtures that farmers and pesticide applicators most commonly use on agricultural crops, EPA would have greater assurance that it could assess those mixtures to determine whether they pose greater risks than the sum of the risks posed by the individual pesticides.” It is clear that bees and other pollinators are exposed to numerous pesticides, not just neonicotinoids, in real field settings. A U.S. Geological Survey study found that native bees are commonly exposed to multiple pesticides. In their tests, nearly half of all native bee samples contained two or more pesticides. Synergistic effects of these pesticide combinations must be evaluated in future risk assessments. Thank you for your consideration of these concerns. The state of our nation’s pollinators is directly linked to the state of our food production, the economy, and the environment.? ?We look forward to your response and acknowledgment of these concerns in your final risk assessment for imidacloprid at the end of the year. ? ?Sincerely, ###
05.19.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment to the FY 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill led by Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) to make it easier for qualified veterans to access state-legal medical marijuana. The amendment had bipartisan support and was co-sponsored by Representatives Joe Heck (R-NV), Sam Farr (D-CA), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Tom Reed (R-NY), Dina Titus (D-NV), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), and Jared Polis (D-CO). It passed by 233-189. “One of the greatest tragedies of our time is our failure to adequately deal with the needs of our veterans returning home with wounds both visible and unseen. Giving them access to medical marijuana as an alternative treatment option to deal with chronic pain, PTSD, and other conditions is critical at a time when our veterans are dying with a suicide rate 50 percent higher than civilians and opiate overdoses at nearly double the national average. Medical marijuana can be a safer, more effective alternative,” said Representative Blumenauer. “I commend my colleagues for showing compassion and supporting our wounded warriors. Today’s vote is a win for these men and women who have done so much for us and deserve equal treatment in being able to consult with, and seek a recommendation from, their personal VA physician about medical marijuana.” Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms allowing a qualified veteran to participate in a state medical marijuana program. This forces veterans out of the VA system to seek a simple recommendation for treatment for eligible conditions under state laws. Representative Blumenauer’s amendment ensures that no funds made available to the VA can be used to implement this prohibition, which would, in effect, strike it down. “This is an historic moment and further proof there is real movement and bipartisan support in reforming outdated federal marijuana policies,” said Representative Blumenauer. “There is more to be done, and I will build on today’s momentum and continue my efforts in catching federal policy up to reflect the views held by a majority of Americans.” In April, the Senate Committee on Appropriations passed a similar amendment to the Senate version of the FY 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The Senate and House bills will need to be reconciled and passed by both chambers to become law. ###
05.18.2016	Washington, DC — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment offered by Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) to H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, that will highlight the true cost of wasteful U.S. nuclear weapons programs. This amendment will increase transparency in nuclear weapons spending by requiring the Department of Defense to report to Congress the total cost of research, production, and maintenance of the B-21 bomber program. While the B-21—a nuclear-capable aircraft—is currently under development to replace Air Force B-52 bombers and B-1 bombers, Congress has not been given adequate information on the full costs of these new warplanes. Representative Blumenauer’s amendment will provide the information Congress needs to make fiscally responsible decisions in nuclear weapons planning. “The United States is set to spend too much on nuclear weapons we don’t need, can’t afford, and shouldn’t use. These are resources that will come at the expense of conventional weapons and forces that are necessary now and for the future,” said Representative Blumenauer. “I have serious concerns about the overall approach of this NDAA, however, I’m glad that the House took an important step toward smarter spending by passing my amendment to give American taxpayers what they deserve—transparency about the costs of these programs.” ###
05.16.2016	Washington, DC — This week, when the U.S. House of Representatives considers the FY 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) will offer an amendment to make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana. Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms brought by their patients seeking recommendations or opinions regarding a veteran’s participation in a state medical marijuana program. This forces veterans out of the VA system to seek a simple recommendation for treatment for eligible conditions as granted to them by state laws. Representative Blumenauer’s amendment ensures that no funds made available to the VA can be used to implement this prohibition, which would, in effect, strike it down. “It’s wrong and unfair to force our veterans outside of the VA system to simply seek a recommendation on whether or not medical marijuana is a good treatment option. And, our VA physicians should not be denied the ability to offer such a recommendation if they think it may meet the needs of their patient,” said Representative Blumenauer. “We received more support to fix this situation than ever before last year. I hope we can build on that support and that my colleagues will show compassion and do what’s right for our veterans.” Since 2014, Congressman Blumenauer has led the effort to make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana – which can be used in many states to treat a variety of conditions, including post-traumatic stress and traumatic brain injuries frequently suffered by veterans. Last year, the amendment narrowly failed 210-213, compared to 2014 when it failed 195-222. Additionally, Representative Blumenauer introduced legislation that would allow VA doctors to recommend medical marijuana to their patients in accordance with state law. ###
05.12.2016	Washington, DC — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment offered by Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) to H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016, to allow prescription drug take back programs to qualify for grant assistance from the Department of Justice. Prescriptions for pain management are on the rise, without easy or effective ways of disposing of leftover, unused medication—increasing the potential for abuse, as well as risks to the environment and our water systems as people often flush unused medication down the toilet. Currently, most existing take back programs are managed by law enforcement agencies that are not easily accessible to most members of the public or only available on specific dates. Representative Blumenauer’s amendment will increase access to safe medication disposal by helping to offset some of the expenses for pharmacies and other health organizations to establish and maintain sustainable programs. “There’s something wrong when it becomes more difficult to dispose of a medication than to get it prescribed. I’m encouraged that my colleagues voted today to support increased access to safe medication disposal—so important to dealing with prescription drug abuse,” said Representative Blumenauer. “More must be done, especially around treatment and prevention, but today’s action is an important step toward fighting this tragic epidemic.” On Wednesday, Representative Blumenauer also introduced the Safe Drug Disposal Tax Credit Act to offer qualified entities, registered with the Drug Enforcement Agency to take back drugs, a tax credit to also help defray the costs of starting or maintaining drug disposal and take back programs. ###
05.11.2016	Washington, DC — Today, on the House floor, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) announced introduction of the Safe Drug Disposal Tax Credit Act to offer qualified entities, registered with the Drug Enforcement Agency to take back drugs, a tax credit to help defray the costs of starting or maintaining drug disposal and take back programs. This week, Representative Blumenauer will also offer an amendment to H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016, to allow prescription drug take back programs to qualify for grant assistance from the Department of Justice. “We need to redouble our efforts to fight the abuse of opioid prescription painkillers and the epidemic of opioid overdose deaths,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Providing a tax credit for safe disposal is a small and important step that should have bipartisan support and will make a difference in every community across America toward ending this epidemic.” The United States is faced with unprecedented levels of prescription drug abuse. Prescriptions for pain management are on the rise, without easy or effective ways of disposing of leftover, unused medication. This increases the potential for abuse. Additionally, there are environmental costs. People often flush unused prescription drugs down the toilet, impacting waste water treatment plants and drinking water systems. Today, most existing take back programs are managed by law enforcement agencies—unfortunately, these programs are not easily accessible to most members of the public or only available on specific dates. Representative Blumenauer’s Safe Drug Disposal Tax Credit Act and amendment would help offset some of the expenses for pharmacies and other health organizations to establish and maintain sustainable programs to increase access to safe medication disposal. ###
04.28.2016	Reps. Blumenauer, Duncan, and Hanna Call on House to Take Similar Action in Letter to House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Washington, DC — Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) applauded the Senate Committee on Environment & Public Works for passing provisions to help states make overdue investments in clean and drinking water infrastructure. The provisions, nearly identical to Blumenauer’s H.R. 4468, were included in S. 2848, the Water Resources Development Act, passed by the Committee today. Earlier this year, Blumenauer, joined by Representatives John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN) and Richard Hanna (R-NY), introduced H.R. 4468, the Water Infrastructure Trust Fund Act, legislation that creates a dedicated source of revenue for states and local governments to fund critical clean water and drinking water projects by creating a voluntary labeling and contributory system to which businesses that rely on a clean water source could opt-in, encouraging creative public-private partnerships. In a letter today, Blumenauer, Duncan, and Hanna urged House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee leadership to include this language in the House version of the Water Resources and Development Act. Click here to read the letter. “Investing in water infrastructure is critical to the health, safety, and economic vitality of every community in America. But, for too long, our approach has been ‘out of sight and out of mind.’ This is unacceptable,” said Representative Blumenauer. “I commend the Environment & Public Works Committee for taking action to begin addressing the challenge of access to safe water. I urge the House to do the same.” “This is a common-sense approach to allow for new revenue sources so that states like New Jersey can ensure our drinking water is safe and clean,” said Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ), a member of the Senate Committee on Environment & Public Works who championed the Water Infrastructure Trust Fund Act language in the Senate. “I was pleased to advance this proposal in the Senate and stand committed to fighting for the federal resources needed to help finance critical water infrastructure upgrades that will create jobs, spur economic growth and– most importantly– protect the health and safety of communities in New Jersey and across America.” “I am pleased that the Senate has taken this important step to improve our Nation’s water infrastructure. Far too often, we take clean water for granted. Much of our infrastructure is over 100 years old, and if we do not make wise investments in our water infrastructure now, we are going to have huge costs in the future,” said Representative Duncan. "Water infrastructure in towns and villages across the country is in poor shape and crumbling after decades of neglect,” Representative Hanna said. “The problem is particularly acute in upstate New York. I commend the Senate for adopting our proposal to provide a new, dedicated revenue source to the state clean and drinking water revolving funds that neither increases the size of the federal government nor adds to the deficit.” ###
04.26.2016	Washington, DC — Today, on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) congratulated the constitution teams of Lincoln High School and Grant High School for their success in this year’s “We the People” Constitution competition, with Lincoln placing first and Grant placing third in the national finals yesterday. Congressman Blumenauer commended both teams’ students and volunteer coaches for their efforts and passion for the Constitution and government. Click here to watch Congressman Blumenauer’s remarks. “These teenage scholars, most not old enough to vote or to drive, compete in a contest demonstrating their knowledge of the Constitution and democratic principles, as well as their ability to think on their feet,” Blumenauer said. “At a time when civics education doesn’t appear to be a priority for most of American education, this shows the appetite and the capacity to fill that gap.” On Friday, April 22, ahead of the competition, Congressman Blumenauer met with both teams on the House floor to wish them luck and answer detailed questions about partisanship and the political climate, the breadth of the administrative state, the challenges presented by special interests and weakened campaign finance laws, and the role of a legislator in the 21stcentury. “Listening to their comments and questions, I celebrated their insights and hard work, their commitment,” Blumenauer said reflecting on the meeting. “I wish we could have all of them on the floor of this House to elevate the discussion and deliberation, and I think they’d add, frankly, to the decision making. But until their time will come, and it can’t come soon enough, we celebrate five consecutive national championships for two public high schools in Portland, Oregon. Congratulations, Lincoln Cardinals on your championship, and Grant High School for finishing third. Together, you have dominated this elite competition for five consecutive years. Congratulations!” ###
04.21.2016	Washington, DC — This week, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) joined leaders from around the world in New York at the 2016 United Nations General Assembly Special Session (UNGASS) on the World Drug Problem. Representative Blumenauer, who attended the opening day’s events as a Congressional observer, released the following statement on the Session. “There is no better time than now for world leaders to gather to reevaluate international drug policy. The War on Drugs has failed. Instead of escalating the horrific violence of this war, we need a more just and compassionate approach that focuses on public health and harm reduction, rather than punishing drug users. “I was encouraged to hear a number of countries leading the charge for a different approach, in particular from those countries that have changed or are considering changing their policies surrounding the treatment of marijuana. It was also very promising to hear Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, representing a nation that has experienced horrific violence as a result of the War on Drugs, announce his support for legalizing medical marijuana in Mexico and a call to change a paradigm of prohibitionism that has not yielded results. “I’m disappointed the United States hasn’t been more of a voice on reform this week. Mr. Botticelli’s statements on behalf of the United States were right in acknowledging the importance of a public health approach, but he didn’t go far enough to embrace a true change of direction by the United States. It was a missed opportunity. The United States should be paving the way, helping to move the world even further toward a better approach than the failed War on Drugs. We should modify the federal treatment of marijuana to reflect the changes in state laws and the will of the majority of the American people. “This international discussion has been illuminating. I come back to Washington, DC even more committed this Congress and Administration, and the next, to be a voice of reform on the international stage. Our goal should be to put an end to mindless military action and hard-edged policies that have proven to fail. We need to replace them with policies focused on harm reduction and effective regulation as tools.” Ahead of this week’s UNGASS, Representative Blumenauer joined over 1,000 leaders in calling for an end to the failed War on Drugs. He also recently led members of the U.S. House of Representatives in calling on President Obama to use the Special Session as an opportunity to highlight the importance of a less punitive and more public health-centered approach to international drug policy. ###
04.19.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) announced that the U.S. House of Representatives has taken a step to encourage the construction of new tribal housing to replace villages and traditional fishing sites flooded following the construction of the Columbia River dams. The House Committee on Appropriations today released its FY 2017 Energy and Water Appropriations report that includes language requested by Representative Blumenauer urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to construct a new tribal village at The Dalles Dam. Later in the day, the bill and report, which included the Blumenauer language, passed the House Appropriations Committee by a voice vote and will go to the House floor next for consideration. Thanks to advocacy from the Senators from Oregon and Washington, similar language is also included in the Senate version of this appropriations report, which passed the Senate Committee on Appropriations last week. “It is incredibly encouraging that now both the House and Senate have taken action to begin righting these wrongs. This is an important step, but, it doesn't stop here,” said Representative Blumenauer. “I plan to continue working with my colleagues to make sure we build on this momentum to improve living conditions at existing sites and provide more permanent housing to fully meet our obligation to these tribes.” Western development, including construction of the three lower Columbia River dams beginning in the 1930s, displaced many members of the four Columbia River treaty tribes: the Warm Springs, Umatilla, Nez Perce, and Yakama Nation. Those tribes have a treaty-protected right to fish along the river in their usual and accustomed places, but they were also promised housing to replace what was inundated after the dams became operational. That promise has largely not been kept. As a result, today, many tribal members live in makeshift housing at 31 small sites along the Columbia that were designed primarily for daily, in-season fishing access and temporary camping. The living conditions at these sites are deeply distressing and unsafe, without proper electricity, sewers, or water. Many tribal members use these areas as longer-term or permanent residences. Representative Blumenauer has been workingwith his colleagues in the House and the Senate, as well as the Army Corps of Engineers, Bureau of Indian Affairs, and Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission to improve living conditions at existing sites and address the unmet tribal housing needs along the Columbia River. Today’s action by the House Committee on Appropriations is a step toward that end. “The four Columbia River treaty tribes are deeply appreciative of Representative Blumenauer’s work in getting bi-partisan support from the House Appropriations Committee on tribal housing needs along the Columbia River. His personal attention to this matter and his multiple visits to our communities have been instrumental in elevating this issue. The tribes are very aware of the promises made by the U.S. government. The growing tribal-federal collaboration will be key to correcting this injustice,” said Jeremy Red Star Wolf, Chairman, Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission. ###
04.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03) applauded the Senate Committee on Appropriations for passing the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Marijuana Amendment for the second consecutive year. This amendment, offered by Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and Steve Daines (R-MT), would allow VA physicians to provide recommendations regarding the participation of a veteran in a state medical marijuana program. “For the second time, the Senate has taken action to do what’s right for our veterans. I commend Senators Merkley and Daines for leading this fight in the Senate, and I look forward to pushing it across the finish line in the House,” said Representative Blumenauer. “All in all, today’s vote by the Senate Appropriations Committee is very encouraging as we advocate for passage of simple and commonsense measures to reform our marijuana laws.” Since 2014, Representative Blumenauer has led the effort to make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana – which can be used in many states to treat a variety of conditions, including post-traumatic stress and traumatic brain injuries frequently suffered by veterans. Currently, the VA specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms brought by their patients seeking recommendations or opinions regarding participation in a state medical marijuana program. During upcoming House consideration of the FY 17 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies (MilCon-VA) appropriations legislation, Representative Blumenauer plans to once again offer an amendment that ensures no funds made available to the VA can be used to implement this prohibition, in effect striking it down. Last year, the amendment narrowly failed 210-213, compared to 2014 when it failed 195-222. Additionally, Representative Blumenauer introduced legislation that would clear the way for VA doctors to talk to our veterans about medical marijuana. ###
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, during a Ways and Means Committee markup, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) offered an amendment to H.R. 1206, the No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act, to make sure that Congress is held to the same standards it places on the IRS. The underlying legislation (H.R. 1206) would deny the ability of the IRS to hire employees until it has determined no employee has delinquent tax debt. Representative Blumenauer’s amendment extends this limitation to Congress. Unfortunately, the Committee barred consideration of this amendment on technical grounds. “Ironically, the House of Representatives has a delinquency rate four times that of the Treasury Department. If the purpose of this legislation is compliance and example setting, there is no question it should also apply to Congress. To do otherwise would be rank hypocrisy,” said Representative Blumenauer. Representative Blumenauer will offer this amendment to the Rules Committee prior to floor consideration of H.R. 1206. He also plans to introduce separate legislation on this topic. ###
03.18.2016	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and John Conyers (MI-13) led 12 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter to President Obama urging the Administration to highlight the importance of a less punitive and more public health-centered approach to international drug policy at the upcoming United Nations General Assembly Special Session (UNGASS) on the World Drug Problem in April. From states taking action to end the failed prohibition of marijuana to lifting the ban on federal funding for syringe access programs proven to reduce HIV infection rates, the United States has made significant advancements moving away from a punitive approach to drug policy to one centered on public health and healthcare, access to treatment services, and harm reduction tools that reduce overdose. The upcoming UNGASS provides an opportunity for the United States to showcase these advancements as a model for international drug policy. “While there still remains much to be done in the United States to fully support a public health and harm reduction approach, under your leadership, the Administration has made changes in federal policy and has supported the work of these state and local leaders,” the lawmakers wrote. “We are moving in a good direction, and this shift in United States domestic drug policy over the last decade has the potential to serve as a model for the international community, cautioning other countries against a dangerously punitive response and demonstrating an approach to drug policy that is more compassionate, just, and effective on the local and the international levels.” The lawmakers also called on President Obama to address the Special Session on behalf of the United States, as President Bill Clinton did during the last UNGASS on drugs in 1998. “That unique platform gives you the opportunity to elevate the 2016 UNGASS on the World Drug Problem and change the way drug policy is approached, not only domestically but around the world, establishing the United States’ commitment to a new approach on an international scale,” the lawmakers wrote. In addition to Blumenauer and Conyers, the letter was signed by Representatives Steve Cohen (TN-09), Sam Farr (CA-20), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Ted Lieu (CA-33), James P. McGovern (MA-02), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Beto O'Rourke (TX-16), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Jose Serrano (NY-15), and Chris Van Hollen (MD-08). Included below is the full text of the letter. Click here for an electronic version. March 17, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, In April 2016, there will be a United Nations General Assembly Special Session (UNGASS) on the World Drug Problem in New York City. This will be the first UNGASS on this subject since 1998. Since that time, and thanks in large part to your leadership, the United States has made significant advancements, moving away from the outdated and harmful rhetoric and policies historically surrounding this issue and toward policies focused on public health and civil and human rights. This UNGASS will therefore be an important opportunity for you and your Administration to showcase these advancements, and we encourage you to take full advantage of this timely and powerful event to communicate our progress toward a more effective, science-based approach to drugs to the rest of the world. In recent years, the United States has significantly moved our domestic drug policy from a punitive approach, almost entirely focused on the criminal justice system, to one centered on public health and healthcare, access to treatment services, and harm reduction tools that reduce overdose and spread of infection. These changes have occurred at the local, state, and federal levels and have had the support and leadership of policymakers across the political spectrum. Examples include the fact that 23 states, DC and Guam have legalized the use of medical marijuana, and four states have approved systems to legalize and regulate adult use of marijuana, rather than maintain prohibition. In December of 2015, Congress also passed legislation that included language enabling states and localities to spend federal funds on syringe access programs, effectively lifting the decades-long ban on federal funding for such programs that have been proven to reduce HIV infection rates. Further, over the past ten years, many states have reexamined their drug sentencing laws, recognizing that the costs of long drug sentences are enormous in both financial and human terms, many are now aiming to improve public safety and control the burden on the taxpayer by reducing sentence lengths for drug offenses and addressing disparities in sentences for crack and powder cocaine. Finally, states and localities have increased the availability of community-based prevention and diversion supports, expanding access to evidence-based treatment programs. While there still remains much to be done in the United States to fully support a public health and harm reduction approach, under your leadership, the Administration has made changes in federal policy and has supported the work of these state and local leaders. We are moving in a good direction, and this shift in United States domestic drug policy over the last decade has the potential to serve as a model for the international community, cautioning other countries against a dangerously punitive response and demonstrating an approach to drug policy that is more compassionate, just, and effective on the local and the international levels. The world looks to the United States for leadership on the issues that impact the global community. Drug policy is one of those issues. We urge you and other representatives of your Administration to highlight at every opportunity our nation’s growing commitment to the protection of the health and safety of individuals, communities, and nations. The discussions and outcomes of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND) meetings happening in Vienna this week, for example, will set the tone for the UNGASS in April. We hope that the official United States delegates to the CND convey the tremendous progress that has been made domestically and reiterate the importance of approaching drug policies with a lens focused on public health and civil and human rights to ensure the success of the 2016 UNGASS. Finally, we hope that you will deliver the plenary address on behalf of the United States, as President Clinton did during the last UNGASS on drugs. That unique platform gives you the opportunity to elevate the 2016 UNGASS on the World Drug Problem and change the way drug policy is approached, not only domestically, but also around the world, establishing the United States’ commitment to a new approach on an international scale. We thank you in advance for your consideration of this request, and look forward to continuing to work with you on these critical issues. Sincerely, ###
03.07.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer and U.S. Senator Ron Wyden today sent a letter to Mt. Hood National Forest Supervisor Lisa Northrop, expressing concerns with a proposed logging project in the Crystal Springs watershed, which Congress has recognized as a valuable source of drinking water for thousands of Hood River residents. The proposal has also caused deep concern among people who enjoy the area for hiking, mountain biking, and nature watching. While the overarching purpose of the Polallie Cooper logging project is to address concerns of potential fire danger, certain logging and roadbuilding activities proposed appear to be prohibited by the protections Congress outlined for this important drinking watershed in the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act of 2009. Ironically, full protection for the watershed has been delayed because the Forest Service has not yet completed the long-overdue Government Camp/Cooper Spur land exchange, which Congress made a prerequisite to protecting Crystal Springs. The House and Senate have recently held hearings on the Mount Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act, legislation introduced by the Oregon lawmakers to expedite the Forest Service’s completion of the land exchange. In their letter today, Blumenauer and Wyden expressed their frustration that the Cooper Spur land exchange has not yet been finalized, delaying protection of the Crystal Springs Watershed, and noted their concerns that certain aspects of the Polallie Cooper project run contrary to Congress’ direction for this important area. In addition, the lawmakers highlighted potential impacts of the project on the many highly valued recreation opportunities within the project area, which includes the well-used Dog River Trail and several hiking trails. Included below is the full text of the letter. A copy of the letter is attached. Ms. Lisa Northrop, Supervisor Mt. Hood National Forest 16400 Champion Way Sandy, OR 97055 Re: Polallie Cooper Draft Hazardous Fuels Reduction Project Dear Supervisor Northrup, We are writing to express our concerns about certain aspects of the Mt. Hood National Forest’s recently proposed Polallie Cooper Hazardous Fuels Reduction Project. As you are aware, when Congress passed the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act of 2009 (PL 111-11, hereinafter “the 2009 Act”), Section 1205 designated the Crystal Springs Watershed Special Resources Management Unit (“Crystal Springs Unit”). This agreement was reached after many years of collaboration between the communities both in Government Camp and the Hood River Valley. Oregonians approached Congress with this agreement, which established the Crystal Springs Unit to “ensure the protection of the quality and quantity of the Crystal Springs watershed as a clean drinking water source for the residents of Hood River County, Oregon.” Specifically, the 2009 Act prohibits certain activities within the Crystal Springs Unit, including: “new road construction or renovation of existing non-System roads, except as necessary to protect public health and safety;” and “projects undertaken for the purpose of harvesting commercial timber,” except for “activities relating to the harvest of merchantable products that are byproducts of activities conducted to further the purposes” of the Unit’s designation. While the 2009 Act authorizes the Forest Service to conduct certain fuels reduction and forest health management treatments within the Unit, it emphasizes that these activities should focus on areas near existing structures and infrastructure, and other areas of the Unit “with priority given to activities that restore previously harvested stands.” We are concerned that the activities to be conducted under the proposed Polallie Cooper Hazardous Fuels Reduction Project may run contrary to the purposes and protections Congress outlined for the Crystal Springs Unit. As we understand it, the project proposes to treat a significant amount of the Crystal Springs Unit, including some units that are considered “recently unmanaged stands.” Furthermore, it appears that more than 4.5 miles of roads would be constructed or reconstructed within the Unit. These activities raise significant questions as to the conformity of the project with the language of the 2009 Act. While we appreciate the importance of treating certain hazardous fuels and the communities’ concerns of potential fire danger, we urge you to prioritize fuels treatments near existing development in areas that can be reached with the existing road system. As you work to balance ecological and scenic protection of this area with wildfire risk mitigation, we ask you to consider that a large part of this project surrounds important recreation areas that are both highly visible and highly visited by hikers, mountain bikers, and river recreationists. The trails surrounding Highway 35 and the Wild and Scenic East Fork of the Hood River are important to the recreation community. A portion of this area, known as Tamanawas Falls, was included in legislation that was introduced in 2004 as part of a larger Wilderness bill. While it was not included in the 2009 Act, many advocates continue to work to protect the wilderness characteristics of the area. As you also know, these provisions of the 2009 Act are contingent upon the Forest Service completing the pending Government Camp/Cooper Spur land trade with Mt. Hood Meadows. While the 2009 Act stated that the Forest Service was to complete that land trade within 16 months after passage of the 2009 Act, it has now been nearly seven years since President Obama signed the 2009 Act into law, and the Forest Service has yet to order the appraisals or release a draft environmental analysis for the exchange. Had the land exchange been completed within the timeframe laid out in the law, the Crystal Springs Unit would already be governed by certain provisions in the 2009 Act that guide the area’s management. We have repeatedly expressed our strong concern and disappointment that the Forest Service has been long delayed in finalizing the land trade which has impeded the exchange itself, but also the establishment of the Crystal Springs Unit. We have heard concerns from many of our constituents about this project and request that the Forest Service take a thorough, closer look. We strongly encourage the agency to reconsider any portions of this project that impact the Crystal Springs Unit and the legislative intent for this area, along with the many highly valued recreational opportunities. Thank you very much for your consideration. ###
03.01.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) welcomed the decision by the U.S. Department of State to apply new requirements for the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (FY16 NDAA) to new applicants alone. The decision follows conversations between the State Department and a bipartisan coalition in the U.S. House of Representatives, led by Blumenauer and Kinzinger. Both members are long-time champions on this issue and were prepared to send a letter expressing concerns with the State Department’s original interpretation of the law. The State Department’s decision today will remove unfair program restrictions for more than 3,000 SIV applicants who had already begun the cumbersome approval process. “Thousands of brave Afghan men and women have provided sensitive and trusted services to United States military personnel – putting their lives and the lives of their families at risk. To leave these faithful allies behind would have been wrong,” said Representative Blumenauer. “I’m pleased the State Department has corrected its original interpretation to make sure the protection of those 3,000 brave souls who have already begun the application process will not be further delayed. I hope the demonstrated congressional support for this program and Administration action today indicates that we will never get to this point again.” “I’m glad to see that a bipartisan effort from the House has encouraged the State Department to correct the implementation of the provisions relating to Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) applicants,” said Representative Kinzinger. “The legislation we passed was intended to extend the lifeline to our Afghan allies who have served such a vital role to the U.S. military and diplomatic personnel. The SIV program provides our Afghan allies serving honorably on our behalf the opportunity to escape threats and imminent dangers that they face for that service. It’s critically important that we uphold our commitment to leave no one behind.” ###
02.26.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed steps taken by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to end the trade of illegally harvested timber in Peru. “Under our agreement with Peru, I fought for important tools to help end the illegal trade in timber,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Illegal logging in Peru clearly persists, and strong enforcement of our agreement by the U.S. government is critical to holding Peru accountable to its commitments. USTR’s action today, while long overdue, is an important step forward – and moves us closer to real change. I will continue to urge strong enforcement of our trade agreements.” Representative Blumenauer has expressed serious concerns about the level of illegal logging that continues in Peru, and has called on USTR to aggressively enforce the U.S.-Peru trade agreement to help combat this problem. Representative Blumenauer has long fought to end illegal logging – authoring the 2008 Lacey Act amendment to make it illegal to import timber illegally sourced in the country of origin. He also developed the Timber Annex to the U.S.-Peru trade agreement and has consistently fought to include strong, binding environmental protections in trade agreements. He believes strong enforcement of trade agreements is critical to making sure these protections are real and authored the Trade Enforcement Trust Fund provisions in the recent customs reauthorization to ensure the resources for enforcement efforts are available. ###
02.25.2016	Washington, DC – Today, in a legislative hearing of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Federal Lands, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Greg Walden (R-OR) spoke in support of their legislation, the Mount Hood Cooper Spur Land Exchange Clarification Act (H.R. 3826). This legislation would expedite the Forest Service’s completion of the long-overdue Government Camp/Cooper Spur land exchange on Mount Hood, which Congress mandated in 2009 with broad community support. It clarifies Congressional intent that the Forest Service move forward expeditiously, addresses disagreements over a conservation easement, allows for a more transparent appraisal process, and clarifies certain other provisions. U.S. Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley introduced companion legislation in the Senate, which the Senate Environment & Natural Resources Committee passed on November 19, 2015, and is awaiting full Senate consideration. “This exchange was approved nearly seven years ago and with tremendous bipartisan and regional support. It’s embarrassing that the Forest Service has yet to do what it should have already done,” said Representative Blumenauer. “I hope we approve this legislation – and soon – to clarify any lingering questions and add an exclamation point to the fact that Congress wants the Forest Service to quickly finish the job we directed them to complete years ago.” “Our bipartisan Mt. Hood legislation clearly specified the intent of Congress to get the land exchange completed within 16 months. Some 85 months later the Forest Service still has not complied with the law we enacted,” said Representative Walden. “As unbelievable as it may seem, here we are having to pass another law telling the Forest Service to complete its work. And now, the agency says they might need another year or two even under this new bill to complete the land transfer specified in the law enacted in 2009. That's simply unacceptable.” For video of Walden’s full remarks, click here. ###
02.24.2016	Washington, DC – Today, on the House floor, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) addressed the serious opioid abuse epidemic across America, highlighting medical marijuana as an alternative to highly addictive prescription opioids in treating chronic pain. In his remarks, Representative Blumenauer called for further reforms to our medical marijuana laws, including making sure our Veterans – who are frequently prescribed opioids – are able to discuss medical marijuana as an alternative treatment option with their Veterans Administration providers in states where it is legal. On February 3, 2015, Representative Blumenauer reintroduced H.R. 667, the Veterans Equal Access Act, to address this and will once again offer it as an amendment during consideration of the FY 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill this year. To follow are Representative Blumenauer’s remarks as prepared. Click here to watch. “Last night, ‘Frontline’ on PBS had a compelling documentary on the opioid and heroin epidemic. We’re now seeing politicians diving in – governors across the country sounding the alarm. It’s being featured by presidential candidates of both parties. “President Obama’s budget has some very good suggestions highlighting tools to reduce drug use and overdose, evidence-based prevention programs, prescription drug monitoring, and prescription take-back events. There are a variety of things that are going in the right direction. “Yet, it’s a little frustrating for me that the simplest, cheapest, safest solution to help these troubled people is not embraced: medical marijuana. “Actually, the public is largely there. For the last 20 years, the tide has been turning for medical marijuana, even as the opioid crisis has slowly started to take hold. It began with voters in California in 1996, in Oregon two years later. Now 23 states have legalized medical marijuana, and two-thirds of Americans live in states where at least some form of medical marijuana is approved. “There’s a reason for it. A meta-analysis of 79 studies in the Journal of the American Medical Association found solid evidence that medical marijuana is effective in treating chronic pain. There’s no evidence of serious side effects among medical marijuana users, who are actually less likely to drink or take other pain killers – and those states with medical marijuana actually have fewer overdose deaths. “Isn’t this worth exploring – especially when there’s evidence that medical marijuana dispensaries are associated with a significant decrease in substance abuse admissions and a reduction in opioid overdose deaths. “Recently, we’ve even had former NFL players come out and describe how they used medical marijuana to self-medicate, rather than being shot up with painkillers by team doctors and being prescribed opioid pills. “What is perhaps most frustrating for me is our wrong-headed approach that prohibits Veterans Administration doctors from even talking to their patients about medical marijuana in the states where it’s legal. That’s ironic because the VA has its own veterans’ health crisis because their patients are dying from prescription overdoses at rates twice the national average. “Opioid prescriptions by VA doctors have surged 270 percent over the last 12 years. They are prescribing significantly more opioids to patients with PTSD and depression than other veterans, even though those patients are the most at risk of overdose and suicide. Of the nearly 1 million veterans who receive opioid treatment for pain, over half continue to consume those pills beyond 90 days. “It’s clear that most veterans would probably be better off if we more fully utilized medical marijuana to treat conditions of pain, depression, and PTSD. At the very least, we ought to allow the Veterans Administration doctors to work with their patients on this matter. “That’s why I will again be introducing my amendment that would make it clear that VA doctors, in states where it’s legal, can discuss medical marijuana as a treatment option with their patients. Since I first introduced this legislation, I’ve watched growing support on the floor of the House for an amendment that would accomplish this. There’s been interest in the Senate, and veterans groups are aware of this discrimination – despite the VA’s sorry record when it comes to helping our veterans with these chronic conditions using conventional pain killers that lead to addiction and death. “Medical marijuana appears safer, effective, and a low-cost way to deal with chronic pain. Nobody dies from an overdose of medical marijuana. Let’s add medical marijuana to our discussion, promote more effective research, and let VA doctors meet with their patients to talk about this as an alternative.” ###
02.23.2016	Washington, DC – As the U.S. House of Representatives this week considers H.R. 2406, the SHARE Act, today Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), and Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) announced an amendment that would address the costs to the U.S. government incurred by the illegal armed occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, including any costs to clean up and repair any damage to the Refuge. When U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service facilities, such as the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, are damaged, the costs would usually be borne by the affected Refuge. The Malheur National Wildlife Refuge should not be responsible for the unforeseen costs resulting from the armed occupiers’ vandalism. Such costs will detract from the Refuge’s important conservation and recreational value. This amendment, therefore, directs the U.S. Department of Interior to report to Congress the total cost to the U.S. government incurred as a result of the armed occupation, including an estimate of the cost to repair the damages to the Refuge, and allows for emergency spending to cover these costs. “Our public lands are precious and belong to every American. Yet a select few illegally took over the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, tore up its landscape, degraded wildlife habitat, and destroyed property. It’s devastating,” said Representative Blumenauer. “We must make sure the Refuge has the funds it needs to repair these damages quickly – and without detracting from its important work. This is one of many important steps needed to get the community back to normal.” “The vigilantes who occupied the Malheur Wildlife Refuge for over a month sapped resources from local and state governments and inflicted tremendous damage to a valued national resource,” said Representative DeFazio. “It will take time, money and hard work to clean up the destruction left behind by illegal occupiers and the Department of Interior should have the funds to repair the refuge.” “The dangerous situation at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge has finally, thankfully come to an end,” said Representative Bonamici. “The armed occupation disrupted the peaceful lives of Harney County residents who now must focus on the long process of healing. It is only right that the refuge has the resources it needs to quickly get back on its feet. This amendment will speed the rebuilding process for the refuge and community.” In addition to the costs to the U.S. government, local and state governments, including law enforcement agencies, incurred significant expenses in responding to the illegal occupation. Earlier this month, Representative Blumenauer introduced legislation that would allow the federal government to ease that burden by requiring the Department of Justice to quickly reimburse state and local law enforcement agencies. Additionally, the legislation allows the U.S. Attorney General to recover these costs by bringing civil action against the armed militia members to make sure the taxpayers aren’t on the hook. ###
02.12.2016	Washington, DC – This week, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Peter DeFazio (OR-04) led 33 additional members of the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy expressing concerns regarding the potential negative health and environmental impacts of the herbicide Enlist Duo, and to request more information about EPA’s plan to reevaluate these risks before reapproving it for use. Enlist Duo is an herbicide manufactured by Dow Chemical Co. that combines two powerful herbicides – 2,4-D and glyphosate – with proven health and environmental risks. A recent Chicago Tribune article details the registration of Enlist Duo by the EPA in October 2014 and raises significant questions about the agency’s approval process of Enlist Duo. In November 2015, the EPA asked the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to overturn its approval so that scientists could review new data regarding the impacts of the herbicides on endangered plant species. The court recently denied the request by EPA, leaving the registration decision to EPA for further consideration. “This is part of a vicious cycle that is leading to more potent, dangerous chemicals being widely used on crops across the United States,” said Representative Blumenauer. “With the rise of herbicide-resistant genetically modified crops, herbicides are more widely sprayed causing weeds to grow more resistant – ultimately, requiring the application of even stronger herbicides. EPA must take action to make sure products entering the market to be used on our food are safe for human health and the environment.” “The relentless pursuit of herbicide-resistant crops by corporate agriculture has created a toxic treadmill in our food system,” said Representative DeFazio. “It’s hard to believe that we are now debating whether or not a probable carcinogen such as glyphosate is safe to use on the food that we feed our children. The EPA needs to stand up against the pressures from the pesticide and agriculture industry and thoroughly assess the environmental and health impacts of this toxic chemical and reject it if the science shows there will be harm.” “The questions Congress is asking EPA about Enlist Duo are the right ones,” said Mary Ellen Kustin, a senior policy analyst at the Environmental Working Group. “The EPA has not yet assessed this chemical cocktail in its entirety. Before combining the probable human carcinogen glyphosate with 2,4-D – a defoliant linked to non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and other serious health problems – and drastically increasing the amount of these weed killers sprayed on American farmland, we need to know the risks this chemical cocktail has on nearby communities, especially children.” “EPA took a step in the wrong direction by approving and expanding the use of Enlist Duo, a powerful combination of toxic pesticides that threaten wildlife, farmers, and human health. NRDC thanks Congressman Blumenauer, Congressman DeFazio, and all of the members who joined in investigating how the EPA’s greenlighting of Enlist Duo fits into its mission to protect public health and the environment,” said Sylvia Fallon, Senior Scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council. Included below is the full text of the letter, and an electronic version of the letter with signatures can be found here. February 11, 2016 Administrator Gina McCarthy Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20004 Dear Administrator McCarthy: We write to express our concerns regarding the findings in a recent Chicago Tribune report on the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) review process for the herbicide Enlist Duo, and to request more information about EPA's plan to reevaluate Enlist Duo's health and environmental risks. Enlist Duo is a new herbicide currently approved for use on herbicide-resistant corn and soybean crops. Dow AgroSciences created Enlist Duo, a mixture of the weed killers glyphosate and 2,4-D, to combat so-called "superweeds" that have grown resistant to glyphosate alone. As reported in the Chicago Tribune article, EPA registered Enlist Duo in October 2014 after reversing its previous analysis of certain health harms associated with exposure to 2,4-D. We were concerned to learn that, during this process, EPA dismissed a key study linking 2,4-D to kidney abnormalities based on one scientist's analysis, and in doing so, effectively gave the green light for 41 times more of the chemical to enter the American diet than was previously allowed. Given the widely-known adverse impacts of 2,4-D on human health and the environment, and with little understood about the implications of combining 2,4-D and glyphosate, EPA should use the utmost caution in assessing the safety of Enlist Duo before approving it for continued use. We were pleased to learn of EPA's decision in November 2015 to ask a court to vacate the agency's approval of Enlist Duo, after Dow provided the agency with information regarding the synergistic effects of glyphosate and 2,4-D in Enlist Duo on threatened and endangered plants. The court denied that request, but did remand the registration decision to EPA for reevaluation. We are troubled by reports that the EPA plans to conduct an extremely limited reanalysis of Enlist Duo's harms, questioning only whether a larger no-spray zone is needed to protect endangered plants that grow close to farm fields. Moreover, these actions do not address questions about serious potential health risks brought to light by the Chicago Tribune. At a minimum, while it considers the question of synergistic effects on remand, the EPA should evaluate at least two other major factors about Enlist Duo's environmental and health impacts. First, the World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer recently published a groundbreaking finding that glyphosate is "probably carcinogenic to humans. " EPA registered Enlist Duo without considering this cancer finding, and without looking at any studies on glyphosate's cancer risk that have been published in the last twenty years. Second, studies indicate that Enlist Duo threatens the monarch butterfly, an iconic species famed for its annual migration across the continent. The monarch migration has declined sharply in recent years, driven by increasing applications of herbicides to herbicide-resistant crops, which has decimated milkweed, the sole food source for monarch caterpillars. Scientists have warned that the monarch migration is now at risk of vanishing entirely. Enlist Duo is specifically intended to kill milkweed, but so far EPA has refused to consider harm to monarch butterflies when determining whether Enlist Duo causes unreasonable environmental impacts. Enlist Duo's effects on the monarch butterfly must be part of EPA's reanalysis. The public deserves to know how EPA intends to address all of these concerns about the risks posed by Enlist Duo. We ask that EPA respond promptly to the following questions: · What factors caused EPA to reverse its previous analysis of the health impacts of Enlist Duo and dismiss evidence linking 2,4-D to kidney abnormalities? · How, if at all, did EPA assess the synergistic effects of glyphosate and 2,4-D, as opposed to merely each chemical individually? · Does EPA have a standard practice or policy guidance for assessing the synergistic effects of chemical mixtures? If so, what is that practice, does it occur during the registration process, and did EPA follow it here? · Considering the World Health Organization's finding that glyphosate is a probable carcinogen, will EPA also assess the synergistic effects of the chemicals in Enlist Duo on human health - especially children's health - in addition to their effects on endangered and other plants · Will EPA prohibit sales of Enlist Duo while it reviews all information submitted by Dow regarding synergistic effects? · What is EPA's plan to evaluate Enlist Duo's harm to monarch butterflies before re-approval? Will EPA agree not to approve continued use of Enlist Duo until the agency considers and addresses the herbicide's adverse effects on monarchs? · What is EPA's plan to evaluate Enlist Duo's human cancer risk before re-approval? Will EPA agree not to approve continued use of Enlist Duo until the agency considers and addresses up-to-date science on glyphosate's cancer risk? · Will EPA agree not to re-approve Enlist Duo until the agency has completed its registration review process for glyphosate? · What is EPA's timeline for the review process of Enlist Duo? Thank you for your prompt attention to these questions. We look forward to receiving your response as soon as possible. ###
02.05.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed the action of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to increase the Portland metro region’s Fair Market Rents (FMR) to allow housing assistance voucher holders to continue to find affordable housing as rental prices rapidly soar in the region. “Affordable housing is one of the most serious challenges we are facing in our region today. HUD’s action provides much needed flexibility for our region’s housing authorities to better serve those in need of housing assistance,” said Representative Blumenauer. “This is just one step, but an important step, to making sure affordable housing is an option for everyone.” Last week, Representative Blumenauer led a letter, also signed by Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley and Representatives Suzanne Bonamici and Kurt Schrader,to HUD Secretary Julian Castro making the case for the agency to swiftly accept the results of a Washington State University study commissioned by Home Forward, City of Portland, and the Washington County and Clackamas County housing authorities, showing that the rapidly rising rents across the region justified an increase in the value of FMR for housing vouchers. The increased FMR is much needed for our region, where rents are among the fastest rising in the country, and the vacancy rate for affordable rental properties ranges between 1 to 4 percent, depending on the neighborhood. The sharp and ongoing increases in rental housing costs make it especially difficult for housing assistance voucher holders to find affordable housing quickly, or to be able to continue to afford their existing voucher-supported housing. This change by HUD to increase the FMR will help ensure that housing vouchers can be used in communities across our region, where voucher holders will have access to transportation choices and economic opportunities. Click here for more information. ###
02.04.2016	Washington, DC –Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), John Duncan (R-TN), and Richard Hanna (R-NY) introduced the Water Infrastructure Trust Fund Act – legislation that will provide a small, deficit-neutral, protected source of revenue to help states replace, repair, and rehabilitate critical clean and drinking water facilities by creating a voluntary labeling and contributory system to which businesses that rely on a clean water source could opt-in. Our water infrastructure is falling behind due to declining federal funding. The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) gave our nation’s wastewater and drinking water infrastructure a grade of “D” in their most recent report card. While our clean water needs are estimated to be nearly $15 billion a year, appropriations for clean water infrastructure have averaged less than over $2 billion a year since 2000. Drinking water infrastructure is in no better shape. The EPA estimates that we need to invest over $19 billion annually to ensure the provision of safe tap water, while Congress appropriates less than $1 billion. As seen by the lead water crisis in Flint, MI, it is critical that we maintain and improve our water infrastructure. Water infrastructure problems, however, are not confined to tragedies such as these. Last year alone, American communities suffered more than 240,000 water main breaks and saw overflowing combined sewer systems – causing contamination, property damage, disruptions in the water supply, and massive traffic jams. “Water infrastructure is a local issue – from a giant sinkhole in Gresham, OR, to poisoned water in Flint, MI. For too long, we’ve let critical water systems simply fall apart, just because it’s out of sight,” said Representative Blumenauer. “The Water Infrastructure Trust Fund Act will provide needed revenue for states and local governments to make overdue investments in wastewater and drinking water infrastructure and will also take a hard look at the systemic challenges affecting access to safe water in low-income populations. Congress must do more, not only to meet the huge need for water infrastructure investments, but also to understand why failing infrastructure hits the most vulnerable communities the hardest.” “As recent events have shown us, clean water is a precious resource that we cannot take for granted. As co-chair of the Clean Water Caucus, I am proud to cosponsor this bill that will provide the needed funding to improve our Nation’s water infrastructure at no cost to the taxpayers,” said Representative Duncan. “Much of our water infrastructure is over 100 years old. If we do not start making wise investments now, it is going to cost much, much more in the future. This is a step in the right direction toward ensuring that our communities have access to clean water for many years to come.” “Much of our water infrastructure has been neglected for decades, which poses great health risks not to mention potentially billions of dollars in liabilities,” Representative Hanna said. “We need to ensure that there is a long-term plan in place to address our water infrastructure – our pipes, drains, sewers – to repair our aging systems and make certain that we are upgrading our water systems in a responsible way. Water infrastructure in towns and villages across the country is in poor shape and crumbling. I proudly support this bill to make certain that we are fully funding this program and we can continue to solve so many of these critical issues.” The Water Infrastructure Trust Fund Act allows businesses to choose to place a small label on their products indicating their commitment to protecting America’s clean water, contributing $0.03 to the Water Infrastructure Trust Fund for each unit bearing the label. The Trust Fund revenue will be distributed to the states as grants and loans through the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) and the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) to help public water systems finance wastewater and drinking water infrastructure projects. The legislation also commissions an EPA study of the water affordability gap facing low-income populations and an analysis of solutions to systemic barriers affecting access to safe water systems. “Water infrastructure remains the only major category of infrastructure without a dedicated revenue source. In cities and towns across the country, systems are aging, pipes are leaking, and populations continue to outstrip the systems capabilities,” said Stephen E. Sandherr, CEO of the Associated General Contractors of America and Co-Chair of the Water Infrastructure Network. “This Fund is a long overdue step in finally putting a dent in the many water infrastructure challenges this country faces.” “Access to clean drinking water is fundamental for the health and well-being of America’s communities. Sadly, the residents of Flint, Michigan are experiencing the harmful effects of a water infrastructure system that has failed to deliver safe, potable water,” said Clarence E. Anthony, CEO and executive director of the National League of Cities. “America’s cities support the bipartisan legislation introduced by Congressmen Blumenauer, Duncan, and Hanna that establishes a clean water trust fund that will support water infrastructure projects critical to our economy, the environment and the health and welfare of our communities.” “Maintaining water affordability is a challenge facing many utilities across the United States,” said Adam Krantz, CEO of National Association of Clean Water Agencies (NACWA). “NACWA strongly supports the provision in this Act that would require the Environmental Protection Agency, with participation from the States, to conduct a study assessing the affordability gap faced by low-income populations in obtaining drinking water and wastewater treatment services and options for helping close this gap through a potential rate assistance program that helps incentivize full cost pricing…As the crisis in Flint demonstrates, there is a vital need for a renewed commitment to ensuring a strong local-state-federal partnership for investments in clean and safe water continues.” “Our nation faces a water infrastructure funding crisis that is touching the lives of Americans in our largest cities and smallest villages. The bipartisan Clean Water Trust‎ Fund legislation advanced by Congressman Blumenauer is a thoughtful approach to meeting America's water infrastructure challenges,” said the Water Infrastructure Network. The Water Investment Trust Fund Act is supported by: American Concrete Pressure Pipe Association, American Council of Engineering Companies, American Society of Civil Engineers, American Public Works Association, Associated Equipment Distributors, Associated General Contractors, Distribution Contractors Association, National Association of Clean Water Agencies, National League of Cities, and the Plastics Pipes Institute. ###
02.03.2016	Washington, DC – Today, on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) announced introduction of legislation that will help assuage some of the financial hardship borne by state and local taxpayers in protecting the community while armed militants occupy the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge. While this situation has been costly in innumerable ways for the local community, the BurnsPaiute Tribe, the state, and the federal government, it has cost state and local law enforcement agencies an estimated $100,000 per week. Ultimately, the federal government’s decisions about timing and manner of putting a stop to this ordeal have contributed to these costs. Congressman Blumenauer’s legislation would allow the federal government to ease that burden by requiring the Department of Justice to quickly reimburse state and local law enforcement agencies up front for costs associated with responding to the armed takeover of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge. Following the reimbursement, the legislation allows the U.S. Attorney General to seek to recover the federal government’s costs by bringing civil action against the armed militia members to make sure the taxpayers aren’t on the hook. Placing the burden of these costs on these armed militants will send a strong signal that an armed takeover of federal land is unacceptable, and not without consequences. “It must be made clear that armed takeover of government or private facilities, for grievances real or imagined, is absolutely unacceptable and won’t be tolerated. … It’s not just enough to enforce the law. We should recover damages from lawbreakers who tear up the landscape, degrade wildlife habitat, and destroy property. … When we talk in trillions here in Washington, DC, maybe talk of $100,000 here or a million dollars there doesn’t sound like very much, but to the state of Oregon, it matters. For this small community, a few hundred thousand dollars has a significant impact on the local taxpayer. They shouldn’t be made to pay the bill,” Congressman Blumenauer said on the House floor. Since the beginning of the occupation, Congressman Blumenauer has called for swift response to stop the armed insurrection at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in defense of our public lands. Today, in his remarks, he further emphasized the importance of our public lands and said, “This is a call to action for Americans who treasure our public spaces – our parks, forests, range lands, marine sanctuaries. These are treasures that belong to all Americans. It’s important for us to understand what we have and what’s at stake for forces that would threaten our heritage.” ###
02.02.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced the Commercial UAS Modernization Act, legislation to create an interim framework that will promote American innovation in the rapidly growing field of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), commonly referred to as drones, and the safe integration of UAS into the National Airspace System. Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) introduced similar legislation of the same name last year. “The UAS industry is booming in Oregon and nationwide, but our laws and regulations are stifling innovation instead of encouraging it, forcing American companies to look overseas to test new technology,” said Representative Blumenauer. “We must not miss the opportunity to harness the benefits and utility of UAS technology, which will bring advances in safety and efficiency in nearly every sector of the economy. The Commercial UAS Modernization Act provides a much-needed update to federal rules, making it clear that flying smartphones should not be regulated like Predator drones.” “America can lead the world in developing this cutting edge technology, but only if we take the necessary steps to adopt a regulatory framework that embraces both safety and innovation,” Senator Booker said. “I’m proud that Congressman Blumenauer is introducing the Commercial UAS Modernization Act which takes critical steps towards this goal. I am excited to have a partner so dedicated to ensuring the United States can reap the social and economic benefits of UAS technology – from delivering food aid abroad to helping with search and rescue at home, the possibilities of this technology are just beginning to be explored and I look forward to working with colleagues on both sides of the aisle as we move these proposals forward.” The United States needs a comprehensive and well-defined regulatory framework for UAS integration. While the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is in the process of creating a regulatory framework for commercial UAS operation, the FAA’s existing approach to UAS integration and regulation has been piecemeal at best. As a result, we are behind other countries in developing a regulatory regime that encourages growth of this burgeoning industry, and U.S. companies are being overtaken by competition in Canada, Europe, and Asia. This legislation is a uniform and comprehensive approach that offers our drone industry a sensible path forward. The Commercial UAS Modernization Act: · Creates an interim rule that provides basic guidelines for commercial use and testing of small UAS and micro UAS during the period the FAA finalizes rules covering commercial UAS; · Strengthens the FAA’s oversight authorities by creating a deputy administrator exclusively responsible for the safe integration of UAS in U.S. airspace, while also streamlining regulations that currently slow industry’s ability to innovate new aircraft technologies; · Directs the FAA to explore the feasibility of transporting packages and other property by small UAS; and · Ensures that FAA test sites are being used to the maximum extent to facilitate research into new technologies, including developing an air traffic management system for UAS, in partnership with industry and other relevant government agencies, such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The UAS industry expects to produce more than 100,000 U.S. jobs, with $82 billion in economic impact, within a decade after these regulations are complete. The potential social and economic benefits of this technology go far beyond package delivery and capturing photos and video footage. Around the world, UAS are being used to inspect critical infrastructure and conduct land surveys, fight forest fires and support emergency and disaster response, transport medical samples and supplies, analyze and manage crops, detect oil spills and predict volcanic eruptions, catch poachers, and deliver high-speed Internet to remote or underserved areas. Full integration of UAS into the national airspace could revolutionize the way entire sectors of our economy and governments function. “AUVSI appreciates Rep. Blumenauer introducing the Commercial UAS Modernization Act in the House, which offers needed policy to increase the adoption and deployment of unmanned aircraft systems by industries across our nation’s business sector,” said Brian Wynne, President & CEO, AUVSI. “This bill brings to the forefront key areas for collaboration between the federal government and industry to unlock the full economic and societal benefits of UAS technology. We look forward to continuing this timely discussion as Congress prepares to consider FAA reauthorization.” “Other countries with more innovation-friendly regulatory policies continue to pull ahead of the United States in the race to develop commercial drones,” said Daniel Castro, Vice President, Information Technology and Innovation Foundation. “However, in terms of policy, this legislation would catapult the United States to the front of the line in UAS innovation. In addition, it would carve out pragmatic exemptions for micro-UAS and establish a set of R&D priorities for drones.” “NAB thanks Representative Blumenauer for introducing the Commercial UAS Modernization Act in the House, which contributes to a sensible framework for the commercial operation of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS). Broadcasters believe UAS can help improve newsgathering, especially during times of emergency, and support regulations that enable their responsible use. We look forward to working with Congress and the FAA on enacting fair UAS guidelines,” said Dennis Wharton, EVP Communications, National Association of Broadcasters. “The Small UAV Coalition applauds Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) for introducing the Commercial UAS Modernization Act, which would pave the way for safe, efficient, and timely integration of small unmanned aerial systems (UAS) into the National Airspace System for commercial purposes,” said the Small UAV Coalition, whose members include Amazon Prime Air, DJI, Google[x], GoPro, Intel, Parrot, Verizon Ventures, and 3DR, among others. “The Commercial UAS Modernization Act…would allow American businesses of all sizes to take advantage of this technology now, bringing the United States further in line with countries like Japan and France, who have long embraced the benefits of commercial UAS operations.” ###
01.19.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the announcement that Iran has met its nuclear commitments and that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the agreement reached between Iran and the P5+1, will be implemented: “Iran’s compliance with this monumental agreement – which was the result of vigorous diplomacy on the part of the United States and the five other major powers – is a significant achievement for ensuring Iran does not develop nuclear weapons. Additionally, the prisoner release is another powerful indication of the merits of diplomacy. “Our work, however, is far from over. Making sure Iran keeps its commitments to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action will be a complicated task, as hardline forces in the Iranian government feel Iran has given away too much by surrendering its rights to develop nuclear weapons. We must insist on a rigorous inspections regime. The world must continue to monitor, enforce, and build on this initial success because preventing a nuclear Iran through diplomacy helps stabilize a volatile region. “Iran’s compliance is just a step, but a critical one on a critical issue.” ###
01.12.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the President’s State of the Union address: “This is the message that needed to be delivered – not dwelling on the good news of which there is plenty, or political debates which continue – but rather focused on what we, as Americans, believe in and what our hopes are for the future. I like the tone the President is setting. I like the direction. I hope it’s accepted in the spirit in which it was offered.” ###
01.07.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Vern Buchanan (R-FL), co-chairs of the Congressional Bike Caucus, introduced the Bikeshare Transit Act (H.R. 4343),bipartisan legislation that will provide local communitiesadditional flexibility to use federal funds for bikeshare programs. The introduction coincides with the City of Portland and Nike’s historic announcement about bikeshare in Portland. Bikeshare is changing the way Americans move around urban areas, large and small, and driving economic development. Many programs received federal funding to launch but face unique uncertainty as a form of a public transportation. Because there is no established federal funding source, bikeshare is in a gray area – preventing some communities from using federal funds for bikeshare investments. The Bikeshare Transit Act clarifies that bikeshare projects are eligible for existing federal funding and defines bikeshare in federal transportation law, giving much-needed certainty to business owners, city and local officials, and commuters alike. “America is in the middle of a bikeshare revolution. Removing barriers faced by new and existing bikeshare programs is important to providing choice and adding value to our existing transportation network,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Bikeshare programs help people stay active, promote a clean environment and are good for the economy,” Representative Buchanan said. “I’m excited to join Congressman Blumenauer in supporting legislation that will make it easier for more of these programs to receive federal funding.” “Bikeshare programs are helping communities large and small create new and needed transportation options while also improving local economies and quality of life,” said Carol Rhea, FAICP, President of American Planning Association. “Bikeshare has become a proven tool for building stronger, more vibrant, and more resilient communities. APA and the nation’s planners applaud the introduction of the bipartisan Bikeshare Transit Act. This legislation will make sure that federal policies and investments recognize what residents and cities already know: that bikeshare works.” “The League of American Bicyclists thanks Representatives Blumenauer and Buchanan for introducing the Bikeshare Transit Act. More and more people in communities across the country are using bikeshare for transportation. This bill defines bikeshare as a form of transit, which will help make federal funding available for bikeshare systems across the country,” said Alex Doty, Executive Director of the League of American Bicyclists. “Bikeshare is proving to be a cost-effective, quick-to-implement transportation solution in a growing number of U.S. cities,” said Tim Blumenthal, president of the national bike advocacy organization PeopleForBikes. “Many U.S. city bikeshare systems support thousands of rides each day that help reduce road congestion and air pollution while improving health. The best thing about bikeshare is that everyone benefits.” “Creating a bikeshare system is like building new transit for a fraction of the cost,” said James Corless, Director of Transportation for America. “It gives people another way to get where they need to go quickly and affordably. Especially for communities underserved by transit, services like bikeshare can be a crucial connection to everyday destinations like job and school. Innovative, affordable, and flexible ideas like this make federal dollars go really far, and we commend Representatives Blumenauer and Buchanan's bipartisan Bikeshare Transit Act.” Click here for more information. ###
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — As armed militants continue to occupy the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in eastern Oregon, today on the House floor, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) rallied support for public lands. To follow is an excerpt of Representative Blumenauer’s remarks. Click here to watch the full remarks. “With the odd drama playing out in Oregon, where armed thugs have taken over a federal wildlife refuge facility, it’s important to reflect on what the wildlife refuge system is all about. “If these people have any argument with the President, it was President Roosevelt who 108 years ago established the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge as a response to protect precious natural resources. “…Today, we benefit from the foresight of this conservation president, who provided the cornerstone of environmental protection that enriches us all. “... These amazing treasures are not just scenic wonders. They hold extraordinarily valuable habitat for wildlife and water fowl, helping preserve the land, water and ecosystems that go far beyond what is spectacular to look at. “This is America’s heritage. We struggle on an ongoing basis to recover from the reckless, thoughtless exploitation of the last two centuries. The vast majority of the American public supports this effort, even if they never visit the remote Western regions. “… The sideshow with the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge obscures a much larger and important public policy: protecting our heritage, enhancing it, and avoiding a reckless behavior of a few that will penalize generations to come. “It would be valuable for us all to look behind the headlines at the facts on the ground, the history of the resource, the struggle for protection, and the tremendous benefits for all Americans.” ###
12.18.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement in support of the omnibus and tax extenders legislation: "I voted for both the omnibus and tax extender bills that came before the House this week. They represented hard work and compromises by many on both sides of the aisle and across the advocacy community. I commend so many of my colleagues for reminding us of what we can accomplish when we work together on behalf of the American people. "These bills don’t just do the bare minimum to keep the government open and continue the policy status quo as we have done many times in recent years. Instead, they actually invest in important programs, many that I have supported for years and that are priorities for Oregonians. "I am pleased to see the extenders legislation support research and development, and provide important tools – such as an extension of the New Markets program – to invest in our communities. The tax package increases the benefit for transit riders to the same level as the parking tax benefit, providing much-needed tax fairness, strengthening options for commuters, and eliminating an incentive to drive to work. This provision will ease congestion and road wear and make our transportation system more sustainable. "The omnibus also contains robust funding for public broadcasting, animal welfare enforcement, and health and scientific research. It includes the highest-ever levels of funding for the implementation of the Water for the Poor and Water for the World Acts, for which I have fought for years. I am pleased that the bill contains many provisions that I helped champion, including language to ensure the Department of Justice stay out of the way of state medical marijuana laws, language that supports industrial hemp research programs, and increased funding for brain research. "There are also many positive provisions for the environment in these bills. I am delighted that the Land and Water Conservation Fund has been reauthorized and funded at a significant increase of $144 million. This program is one of the most important tools we have to protect land and habitat, construct parks and purchase other outdoor spaces that are cherished in communities. "Both bills take important steps to help us transition away from fossil fuels and allow us to meaningfully contribute in the global fight against climate change. In particular, the long-term extension of tax credits for wind and solar energy development will significantly expand the development of clean renewable energy across the country at a critical time in our struggle to reduce carbon emissions. With this support, the solar industry estimates that by 2020, it will deploy more than 20 GW of solar electricity annually. The provisions supporting wind energy will free that industry from a repeated boom-and-bust cycle caused by inaction in Congress, and will strengthen the build out of low-cost, emission-free renewable energy from coast to coast. "The elimination of many of the damaging environmental riders that were proposed during the appropriations process was a major victory, measures that would have defunded the Clean Power Plan, or reduced protections for endangered species among many others. "There are certainly provisions in both of these bills that I do not support. It is troubling that we are drifting away from discipline in terms of dealing with the deficit. There were many missed opportunities to reduce wasteful spending and redirect those resources to where it is more needed. We will continue to spend billions of dollars every year on a nuclear arsenal we can’t afford and will not use. Through tax breaks and direct subsidies, we will also continue to directly support wildly profitable industries that do not need this support – such as agribusiness and the petroleum industry. The bills also fail to address the need for new and different revenues, such as a carbon tax and a gas tax increase to rebuild crumbling infrastructure, to protect our environment and to properly invest in social safety net programs over the long run. "Both bills include provisions that on their own, I would not support. I remain unpersuaded that we need to lift the crude oil export ban. I have voted against such legislation in the past since it will not help us transition to a cleaner energy future. The inclusion of the Cybersecurity Information and Sharing Act is troubling because it fails to strike the right balance between privacy and security, or between the responsibility of the private sector and the government. The omnibus also continues an irresponsible policy rider that interferes with the District of Columbia’s ability to manage the sale of marijuana to ensure safety and appropriate regulations. Finally, the extenders legislation imposes new rules and responsibilities on the overburdened staff at the Internal Revenue Service. We currently have the most efficient tax collection system in the world among developed nations, but we have been systematically destroying its ability to serve taxpayers by doing its job. "I also am disappointed that the omnibus did not include a number of key spending priorities that should command support from everyone. The bill does not include an important change to wildfire spending. We should treat wildfires like other major disasters and eliminate the practice of ‘fire borrowing,’ which drains agency non-fire budgets to pay for firefighting. The bill also fails to reauthorize the Historic Preservation Fund, the main source of federal support for preservation projects that celebrate the heritage and history of communities across America. Finally, the omnibus continues a decades long ban on federal research on the causes and factors behind gun violence. Everyone should allow researchers to study and share information about gun violence in order to promote evidence-based policies to reduce horrific incidents. "Despite these shortcomings, however, I support the overall package. On the whole, it’s balanced and includes meaningful provisions that will support priorities important to Oregonians and across the country. I’m hopeful this is an indication that going forward, Congress can work across the aisle and compromise, so that we can do our jobs for the American people." ###
12.17.2015	Washington, DC – Today, following House passage of the PATH Act ­– a multiyear tax package – Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Peter King (R-NY), Jim McGovern (D-MA), and Bob Dold (R-IL) welcomed a permanent increase of the commuter tax benefit exclusion for transit riders to $255 a month, finally giving transit equal treatment with parking subsidies in the tax code. This provision incorporates legislation introduced by the lawmakers, H.R. 990, the Commuter Parity Act. Representative Blumenauer said, “As we face worsening congestion on our roads and the growing threat of climate change, we should not be incentivizing driving to work over other modes of transportation. Restoring parity for the transit tax benefit saves Americans in all communities time and money by easing congestion and road wear and tear, and makes our transportation network more sustainable. This important fix brings relief to commuters who saw their annual costs of commuting rise by up to nearly $1,400 when the transit benefit was cut last year. As we invest in a transportation system to meet the demands and travel trends of tomorrow, providing equal transit and parking tax benefits is critical to give commuters choices about when and how they get to work. This provision is a huge step forward for sustainability and transportation efficiency.” Representative King said, “This provision is a common-sense solution to ensuring that public transportation is a cost-effective choice. Commuters will receive the same level of tax relief regardless of whether they drive or use public transportation but it will provide an incentive to use mass transportation, which will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, ease traffic congestion and the costs associated with road repair.” Representative McGovern said, “For millions of Americans across the country who use mass transit every day to commute to work, this is a big victory. Making this transit tax benefit permanent will bring critical relief to commuters by saving them money and it also offers employers another attractive benefit to offer their workers. And by making mass transit more affordable, we are giving Americans more commuting options and taking important steps to support sustainable transportation, mitigate congestion and reduce wear and tear on our roads and bridges. This has been a big priority for my constituents in Central and Western Massachusetts who take the train everyday into downtown Boston and I am proud to join Republicans and Democrats to support this important measure.” Representative Dold said, “Restoring the transit tax benefit is a bipartisan win-win. It’s good for the environment, good for workers and good for businesses. This important fix will provide relief to commuters while reducing congestion on our roads and making our transportation infrastructure more sustainable. I am proud to have helped shepherd this bill over the finish line.” ###
12.16.2015	Washington, DC – Last night, Republican leadership filed legislation to fund the government for FY16. There were a number of marijuana-related provisions up for consideration in the omnibus bill. The Office of Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) has reviewed the text of the legislation. Representative Blumenauer is pleased to see the inclusion of the following provisions in the omnibus package: The policy championed by Representatives Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) and Sam Farr (D-CA) that prevents the Department of Justice from interfering in the ability of states to implement legal medical marijuana laws (Division B, Title V, Section 542) Language that supports industrial hemp research allowed under Section 7606 of the 2014 Farm Bill (Division B, Title V, Section 543 and Division A, Title VII, Section 763) Representative Blumenauer is disappointed, however, that the bill falls short by not including provisions that: Make it easier for banks to do business with state-legal marijuana businesses Allow Veterans Health Administration providers to recommend medical marijuana to their patients in accordance with state law, a provision he championed in the House Representative Blumenauer is also disappointed to see the continuation of a rider that interferes with Washington, DC's ability to pass laws dealing with the sale of marijuana for adult use. Representative Blumenauer is available for interview. Please contact Nicole L’Esperance at 202-225-4811 or nicole.lesperance@mail.house.gov to schedule an interview. ###
12.09.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the proposal by Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump to ban all Muslims from entering the United States. “This proposal is absolutely hateful. It plays right into the hands of ISIS and demonizes millions of Muslim Americans, and hundreds of millions of Muslims around the world. It is shameful and un-American.” ###
12.08.2015	Washington, DC – Today, on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, donning a Portland Timbers Army scarf, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) congratulated the Timbers on their victory over the Columbus Crew SC on Sunday, winning the Major League Soccer (MLS) Championship. Click here to watch Representative Blumenauer’s celebratory speech. To follow are his remarks. “I come to the Floor this morning barely able to talk, but not having much of a voice is common in Portland, Oregon, these days as fans shouted themselves hoarse after the Portland Timbers’ stunning victory over the Columbus Crew on Sunday – winning the Major League Soccer Cup. There is no doubt that my hometown of Portland, Oregon, is Soccer City USA! Fans continue to prove the point with a huge celebration today. “I want to congratulate the Timbers for an amazing season and for being such a huge part indeed of Portland and all of Oregon. This season had it all – injuries and bumps along the way that made Sunday’s results seem highly unlikely. But under the leadership and direction of Coach Caleb Porter, the Timbers stayed focused and made course corrections that led them to a national championship – finishing with a flourish. “This team has so many heroes that it’s impossible in the time I have to give them their due recognition. But I want to give a special mention to new U.S. citizen Darlington Nagbe, Diego Chara, Rodney Wallace, Jake Gleeson, and the old salty dog, Jack Jewsbury, all of whom have been with the Timbers since our inaugural season. “I also want to highlight the Maestro, Diego Valeri, defenders Liam Ridgewell and Nat Borchers (he of the beard!), as well as Goalkeeper Adam Kwarasey, for their heroic efforts this season. “Merritt Paulson and his management team deserve recognition for their passion for the sport and their love for our city. “Of course, you can’t mention the Portland Timbers without talking about, as the song goes, the greatest football supporters the world has ever seen – the Timbers Army! Your dedication to Team, Town, and Country is an inspiration – and very much in evidence in Columbus this weekend. “Mr. Speaker, let me conclude by reminding all of America – and several places in Canada – that in case you didn’t get the hint with Timber Joey and his chainsaw, there is No Pity in the Rose City!” Ahead of the MLS Cup, Representatives Blumenauer and Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) challenged Representatives Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Steve Stivers (OH-15), and Pat Tiberi (OH-12) to a friendly wager on the championship match between the Portland Timbers and Columbus Crew – with local products and favorites on the line. With the Timbers win, Representatives Blumenauer and Bonamici will soon receive their winnings – Columbus craft brews and candy buckeyes. ###
12.03.2015	Washington, DC – On Sunday, December 6, the Portland Timbers and Columbus Crew SC will play for the Major League Soccer (MLS) Cup. Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Steve Stivers (OH-15), and Pat Tiberi (OH-12) today announced they have placed a friendly wager on the championship game between the Portland Timbers and Columbus Crew – with local products and favorites on the line. Representatives Blumenauer and Bonamici, who together represent Portland, are wagering Oregon craft beer, Pinot Noir from Willamette Valley, and Salt & Straw ice cream. Representatives Beatty, Stivers, and Tiberi, representing the Columbus metro area, are wagering Columbus craft brews and candy buckeyes. “I look forward to seeing our Portland Timbers cap their magnificent season with the MLS Cup,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Onward Rose City!” “Last time an Ohio team faced off against an Oregon team for a national title our Buckeyes came home with NCAA championship rings and the Ducks waddled home empty handed,” said Representative Beatty. “The Timbers will topple the Columbus Crew! We've had a great season and I’m looking forward to seeing the Timbers win the MLS Cup final match,” said Representative Bonamici. “I’m confident the Oregonians will be enjoying some Ohio craft brews and buckeye candy. RCTID!” “In the battle of the O’s, Ohio is no stranger to blocking Oregon’s championship dreams,”Representative Stivers said. “With home field advantage, the Crew is on a roll and more than ready to take its second MLS cup.” “The Crew SC will ax the Timbers and I look forward to enjoying some of Oregon’s microbrews with my Central Ohio colleagues as we celebrate the black and gold’s second MLS Cup,” said Representative Tiberi. ###
12.03.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on House passage of the conference report on H.R. 22, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. This five-year authorization for highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects is the first long-term authorization in a decade. “Today’s passage of the FAST Act is a significant accomplishment. It ends the embarrassing string of 37 short-term extensions. It provides five years of certainty with modest, but important, increased spending levels. There are provisions that deal with safety, innovation, and integrating passenger rail into overall surface transportation, among many other notable items. “I am pleased that a number of provisions that I have authored and championed have found their way into the final version of this legislation. One of the unheralded provisions potentially has the most significant, far-reaching consequences—the expansion of work on an alternative user-fee to replace the gas tax. This reflects legislation I have introduced that builds upon the Oregon pilot project on road user charges. There is also a specific title dealing with innovation. The next five years will see unparalleled changes in transportation practices and technology that can have a transformational effect on our way of life, and this bill embraces this. “Unfortunately, Congress continues to refuse to address a Highway Trust Fund that is inadequate and losing purchasing power by the month. Refusing to increase the gas tax for 22 years or to have any other source of revenue has complicated passage of a long-term bill. Instead, the collection of budget gimmicks paying for the legislation are, in many cases, questionable. For example, using private bill collectors to hound low-income taxpayers who run into financial difficulty is a money loser, as well as ineffective and unpopular. This is one of many ways the bill is paid for, basically to disguise the use of the Treasury’s general fund instead of the traditional user fee model. “I am hopeful that we can use the next five years to build upon the positive framework of the legislation and for Congress to accept the overwhelming consensus of the people who build, maintain, and use our surface transportation system. They want to increase user fees to adequately fund transportation, and so should we as well. “I voted for this bill because the positive policy features are compelling and because it gives us an opportunity to use this five-year period of stability to get it right. I will spare no effort to do so, and I hope I’m joined by my colleagues so that the next reauthorization truly enables us to rebuild and renew America, put millions of Americans to work at family wage jobs, and strengthen communities from coast to coast.” ###
12.01.2015	Washington, DC – As global leaders meet in Paris on climate change, and the House considers this week measures to undercut the Administration’s climate initiatives, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today delivered remarks on the House floor on the best solution to the climate threat – enacting a revenue-neutral fee on carbon emissions. To follow are Representative Blumenauer’s remarks as prepared. Click here to watch his speech. “The eyes of the world are on Paris, as it recovers from one tragedy and as 150 world leaders gather to prevent another. They meet to secure a global agreement on climate change. “Reliance on fossil fuels – especially coal – and wasteful expensive energy consumption shortchange today’s priorities and threatens our future. Ten years from now, even many of the current climate skeptics will wonder, ‘What were we thinking?’ “The scientific evidence and the overwhelming consensus it has created is clear – the immediate impacts of record temperatures, erratic and very dangerous weather patterns, ocean acidification, drought, disease, social disruption, and wildfires all have predictable impacts that already cost us dearly with many more severe problems on the horizon. “It is sad that what should be a straightforward, scientific conclusion has become so emotionally charged and politically volatile. It is embarrassing and ironic that in the middle of this historic event on climate change, as the world consensus is strengthening and moving towards action, the best that our Republican Congress can do is vote on two pieces of legislation that would undo much of the progress we’ve already made. The Republican leader in the Senate argues that the carbon rule of the Administration is a vast overreach, and that the Obama policies won’t accomplish anything – and yet is working to undermine their effectiveness. We will then vote on H.R. 8, a fossil fuel giveaway that will do nothing to combat climate change, but only accelerate the problem. “The best solution to the climate threat is not these foolish votes or obstructionism, but an action that has the potential to resolve other controversial issues, while addressing our major climate challenges. It’s past time for the federal government to enact a revenue-neutral fee on carbon emissions. This would not be an excuse to expand government spending and new programs, but instead simplify and solve current problems in a cost-effective manner. “Consider for a moment that high on the list of problems, in addition to climate change, for almost everyone else is that we should fix our broken corporate tax code, address our looming Social Security deficit, and streamline the patchwork of uneven energy subsidy provisions. A revenue-neutral carbon tax is a proven market mechanism to reduce devastating carbon pollution. “By adequately pricing carbon, we could generate approximately $2 trillion over ten years, and sweep away expensive, and often conflicting, clean energy subsidies and replace them with something much more effective. We could use the revenue to eliminate the looming 25 percent cut in Social Security – acting quickly while a solution is more affordable and less disruptive to the lives of our seniors. At the same time, we could tailor the Social Security tax to protect middle and lower income people from impacts of the fee, and we could help small businesses, shielding them from part of the cost and lowering the payroll tax they pay, making it cheaper to employ people. Finally, a portion of the carbon revenues could be used to buy down the world’s highest corporate tax rate – ours –which distorts business decisions and places us in a competitive disadvantage with other developed countries. “Think about it. We could solve the existential climate threat, make the tax system simpler, more fair and effective, avoid the looming Social Security crisis, and shield individuals and small businesses from undue impact from the carbon fee, while making our businesses more competitive. “That is as close as you can come to a non-partisan, non-ideological, grand slam policy. Instead of policies of division and denial, it’s time for us to come together supporting a revenue-neutral carbon tax to solve multiple problems and meet our obligations to our children and grandchildren.” ###
11.19.2015	Washington, DC –Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), joined by Representatives Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Sam Farr (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), and Jim McDermott (D-WA), sent a letter to President Obama calling for new leadership at the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) following recent comments by the Acting Administrator, referring to the notion of smoking medical marijuana as ‘a joke.’ “Mr. Rosenberg’s comments are outrageous and misleading. The last 20 years has shown overwhelming testimonial evidence of the benefits of medical marijuana, leading 23 states, DC, and Guam to change their laws,” said Representative Blumenauer. “President Obama has taken action to respect state medical marijuana laws. Mr. Rosenberg is out of step with the Administration and out of touch. It’s time for new leadership.” In the letter, the lawmakers also call out Rosenberg’s hypocrisy in statements he made highlighting a lack of information demonstrating the safety or effectiveness of marijuana as medicine. Current federal policies make it very difficult for doctors and scientists to conduct the medical research with marijuana necessary to obtain this information, and the DEA has been integral to limiting access to marijuana that can be legally used for research. “The real joke is that the DEA has played a huge role in propping up federal policies that have systematically blocked research of marijuana’s medicinal value. If there are any questions about its safety or effectiveness, it’s because the federal government continues to stymie science,” said Representative Blumenauer. Yesterday, November 18, Representative Blumenauer took to the floor of the House calling for a new DEA chief. Additionally, a petition organized by Marijuana Majority on Change.org demanding that Rosenberg be fired has garnered more than 90,000 signatures. ###
11.19.2015	Washington, DC (November 19, 2015) – Today, the House considers H.R. 4038, the so-called “American SAFE Act,” that would shut down the U.S. Syrian refugee program for years. Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement in opposition of the legislation: “Americans take pride in our ability to keep our people safe, while simultaneously upholding our values. The bill before us today turns that bedrock tradition on its head. It is a foolish notion that Daesh terrorists need to pretend to be refugees in order to attack America. “Proponents are saying this bill simply hits ‘pause’ until we can get a safe refugee process in place. Republicans ought to know that America already has the most thorough vetting process of any nation. Anyone involved in the refugee vetting process knows that a single, tiny shred of concern about an applicant ensures they would never set foot in America as a refugee. Worse, this bill will delay the lengthy process another two years or more. We should not hit ‘pause’ on America’s moral courage, especially not when doing so plays into the hands of the enemy. “If a terrorist wants to get into the United States, they are not going to wait for the vetting process, where they are likely to get denied. They’ll take a lesson from the 9/11 hijackers, and come on a student or tourist visa. “What, exactly, does this bill accomplish? If it’s to bolster our security, it’s clear that those who brought this bill to the floor have drawn the wrong conclusions from Friday’s horrific attacks and from our very own history. If France had passed a similar bill and closed their doors to all Syrian refugees, it would not have prevented the disgusting individuals who carried out those attacks from entering the country because not a single one of them was a refugee. Since 1980, not one of the millions of refugees brought into America has committed an act of terror in our country. “Another deeply troubling aspect of this proposal for me is that it will upend the work we’ve been doing on a bipartisan basis for 10 years to help the brave souls who were our interpreters, our guides, our drivers in Iraq, and leave them to the tender mercies of Al Qaeda and Daesh. This bill targets this bipartisan program and breaks our promises to the brave Iraqis who kept our men and women in uniform safe. “America can be the great country that we all love and keep our families safe at the same time. Turning our back on Syrian refugees is un-American, un-patriotic, and morally weak. Sentencing an entire population due to broad-brush characterizations of those who practice a certain faith goes against our core values as a nation. While we mourn the attacks in Paris, we must remember that those tragic events were an extension of the violence that their innocent brothers and sisters in Syria have been subjected to, day in and day out, for years now. “Our past experience should be a powerful guide. When we look back to U.S. opinion regarding Jewish refugees in the lead up to WWII, how callous we were. When asked, “What’s your attitude toward allowing German, Austrian, and other political refugees to come into the U.S.?,” fewer than 5 percent believed we should raise our immigration quotas to allow them entry. Ultimately, Americans found the courage and wisdom to do what was right. But only after such tragedies as turning back the transatlantic liner, the St. Louis, that came to our ports from Germany with almost 1,000 Jewish refugees fleeing Hitler. They could see America, but were sent back. Nearly a quarter of them lost their lives in the Holocaust. “This bill is shameful, unnecessary, and it actually makes us less safe. Forcing more and more people in volatile countries like Jordan, Turkey, and Lebanon, already reaching the breaking point is a continuing disaster. This bill would encourage Europe to turn its back on its responsibilities, too. “I would hope Congress is better than this. The House should reject this short-sighted, cruel and destructive bill. Instead we should show the compassion and thoughtfulness that people elected us here to demonstrate.” ###
11.18.2015	Washington, DC – Following recent comments by Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Acting Administrator Chuck Rosenberg, calling medical marijuana “a joke,” today on the House floor, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) called for new DEA leadership. To follow are Congressman Blumenauer’s remarks as prepared. Click here to watch his speech. “Chuck Rosenberg, the Acting Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, recently called the notion of smoking medical marijuana ‘a joke.’ What is a joke is the job Rosenberg is doing as Acting DEA Administrator. He is an example of an inept, misinformed zealot, who has mismanaged America’s failed policy of marijuana prohibition. “Americans recognize it’s time for a change in direction to legalize, regulate, and tax marijuana. Fifty-eight percent now support legalization, continuing an upward trend in public opinion polls and at the ballot box. Over 75 percent of the American public supports medical marijuana, as does a majority of American physicians. “Rosenberg claims medical marijuana is a joke, but the proven therapeutic value of cannabis has prompted 23 states, Guam, and the District of Columbia to approve its medical application, and an additional 17 states have authorized its more limited use. “Rosenberg’s claim that more research is necessary is true, but reeks of hypocrisy because the DEA under his leadership has made badly needed cannabis research difficult and often impossible. If Rosenberg was doing his job, he would have visited with some of the hundreds of thousands who have found medical marijuana has had a profound effect on their lives and that of their families. “President Obama is the first sitting president to tell the truth about cannabis. His Administration has not acted to shut down the adult or medical marijuana reforms that are sweeping the country, but sadly it isn’t just his DEA Administrator who is undercutting his policy. “Earlier this year, the Department of Justice took an outrageously flawed position on the Rohrabacher-Farr amendment that passed with strong, bipartisan support and clearly specified that the federal government should not interfere with state-legal medical marijuana operations. The Department of Justice and the DEA contends that it only prevents action against states, not individuals. This is a ridiculous interpretation of the law and caused a federal court in California to rule this interpretation defies language and logic, in deciding against them. “More recently, the Senate passed the MilCon-VA Appropriations bill, which included an amendment offered by my colleague in Oregon, Senator Merkley, mirroring my legislation to allow VA doctors to recommend medical marijuana to their patients in accordance with state law. Yet on November 13, the Department of Veterans Affairs indicated they won’t allow doctors and patients to participate in state-legal marijuana laws, even if this bill becomes law. “Sadly, these actions by Administration officials are indicative of a throwback ideology rooted in the failed War on Drugs, which needs to stop. They do not reflect the overwhelming body of evidence about the effects of medical marijuana, the reforms happening at the state level and in Congress, or the opinion of the American people. They don’t reflect the statements by the President himself and the official policy promulgated by former Deputy Attorney General Cole outlining the Administration’s commitment to stay out of the way of state marijuana laws. “There’s overwhelming evidence that marijuana offers relief when nothing else has helped, including as a more effective pain management tool than highly addictive narcotics. Opioid overdoses are skyrocketing, and we have an epidemic of heroin abuse and overdose. “Sadly the culture of opposition in the federal government continues. On one level we have this amazing progress at the state and local level. We’ve made significant progress here in Congress, with the introduction of over 20 bills in both chambers dealing with the federal treatment of cannabis and hemp and the successful votes on three amendments in the House and three in Senate committees in this Congress. “This culture needs to change. Leadership needs to change. Rosenberg is clearly not the right fit for the DEA in this Administration. I would hope that the President directs the heads of all relevant agencies to adjust their policies, clarify regulations that deal with marijuana laws, establish policies that reflect changing state laws, and most important, reflect the President’s own position. He has said he has bigger fish to fry than interfere with state legalization efforts. It’s time that the rest of his Administration gets on board. It should start with a new head of the Drug Enforcement Administration.” ###
11.17.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced legislation with 18 of his colleagues that extends critical clean energy incentives to provide market certainty and strengthen investment in renewable technologies. Among its provisions, the Bridge to a Clean Energy Future Act of 2015 extends the Production Tax Credit for wind energy until January 1, 2017, offering parity with the duration of the Investment Tax Credit, as well as granting the solar industry access to credits at the start of a project’s construction. The bill also provides a range of other important incentives, such as expanding the advanced energy project credit, which aids U.S. manufacturers across the clean energy industry. These measures are fully paid for by permanently ending outdated and wasteful tax breaks to the oil and gas energy sector. “With the impacts of climate change already upon us, now more than ever our focus should be on helping clean energy industries grow and thrive. At the federal and state level – including in Oregon – we’ve already made notable investments in renewable energy resources, and this legislation will expand these efforts,” said Representative Blumenauer. “These investments will not only help us transition to a clean energy future, but simultaneously will create good jobs and support American innovation. Making sure the companies deploying clean technology across the country are able to compete with the highly profitable oil and gas sector will be critical to bringing stability, reliability, and efficiency to the emerging clean energy sector.” Click here for a detailed summary of provisions in the Bridge to a Clean Energy Future Act of 2015. ###
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Senator Ron Wyden and Representatives Earl Blumenauer, Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, and Suzanne Bonamici welcomed news that Oregon State University (OSU) is taking action to implement the industrial hemp research pilot program in Oregon. “I’m glad to see OSU taking an important step forward and applying to the DEA for a license to import hemp seeds, signaling their plans to engage in legal hemp research,” said Blumenauer. “When I worked to pass the amendment to the Farm Bill over two years ago that allows for industrial hemp research at universities and colleges, I believed OSU would be the perfect institution to help pave the way. The cultivation of industrial hemp represents a significant opportunity for Oregon agriculture. I look forward to continuing to work with OSU to make sure they can get their program up and running as soon as possible.” “Researching the vast potential for hemp is the first key step to making Oregon a national leader in industrial hemp production, which is why I’m so glad that Oregon State University today announced it’s working toward that goal,” Wyden said. “I’m going to keep working to build support for the bipartisan Industrial Hemp Farming Act I introduced earlier this year to remove outdated barriers to innovation and make room for a thriving hemp industry in Oregon.” “The industrial hemp industry holds enormous potential benefit for Oregon agriculture,” said DeFazio. “I’m pleased that congressional efforts have helped OSU pursue research in this important field. With OSU leading the way, once again Oregon will pioneer in a promising area of agriculture.” “Oregon farmers wanting to participate in this industrial hemp pilot program shouldn’t be tangled in red tape. OSU is one of the country’s best universities for agricultural research and I’m pleased they are working with ODA to make this program a reality,” said Schrader. “Hemp is a valuable agricultural commodity that can be found in more than 25,000 commercial products including food, paper, beauty products, and more,” said Bonamici. “Permitting OSU to study hemp production will help open the door for a sustainable industry that can make a range of products from rope to soap, and I applaud OSU for submitting the application.” Hemp finds its way into more than 25,000 different products around the world, from lotions to protein bars to auto parts to fuel. American retailers are estimated to sell nearly $500 million worth of products containing hemp seeds and fibers every year. Yet because of outdated federal drug laws that treat hemp like marijuana, American farmers have not been able to cultivate hemp or take advantage of an expanding retail market. In 2014, Congress included an amendment to the Farm Bill that allows accredited colleges and universities to grow and cultivate industrial hemp for research purposes in states where it is already legal under state law. This represents a significant opportunity for Oregon agriculture, and many states have begun to move forward implementing industrial hemp research pilot programs, in accordance with the 2014 Farm Bill. ###
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the release of the final text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement: “I fought hard for a better Trade Promotion Authority so that this day would come – when every Oregonian, not just well-connected lobbyists and politicians, could review and scrutinize trade agreements, months before they could be signed. I’m committed to trade done right. This is a critical improvement in the process that makes such an outcome more likely. “Throughout the entire TPP negotiating process, I fought for provisions aligned with Oregon’s values, including strong and enforceable environmental and labor provisions. Now that the TPP is complete and the final text released, I will be carefully reviewing this agreement – alongside my colleagues and Oregonians. I look forward to the added insight that this transparent and open process will, for the first time, allow. Now we can all assess the agreement and conclude whether Oregon and the world are better with or without it." ###
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 22, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act: “While the House-passed surface transportation reauthorization has some good elements, it fails to give America the certainty it needs or provide what local communities want and deserve – funding that is long-term and dedicated, and greater than current, inadequate spending levels. As I’ve said time and time again, we can no longer keep trying to pay for 2015 infrastructure needs with 1993 dollars. I offered a solution that the House refused to consider. “This legislation provides a solid framework to build on, and it will improve through the conference process. I hope that my colleagues now take the opportunity to turn this into an actual reauthorization with real funding that can begin to provide the investment needed to rebuild and renew America. The best and most logical solution is to raise the gas tax. Until we do that, Americans are shortchanged.” This week, the House Rules Committee blocked consideration of Representative Earl Blumenauer’s (OR-03) amendment to raise the federal gas tax, as the House considered the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act. Representative Blumenauer’s amendment would have raised federal gas and diesel taxes 15 cents over three years and indexed them to inflation. ###
11.04.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the House Rules Committee blocked consideration of Representative Earl Blumenauer’s (OR-03) amendment to raise the federal gas tax, as the House considers H.R. 3763, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act. Representative Blumenauer’s amendment would have raised federal gas and diesel taxes 15 cents over three years and indexed them to inflation. “Congress should have the opportunity to show the courage and vision to do what Ronald Reagan did in 1982 and what seven Republican states have already done this year – raise the gas tax to provide stable and meaningful funding for transportation,” said Representative Blumenauer. “I’m deeply disappointed that we are considering what alleges to be a six-year authorization without a real conversation about paying for it. This is a missed opportunity to provide certainty for the hundreds of thousands of jobs at stake and give states and local governments the federal partnership they need and deserve.” ###
11.03.2015	Washington, DC (November 3, 2015) – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the defeat of the Ohio ballot initiative to legalize marijuana: “The defeat of the Ohio measure in no way slows down the revolution taking place across the country to end the failed prohibition of marijuana. Many legalization supporters were skeptical the measure under consideration was the right approach in Ohio. I look forward to seeing more states join Oregon, Colorado, Washington, Alaska, and the District of Columbia in legalizing marijuana the right way. “As more and more states consider marijuana reforms, it emphasizes the need for the federal government to get out of the way. Voters should not have to make these decisions with the threat of needless and wasteful federal interference. I’m convinced the day is coming when we will legalize, tax, and regulate marijuana at the federal level. It’s the right to do.” ###
11.02.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) sent a letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army Jo-Ellen Darcy expressing concern about current living conditions at Columbia River Treaty Fishing Access Sites in the Columbia Gorge and seeking a fair, sustainable, and timely solution to improve the conditions. These sites – developed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) and now located on Bureau of Indian Affairs land – were designed primarily for day-use fishing and some temporary camping to ensure Tribal members have access to their usual and accustomed fishing places along the Columbia River following the construction of dams. However, due to housing needs and a desire to be closer to the Columbia River where their cultural heritage lies, many tribal members use these sites as permanent residences. “These sites were not designed for and cannot sustainably accommodate this type and volume of use. In fact, many communities in these sites are living in extremely distressed, unsafe, and unsanitary conditions. For example, entire communities are reliant on a single water source and tribal members have constructed makeshift housing, posing fire, structural, and human health risks. There is an urgent need for adequate housing and infrastructure for these residents,” the lawmakers wrote. In 2013, a report commissioned by the Corps found that between 44 and 85 families who lived in the Bonneville and The Dalles Pools prior to dam construction did not receive relocation assistance – leaving questions about unmet obligations that may exist to provide housing for Tribal members in the Gorge, as well as the Corps’ authority to address that obligation. Answering these questions will be essential to informing next steps on how to improve their situation, either through action by the Corps or by Congress. Due to the urgency of the issue, the lawmakers have asked the Corps to complete analysis of these questions as quickly as possible to inform the Army Corps’ Fiscal Year 2016 Work Plan and the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget process. The full letter can be found here. ###
10.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the inclusion of advance care planning reimbursements in the final Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) FY 2016 Physician Fee Schedule. “I have worked for years to strengthen end-of-life planning and care for all Americans. During the Affordable Care Act debate I offered a simple proposal to make sure people get the care they want as they and their loved ones deal with the difficult decisions at the end of life.The key was to help patients and their families have thoughtful conversations with their providers about their medical care choices. Unfortunately, due to the reconciliation process in the Senate, this proposal was kept out of the final bill. “Since then I’ve fought to place a value on these conversations and make sure we have policies in place that recognize how important it is for providers to have the time and space for patients and families to communicate not only ‘what is the matter’ but ‘what matters.’ “Today, my proposal is finally reality. “The decision by CMS to create a benefit for advance care planning is a turning point in end-of-life care. However, our work is far from done. Advance directives must be easily accessible within a patient’s electronic medical record. They must also be updated frequently as a patient’s health status and situation changes. Providers need better training, tools, and resources to be able to have these difficult conversations. And ultimately, the care provided must align with the patient’s stated goals, values, and informed preferences. “I welcome today’s decision from CMS, and I look forward to continuing the fight to protect every family member and make sure their wishes for care are understood, respected, and enforced.” ### Efforts To Strengthen End-of-Life Care Representative Blumenauer – a member of the Ways and Means Committee, including the Subcommittee on Health, and a leading advocate for palliative care – became the “death panel guy” when his provision that would have reimbursed physicians for advance care planning was included in the House version of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Unfortunately, due to the reconciliation process during ACA passage, this provision was stripped out. Since then, Representative Blumenauer has consistently lobbied the federal government to place a value on these complex, yet necessary conversations, and introduced separate legislation (Personalize Your Care Act) to not only reimburse providers, but strengthen end-of-life care across the care continuum.
10.30.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) filed H.R. 680, the Update, Promote, and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act, as an amendment to H.R. 3763, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act, which the House will consider next week. Representative Blumenauer’s amendment would raise federal gas and diesel taxes 15 cents over three years and index them to inflation. Representative Blumenauer released the following statement: “Naming the underlying bill a reauthorization doesn’t make it so. The bill under consideration calls for a six-year period of spending authority, and hopes to be funded for three years with a combination of budget gimmicks and tax code smoke and mirrors over the next decade. But Congress will be back to square one when that money runs out, facing an even bigger hole in the Highway Trust Fund – and once again throwing hundreds of thousands of jobs into uncertainty. “My amendment will not only fully fund H.R. 3763, but also provide enough revenue to increase investment above the current, anemic levels of spending. A long-term transportation reauthorization should be fully funded with revenue that is sustainable, dedicated to transportation, and big enough to give states and local governments the federal partnership they need. Adoption of my amendment would do just that.” The UPDATE Act is endorsed by the AFL-CIO, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, AAA, American Trucking Associations, American Society of Civil Engineers, American Road and Transportation Builders Association, American Public Transportation Association, League of American Bicyclists, Transportation for America, and more. ###
10.27.2015	Remarks as Prepared for Delivery Washington, DC – Today, on the House floor, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) underscored his support for the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank) of the United States. To follow are his remarks as prepared for delivery. Click here to watch his speech. “For the first time in over a dozen years, an unusual legislative procedure – a discharge petition – has been successfully mounted in the House. This is an extraordinary effort to allow the House to work its will – a mechanism that was part of a package of reform dating back over a century to deal with the ‘Iron Rule’ of Speaker Joe Cannon. “The subject of the petition, the Ex-Im Bank, is almost as obscure as the procedure that brought it to the House. This is an agency that for over 70 years provided financing for transactions, similar to which all of our competitor nations provide their exporting companies. In this case, American companies will have the credit tools that will enable them to cost effectively engage in international transactions that other private institutions won’t finance because of political or commercial risks. “Even if providing this service meant a modest exposure to the taxpayer, which might occasionally cost money, it is worth it in exchange for the support it provides to the businesses that supply hundreds of thousands of good paying American jobs and enable U.S. companies to compete abroad. Yes, it’s worth it. It’s not just a low-risk proposition. The Ex-Im Bank is a service that has made billions of dollars for the United States Treasury. It turns a profit, almost $3 billion in the last six years, and nearly all of its transactions benefit small businesses across America. “This is interesting. This is a service that all our competitor nations provide their companies, it hasn’t cost the taxpayers any money – in fact, it makes money for the Treasury. Why was it allowed to expire? “This is another example of where a minority of the House,for ideological reasons,decided they were going to take over the process. In this case, they were going to kill the Ex-Im Bank. They did so over the objections of the Administration, of the business community, many Members of Congress, and people in organized labor. “It was hard to maintain decorum during last night’s debate when the Chair of the House Financial Services Committee complained that somehow by approving the discharge petition and the procedural motions that followed, we were stifling the will of the House. I could only smile as he – and other opponents – lamented that he would not be able to offer amendments and was being shut out. “How ironic because it was his Committee that had no intention of allowing the House to participate in the give and take of legislation he was blocking, despite the support from more than half of his colleagues in the House. The Committee did not amend and refine the Ex-Im Bank. The Committee killed it by having the authorization expire without giving the whole House a chance to be a part of that decision. “Now the people who were caught on the wrong side of the majority in the House with a losing argument and a minority position were suddenly concerned that the House was being shut out? That argument is so outrageous that it would be laughable, if the consequences of the Bank’s lapse weren’t so dire. By obstructing regular order and allowing the Bank’s authorization to expire, these Members risk hurting American-made manufacturing – from small businesses like Bob’s Red Mill in Oregon to companies like General Electric. “They had been shutting out the House for the last two years. They had denied efforts at reform. Only when their hand was forced they somehow resort to the most specious of arguments. Now because of the courageous action by a bipartisan group, led by our Republican colleagues eloquently and bravely, the House will no longer be shutout. American business will be stronger, and the House has demonstrated that there sometimes will be opportunities for a bipartisan majority to have its interests represented. “We can only hope that this sets a precedent for how we solve other problems – from raising the debt ceiling to dealing with budgets to rebuilding and renewing America. Involve the entire House and solutions are possible and America will be better served.” ###
10.22.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee markup of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015: “Today, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee will consider a surface transportation reauthorization. Sadly, simply calling it a ‘reauthorization’ doesn’t make it so. This legislation calls for a six-year period of reauthorization, and even claims to be funded for three years, but it doesn’t actually provide a single dime of revenue to the Highway Trust Fund. It’s a shell. “It really doesn’t have to be this hard. There is a single solution that’s supported by everyone outside of Capitol Hill – one that has been embraced by six Republican states already this year and championed by Ronald Reagan when he was president – raise the gas tax. “I’m glad my colleagues were able to reach a compromise in the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and put forth some interesting ideas. It gives a hint of what could happen if we had a real funding source, but we don’t. The bill being marked up raises more questions than it answers. Even if the House were to embrace it unanimously, we would still be where we were three months ago, six months ago, and so many times before that. We’re facing another short-term extension – and this would be the 35th – and providing zero assurance or long-term certainty to local governments. “We can have markups and even pass a reauthorization shell on the floor of the House, but until we embrace H.R. 680 and raise the gas tax, finding revenue that is sustainable, dedicated, and big enough to do the job, we’re still going to keep spinning our wheels and America will be stuck.” ###
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 1362, the PACE Innovation Act, authored by Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Chris Smith (R-NJ), to expand the Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) to serve individuals with disabilities an integrated, community-based model of care that supports their independence and enhances their quality of life. The bill was passed unanimously by the Senate before the August recess and will now head to the President’s desk for his signature. PACE is a comprehensive, provider-based health plan with a proven track record of high-quality care for people with chronic illnesses and functional disabilities. In Oregon, the PACE program serves over 1,000 individuals in Multnomah, Washington, and Clatsop counties. Current eligibility requirements restrict PACE access to individuals who are 55 or older and require a nursing home level of care. The PACE Innovation Act will allow CMS to test the PACE model with new populations such as younger people with disabilities, individuals at-risk for needing nursing home care, and others. “PACE is centered on the belief that it is better for individuals and their families to receive both medical care and long-term social services and supports in the home and community whenever possible,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Providing both existing and new programs with the flexibility to expand will allow more people to maintain their dignity and autonomy and support families during challenging times.” “The PACE Innovation Act will provide the federally supported PACE organizations with much needed flexibility to bring the benefits of coordinated medical and long term services to more seniors who seek to live independently in the setting of their choosing,” said Representative Smith. “PACE has a proven track record of success in New Jersey and around the country and our legislation will enable more seniors to receive the all-inclusive care they need.” “The PACE community is grateful for Representative Blumenauer's leadership in passing the PACE Innovation Act," said Shawn Bloom, president and CEO of the National PACE Association. “This legislation is a milestone in the history of the PACE model of care. It will enable providers to build on the proven success of PACE to serve younger individuals in need of care and services to provide them with the highest quality of life possible.” ###
10.21.2015	Washington, DC – Today, as representatives from the Oregon Cannabis Association visit Capitol Hill, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) on the House floor called for an end to the federal government’s failed approach of marijuana prohibition. To follow are Congressman Blumenauer’s remarks. Click here to watch his speech. “Mr. Speaker, advocates from the new emerging marijuana industry in Oregon are descending on Capitol Hill at a very critical time for this fledgling industry. They have a report about the implementation of Oregon’s Ballot Measure 91, overwhelming approved by voters last year to legalize, tax, and regulate marijuana at the state level. “Possession became legal July 1st. Retail sales were authorized in existing dispensaries on the 1st of October to significant interest around the state. The first week saw an estimated $11 million in sales. They are working hard to implement the spirit and the letter of the measure, working closely with the Oregon legislature to refine it – learning from the experiences of states like Washington and Colorado that have already legalized adult use. “Theirs is a positive story of economic opportunity, product development, tax revenues, more freedom for individuals, and eliminating the racial disparities in the enforcement of a failed policy of prohibition that comes down heavily against young men of color – especially African Americans. “At the same time, there was a scathing report this week from the Brookings Institution researchers John Hudak and Grace Wallack that called out the roadblocks that are being put in place by law enforcement and federal policies that stifle medical marijuana research, interfering with science and the doctor-patient relationship in ways that are completely unwarranted, counterproductive and destructive. “They come at a time when the federal court has told the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) to stop harassing medical providers after Congress clearly passed legislation to protect the industry and, more important, patients’ right to medicine. The Rohrabacher-Farr amendment passed with strong bipartisan support, clearly specifying that the federal government should not interfere with state-legal medical marijuana operations. “The Department of Justice, unfortunately, took an outrageously flawed position which infuriated those of us who authored these provisions and have worked to pass them over the last two years. The DEA ignored the law, and the Department of Justice defended them in this unfortunate action. “It’s the latest example of how far out of touch the federal government’s agencies are with the reality on the ground – with the will of the majority of the American people who think that marijuana should be legal, and with the policies of the President himself. President Obama has declared marijuana no more harmful than other perfectly legal substances like tobacco, which is in fact true, and that he had bigger fish to fry than fight against state legalization. Unfortunately, some parts of his federal government are still frying those fish. “The good news is that the tide has turned. As I mentioned, the majority of the American people now think marijuana should be legal. Twenty-three states, the District of Columbia and Guam now have medical marijuana, and 17 more have authorized a limited version of medical marijuana. We have four states and the District of Columbia that permit outright adult use with more states considering this over the course of the next year. All the federal government has to do, as Secretary Clinton recently said in Colorado, is just stay out of the way. “Stop interfering. Let legal marijuana businesses have bank accounts. Don’t force them to be all cash. Let them deduct their business expenses from their taxes instead of penalizing them with grotesquely punitive levels of tax. Let the states continue in their efforts at reform. Let them treat it just like we do alcohol. “The day is fast coming when the federal policy will be to robustly research, and ultimately deschedule – or remove – marijuana from the Controlled Substances Act, no longer pretending that it is or should be a Schedule 1 controlled substance, and instead tax and regulate it at the federal level. “In the meantime, the states will continue marching forward. The public will continue to request that we on the federal level stop interfering with marijuana, and Congress will continue our efforts with increasingly large bipartisan majorities to make this policy work to replace the failed attempt at marijuana prohibition.” ###
10.02.2015	October 1, 2015 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 2015 Dear Speaker Boehner, Gun violence affects every District and every community in America. We were all shocked and saddened by the senseless deaths of the victims of the Sandy Hook tragedy and have vowed that we would not let this happen again. Sadly, since then, America has been witness to at least 53 mass shootings. Every day in this country, more than thirty people die as a result of gun violence. This does not even address the individual victims of domestic violence or other vicious crimes that destroy families and communities. Our children should be safe in schools. People should be allowed to worship without threat of violence. Walking the neighborhoods of our cities should not be a high-risk activity. It is long past time that Congress addresses this national epidemic. We must ensure that guns do not make it into the hands of criminals, domestic abusers and the dangerously mentally ill. We can do this without infringing on Constitutionally guaranteed rights. We call on you to bring to the Floor legislation that can protect innocent lives while safeguarding the rights of law abiding gun owners. No legislation will stop every tragedy, but passing commonsense gun laws will at least stop some. It is the least we can do to honor the memory of those we’ve lost to gun violence and prevent that list from growing. Sincerely, Click here to view the letter.
10.01.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement: “My heart breaks for the Umpqua Community College family and the surrounding community as we struggle to cope with this tragedy. “Far too many times in my tenure as a Congressman I have witnessed horrific shootings in my home state and around the country. We await more details on today’s shooting, but let’s be clear – it is far past time to treat violent gun crime as a public health emergency. These tragedies are at epidemic proportions and happen in America at levels that far and away exceed levels in any other developed country in the world. Something must be done. “Earlier this year, I released my plan, ‘Enough is Enough,’ and I hope we can summon the political courage to tackle these issues in a holistic way and put a stop to gun violence. We need more than thoughts and prayers – we need action.”
09.30.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on Congressional passage of the continuing resolution to avert a government shutdown. “Despite serious efforts by some Republicans to use a government shutdown as a political tactic to impose their ideology regarding women’s health issues, we have temporarily averted a serious crisis today. But there is nothing to celebrate. Sadly, this is another illustration of how truly broken the Congressional process has become. “Today we faced an artificial crisis. While this charade plays out, real issues remain unresolved and are holding this country back. Instead of fighting over women’s health care, Congress should be reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which expires tomorrow. We should be dealing with the Export-Import Bank, which Republicans shutdown over three months ago. At the end of October, our transportation authorization will expire. If Congress were to get serious about funding America’s crumbling infrastructure, we would put hundreds of thousands of people to work, reduce the deficit, improve the economy, and strengthen the quality of life in communities large and small all across America. All this takes is a little leadership and some common sense – both sadly in short supply. “In less than three months, we will have to raise the debt limit, pass a budget that hopefully unwinds the disastrous and indiscriminate sequester, and deal with expiring tax provisions on which businesses and families alike depend. Each of these will be a challenge given the Republicans in disarray and will require tough decisions. The only reasonable path forward is to end the gimmicks and get to work. “Unfortunately, today does not bode well for December 11, when this continuing resolution expires. America deserves better than short-term extensions that enable us to limp from crisis to crisis. Republican leadership should not expect Democrats to bail them out if they refuse to stand up to the extremists within their own caucus. We do the country no favor helping them to keep the House in disarray, not tackling our problems and short changing America’s priorities.” ###
09.11.2015	Remarks as Prepared for Delivery Washington, DC– Ahead of today’s votes on the Iran nuclear agreement, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) urged his colleagues to support diplomacy and vote in favor of the resolution to approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. To follow are Congressman Blumenauer’s remarks as prepared for delivery. Click here to watch his speech. “It’s sad that it’s come to this – a parody of what could have been a weeklong, thoughtful, thorough debate about our relationship with Iran, which Republicans instead have turned into an incoherent, partisan shouting match. It ignores the realities, the complexity, and the opportunity. “There’s been no discussion, for example, about how America has seriously mismanaged our relationship with Iran since we helped the British overthrow their popularly elected government in 1953 and installed the Shah as dictator. We backed the murderous Saddam Hussein’s war against Iran that cost up to a million lives and looked the other way when he used poison gas, a real weapon of mass destruction. We labeled them the axis of evil when they were working with us in a post-Taliban Afghanistan. It’s amazing that the majority of Iranian people still like us. “Now, I strongly oppose the current Iranian leadership. But for years, I’ve been working for diplomatic solutions with other countries because sanctions only work when other countries join us. Well, they did, and we have an opportunity today to enforce a non-nuclear weapon future for Iran. “The Republican talking point is that Iran is going to get $150 billion from this deal. That talking point, however, ignores the reality. Those five powerful countries that joined with us, that helped get the agreement, they’re going to walk away from the sanctions they’ve imposed on Iran if America walks away from this deal. As multilateral sanctions dissolve, Iran will get its money anyway and nuclear weapons, if it wants, in a year or two. It will be the United States and Israel that will be isolated, and the world will be less safe. “These are some of the reasons that the major independent experts have said the Iran nuclear agreement is the best alternative for the United States. Not a perfect agreement, but the best agreement. “Let’s use all of our time and energy to make this agreement work and strengthen relationships in the Middle East to avoid more mistakes currently championed by the same people who gave us the disastrous Iraq War.” ###
09.10.2015	Legislation Part of Rep. Blumenauer’s Broader Efforts on Criminal Justice Reform Washington, DC – As part of his broader effort to reform the U.S. criminal justice system, today Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), with Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Representative Elijah Cummings (D-MD), introduced the Fair Chance Act to ensure fair chance hiring policies in the federal government. This legislation would “ban the box” and remove questions about an individual’s conviction history on federal job applications, including those for federal contractors. According to a report by the National Employment Law Project, more than 70 million people in the United States have been arrested or have conviction records. A federal drug conviction, no matter how small, can follow a person for their entire life. Not only can it potentially limit employment opportunities, but also education. This is why Representative Blumenauer will soon introduce legislation that restores fairness to our student financial aid system by not disqualifying applicants convicted of a misdemeanor marijuana possession from federal student financial assistance. The Fair Access to Education Act also allows students whose financial aid was suspended because of misdemeanor marijuana possession to be immediately eligible for grants, loans, and work assistance. “With the largest prison population in the world, we must find ways to restore the lives of individuals, their families, and their communities. If someone has served their sentence and attempts a new start in life, they should be given a fair chance to make a positive contribution to their community,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “The federal government should lead by example. These bills remove unfair federal hiring and education barriers to help put a stop to the cycle of recidivism.” Efforts on Criminal Justice Reform Representative Blumenauer is working with a number of colleagues to make sure our criminal justice system is fair and equal under the law. In addition to legislation to “ban the box,” Representative Blumenauer supports the following legislation, amongst others: H.R. 1933, End Racial Profiling Act, which would eliminate profiling based on race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, and religion by federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement. H.R. 1232, Stop Militarizing Law Enforcement Act, which would end free transfers of certain aggressive military equipment to local law enforcement in order to preserve the important distinction between our military and our police. H.R. 920, the Smarter Sentencing Act, which would increase reviews for certain drug sentences and disregard ineffective mandatory minimum sentences, helping to move non-violent offenders out of our prison system. H.R. 3155, the Effective and Humane Treatment of Youth Act, which would make several changes to the way we handle youth in our prison system, including abolishing solitary confinement of offenders 21 years and younger. H.R. 1459, Democracy Restoration Act, which would guarantee all citizens the right to vote in federal elections, regardless of felony or misdemeanor criminal convictions. ###
09.09.2015	Washington, DC– Today on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) called on Congress to support the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the agreement reached between Iran and the P5+1. To follow are Congressman Blumenauer’s remarks. Click here to watch his speech. “Our vote on the nuclear agreement with Iran will be the most important decision I have made in Congress since voting against the disastrous Iraq war. “I am under no illusions that the clerics and military that run Iran are friends of the United States. To the contrary, they are engaged in activities that are opposed to the United States’ interests and those of many of our friends and allies. This agreement does not resolve all our differences, change all of Iran’s troubling behavior, or provide greater freedom for its people. What it does do, however, is give the world at least 15 years of security to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. “It also demonstrates our ability to work with our international partners – France, Great Britain, Germany, especially Russia and China – to bring Iran to the negotiating table, to force them to make important concessions, and to retain the ability to re-impose crippling sanctions if they violate the agreement. It has a strong mechanism for surveillance and snapping back sanctions to give us confidence that it is strongly in the Iranians’ interest to comply. “Fifteen years is not forever. But considering the current nuclear breakout time for Iran is less than 15 weeks, this agreement is a remarkable achievement. And without any viable alternative, it’s the only option for those truly committed to a nuclear weapons-free Iran. “The alternative is not a ‘better deal.’ There is no evidence that there is something beyond this agreement that the Iranians would agree with or, most critically, that has the support of the other five countries that made this agreement possible in the first place. The alternative to this deal is for the United States to lose the support of our allies so that Iran gets access to its money anyway as the international coalition dissolves, and this important moment to severely restrict Iran’s nuclear program is lost. “Down the road, the United States still retains the ability to walk away from the deal if it is rejected or violated by Iran. If that should occur, we’ll be exactly where we’re at today, but our actions would be backed by the international community and legitimized by Iran’s intransigence. This deal gives us more leverage going forward. “In the final analysis, the United States or Israel, for that matter, can always resort to military force. But it is far better, however, to make this agreement work, to monitor and enforce it, and build on the unique international partnership. “Our work will not be done in the Middle East with Iran, even if this agreement is adopted and Iran abides by it. We still must be prepared to confront Iran where they are involved with aggressive action against other countries, especially our allies. We must be prepared to support our friends in the Middle East, like Israel. We must be prepared to make the diplomatic efforts and demonstrate commitment and resolve wherever it is necessary. “Those who would resort to force in the first instance will always retain that option. We risk much less in blood and treasure by trying to make diplomacy, with rigorous inspections, work and to strengthen the partnership with countries that made this agreement possible, redoubling our ongoing efforts to stabilize this deeply troubled Middle East region. “The agreement doesn't solve our problems, but it simplifies one of the greatest threats to the Middle East, not just Iranian nuclear weapons, but a potential nuclear arms race in the region with potentially catastrophic results. “I am comfortable being in agreement with some of the most distinguished leaders of past American administrations, both Republican and Democratic, who have agreed, notwithstanding their reservations and cautions, that the acceptance of the Iran nuclear agreement is the best path forward for the United States and world peace. “It is sad that, for the very first time, a critical American foreign policy decision has become so partisan in Congress. But the weight of evidence is for the agreement to be adopted, and we should do so.” ###
08.11.2015	Portland, OR – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03), Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) celebrated the 80th anniversary of Social Security with Acting Commissioner of Social Security Carolyn W. Colvin and highlighted the importance of protecting the program, including protecting disability benefits from cuts. The lawmakers and Commissioner cut an 80th anniversary cake and served it to seniors at the Urban League of Portland Senior Center during lunch. They were also joined by President and CEO of Urban League of Portland Nkenge Harmon Johnson, Meals on Wheels People Executive Director Suzanne Washington, and other members of the community. “The Social Security system benefits all Americans, including one in five Oregonians. It is one of the most important social programs in the history of our nation,” said Representative Blumenauer. “On this anniversary, I’m committed to maintaining and strengthening this program for our seniors, people with disabilities, and to ensure our promise for future generations to come.” “Most of us have never lived in a world without the promise of Social Security, which is fortunately and safely in place if the worst happens for us and our families,” Senator Wyden said. “Put simply on the 80th birthday of this landmark program, Social Security has stood the test of time providing protection to countless Americans against poverty in their old age.” “For 80 years Social Security has brought hope to some of our most vulnerable citizens, acting as a safety net and giving elderly Americans the income security the need and deserve,” said Senator Merkley. “But now Republicans in Congress are attempting to dismantle the Social Security disability fund for those Americans who need it most. I’m committed to protecting Social Security as a reliable income source for seniors, workers who develop disabilities and dependents. Now is the time we should be working to strengthen Social Security not making it harder for those Oregonians most in need.” “As Social Security celebrates its 80th Anniversary, we remain the underpinning of economic security of this country, and will continue to be a strong foundation for the next 80 years and beyond,” Acting Commissioner Colvin said. “Social Security is the most successful domestic program in America’s history. Providing outstanding customer service to the public has been a cornerstone of our agency’s mission since its beginning continuing into the future.”
08.06.2015	Portland, OR – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Acting Administrator Chuck Rosenberg’s acknowledgement that “heroin is clearly more dangerous than marijuana,” and called on the Department of Justice to reclassify or de-schedule marijuana under the Controlled Substances Act. In a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Representative Blumenauer wrote: “We are in the midst of a revolution to reform and modernize marijuana policy in the United States. Four states and the District of Columbia have legalized adult use. Additionally, well over one million patients across the country now use medical marijuana at the recommendation of their physician to treat conditions ranging from seizures, glaucoma, anxiety, chronic pain and nausea. The federal government is woefully behind. “I fully support and agree with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Acting Administrator Chuck Rosenberg’s statement on August 5, 2015, that ‘heroin is clearly more dangerous than marijuana.’ This statement is backed by decades of scientific evidence, and rapidly growing public support recognizing that marijuana has been treated as a highly dangerous substance for far too long. “As you know, under the Controlled Substances Act, there are five schedules for controlled drugs. Schedule I is for drugs that the DEA defines as having a high potential for abuse and no medical value. Heroin, LSD and marijuana are all in this category. Methamphetamine and cocaine are less severely categorized as Schedule II drugs. It is clear to the American people, scientists and researchers that marijuana should not be categorized as a Schedule I drug. “In light of the statement by the head of the DEA, a senior Justice Department official, and recognition of marijuana’s medical value, I urge you to initiate the process under your authority to reschedule or de-schedule marijuana under the Controlled Substances Act to reflect science and the government’s position on this issue.”
08.03.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan as a monumental step to combat climate change. Representative Blumenauer released the following statement: “Finalizing the Clean Power Plan is a key moment for our country. It is the most important action we have taken to date to combat climate change, and I commend the Obama Administration for setting a bold, but achievable goal for states in curbing their emissions from power plants. “If you accept modern science, you cannot deny that human carbon emissions are contributing to climate change. If you fight wildfires, farm, run a ski resort, or live in a low-lying coastal area, you are already living with the impacts of this climate change on a daily basis. “As a major contributor to these changes, the United States has an obligation to set an example and act now to prevent the worst impacts to the vulnerable populations who will suffer the most and contributed the least to climate change. We must act for the fellow creatures that share our planet and for future generations. “The Clean Power Plan is a monumental step toward this goal. While it is only a first step, I commend this progress and look forward to working with the Administration and with my colleagues in Congress to support and strengthen this rule nationally, and with Oregonians to ensure we meet and exceed these goals here at home.” ###
07.30.2015	Washington, DC– Following the tragic killing of Cecil the lion, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Co-Chair of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, and Representative Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee, and 48 other House Democratic members urged the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to finalize its proposed rule listing the African lion as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. Currently, the African lion is not listed as a threatened or endangered species under the Endangered Species Act. It is thereforelegal to import lion trophies into the United States, which is now the world’s largest importer of these trophies. Big-game hunters often pay tens of thousands of dollars to kill endangered animals for trophies and sport. In 2013, former Representative Jim Moran and Representative Blumenauer sent a letter to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service urging protections for the African lion under the Endangered Species Act. The agency proposed listing the African lion as threatened in 2014, but has yet to finalize the listing. “The killing of the beloved Cecil the lion is tragic and an outrage, and is part of a much larger peril facing African lions,” said Representative Blumenauer. “It’s time for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to finalize its rule and list the African lion as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. We must improve conservation of this iconic species and send a strong signal that we will protect the African lion.” Click here to watch a video statement by Representative Blumenauer. "The Fish and Wildlife Service should immediately provide Endangered Species Act protections for African lions. Trophy hunters like Walter Palmer should no longer get a free pass to kill lions by the hundreds, especially now that these great cats are barely hanging on in so many parts of their range,” said Wayne Pacelle, President and CEO of The Humane Society of the United States. ###
07.30.2015	Washington, DC– Yesterday, Representative Earl Blumenauer introduced H.R. 3311, the End Oil And Gas Tax Subsidies Act of 2015, legislation that would eliminate tax breaks for the oil and gas industry and will save taxpayers more than $23 billion over five years, and more than $44 billion over ten years. The legislation is very similar to President Obama’s budget proposal, which would eliminateoil and gas tax benefits. American taxpayers are subsidizing some of the largest and most profitable companies in the world with their tax dollars. These subsidies underwrite the costs of oil and gas production, including offsetting intangible drilling costs, the cost of tertiary injectants, and costs associated with domestic production. There are also subsidies that offset foreign taxes, provide tax shelters disguising active income with passive losses, and subsidies that allow major oil companies to discount the value of their inventories. The End Oil And Gas Tax Subsidies Act would end 10 of the most egregious tax loopholes enjoyed by the oil and gas industry. “Right now, we have tax loopholes in place that have helped companies like Chevron, ExxonMobil and Shell add to their billions in profits. The American taxpayer should not be footing this bill,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Instead of padding the bottom line of oil and gas companies, taxpayer dollars could be better spent renewing and rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure and investing in emerging clean resources like wind and solar that will help us combat climate change and transition to a clean energy future.” “We applaud Congressman Blumenauer for his continued leadership calling to end harmful subsidies to the oil and gas industry – some of which have been in place for over a century. There is simply no good reason to give away billions of taxpayer dollars to one of the world’s most profitable and environmentally damaging industries,” said Tiernan Sittenfeld, Senior Vice President of Government Affairs, League of Conservation Voters. “This legislation is not only fiscally responsible, it’s an environmental imperative,” said Greg Dotson, Vice President of Energy Policy, Center for American Progress. “The American people want policy makers to embrace the clean energy sources of the future, not give away their tax dollars to Big Oil.” “Eliminating distortionary and expensive tax breaks for oil and gas will help reduce the deficit, stop enabling our overdependence on fossil fuels, and level the playing field for investing in cleaner energy alternatives,” said Rachel Cleetus, Lead Economist, Union of Concerned Scientists. “Oil and Gas companies, some of the most profitable companies in the world, are doing well enough that they don't need to be subsidized with billions of dollars taken from the paychecks of hardworking Americans. That's why we support this important legislation to finally end these ridiculous subsidies,” saidMelinda Pierce, Legislative Director, Sierra Club. ###
07.30.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on oil drilling in the Arctic: “The Arctic region is full of scenic splendor and is habitat to many endangered and threatened species. In 2001, I had the opportunity to visit parts of this vast and mostly untouched region of America. During that visit, I saw caribou in vast numbers and witnessed the fragility of the tundra. The oceans in this region are home to whales, fish, and birds, and provide important habitat for the threatened polar bear population. I came away from that visit with a profound sense that the Arctic is the last place we should be drilling for oil, either onshore or offshore. “Many people are concerned about the protesters that are hanging from the St. John’s Bridge in Portland. No matter how you feel about the protests, we should all get behind their call to stop any drilling for oil in the Arctic, where federal studies estimate a 75 percent chance of at least one large oil spill during the lease. I have voted against numerous proposals to open up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for drilling. This June, I joined many of my colleagues in urging the Obama Administration not to move forward with any oil lease sales in America’s Arctic Ocean. “We have the technology to transition toward a clean energy economy. We should be investing in that goal, rather than drilling in one of the most ecologically sensitive and environmentally treasured places in the world.” ###
07.29.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Jared Huffman (CA-02) introduced legislation to create a framework that will modernize the United States Postal Service (USPS) to address its growing financial problems and ensure it remains a cornerstone of the American community. The Postal Innovation Act of 2015 would bring USPS vehicles in line with environmental and safety standards to reduce the postal fleet’s carbon emissions while simultaneously cutting costs, and making our streets safer. It would also bring the USPS’s services in line with the evolving demands of modern day consumers. Last week, Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) introduced similar legislation in the Senate. “By upgrading the postal fleet to meet fuel-efficiency standards and implement industry-standard collision-avoidance and active safety technology, the Postal Innovation Act will save USPS money on fuel and vehicle damages, will cut carbon emissions nationwide, and will make streets safer in every community in America,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Additionally, this legislation will give the Postal Service flexibility to offer services above and beyond mail delivery – simple banking services and Internet connectivity, to name a few. These reforms are low-cost, high-impact, and have the potential to benefit society and increase the viability of our postal infrastructure.” “Our bill allows the U.S. Postal Service the freedom to expand their business model and add new services, helping them increase revenues and reach financial stability,” Representative Huffman said. “I am glad to partner with Rep. Blumenauer to help the USPS invest in a modern vehicle fleet and become a global leader in efficiency and innovation.” The Postal Innovation Act of 2015: Allows the Postal Service to implement pilot programs in five postal regions for nonpostal services, including financial services, public wireless broadband Internet access, experimental postal products market testing, warehousing, and Internet voting. Allows the Postal Service to ship beer, wine, and spirits. Allows the Postal Service to enter into contracts to upgrade the postal fleet by increasing long-term savings through the reduction of collision, maintenance, fuel, and other costs. Requires postal vehicles to be outfitted with collision-averting technology. Instructs the Postal Service to reduce its vehicular consumption of petroleum products by no less than two percent annually through the end of fiscal year 2025. Requires postal vehicles to comply with standards established by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with the agency’s authority under the Clean Air Act. Allows the Postal Service to utilize savings from this act to reinvest in innovation, research, and development. Provides guidelines for the Comptroller General to conduct a study of potential opportunities and challenges related to the Postal Service providing public internet access and online voting. ###
07.29.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Scott Peters (CA-52), and other Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives who recently voted to grant President Obama Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), called on U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Michael Froman to secure a strong and fully enforceable Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) environment chapter. In a letter to Ambassador Froman, the lawmakers highlight that the TPP is an opportunity to raise environmental standards across 40 percent of the global economy. They note that strong environmental provisions are critical to not only protecting some of the most resource-rich areas on the planet, but also U.S. small- and medium-sized businesses consistently undermined by the environmental practices in both TPP countries and those who may join. The letter also makes clear that we cannot fight criminal networks and terrorist organizations without undercutting a key source of their funding that’s generated through the illegal trade in wildlife, forest and living marine resources. Therefore, the lawmakers urge Ambassador Froman to pursue strong obligations from TPP countries on this front. “The TPP presents an opportunity to strengthen environmental protections to a degree that no amount of foreign aid could ever bring,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Environmental miscreants are not going to unilaterally disarm. A negotiated approach, using the economic incentives in a trade agreement, is the best way to turn bad actors into violators of enforceable commitments aimed at protecting our natural resources and stopping egregious practices like whaling, shark finning, illegal logging, and wildlife trafficking. That’s why it’s critical we get the TPP environment chapter right.” “We need a progressive trade deal that reflects American values. The environmental chapter must help address key priorities such as illegal trade in wildlife, forest resources and overfishing,” Representative DelBene said. “Strong, enforceable environmental protections will not only help protect our planet for future generations, it will also level the playing field for small-and-medium-sized U.S. businesses by raising environmental standards. I look forward to continuing to work with Ambassador Froman on these efforts.” “I am optimistic that TPP will contain major advances in international logging practices, sustainable fisheries management, and anti-whaling and shark finning efforts,” said Representative Peters. “We must also ensure that any agreement allows the United States to continue its leadership in combatting the root causes of climate change. Fighting climate change by pushing for low-emissions economies is both an environmental opportunity and an economic one for workers and businesses across America and around the world.” Click here to read the letter. ###
07.29.2015	Washington, DC– Today, in a letter to U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Michael Froman, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Ron Kind (WI-3), and other Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives who recently voted to grant President Obama Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), emphasized how critical enforcement of current, pending and future trade agreements is to getting trade policy right. The lawmakers believe strong and high standard trade agreements are meaningless unless the United States has adequate capacity to implement and enforce them, and transformational change will only come from robust enforcement. This is especially true when it comes to labor and environmental commitments. Part of the solution is creating a dedicated and sustainable source of funding adequate to meet this growing enforcement challenge. That is why the letter asks for support of Representative Blumenauer’s STRONGER Act to establish a trade enforcement and capacity building fund, paid for by trade cheaters. Also a part of the solution is sending a signal to our future trading partners now that makes clear the United States is committed to robust enforcement of all past trade obligations. The letter expresses concern with illegal logging that continues in Peru and urges the administration to take additional steps to ensure the landmark environmental provisions in the U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement have greater impact. “I am committed to trade done right. That’s not possible without the effective enforcement and implementation of our trade agreements,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Strong enforcement abroad means jobs in the United States. As the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations continue, now is the time to make clear to our trading partners that the United States is more serious than ever about robust enforcement across all areas of trade. Peru is the perfect place to start, where excellent work is already underway, but much more should be done.” “I thank Rep. Blumenauer for his leadership on the ensuring strong environmental enforcement measures are part of any trade agreement. In all trade agreements it is important that we continue to advocate for priorities that will help level the playing field for American farmers and businesses to compete in a global economy,” said Representative Ron Kind. Click here to read the letter. ###
07.24.2015	Washington, DC– As Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiators meet in Hawaii, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Susan Davis (CA-53), Jim Himes (CT-04), and other Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives who recently voted to grant President Obama Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) urged U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Michael Froman to ensure Intellectual Property (IP) provisions in the TPP protect timely and affordable access to medicines. In a letter to Ambassador Froman, the lawmakers emphasized that support for TPA does not translate into automatic support for the transpacific agreement, stating “At the conclusion of the negotiations, we will consider whether our constituents and country are better off with, or without, an agreement.” That question cannot be answered until the agreement is complete, but until then, they are committed to pushing for the best agreement possible. As such, they believe the IP chapter of TPP can and should ensure continued access to affordable medicines across all TPP countries. “Here in the United States our system is not perfect, but it strikes a critical balance between protecting and fostering innovation, while also promoting timely, affordable access to medicines,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Making sure this trade agreement leads to similar outcomes for all partner countries is critical. A final TPP agreement should further, not hinder, public health through timely access to affordable medicines for all TPP members.” “For us to call the TPP the most progressive trade deal in history and to comply with the May 10th Agreement, it should allow people around the world access to the lifesaving medicine they need,” said Representative Davis. “President Obama has said that the Trans-Pacific Partnership will be the most modern, progressive trade deal ever,” said Representative Himes. “From the drafts that I have read, I hope this will be true. However, we cannot allow this trade agreement to result in people in developing countries being denied life-saving medicines because they are too expensive. We strongly encourage negotiators to find a balance between protecting the innovation and intellectual properties of companies who make significant investment and protecting the lives of those in desperate need of affordable treatments.” “AARP applauds Reps. Blumenauer, Himes, and Davis for taking the lead on this important letter to the U.S. Trade Representative. It will only be with this kind of continued attention from Members of Congress that the promise of the TPP will be fulfilled in ensuring access to affordable medicines in the U.S. and abroad,” said Ariel Gonzalez, Director of AARP’s Federal Health & Family Team. “As it stands now, AARP is deeply concerned that the TPP’s intellectual property provisions would make it easier for drug makers to evergreen high cost prescription drugs and delay entry of less expensive generics and biosimilars.” “The Generic Pharmaceutical Association (GPhA) commends Reps. Blumenauer, Himes, and Davis for their recognition of the importance of a balanced TPP that assures access to medicines for patients both in the United States and abroad,” said Ralph G. Neas, President and CEO of GPhA. “The U.S. generic industry needs a TPP that will allow American manufacturers to make affordable generics and biosimilars available overseas. We applaud this effort to demand accountability in TPP and ensure a balanced TPP that promotes both innovation and competition.” “When it comes to intellectual property protections that affect pharmaceuticals, it is critical to maintain balance between expanding monopoly rights to favor patent owners and promoting generic competition that helps keep prices affordable for patients,” said Stephanie Burgos, Senior Policy Advisor for Oxfam America. “Oxfam hopes that USTR will take heed that Members of Congress want to ensure TPP provisions are held to the standards set in the May 10th Agreement and do not further expand monopolies so as not to inhibit access to medicines.” Click here to read the letter. ###
07.23.2015	Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) argues in opposition to anti-GMO labeling bill, H.R. 1599, the so-called “Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act.” Click here to watch his remarks.
07.20.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) announced plans to introduce legislation reinforcing steps taken by Oregon to legalize and provide a clean start for certain marijuana offenses. The Clean Slate for Marijuana Offenses Act of 2015, to be introduced on Tuesday, creates a pathway for the following two groups of federal marijuana offenders to expunge – or clear the criminal record of – their marijuana offense: those who were federally charged for activity that was state legal at the time; and those whose offense was the possession of an ounce or less of marijuana. “The penalties of failed prohibition policies should stop ruining people’s lives. The Clean Slate for Marijuana Offenses Act of 2015 follows Oregon’s lead to provide a pathway for expunging certain federal marijuana crimes,” said Representative Blumenauer. “People who were caught up in the federal criminal justice system for a marijuana offense that was legal under state law at the time should not carry around a drug record. I support legalizing marijuana at the federal level to put a stop to any state-federal conflicts once and for all, but it is also important that we create pathways for expungement for those who should never have been charged in the first place.” Since 1996, twenty-three states, the District of Columbia and Guam have passed medical marijuana laws. Additionally, four states – including Oregon – have legalized the adult use of marijuana. Those who moved forward with manufacturing and distributing marijuana in accordance with those laws have too often been caught up in the federal criminal justice system. While the current policy of the Obama Administration is to not prosecute individuals complying with state law and federal enforcement priorities, this was not always the case and may not always be the case going forward. The Clean Slate for Marijuana Offenses Act of 2015 creates a path for expungement for any individual with a federal criminal record associated with a marijuana offense that was legal under their state at the time. This legislation also creates a pathway for expungement for anyone who has a federal record associated with possessing an ounce or less of marijuana. While the number of people who meet this category is low, due to the fact that most small marijuana offenses are charged at the local level, this legislation sends a strong signal to state and local jurisdictions that allowing opportunities for expungement for certain marijuana offenders should happen at all levels of law enforcement. Click here for a one-pager on the Clean Slate for Marijuana Offenses Act of 2015 with additional information. ###
07.15.2015	Washington, DC– Today, following House passage of H.R 3038, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, Part II, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) called on Congress to stop pointing fingers and finally act on a fully funded, long-term transportation bill. “Once again, Congress is letting itself off the hook. A year ago today, the House passed an extension to give us enough time to find a long-term solution. And yet, we did nothing. With another short-term extension—the 34th in six years—we are failing to adequately invest in our communities, and the uncertainty for states and local governments is crippling,” said Representative Blumenauer. “It’s embarrassing we’re at this point once again, and I voted against H.R. 3038 because it is time for Congress to face reality. Congress needs to return to regular order, address this problem head on, and find a dedicated, long-term solution to transportation funding. There’s a simple solution to the impasse—the one President Reagan championed in 1982, the one that six states led by Republican governors have enacted already this year—an increase in the gas tax.” This year, Representative Blumenauer introduced H.R. 680, the Update, Promote, and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act, which would phase in a 15 cent per gallon tax increase over three years on gasoline and diesel, providing $210 billion in additional investments in America’s roads, bridges, and transit systems in the next decade. Additionally, in an effort to work towards replacing the gas tax entirely, Representative Blumenauer has also introduced H.R. 679, the Road Usage Charge Pilot Program Act, to establish a road usage charge pilot program to study mileage-based fee systems. ###
07.14.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the nuclear deal reached by Iran and the P5+1. “This agreement is an historic achievement. Three years ago, it was hard to imagine an Iran capable of coming to, and staying, at the negotiating table to make these concessions. Iran has consistently adhered to the Joint Plan of Action, and it appears the agreement aligns with April’s framework. We now have a path to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran that would unravel what little stability remains in the Middle East. “No matter the substance, there will be a great deal of controversy over any agreement in the United States, Iran, and amongst our allies. I will withhold judgment until I’ve had time to look at the facts and compare them to the alternatives. My hope is that the majority of my colleagues, and the American public, do the same. “As we all carefully assess this agreement, we must remember that measuring the framework against the unobtainable is likely to exhaust the patience of countries like China, India, and members of the European Union that have been critical members of the international effort to sanction and isolate Iran. Such a fracture would be devastating because we’ve tried the go-it-alone approach with sanctions and it didn’t work. We must also compare any agreement to the alternatives. The American public has made clear they will not likely support another military engagement in the Middle East. Even if money were no object, there is no amount of U.S. troops, bombs and military acumen that could guarantee an Iran free of nuclear weapons. That’s a gamble we should not be willing to take.” ###
07.09.2015	Remarks as Prepared for Delivery WASHINGTON, DC– Today on the House floor, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) delivered remarks on the importance of advance health care planning to American families and welcomed the proposal by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to create a benefit for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries to have end-of-life discussions with their doctors. To follow are Representative Blumenauer’s remarks as prepared for delivery. “Mr. Speaker, one of the most difficult and challenging situation any family faces is dealing with circumstances surrounding end of life. Earlier this week, NPR ran a fascinating story on a well-known fact that physicians die differently than the rest of us. They are more comfortable, more likely to spend their final days surrounded by loved ones, and seldom die in an ICU or hospital setting. It is because doctors understand what works and what doesn’t. They are very clear about their wishes – how they choose quality of life and concern for their families, as well as their own wellbeing. “I’ve been working in this area for more than six years. The Ways and Means Committee unanimously approved my legislation providing for greater support for families with that decision making process. It passed the Committee unanimously, was made part of the House version of the Affordable Care Act on the strength of some of the most compelling testimony delivered by members of the Committee – even Republican members. One member talked about how it didn’t work for a member of his family, and they didn’t get the care they wanted. Another physician member of the Committee explained how he had these conversations repeatedly, but they were usually too late. There wasn’t time for the family to adequately prepare. “There has been a sea change in part because of public awareness and support for my bipartisan legislation, Personalize Your Care Act, which I have worked on for years now with Dr. Phil Roe and has made great strides forward. We have advocates like Dr. Bill Frist, who has spoken eloquently and written forcefully about the need to help families under these trying conditions. The Reverend Billy Graham has expressed the Christian responsibility to show concern for the family by making one’s wishes clear. Dr. Atul Gawande published a brilliant book recently – Being Mortal – which quickly climbed the ranks of the New York Times best sellers list. The Institute of Medicine put out a seminal, a 500 page report, of dying in America that talked about the problems and opportunities to provide more choices and protect people’s wishes. “Yesterday was another important landmark – the Administration published the proposed fee schedule for next year, and they have assigned an active code with payment for advance care planning. Now this is a proposal and CMS is seeking comment, but this is a historic step forward for a decision to be finalized in late October. “This is yet another indication that we can and will do a better job of meeting the needs of America’s families under the most difficult circumstances, making sure they have all of the information they need to make the right decisions for themselves and their family and to assure those decisions, whatever they may be, are respected and followed. “This proposes that Medicare, which pays for thousands of medical procedures and operations, for the very first time is going to place value on the important conversation between a patient and their medical professional. It’s nice to see the Administration acting to help the federal government catch up with where the practice of medicine is going in America – protecting families and respecting their wishes.” ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) applauded the proposal to create a benefit for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries who have end-of-life discussions with their doctors as included in the proposed 2016 Physician Fee Schedule by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Representative Blumenauer released the following statement: “I applaud and welcome the inclusion of reimbursements for doctors to have end-of-life care discussions with their patients covered by Medicare and Medicaid in the proposed 2016 Physician Fee Schedule released by CMS today. This provision is long overdue. It has support in Congress and with over 60 organizations, including the American Medical Association and AARP. “Patients and their families should be encouraged to think about how they want to be treated at the end of their life and to express their goals, values, and preferences to their physicians. I encourage them, as well as providers and advocates, to support this proposed benefit. “I’m confident the Obama Administration will consider all of the available social and medical evidence in favor of advance care planning to finalize this decision in the coming months. Those of us who feel passionately about this issue will continue to push to make this provision a reality. “In the meantime, I will do everything I can to spotlight this issue and mobilize support including re-introducing my bipartisan legislation, the Personalize Your Care Act, which would reimburse doctors for these conversations and strengthen end-of-life planning and care for all Americans.” ###
07.07.2015	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed a new report by the Center for American Progress, titled “The Authority for U.S. Participation in the Paris Climate Agreement,” on the forthcoming U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) agreement to be finalized in Paris this December. The report, in part, relies on research requested by Representative Blumenauer that informs the report’s conclusion that the final Paris agreement could qualify as an executive agreement rather than a treaty. If the final agreement does not contain elements such as legally binding emissions reduction targets, the President would be well within his existing and well-established authority to pursue the agreement without the consent of the Senate. “Fighting climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our generation. The Paris climate talks provide a historic opportunity to put in place a global agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across the world. The United States must be engaged in the process and demonstrate to the world it is committed to joining the fight against climate change,” said Representative Blumenauer. “This report establishes that, depending on the outcome of the negotiations, there could be both clear authority and well-established precedent for the President to pursue it as an executive agreement. This approach would not require approval from Congress, where those who deny climate science are determined to block any progress in addressing this challenge. This does not change the fact, however, that it is imperative that Congress pass legislation addressing climate change, even if this agreement doesn’t require congressional approval. The United States is a major contributor to global carbon pollution and should take action at all levels.” Representative Blumenauer has a long history of leadership working to combat climate change. In 2007, he was appointed by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to serve on the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, where he served as vice-chair and attended the 2009 Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen. He is co-chair of the Bicameral Task Force on Climate Change, a member of the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition in the House and a member of the Safe Climate Caucus. Throughout Representative Blumenauer’s time in Congress, he has introduced numerous pieces of legislation that would impact climate change, including legislation to extend clean energy tax incentives and end needless tax breaks for giant oil companies, as well as draft legislation with Representative Henry Waxman, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse and Senator Brian Schatz to put a price on carbon. ###
06.30.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the legalization of adult use of marijuana in Oregon on July 1. “Tomorrow in Oregon we end the failed prohibition of marijuana and will very soon be regulating and taxing the adult use of marijuana along the supply chain from growth to consumption. For years, Oregon has been far ahead of the federal government on marijuana policy, and now again following the will of voters is one of the first to move ahead with the legalization.” “Part of this leadership comes with asking the tough regulatory questions around issues such as safety, enforcement, packaging, research and education. Leaders from the state and local government as well as leaders within the emerging Oregon marijuana industry are well underway grappling with these questions. One thing is certain, however – this would all be much easier without the confusing patchwork of federal and state laws that trap businesses and state regulators in the middle. We are seeing shifts at the federal level to reconcile these differences, but have much more to do to. I will continue in my efforts to reform our outdated marijuana policy and level the playing field for businesses that follow state laws and create jobs. The federal government should be a partner in building systems that work at the state level, not an obstacle. We should start with allowing these legal marijuana businesses to have bank accounts and tax them fairly.” ###
06.26.2015	Bipartisan bill will prohibit interstate commerce in monkeys, apes and other primates WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), co-chairs of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, this week introduced the bipartisan Captive Primate Safety Act [H.R. 2920]. The legislation amends the Lacey Act, which enforces civil and criminal penalties for the illegal trade of animals and plants, to now prohibit interstate commerce in monkeys, apes, and other primates for the exotic pet trade. “Primates are wild animals, and they do not belong in our homes. Time and again we have seen that it is dangerous for humans and cruel to the animals. In the 21st century, there is no place for keeping primates as pets,” said Blumenauer. “This legislation will protect our families and ensure the humane treatment of these animals. We will continue to gather support for this bill and educate as many members as we can until it passes and this unacceptable practice is ended.” “Keeping primates as household pets is both inhumane to animals and dangerous to humans. The dangers of keeping exotic ‘pets’ are illustrated by the more than 200 injuries to people by primates since 1999 and their potential to be a threat to public health,” said Fitzpatrick. “It’s for these reasons that I was proud to re-introduce the Captive Primate Safety Act along with my friend and colleague Congressman Blumenauer.” About half of states already prohibit private possession of some or all primate species as pets, but primates are easily obtained via the Internet and through out-of-state dealers and auctions, making a federal law necessary to support the efforts of state law enforcement and to promote global conservation efforts. H.R. 2920 is endorsed by a number of animal welfare organizations, including the Humane Society of the United States and Born Free USA. "Until Congress takes action, dangerous primates will continue to be sold over the Internet and this trafficking will put communities at risk across the country. These highly social and intelligent creatures deserve better than to languish in bedrooms and basements,” said Michael Markarian, chief program and policy officer of The Humane Society of the United States. “We are grateful to Congressmen Fitzpatrick and Blumenauer for working to pass this urgently needed public safety and animal welfare measure.” “The captive primate trade involves enormous animal suffering and threats to human safety. These innocent animals are often kept isolated in small cages and physically mutilated to ‘tame’ them. They pose an unnecessary risk to community members, children, and law enforcement officers,"said Adam M. Roberts, CEO of Born Free USA. "There is simply no excuse for keeping nonhuman primates as pets. Wildlife belongs in the wild." Facts: Since 1990, more than 270 people— including 86 children—have been injured by captive primates, and many more incidents likely went unreported. Primates also pose disease risks, including transmission of tuberculosis and herpes-B virus. In 2003, President George W. Bush signed the Captive Wildlife Safety Act into law to prohibit interstate commerce of lions, tigers, and other big cats as pets. Primates face similar inhumane treatment and pose similar threats to public health and safety and should be added to the list of species prohibited in commercial trade. The Captive Primate Safety Act is narrowly crafted to target the commerce in and private possession of primates, and would not impact zoos, universities or wildlife sanctuaries. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums, the American Veterinary Medical Association, the American Society of Primatologists, and the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians oppose the private possession of primates. About the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus (CAPC): Formed in 2009, the CAPC, through non-partisan forums and briefings, seeks to highlight important issues affecting animals. The CAPC also tracks the progress of relevant legislation, provides members of Congress with credible information, and strives to build broad coalitions in support of common-sense, humane animal welfare laws and policies. It has over 120 bipartisan members and is co-chaired by Representatives Mike Fitzpatrick and Earl Blumenauer. Earlier in the 114th Congress, Blumenauer and Fitzpatrick also introduced H.R. 746, the AWARE Act, to put a stop to animal abuse at federal agricultural research facilities. ###
06.26.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) celebrated the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on Obergefell v. Hodges, ruling marriage a Constitutional right for all Americans. Representative Blumenauer released the following statement: “Today the Supreme Court stands on the right side of history, extending marriage rights to same-sex couples in all 50 states. Although the fight for equal rights for the LGBTQ community is far from over, today’s decision is a critical milestone in helping secure freedoms to which all Americans are entitled, regardless of who they love. Positive changes for equal rights will take place across America because of today’s action.” ###
06.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision on King v. Burwell, upholding subsidies to states that use the federal government’s health insurance marketplace under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Representative Blumenauer released the following statement: “Americans deserve access to high-quality, affordable health coverage. King v. Burwell was nothing more than a reckless attempt to sabotage the accomplishments of these landmark reforms based on the tortured interpretation of four words out of a nearly 1,000-page law. Frankly, it never should have gotten this far. The Court made the right decision. Thanks to the ACA, millions of Americans became insured, and people with pre-existing conditions no longer have to worry about being denied coverage, charged higher premiums, or exhausting lifetime limits. “With this ruling, I hope critics of the ACA will finally drop these attempts to destroy a law that has helped so many Americans. There are weaknesses in the Act that Congress should be working to fix. I remain committed to improving our health care system – building on the ACA, not destroying it. Let’s strengthen Medicare and Medicaid, improve access to treatment, and invest in critical medical research. It’s time to acknowledge the ACA is working and can be made better and come together to keep America healthy.” ###
06.25.2015	Washington, DC– Today, the Oregon Congressional delegation, including Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden and Representatives Earl Blumenauer, Suzanne Bonamici, Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader and Greg Walden, welcomed Oregon Health & Science University’s (OHSU) announcement on meeting its Knight Cancer Challenge, raising $1 billion for cancer care and research at OHSU. The delegation released the following statement: “This is a great day for Oregon and for advancing the fight against cancer. OHSU has become a world premier cancer research facility that will continue to grow and transform the field of personalized medicine and cancer care. These generous donations will further its excellence in not only cancer research but patient care and make a tremendous difference in the lives of many. We’re proud of OHSU for attracting extraordinary attention and resources to support its work in the years ahead.” OHSU is a nationally prominent research university and Oregon’s only public academic health center. In September 2013, Nike co-founder Phil Knight and his wife, Penny, pledged to donate $500 million if OHSU raised another $500 million to fight cancer. OHSU met the match for the Knight Cancer Challenge months ahead of the deadline, which was set for World Cancer Day on February 4, 2016. ###
06.22.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed the decision of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to eliminate its Public Health Service (PHS) Review Committee for non-federally funded medical marijuana research – an additional review process not applied to other Schedule I substances. Last year, Representative Blumenauer led a letter, signed by 29 other members of Congress, to the Secretary of HHS Sylvia Mathews Burwell requesting that this PHS process be eliminated. “Today’s decision by HHS is a significant step toward improving an antiquated system that unfairly targets marijuana above and beyond other substances in research. I applaud the Administration in heeding our request and the request of many to eliminate this barrier. I hope this action will facilitate easier access to marijuana for medical researchers,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Considering the widespread use of medical marijuana, it is absolutely essential that we allow doctors and scientists to research the therapeutic benefits and risks of its use. There is still more to be done to ensure this happens. I am working on legislation to address these issues, and I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to further increase research. ###
06.17.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Mike Turner (R-OH) introduced legislation to fund historic preservation projects in Oregon and across the United States. The National Historic Preservation Amendments Act of 2015 extends the Historic Preservation Fund (HPF), set to expire on September 30, 2015, for 10 years through 2025 at current authorized levels of $150 million annually. The HPF is the primary source of federal support for states, tribes, local governments and non-profits to protect our historic resources. Since 1970, Oregon has received $21,756,414 from the Fund, and 2,028 individual properties across the state have been listed in the National Register of Historic Places. “At the heart of every livable community is a sense of place and uniqueness. The Historic Preservation Fund protects our most treasured sites,” said Representative Blumenauer. “In supporting projects from the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall in downtown Portland to the Wallowa County Courthouse in Enterprise, the Historic Preservation Fund has helped Oregonians remember our past as they look to the future. Passage of this bill will do much in protecting and restoring historic resources in Oregon and across the country.” “Today, we introduced the National Historic Preservation Amendments Acts of 2015. Our communities – from Ohio to Oregon – are steeped in American history, and home to multiple historic sites. Historic preservation stimulates private investment, spurs economic growth and creates jobs while revitalizing our communities and protecting our country’s cultural heritage,” said Representative Turner. The HPF derives its funding from Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) leases rather than tax-payer dollars. The HPF documents, preserves and utilizes U.S. historic sites by providing funding to State and Tribal Historic Preservation Officers (SHPOs & THPOS) and through, at times, competitive grants to identify and rehabilitate historic resources. This essential support spurs job creating economic development and community revitalization. “The Historic Preservation Fund is critical for the success of historic preservation efforts across the nation, said Peggy Moretti, Executive Director, Restore Oregon. “In Oregon, the Fund has enabled preservation projects, from the rehabilitation of pioneer barns to critical seismic safety planning. We are thrilled that Representatives Turner and Blumenauer have recognized the importance of the Fund and are advancing its extension at the authorized level.” “The HPF is the foundation for the cultural resource programs that local governments and tribes use to conserve what is important in their communities. Most people don?t realize it, but it is a big part of what keeps Oregon, Oregon,” said Christine Curran, Acting Deputy State Historic Preservation Officer, Oregon State Historic Preservation Office. ###
06.17.2015	Remarks as Prepared for Delivery Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) delivered the following remarks during today’s House Ways and Means Committee hearing on long-term financing of the Highway Trust Fund. “This is potentially a very significant moment for the Ways & Means Committee and the American public. It is no secret that America is falling apart while we’re falling behind. Some of us remember when America had the finest infrastructure in the world. “That is no longer even remotely the case. America’s infrastructure, by any objective of international measure, has dropped precipitously. We have massive unmet needs, and we are poised to fall further. “It is not the fault of state and local governments and American business, which have begun doing their part. Nineteen states since 2012, six very red Republican states this year, and the private sector are investing billions in their own infrastructure. “The federal government since President Eisenhower has long played a critical role. Indeed, since Benjamin Franklin’s postal roads referenced in the Constitution and Abraham Lincoln’s transcontinental railroad, large, multi-state, multi-year, complex projects have relied on the federal government to invest. “We’re not keeping up our end of the bargain for the 50 percent of capital spending on big projects that comes from the federal government. We haven’t made any meaningful adjustment since 1993 to the gas tax, relying on short-term fixes, gimmicks – and no matter how you slice it, adding to the deficit. “It doesn’t have to be this way. It has been studied extensively, including multiple presidential commissions. We have a unique alignment between business, labor, local government, professions, small business, truckers, AAA, bicyclists and transit. This is a coalition that’s broader and stronger at the local, state and federal level than any other issue. “I would ask Mr. Graves, if the Committee were to spend a week focused on topline infrastructure, inviting you and your colleagues, leaders in business and labor to come together to testify, to evaluate alternatives, and to work together with the Committee for something that would meet the needs: What would be the response from the army of people who build, maintain, and use our surface transportation?” Ahead of the hearing, Representative Blumenauer held a press conference with transportation stakeholders who build, maintain and use the U.S. transportation system to highlight the hearing and the importance of finding a sustainable, dedicated, long-term solution to pay for our nation’s infrastructure. Representative Blumenauer was joined by representatives from Associated General Contractors, American Public Transportation Association, American Road & Transportation Builders Association, American Society of Civil Engineers, Transportation for America, and American Trucking Associations. Representative Blumenauer, a longtime champion in Congress for transportation funding, this year introducedH.R. 680, the Update, Promote, and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act, which would phase in a 15 cent per gallon tax increase over three years on gasoline and diesel to provide $210 billion in the next decade. Additionally, in an effort to work towards replacing the gas tax entirely, Representative Blumenauer has also introduced H.R. 679, the Road Usage Charge Pilot Program Act, to establish a road usage charge pilot program to study mileage-based fee systems. ###
06.15.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced legislation to require polluters to pay for the cleanup of toxic and hazardous waste sites throughout the United States. Currently, the American taxpayer bears the burden of funding cleanup of these contaminated sites. H.R. 2768, the Superfund Reinvestment Act, restores the ‘polluter pays’ taxes, returning fairness to the process and once again making those responsible for pollution pay for the cleanup. “The current system is unfair to the American taxpayer, who bears no responsibility for these polluted sites. Companies should pay to clean up their own toxic waste,” said Representative Blumenauer. “These toxic waste sites are threatening the health and economies of communities across the country. It’s time to shift the burden for cleanup back to polluters.” Superfund sites are the nation’s worst toxic waste sites. The Superfund program was originally created in 1980 to cleanup these contaminated sites. At that time, the Superfund Trust Fund was established to pay for cleanup at sites where the responsible parties cannot be identified or do not have the ability to perform the cleanup. The Trust Fund was financed through taxes on petroleum, certain chemicals and corporate income, ensuring that those industries responsible for pollution pay for the cleanup. These taxes expired in 1995, depleting the funds within the Superfund Trust Fund and shifting the burden for cleanup to the American taxpayer. There are over 1,100 Superfund sites in the United States that pose risk to human health and threaten the economic and social vitality of the communities that play host to these dirty sites. Approximately 49 million Americans live within three miles of a Superfund site. While the EPA works with responsible parties to pay for the cleanup at most sites, roughly 30 percent of these Superfund sites are “orphaned” sites where no responsible party is present or able to pay for cleanup. The Superfund Reinvestment Act reinstates the expired Superfund taxes and updates them for inflation, in order to provide a stable source of funding to protect American communities from the toxic legacy of polluting industries. “For too long, our communities have had to pay the price for the actions of irresponsible polluters, but this important bill finally puts the burden back where it belongs: on the corporations responsible, not the American taxpayer,” said Madeleine Foote, Legislative Representative, League of Conservation Voters. “We commend Congressman Blumenauer’s leadership in introducing this important bill that ensures polluters pay to clean up these contaminated sites and protects the health of our families.” “A clear goal of Congress when passing Superfund was to make corporations responsible for their pollution,” said Scott Slesinger, Legislative Director, Natural Resources Defense Council. “The Superfund tax on corporations paid for cleaning up sites where the owners were bankrupt or otherwise judgement proof. Ending the Superfund tax puts the burden of clean up on the public. Reinstating the Superfund tax will put the burden where it belongs.” “The Sierra Club thanks Congressman Blumenauer for his leadership on the important issue of Superfund sites, and we support this key legislation to protect public health and ensure that polluters pay for the hazards that they create,” said Melinda Pierce, Legislative Director, Sierra Club. “Congress must pass Congressman Blumenauer’s bill as impacted communities have been waiting decades for the cleanup of abandoned toxic sites in their neighborhoods,” said Lisa Evans, Senior Administrative Counsel, Earthjustice. ###
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statements on H.R. 1314, the Trade Act of 2015, and H.R. 644, the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, voted on in the House today. Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): “Real progress was made to establish the progressive framework we need for future trade agreements. Trade done right is important to the Oregon economy and critical to creating more jobs here at home and increasing value for consumers. “The TPA passed today will pull back the curtain and deliver unprecedented transparency in trade negotiations. For the first time in history, it will require that all future trade deals promote human rights, workers’ rights and include stronger and fully enforceable environmental protections. Through TPA, Oregon will not only be able to export more of its products, but also its values.” Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA): “The failure of TAA was Congress at its worst. American workers hurt by trade rely on TAA to gain the training and skills they need to adapt and thrive. This important program has historically received broad Democratic support. In fact, 125 Democrats voted for a shorter, weaker TAA package in 2011. But today, political gamesmanship within our party won out over substance. "I voted for this TAA package because the policy was right. I am hopeful we will find a path forward. When considered again next week, I urge my colleagues to look at the merits of the program, and not for opportunities to score points.” Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act: “I voted no on H.R. 644. This bill should be about helping American businesses export more with greater efficiency, and enhancing our ability to hold foreign trade cheats accountable. Instead, it cuts corners on what matters most to America’s exporters and those undercut by bad actors abroad. It gives special attention to the fringe paranoia of the Republican caucus. The bill includes harmful language on immigration, climate change, short efforts to deal with human trafficking and currency, and reverses longstanding U.S. policy towards Israel and settlements. “I want to support a customs bill because trade is critical to my state of Oregon, and increased efficiency at the border and enforcement abroad is a win-win for everyone. This bill is unseemly politics, with destructive concessions to the majority party’s fringe elements and little accommodation for those of us willing to engage, working to create a stronger trade package. “There is still a chance to get this right. I’m hopeful that through the conference process, the harmful provisions will fall off. I will also work to ensure my legislation that was included in the Senate-passed bill that would allow the United States to more effectively enforce and implement its trade agreements to bolster environmental protections – Green 301 and STRONGER Acts – will remain in the final package. As I work for that outcome, I will reserve final judgment on the package completed.” ###
06.10.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the upcoming Ways and Means Committee hearing on long-term funding of the Highway Trust Fund, scheduled on Wednesday, June 17. “For too long, we’ve avoided how to address the insolvency of the Highway Trust Fund. We cannot afford to continue with short-sighted policies and 33 short-term extensions. This scheduled hearing could be a step forward to finding a sustainable, long-term solution to pay for infrastructure in our nation that’s falling apart as we fall behind. Before we debate in the Committee, it would be helpful to truly listen to the many stakeholders who build, maintain, and use our transportation system, instead of only considering narrowly tailored academic viewpoints. I hope that this marks the beginning of a number of hearings to bring the Committee up to speed and ultimately follow regular order.” Representative Blumenauer, a longtime champion in Congress for transportationfunding, this year introduced H.R. 680, the Update, Promote, and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act, which would phase in a 15 cent per gallon tax increase over three years on gasoline and diesel to provide $210 billion in the next decade. Additionally, in an effort to work towards replacing the gas tax entirely, Representative Blumenauer has also introduced H.R. 679, the Road Usage Charge Pilot Program Act, to establish a road usage charge pilot program to study mileage-based fee systems. ###
06.09.2015	Washington, DC– Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on H.R. 2577, the FY2016 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) appropriations bill, to be voted on by the U.S. House of Representatives this evening. Representative Blumenauer will vote against the bill. “The T-HUD appropriations bill is woefully underfunded and will not provide the resources needed to fulfill the federal government’s responsibilities. Due to Republican-mandated spending caps, we’re now arguing over moving small sums of money from one line item to another. Congress has created this food fight for table scraps by underinvesting in our transportation infrastructure for years. “This is yet another symptom of our failure to invest in the future, and passage of this bill will do nothing to address the current transportation funding crisis. Despite a few modest improvements that can be made to the bill, there are no winners in H.R. 2577, and I will vote against this measure. “America is falling apart and falling behind our global competitors. We need to get down to business and work together to find a way to solve our transportation funding crisis.” Last Thursday, June 4, on the House floor, Representative Blumenauer called on his colleagues to get to work to enact a six-year surface transportation authorization bill that would put hundreds of thousands of people to work at family wage jobs and rebuild and renew America. Click here to watch Representative Blumenauer’s remarks. ###
06.03.2015	Washington, DC– Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) today released the following statement regarding amendments relating to the federal treatment of state marijuana and hemp laws to the H.R. 2578, Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Act, including amendments offered by Representatives Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) and McClintock (R-CA). “We made incredible progress today through passage of amendments that remove the threat of federal interference from state hemp and medical marijuana laws. Congress showed more support today than ever before, making this the latest victory in a quiet revolution underway across America to reform and modernize our marijuana laws. “This follows the narrow defeat of my Veterans Equal Access Amendment to the House MilCon-VA appropriations bill and passage in Senate Appropriations Committee of a similar amendment. Action today demonstrates the forward momentum on this issue in Congress. “I was disappointed to see Congressman McClintock’s broader amendment narrowly fail. Oregon, Washington, Colorado and Alaska should be free to move forward with their voter approved adult-use marijuana programs also free of the threat of federal interference. I look forward to continuing to work toward this goal.” ###
06.02.2015	Washington, DC – Today, as the U.S. House of Representative considers H.R. 2578, Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Act, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) organized an effort on the House floor to highlight the importance of funding climate research. Representative Blumenauer, Representative Jared Polis (CO-02) and other members of the House Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition (SEEC) offered two amendments underscoring the importance of climate research within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The funding levels in the bill under consideration today fall far below what is required to adequately address the serious reality of climate change and its effects on future generations. “Years of research and thousands of scientists across the world have concluded – the climate is changing. This means more heatwaves, drought, wildfires, super storms, flooding and other extreme weather events are ahead,” said Rep. Blumenauer (OR-03). “We should not cut funding to research that can help us understand what is happening in the atmosphere, the effects these changes are having on our communities, and how we can prepare and mitigate the negative impacts. While no one is under the illusion that the Majority would allow an amendment increasing funding for climate change to pass, those of us offering this amendment believe we have an obligation to hold Congress accountable when it falls short on an issue this important.” “It’s no secret that our climate is changing – look no further than Colorado’s devastating floods of 2013,” said Rep. Jared Polis (CO-02). NOAA and its partner institutions, like the University of Colorado and Colorado State University, are working to keep pace with Mother Nature by providing raw data to keep first responders, weather forecasters, businesses, communities, and families on the cutting edge of weather predictability and disaster mitigation. We must ensure they have the resources to do their critical work.” “Climate change is not a distant threat that we can wish away,” said SEEC Co-Chair Rep. Gerry Connolly (VA-11). “Our communities and local governments are already forced to respond to the effects of climate change today, and the federal government must be their partner. Cuts should be restored to reverse misbegotten efforts to disinvest in climate change research and mitigation efforts, and provide NOAA the adequate funding to continue their lifesaving research.” “NOAA’s work on climate research, mitigation, and preparedness are vital to our efforts at safeguarding lives, property, and the infrastructure that supports our economy,” SEEC Co-Chair Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-20) said. “Communities across the country experience a new ‘Storm of the Century’ almost every year and the costs of these storms in lives and property continue to rise. Republican House leadership has relentlessly voted to cut support for climate action. We cannot afford to continue to ignore this problem. Quite simply, NOAA saves lives and we should be working together to enhance its operations, not suffocate its progress.” “It is no secret that the climate is changing and severe storms and weather events are becoming more frequent and costly,” saidSEEC Vice-Chair Rep. Steve Israel (NY-03). “Instead of divesting in critical climate research, we should make investments to prepare our coastal communities and keep American families safe.” “At the exact moment when we should be increasing NOAA research funding, we are instead cutting funds. It is the fiscal equivalent of climate change denial. California and the Western United States are going through a historic drought. We are ripping up lawns, we are rationing water, and we are not growing crops,” said SEEC Vice-Chair Rep. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47). “We should be increasing funding for research to develop more reliable drought forecasts and projections, not perpetuating a fiscal drought on the realities of science. This is wrong. This is irresponsible. This doesn't not make any sense.” “There is nothing hypothetical about climate change. We are seeing it every day and paying the price of rising ocean temperatures, more severe storms and devastating droughts,” said SEEC Vice-Chair Chellie Pingree (ME-01). “The truth is we have underfunded this kind of research for too long and we just can’t afford to pretend this isn’t a huge problem for our economy and our environment. It’s hard to imagine a worse time to cut funding for such important research.” “Congress is putting families, homes, and communities across America and around the world at risk with its reckless and irresponsible funding cuts to NOAA. Climate change is the existential crisis of our generation; we must not undermine the leading research organization addressing this challenge,” said Rep. Don Beyer (VA-08). “Climate change is real, and now is not the time to undercut NOAA’s critical research activities,” said Rep. Boyle (PA-13). “This science is essential to guiding our planning and investment decisions at the national, state, and local level. The Republicans’ emphasis on weather forecasting rather than climate science is incredibly shortsighted. Moreover, as climate deniers continue to claim a need for research and consensus on the matter, in the same breath they are slashing those very research dollars. These cuts are irresponsible and, frankly, offensive to the American public.” “Cutting research on climate change will not stop it from happening – it will only leave communities across the country less prepared for its damaging impacts,” said Rep. Van Hollen (MD-08). “Congress must address the issue of climate change to prevent harmful effects and improve resiliency in threatened areas. And we need to fund the research necessary to monitor changing weather patterns, improve long-term forecasting, and protect the health of Maryland’s residents and abundant natural resources.” “LCV commends Congressman Blumenauer for his latest effort to highlight the critical need to address dangerous climate change,” said Alex Taurel, Deputy Legislative Director, League of Conservation Voters. “Climate change is the greatest challenge of our generation, and we should be doubling down on investments to ensure we tackle this crisis before it is too late. Unfortunately, the House Republican Leadership is once again sticking their heads in the sand by cutting funding for critical climate research.” “The public has unmet demands for information on how our climate is changing, where and how that puts us at risk, and what it will cost us at the state and local level to respond,” Erika Spanger-Siegfried, Senior Climate Analyst, Union of Concerned Scientists said. “How high should we build flood walls as the seas rise? How big does a new drainage pipe need to be as precipitation falls in heavier doses? We need federal science to make informed planning and investment decisions to protect communities and businesses from climate impacts.” Representative Blumenauer withdrew his amendment without forcing a vote to increase funding for climate research because the underlying bill so severely underfunds the high priority programs, there is no room to change the appropriated levels without doing further harm. ###
06.02.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement following the Committee on Ways and Means markup of a series of health care legislation. Passage of Securing Care for Seniors Act and Value Based Insurance Design for Better Care Act “Today’s showing of bipartisan support to further strengthen the Medicare Advantage program is encouraging. Adjustments to the program should be made and the Securing Care for Seniors Act ensures such changes are based on evidence-based data. This will improve the accuracy and integrity of the program to ensure high-quality care for Medicare beneficiaries. “Committee passage of the VBID for Better Care Act is also another step in encouraging better value and efficiency in Medicare. This legislation builds upon reforms happening across the country and will allow for more flexibility to improve and innovate the program, while at the same time lowering expenses for beneficiaries. “We should build upon this momentum, and I hope to see these bills pass on House floor with broad bipartisan support.” Efforts to Undermine ACA “The Affordable Care Act (ACA) has unquestionably helped slow health care cost growth. Health care price inflation is at its lowest rate in 50 years, and national per capita health care spending has grown at an estimated average rate of just 1.3 percent a year since 2010, when the ACA was passed. We cannot afford to reverse these trends. Legislation that repeals the Medical Device Tax and the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) is a step in the wrong direction. “The ACA was financed collectively by the health industry. The medical device community stands to benefit greatly by the number of newly insured Americans and was one of the several different industries who stood with the President and Congress to pledge their support for health reform and a willingness to help work to pay for it. It’s sad this industry is going back on that promise and is actively working to undermine the law. “The success of the ACA has been so great that we don’t expect to need the IPAB until 2022 or beyond. Further, in an era where Congress accomplishes so little, IPAB will force Congress into making decisions about the future of health care, requiring Congress to be more accountable, not less. “For these reasons, today I opposed the repeal of the Medical Device Tax and IPAB. I look forward to continue to work with my colleagues to find constructive ways to strengthen and improve the ACA.” Representative Blumenauer on May 29 joined with Representatives Diane Black (R-TN), Brett Guthrie (R-KY) and Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA) in introducing H.R. 2579, the Securing Care for Seniors Act of 2015. On May 22, he also introduced H.R. 2570, the Value Based Insurance Design for Better Care Act of 2015, with Representatives Diane Black (R-TN) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). ###
06.02.2015	Washington, DC – As the U.S. House of Representatives considers H.R. 2578, Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Act, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) will offer an amendment to ensure that no funds are available to the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) to enforce inspections of physicians who prescribe buprenorphine – a Schedule III drug that is very effective in treating addiction to opioids, such as Vicodin and OxyCotin, on an outpatient basis. Physicians who want to prescribe buprenorphine are required to take an eight-hour certification, can only treat 30 patients at a time in their first year, and may only treat 100 patients a year after that. The DEA can also inspect prescribing records at any time. Doctors certified for buprenorphine report harassment from the DEA and cite that harassment as a major reason discouraging them from participating in the program. “Under the current process, doctors have a more difficult time prescribing buprenorphine than the prescription opioids that cause the addiction. These restrictions are putting the lives of hundreds of patients at great risk,” said Representative Blumenauer. “DEA investigations and enforcement of so-called ‘pill mills’ are integral to preventing prescription drug abuse in America. We should focus our efforts and resources, however, on the problem – addictive prescription drugs – not medication that solves this problem by treating addiction.” ###
05.21.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed passage of the Veterans Equal Access Amendment by the Senate Appropriations Committee. The amendment, offered by Senator Steve Daines (R-MT) and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR), would allow the Veterans Administration (VA) medical providers to recommend medical marijuana to veterans living in states where medical marijuana is legal. “This is a historic moment. Passage of the amendment was the right thing to do for our veterans. We should not be preventing access to medicine that can help our wounded warriors deal with serious conditions, such as post-traumatic stress and traumatic brain injuries,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Today’s passage coupled with the narrow defeat of my amendment to the MilCon-VA appropriations bill in the House signals there is real movement and bipartisan support in reforming outdated federal marijuana policies. We are now in a good position to be able to advocate for inclusion of this policy in a final appropriations bill.” Currently, the VA specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms brought by their patients seeking recommendations or opinions regarding a Veteran’s participation in a state medical marijuana program. Representative Blumenauer recently offered an amendment to the FY 2016 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill that would have ensured no funds made available to the VA could be used to implement this prohibition, which would have, in effect, struck it down. The amendment had broad bipartisan support, but ultimately fell short three votes at 210-213. In February, Representative Blumenauer also introduced H.R. 667, Veterans Equal Access Act, to address this important issue. ###
05.19.2015	Washington, DC– Following today’s House passage of H.R. 2353, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, Representative Earl Blumenauer called on Congress to enact a six-year surface transportation authorization bill within this fiscal year. “The program should continue while there is money in the Trust Fund.” said Representative Blumenauer. “America is falling apart and falling behind. You cannot pay for 2015 transportation needs with 1993 dollars. If we do our job right, we’ll be able to rebuild and renew America and put hundreds of thousands of people to work at family wage jobs. Congress needs to return to regular order, step up and solve this this funding conundrum.” ###
05.18.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) announced plans to offer an amendment to H.R. 2353, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, to end the pattern of short-term extensions of the surface transportation authorization bill, MAP-21. H.R. 2353 would provide a two-month extension of MAP-21, which is set to expire on May 31. This will be the 24th short-term extension since the last full reauthorization of this bill. Republican leadership appears set on passing yet another extension later this summer that would fund transportation programs through the end of the 2015. Representative Blumenauer’s amendment would prevent the House from taking up any legislation to extend MAP-21 past September 30 except a six-year reauthorization bill with at least current funding levels. “This pattern of repeated extensions, and funding our infrastructure only months at a time, limits our ability to plan for the future and costs us money today. If we extend the program into the next fiscal year, it is nearly certain that Congress will be unable to pass a long-term bill before mid-2017. We all say we want a long-term bill. My amendment would force Congress to return to regular order and pass the six-year bill America deserves by the end of September,” Representative Blumenauer said. ###
05.14.2015	Washington, DC– Today, as the U.S. House of Representatives continues consideration of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) plans to offer an amendment to end the Sea-Based Deterrence Fund, and move the funding for the Navy’s Ohio-class replacement submarines back into its traditional home: the Navy’s shipbuilding budget. “Over the next 30 years, the United States is set to spend over $1 trillion rebuilding the nuclear arsenal. This enormous sum of money is not just a significant burden on taxpayers, but risks crowding out high priority essential defense spending,” said Representative Blumenauer. “As we move forward, Americans in and out of uniform deserve transparency about the costs of these programs and how the bill will be paid for. No one has yet answered that question. The Sea-Based Deterrence Fund is the latest effort to avoid that question.” The current plan for the Ohio replacement program will cost nearly $140 billion, according to the Congressional Research Service. Rather than a free for all, the Navy should be required to make difficult decisions about how to prioritize investments in its surface and submarine fleets. This amendment does not cut funds, but simply transfers funds from the Sea-Based Deterrence Fund back into their historic Navy budget lines. “The Sea-Based Deterrence Fund is an illusion of affordability,” Representative Blumenauer continued. “This fund may allow the Navy to build all of the ships and submarines it wants without running afoul of the Navy’s budgetary caps, however, there’s no getting around the fact that the money will have to come from somewhere. Untethering the program from the Navy’s shipbuilding budget will reduce scrutiny and discipline, increasing the likelihood of cost overruns and questionable accounting." Efforts for Increased Transparency in Defense Spending The House Rules Committee refused to consider an additional amendment by Representative Blumenauer aimed at further increasing transparency in nuclear weapons spending. The amendment would have built on a legislative victory secured by Blumenauer in the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Authorization that requires the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office to provide the public with a cost estimate of our nuclear weapons modernization programs. The amendment blocked by the Republican majority today would have required CBO to include an additional 25-year cost projection of U.S. nuclear forces. “While the 10-year projection is helpful, it fails to fully demonstrate the cost of nuclear modernization. Increased information and transparency is critical to ensuring fiscally responsible decision making in nuclear weapons planning. In a time of constrained budgets, failing infrastructure and shortchanging our investments in public education, the public needs to know how much the Department of Defense plans to spend on Cold War relics” said Representative Blumenauer. ###
05.13.2015	Washington, DC– Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today released the following statement after voting against the USA Freedom Act. “I voted against the PATRIOT Act when it first came to the floor in 2001 and have voted against every reauthorization since. Today was no exception. I refuse to compromise protecting the privacy of the American public. The changes made by the USA Freedom Act are meaningful but fall far short of the full and complete reform this country deserves. We should not settle for a modest repackaging of an egregious provision that has led to bulk data collection and a violation of millions of Americans’ privacy. We can and must keep our country safe without compromising our liberties. Today’s bill is a significant improvement but still far from earning my support.” ###
05.12.2015	Click here to listen to Congressman Earl Blumenauer's townhall on international trade.
05.11.2015	Washington, DC– Today, the first day of Infrastructure Week, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) highlighted the importance of infrastructure to our communities and the urgent need for Congress to find a long-term solution to the looming transportation funding crisis.“Investing in our roads and bridges creates good jobs and is essential to making our communities more efficient, livable, walkable, bikeable and accessible by transit,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Unfortunately, due to short-sighted U.S. policy, America is falling apart and behind. Congress is once again stalling on taking action to fully reauthorize the Highway Trust Fund – the lifeblood of America’s transportation infrastructure. This is unacceptable. We need a sustainable, long-term solution to this looming transportation funding crisis, and I urge my colleagues to act swiftly and thoughtfully to ensure our families are safer, healthier and more economically secure.”This year, Representative Blumenauer introduced H.R. 680, the Update, Promote, and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act, which would phase in a 15 cent per gallon tax increase over three years on gasoline and diesel to provide $210 billion in the next decade. Additionally, in an effort to work towards replacing the gas tax entirely, Representative Blumenauer has also introduced H.R. 679, the Road Usage Charge Pilot Program Act, to establish a road usage charge pilot program to study mileage-based fee systems. ###
05.08.2015	Portland, OR– Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on President Barack Obama’s visit to Portland. “I am pleased the President is coming to visit as we are entering into perhaps the final stages of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. Trade is critically important to Oregon. We want to make sure the TPP advances Oregon interests and Oregon values, and this visit is an important opportunity to highlight both as we seek the strongest possible agreement. “Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) sets the rules for the administration’s pursuit of trade agreements and establishes how Congress will evaluate them. I am working to further strengthen TPA, particularly with stronger environmental protections and enforcement resources. I can’t say enough about Senator Wyden’s leadership and efforts in creating the most progressive trade framework to date. “These are complex and controversial issues. Most people don’t pay a lot of attention to them unless there is an event like this presidential visit. I welcome this opportunity for more public awareness as I continue to fight for the best possible trade agreements for Oregon.” ###
05.02.2015	Washington, DC– Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) released the following statement on last night’s narrow defeat of his Equal Access Amendment to the FY 2016 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which would make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana.“Last night, the House of Representatives narrowly defeated my proposal, which would have allowed veterans to consult with VA doctors about medical marijuana in states where medical marijuana is legal. While the defeat was frustrating, it demonstrated support in the first vote on marijuana policy in this Congress.“We were able to make the case publicly to members and their staff about the inequity of a situation where 213 million Americans live in states where they have access to medical marijuana, yet veterans are denied the ability to be helped by their VA primary care provider. Forcing them, at their own expense and trouble, to find somebody else who doesn’t have the same doctor-patient relationship with them for their medical needs is not only not fair, but it’s not best medical practice.“While opponents provided false information that medical marijuana has no therapeutic value, we were able to drive home the point that the current system, which denies veterans medical marijuana but overprescribes them highly addictive and dangerous opioids, is the real scandal.“These arguments carried the day for 210 of my colleagues, which was 15 more than last year, even with eight members absent and not voting, several of whom are sympathetic to the bill. There were 13 more Republicans this year voting yes, and there were 10 fewer Democrats voting no.“All in all, this is an extraordinarily strong showing. This year’s much closer vote signals that we are in an excellent position to be able to pass simple, commonsense legislation to deal with the realities of the legal business of marijuana across the country – including legislation to allow state-legal marijuana businesses to deduct business expenses and to no longer have to operate on a cash-only basis.” ###
04.27.2015	Washington, DC– This week, when the U.S. House of Representatives is expected to consider the FY 2016 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) plans to offer an amendment to make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana.Currently, the Veterans Administration (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms brought by their patients seeking recommendations or opinions regarding a Veteran’s participation in a state medical marijuana program. Congressman Blumenauer’s amendment ensures that no funds made available to the VA can be used to implement this prohibition, which would, in effect, strike it down. The amendment is currently co-sponsored by Representatives Tom Reed (R-NY), Sam Farr (D-CA) and Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA).“While there is no single approach to aiding our nation’s veterans, medical marijuana is proven to help in treating post-traumatic stress and traumatic brain injuries frequently suffered by veterans,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “States are listening to their residents on the benefits of medical marijuana, including veterans, and are changing their laws. It is unacceptable for our wounded warriors to be forced out of the VA system to simply seek a recommendation on whether or not medical marijuana is a good treatment option. We should not be preventing access to medicine that can help them deal with these injuries to survive and thrive. I encourage my colleagues to show compassion to our veterans and pass this amendment.”Thirty-six states, the District of Columbia and Guam have passed laws that provide for legal access to medical marijuana in some form. As a result, well over one million patients across the country, including many veterans, now use medical marijuana at the recommendation of their physician to treat conditions ranging from seizures, glaucoma, anxiety, chronic pain and nausea. There are also eleven states and the District of Columbia that now allow physicians to recommend medical marijuana for the symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress (PTS), due to a growing body of anecdotal evidence suggesting that marijuana offers relief when nothing else has and can be a more effective alternative to other and sometimes addictive prescription drugs.In February, Congressman Blumenauer also introduced H.R. 667, Veterans Equal Access Act, to address this important issue. The bill is cosponsored by Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Walter Jones (R-NC), Justin Amash (R-MI), Tom Reed (R-NY), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Sam Farr (D-CA), Jared Polis (D-CO) and Dina Titus (D-NV).“The Veterans Equal Access amendment will allow for an open line of communication between a veteran and her or his Department of VA care providers in states that have decided to legalize medical cannabis,” said U.S. Navy Veteran T.J. Thompson. “This is a major first step in allowing veterans equal access to medical cannabis through reestablishing that First Amendment right of freedom of speech between a patient and care provider, a right which has been violated by a major gap in policy and law on the federal level with disabled veterans. With the legalization of medical cannabis, statistics have shown suicide and addiction rates decrease, which are both major plagues among veterans.”“Veterans for Safe Access and Compassionate Care is extremely thankful for the leadership and compassion by Rep. Blumenauer. The passage of this amendment to the MilCon-VA Appropriations bill would allow Veterans to have the same open dialogue with our doctors as our civilian counterparts have about the risks and benefits of medical marijuana for debilitating conditions,” said Scott Murphy, President of Veterans for Safe Access and Compassionate Care. “As seen in recent studies and on the CNN documentary Weed 3, it is clear that the American people support national medical marijuana reform. It is unlikely that their intention is to leave suffering Veterans behind.”“Veterans with PTSD and chronic pain who rely on the VA for their healthcare are not being afforded the same access to state medical marijuana programs as their non-veteran fellow residents,” said Michael Liszewski, Government Affairs Director of Americans for Safe Access. “With 22 veterans or more committing suicide each day and an estimated 25 million veterans living with chronic pain, it is unfair to deny them a physician-recommended treatment option that those who did not serve have greater access to.”“The gag rule stopping VA physicians from discussing medical marijuana with vets must be eliminated,” said Michael Collins, Policy Manager at Drug Policy Alliance's Office of National Affairs. “Vets should have the right to talk to their doctors about this vital treatment. The current rule violates the doctor-patient relationship as well as the First Amendment.” ###
04.27.2015	Is it true “fast track” is undemocratic and prevents Congress from amending a final trade agreement? If this is the case, why is fast track necessary? Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), sometimes called “fast track,” is legislation that directs the administration to achieve Congressionally-directed objectives in trade agreements. In exchange, and if Congress agrees the administration met those objectives, Congress agrees to vote on trade deals in a timely manner. In the House of Representatives, unlike the Senate, you don’t need TPA to “fast track” legislation. That’s because in the House, the majority party can move any bill through the committee of jurisdiction and to the floor for a vote without a single opportunity for amendment and as little as 40 minutes of debate. Under that scenario, any member has little to no chance of impacting legislation. While Congress doesn’t need TPA to consider trade legislation, without TPA in the House, Democrats yield all decision-making to Speaker Boehner. With TPA, however, progressive and environmentally-conscious Democrats like Congressman Blumenauer can influence trade agreements by providing strong negotiating objectives that the administration must follow, or securing process changes such as increased transparency. These trade deals are secret; no one knows what’s in them, not even Congress. Really? While the language that makes up a trade agreement is classified while under negotiation, it is by no means kept a secret from everyone. A broad spectrum of stakeholders, including all members of Congress, congressional staff with clearance, labor unions, environmental groups, consumer groups, health groups, industry representatives, state and local governments, academia, and many others all have access to these agreements. In poker, or when buying a used car, you don’t want to show your opponent your hand or reveal to the salesman how much you’re willing to pay. There is a similar need for some level of confidentiality in trade negotiations so the United States doesn’t weaken its bargaining power. That said, Congressman Blumenauer has long questioned why, if somebody believes in trade done right and wants more of it, they would insist on keeping agreements secret at all times. That is why he’s pushed for TPA to require information about U.S. positions on future treaties to be publicized as they are made. For the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), as well as all future agreements, TPA will require that the entire text be public for 60 days before the President signs it. Following the President’s signature and once implementing legislation has been introduced in the House and Senate, Congress has up to 90 days to consider it. In Congress, any member can do exactly what Mr. Blumenauer has done on numerous occasions – they can sit down at a time of their choosing and review the documents for as long as they’d like. They can do this on their own, with the U. S. Trade Representative, or with personal counsel. Any Member of Congress who says they don’t know what’s in the agreement has not made the effort to find out. Also, under an earlier TPA, Congress created a three-tiered advisory committee system where over 500 sets of stakeholders have access to text and are consulted on trade negotiations. The highest-level of cleared advisors are members of the President’s Advisory Committee on Trade Policy Negotiations. Four of our largest labor unions – the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, United Auto Workers, United Food and Commercial Workers, and United Steel Workers – are members. Other advisory committees members are as diverse as the International Association of Skateboarding Companies, the World Wildlife Fund, and Stoneyfield Farms. Do trade agreements make it easier to ship Oregon’s middle-class jobs overseas? International trade is a key source of jobs for Oregon. 490,000 Oregon jobs are tied to, or supported by, international trade. In the midst of the economic recession, Oregon’s trade-related employment grew 7.5 times faster than overall employment levels. These jobs benefit rural and urban Oregon alike, from high-tech companies to producers of the highly sought-after Oregon agricultural products, and more than 90 percent of Oregon’s nearly 6,000 exporters are small- and medium-sized businesses. Oregon is a trade powerhouse. In 2014, we exported over $20 billion in goods. Portland ranks 4th among the largest metro areas in terms of export value, and Oregon ranked 7th in the nation when measuring the total value of products sent abroad. Unlike the country as a whole, Oregon has a trade surplus in both goods and services. We even have a trade surplus with China. Oregon is also a manufacturing powerhouse. Manufacturing accounts for nearly 40 percent of Oregon’s GDP, the second highest in the country and is a sector that continues to grow. In 2013, Oregon was the third fastest-growing state economy in the United States, and two-thirds of that growth came from durable goods manufacturing. Over the past decade, Oregon’s manufacturing exports have grown strongly. Countries across the globe have nearly unfettered access to U.S. markets, including Oregon’s. The reverse, however, is not true. Since the vast majority of our exports are already destined for Pacific Region countries, Oregonians stand to gain when those countries agree to lower barriers to trade and to reduce unfair practices. Is the Trans-Pacific Partnership “NAFTA on Steroids”? NAFTA was a terrible trade agreement. It was based on a shortsighted, race-to-the-bottom approach that continues to negatively impact the region today. Over time, however, advocates in Congress and across the country have pushed for, and secured, significant reforms in how the United States crafts trade agreements. The Trans-Pacific Partnership is poised to build on these improvements. Recognizing the importance of trade for Oregon’s economy, Congressman Blumenauer worked in Congress to constructively engage on trade policy in an effort to ensure that the “good” gets better, the “bad” happens less often, and the “ugly” is prevented. Oregonians deserve honest trade that helps U.S. businesses to grow and develop products here, adding value and innovation, and then exporting products and services, whether by land, sea, air, or the Internet, to consumers abroad. In pursuing this, there’s a balance we can strike that both helps our economy, but also protects critical areas like the environment and increases labor standards and human rights protections abroad. An honest trade debate acknowledges that not all of our previous free trade agreements (FTAs) achieved this. NAFTA – which was voted on before Blumenauer came to Congress – is one such example. The Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) – which he voted against – is another. An honest conversation about trade must also acknowledge the fact that, over time, we’ve been able to make progress by requiring our trading partners to improve their track record on workers’ rights, consumer protections, and environmental standards as a condition for receiving preferential access to U.S. markets. In what has become known as the “May 10th Agreement,” a deal reached between a Democratic Congress and the Bush Administration, we were able to secure the first ever fully enforceable labor and environmental protections in a trade agreement. That means if a country fails to adhere to certain labor and environmental standards, the United States could impose trade sanctions on them until they changed course. It also ensured critical pharmaceuticals would remain affordable for developing and emerging markets. The Trans-Pacific Partnership represents a unique opportunity to build on this agreement by securing enforceable labor, environmental, and consumer protections across 40 percent of the global economy. Since both Canada and Mexico are TPP member countries, these negotiations also present a meaningful opportunity to reform NAFTA by linking its market access provisions with enforceable worker rights and conservation protections. TPP done right provides NAFTA critics, like Representative Blumenauer, a chance to correct this egregious trade failure. If trade expands, won’t this devastate our environment? No. In fact, any trade agreement supported by Congressman Blumenauer will include provisions he’s championed for decades that are likely to strengthen environmental protections to a degree that no amount of foreign aid could ever bring about. Since 2007, agreements negotiated by Democrats ensured that binding, enforceable environmental protections would be part of all U.S. trade agreements going forward. The U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement, for instance, required Peru, a country that’s 60 percent Amazon rainforest, to establish a Ministry of the Environment, enact new laws and regulations to protect and sustainably manage the Amazon, and fund the enforcement of these environmental laws. The Congressman has fought for these provisions not only because it was the right thing to do, but also because we have so much to gain. Illegal logging alone costs the U.S. timber industry $1 billion every year. Wildlife trafficking has grown into the fourth-largest branch of illegal trade in the last five years, with a net worth of $19 billion annually. With strong environmental provisions, TPP, for example, can help close the spigot for these black markets that too often funds criminal and terrorist networks. There is no question that if these agreements were enforced, the environment would be in better shape. According to leaked text, the Trans-Pacific Partnership will have strong, enforceable rules on fishing subsidies and fishing management practices that will strengthen protections for Pacific fish stocks. A major agreement under negotiation will reduce tariffs and other barriers on environmental goods, making renewable energy products more affordable for consumers, and businesses in the renewables sector more competitive with traditional sources of carbon-intensive energy. What is Congressman Blumenauer doing to try and make TPA better? The TPA bill currently under consideration by Congress will deliver unprecedented transparency in trade negotiations, ensure future trade deals break new ground to promote human rights, workers’ rights and subject 40 percent of the global economy to stronger and fully enforceable environmental protections. But during each step of the legislative process, Congressman Blumenauer is fighting to improve this bill even further to reflect Oregon values – focusing his efforts on improving environmental provisions and increasing enforcement of current and future agreements. Blumenauer recently introduced two pieces of legislation – the Green 301 Act and the STRONGER Act. The Green 301 Act will expand Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 to address the unfair enforcement of environmental laws by U.S. trading partners, making sure all bad actors are held accountable, that overall levels of compliance are raised, and that good actors are not penalized for following the rules. The STRONGER Act would create an enforcement trust fund, paid for by foreign exporting cheaters, to allow the United States to better enforce and implement our trade agreements, with a focus on environmental and labor commitments. Finally, Congressman Blumenauer is also working on legislation that would further reduce trade barriers for Oregon’s unique outdoor recreation companies. TPA has not been passed into law, and until it is, he will do everything in his power to improve it to ensure higher standards and stronger enforcement of our agreements. How will American workers be able to compete with countries like Vietnam who have such low labor standards? Vietnam is developing dramatically and, in a remarkable transformation, has become a key U.S. ally in the region. With or without TPP, trade between the United States and Vietnam is already significant and will continue to grow. Since the mid-2000s, the United States has been Vietnam’s largest single-country export market, and in 2013, exports to the United States represented about 18 percent of Vietnam’s total exports. For Congressman Blumenauer, the question is not whether the United States should or should not trade with Vietnam, because that’s already happening at an ever-increasing rate. Instead, he is asking how can we improve existing trade practices and shape future ones. Vietnam’s participation in the negotiations could accelerate economic reforms in the country according to 21st century standards. As part of any agreement, Vietnam will be required to update its labor laws to ensure they conform to the International Labour Organization core standards, strengthen its environmental rules, and open many closed sectors of its economy to competition. These are changes that would not happen anytime soon without the leverage and incentive provided by TPP. Instead of maintaining the status quo, Congressman Blumenauer is seeking to improve it. I’ve heard Investor State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) gives foreign corporations the ability to bypass U.S. courts and sue the government in undemocratic, unaccountable international tribunals if they feel their profits are threatened. Can this be true? Under ISDS, a foreign investor can sue the state, if the state has violated substantive obligations intended to protect foreign investors and investments from discriminatory, unfair, or arbitrary treatment by the host government. The investor’s claim is heard by a panel of three distinguished trade lawyers and scholars chosen by the state and by the investor. If a tribunal finds that the host government has treated the investor in an arbitrary, discriminatory, or unfair manner, based on customary international law or the provisions of the trade agreement, then the tribunal can award money damages to the investor. If the tribunal judges find that the claim is frivolous, they can award costs and attorneys’ fees to the government. Only money damages are available – the tribunal has no power to order the government to change any law or regulations. The tribunal also has no power to award punitive damages for egregious conduct. Provisions like these have been part of international law for many years and were created to avoid direct state-to-state conflict over commercial matters. There are now 2,400 bilateral investment treaties that contain investor-state provisions, as does nearly every trade agreement. These claims typically occur in industries with high degrees of state involvement, and unsurprisingly, the most frequent defendants are Argentina and Venezuela. With ISDS, will foreign corporations have greater rights than U.S. companies? Doesn’t this threaten our environmental and public health regulations? Foreign investors in the United States have no greater rights than those that are available to U.S. investors under existing U.S. legal principles and practices. An investor can only bring a claim for violations of key international law norms. For instance, claims can arise when investors are discriminated against compared to a country’s own investors, when investors fail to receive minimal levels of treatment in accordance with customary international law, and when a country nationalizes or expropriates an investor’s property. Even though damages are available, these claims are very expensive to bring, and as a result, most investors in the United States who seek damages against the U.S. government just file in federal court. International arbitrations are expensive and, according to claims data, unlikely to succeed – 67 percent of the time the state wins the case.
04.24.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Representative Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement on Ways and Means Committee passage of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015.“With 95% of the world’s population living outside of our borders, trade done right is the key to creating new, middle-class jobs here in America. We cannot, however, simply trade for trade’s sake. Strong, enforceable rules, meaningful transparency, and Congressional oversight are critical to leveling the playing field for American workers and businesses as we seek to compete around the globe. That’s why we supported this legislation, and it’s why we’re urging our colleagues to support it as it comes to the floor.It’s time for leaders in both parties to step up and acknowledge the importance of getting the rules of global trade right. “This bill creates unprecedented transparency in trade negotiations, and prioritizes human rights, workers’ rights, a healthy environment, and a free and open Internet. The status quo on each of these issues was unacceptable. With tough, new rules and strong enforcement mechanisms to hold our trading partners accountable, we can ensure that our values guide the largest and fastest-growing markets in the world. “We commend Senator Wyden for his tireless efforts to ensure that Democratic priorities were included in this bill. No one – in the House or the Senate – fought harder to deliver a bill that progressives can embrace. As this bill continues to move forward, we will work hard to defend the gains that Senator Wyden secured. “Today’s Committee approval of this bill is not the final step in this process, it’s the next important step. We are committed to working together to further strengthen each element of this legislative package.” ###
04.22.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced the Green 301 Act and STRONGER Act – legislation that would allow the United States to more effectively enforce and implement its trade agreements to bolster environmental protections. He plans to offer these bills as amendments to H.R. 1907 on Thursday when the House Ways and Means Committee marks up the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015. The Green 301 Act will expand Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 to address the unfair enforcement of environmental laws by U.S. trading partners. The STRONGER Act would create an enforcement trust fund, paid for by foreign exporting cheaters, to allow the United States to better enforce and implement our trade agreements, with a focus on environmental and labor commitments. In addition, Representative Blumenauer plans to offer an amendment that would establish as a principal negotiating objective the prohibition on trade in illegally harvested wildlife, timber or living marine resources.“These bills provide an opportunity to secure and enforce the best possible environmental protections in U.S. trade agreements, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Oregon companies take pride in their commitment to the environment, and we should ensure our trading partners are held accountable and meet their obligations to raise standards abroad,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Additionally, whether or not a Member is planning to vote for or against TPA, I feel we have an obligation to try and make it better. I am focusing my efforts on improving environmental provisions in and increasing enforcement of our trade deals. I urge my colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee to vote yes on these amendments – a yes to better protecting our environment, increasing accountability, and improving aid effectiveness and transparency when it comes to helping our trading partners implement their commitments.”Green 301 Act of 2015When any company – be it U.S. or domestic – violates an environmental law of the country in which they’re operating, they should be held accountable. Sometimes, however, foreign countries selectively enforce their environmental rules to advantage their own companies, undercutting U.S. companies. The Green 301 Act strengthens Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 to provide USTR with the tools to ensure that the law is applied to everyone, that all bad actors are held accountable, that overall levels of compliance are raised, and that good actors are not penalized for following the rules. By making sure U.S. companies aren’t forced to play by a different and more costly set of rules abroad, we can bolster environmental protections and best practices, as well as U.S. exports.STRONGER Act of 2015As trade agreements have evolved to more accurately reflect international commerce, they’ve become more complex. This complexity limits U.S. ability to simultaneously oversee, implement and enforce these agreements. The STRONGER (Supplemental Trade Review, Oversight, Noncompliance and General Enforcement Resources) Act would create an enforcement trust fund using some of the penalties paid to the United States by trade cheaters and manipulators abroad who have been caught, to more effectively enforce and implement our trade agreements.U.S. agencies would be authorized to use these trust fund resources to enforce obligations under our free trade agreements (FTAs); implement and enforce obligations by WTO member countries in those agreements to which the United States is a party; build capacity for the effective implementation of FTA partner commitments, with priority given to environmental and labor obligations; monitor and evaluate U.S. capacity building efforts to ensure these investments are spent wisely; and clarify that none of the trust fund resources could be used for negotiating new trade agreements.“Improved compliance with and enforcement of environmental obligations is much needed. Too often, violations of environmental protections included in trade agreements are neglected,” said Lisa Handy, Senior Policy Advisor at the Environmental Investigation Agency. “The STRONGER Act and Green 301 take important steps to improve the critical enforcement gap and seek to ensure that trade policies do not further exacerbate environmental degradation and illegal trade in natural resources.”“Humane Society International and The Humane Society of the United States commend Representative Blumenauer for introducing both the Green 301 Act and STRONGER Act of 2015,” said Kitty Block, Vice President of Humane Society International. “These are vital tools to hold our trading partners accountable for uniform enforcement of environmental laws and ensure that they meet their obligations to protect wildlife, including those under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).”“If agreements like the TPP move forward, they need to include the strongest possible protections for wildlife,” said Beth Allgood, U.S. Campaigns Director of International Fund for Animal Welfare. “We believe that Green 301 and STRONGER can help to safeguard vulnerable species that are at risk from the increased illegal trade that often accompanies increased legal trade.”“STRONGER and Green 301 provide the U.S. government with both a carrot and stick to drive more environmentally sustainable trade,” said Todd Shelton, Vice President of U.S. Government Relations at World Wildlife Fund (WWF). “By increasing resources for technical assistance and expanding the tools for enforcement, these bills help translate the environmental commitments of our trading partners to healthier forests, reduced poaching, and restored fish stocks.” Click here to read a summary of the Green 301 Act. Click here to read a summary of the STRONGER Act. ###
04.21.2015	Washington, DC– Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on reports that Michele Leonhart will resign as Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). “Following the official resignation of Ms. Leonhart as head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, I encourage the President to use this as an opportunity to fill this important role with someone who understands the outdated federal approach to marijuana isn’t working. The American public has moved on. Most now feel marijuana should be legalized. Four states and the District of Columbia have legalized the adult use of marijuana, and more than two-thirds of Americans live in a state that has legalized some form of medical marijuana. The President himself has said we have bigger fish to fry than going after state-legal marijuana users. I would urge him to put in place a DEA Administrator who will reflect his Administration’s position and can be a partner in creating a more workable system of marijuana laws.” ###
04.17.2015	I support honest trade, just as anyone who supports a growing and prosperous Oregon economy. Oregonians deserve a framework for trade that recognizes real problems and seeks real solutions. For 20 years, I’ve heard strong criticisms about the weak NAFTA agreement, which I did not vote for. It’s been rightly criticized because it completely failed to provide enforceable environmental and labor protections, tacking them on as sidebar agreements like an afterthought. People wanted change. I’ve heard them and agree, and throughout my time in Congress, I have fought to strengthen trade agreements to answer their call.It’s frustrating that Congress is just now providing instructions to the Administration on how and when it should negotiate trade agreements. This procedure, known as Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), or “fast track,” sets the direction, establishes the rules, and creates the framework for how the Administration should negotiate. In the absence of TPA, Congress has abdicated its responsibility to guide our negotiators. The steps taken yesterday to resolve this shortcoming should have happened years ago.Nonetheless, the latest bill negotiated chiefly by Senator Wyden, is a dramatic improvement over the last fast track bill, which I voted against because it failed to build on the lessons learned from NAFTA. In contrast, the bill we will begin debating shortly is a dramatic improvement. It includes a human rights negotiating objective for the very first time. Responding to demands for greater transparency, future trade agreements will be public for 60 days before the President signs them, and up to four months before Congress votes. If an agreement fails to meet the objectives designated by Congress, a simple majority in the Senate could stop the fast track procedure, allowing Congress to reassess and improve the package. The TPA bill goes further, expanding Trade Adjustment Assistance, including help for displaced service workers for the first time through the Health Care Tax Credit. It also includes a renewal of both the African Growth and Opportunity Act and the Generalized System of Preferences to help the desperately poor, as well as continued trade benefits for Haiti. Among the 150 negotiating objectives are powerful new tools to advance Oregon interests and Oregon values. While I will look for opportunities to refine it further, the TPA legislation we have created is a solid point of departure. However, it does not contain everything I want, and I will continue to work to strengthen it.While serving in Congress, I have voted both for and against trade agreements. For example, last time Congress considered a TPA bill I voted against it. With each agreement, I measure them against the same principles – is this package good for Oregonians; does it align with our values; will it be a net positive for labor and environmental standards abroad, even if we don’t get everything we want; and will it help Oregon’s small- and medium-sized businesses find new markets for their exports, creating more jobs for Oregonians?I have always asked these questions, but reached different conclusions on each agreement because every trade package is different. The failure called NAFTA only focused on opening the gates for business interests, without any concern for the local markets, people and resources that would be trampled along the way. The U.S.-Peru trade agreement, however, helped a country that’s 70 percent Amazon rainforest put in place their first ever Ministry of the Environment and regulations for sustainable logging practices. The model of the former example is dead, and I didn’t blink when voting for the latter, just as I didn’t blink when voting against the Colombia trade agreement because it fell short on labor protections.Done right, TPA can instill a model of trade that’s as much about helping Oregon as it is about putting in place fully enforceable labor and environmental protections across 40 percent of the global economy. Such change will not just happen because it’s the right thing to do. It will only occur by engaging in the process, rolling up our sleeves, and pushing for improvement. For months, that’s exactly what I’ve done. And in the weeks ahead, that’s exactly what I’ll continue to do.The TPA train is leaving the station. Republicans control Congress. The president has already said he’ll sign just about any fast track bill that lands on his desk. We can watch it pass by, or we can chase it down and have a say. The Wyden-Hatch-Ryan bill will deliver unprecedented transparency in trade negotiations, ensure future trade deals break new ground to promote human rights, and mandate for open Internet, free speech and digital commerce by ensuring data can flow freely across borders.But I’m going to fight for more, and at each step of the way I’ll take out the same measuring stick to assess where we are. Each member, regardless of whether they’ll ultimately support or oppose a trade package, has an obligation to try and make it better. That’s why I’ll be focusing on: Efforts to improve environmental provisions The GREEN 301 Act: By ensuring U.S. companies aren’t forced to play by a different and more costly set of rules abroad, we can bolster environmental protections and best practices, as well as U.S. exports. Strengthen Conservation Provisions in TPP Environment Chapter: This is the best opportunity the United States will have to put in place a set of rules capable of dismantling the black market trade – and related criminal and terrorist networks – in illegally sourced plants, wildlife and living marine resources. Efforts to increase enforcement of current and future agreements The Trade STRONGER Act: This legislation creates an enforcement trust fund using some of the penalties paid to the United States by trade cheaters and manipulators abroad who have been caught, to more effectively enforce and implement our trade agreements. Efforts to further reduce trade barriers for Oregon’s unique outdoor recreation companies The OUTDOOR and RAIN Acts: Congress should not hesitate to refine our tariff code when small adjustments would improve innovative manufacturing and value for consumers, without impacting domestic producers.
04.16.2015	Washington, DC– Today, on National Healthcare Decisions Day, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) underscored the importance of advance health care planning to American families. Representative Blumenauer has long advocated for policies that empower patients to make informed decisions about their health care throughout their lives. Representative Blumenauer released the following statement. “Our current health care system is on autopilot, oftentimes defaulting to the most painful, intrusive, and expensive care regardless of the wishes of families. We are all aware of horrific examples of people receiving care they don’t want – care that doesn’t just deteriorate their quality of life, but also shortens their life. There are countless stories of families who struggle with these issues when it’s too late. We must give people control over their decisions and empower patients to work with their doctors to make informed choices about the health care they want. “The ability to make one’s own plans for the end-of-life ought to be seen as a fundamental human right. National Healthcare Decisions Day should be a starting place for us to have an honest national dialogue about how best to facilitate earlier and more meaningful discussions about end-of-life preferences among individuals, families, and clinicians. “All individuals should have the opportunity to participate actively in their health care decision making throughout their lives and as they approach death, and to receive medical and related social services consistent with their values, goals, and informed preferences.” ###
04.09.2015	PORTLAND, ORE. – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03) and Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) announced plans to introduce bicameral legislation next week that would reconcile state marijuana laws and federal tax law. The Small Business Tax Equity Act, which was introduced last Congress by Congressman Blumenauer, would create an exception to Internal Revenue Code Section 280E to allow marijuana businesses operating in compliance with state law to take deductions associated with the sale of marijuana like any other legal business. “More than two-thirds of Americans now live in jurisdictions that have legalized either the medical or adult use of marijuana. It’s time for the federal government to catch up,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Section 280E creates an unequal and unrealistic tax burden on these businesses. I’m excited to work with Senator Wyden in introducing the Small Business Tax Equity Act, which would bring much needed fairness and level the playing field for small businesses that follow state laws and create jobs.” “Our legislation would provide an overdue update to federal tax law, which has not caught up to the fact that it’s 2015 and Oregonians have voted both to legalize medical marijuana and to regulate marijuana for recreational use,” Senator Wyden said. “This is a question of standing up for the people of Oregon, and ensuring that the federal government respects the decision Oregonians have made at the ballot box.” Twenty-three states, the District of Columbia and Guam have passed laws allowing for the legal use of medical marijuana. An additional 12 states have passed laws allowing the use of low-THC forms of marijuana to treat certain medical conditions. In many of these jurisdictions, patients can access medicine safely through state-regulated dispensaries. The federal tax code, however, prohibits anyone selling Schedule I or Schedule II substances from deducting business expenses associated with the sale of marijuana from their taxes. Marijuana is a Schedule I substance. Therefore, even businesses operating in compliance with state law are not allowed to deduct the common expenses of running a small business, such as rent, most utilities and payroll. They cannot claim the Work Opportunity Tax Credit if they hire a veteran, and they are limited in lawful deductions relating to construction or operation costs if they want to remodel a building for their retail operations. In certain circumstances, legal marijuana businesses can pay federal income tax rates at nearly 90 percent, while the U.S. Small Business Administration estimates that many small businesses pay an effective rate of around 20 percent. "Congress never intended to impose a gross receipts tax – and that's pretty much what we have here – on legal business owners decades in the future,” said Grover Norquist, President of Americans for Tax Reform. “The intent of the law was to go after criminals, not law abiding job creators. Congress needs to step up and clarify that this provision has become a case study in unintended consequences.” “The small businesses that make up the legal cannabis industry are working overtime to be responsible, contributing members of their communities,” said Aaron Smith, Executive Director of the National Cannabis Industry Association. “So it’s particularly outrageous that when they to do the right thing by paying their federal taxes, they end up penalized with double and triple tax rates. Instead of being able to create more jobs, increase salaries, or add benefits for their employees, these businesses are being forced to send more than two-thirds of their profits straight to the federal government. Rep. Blumenauer and Sen. Wyden are standing up for fairness and support for small business – something everyone should applaud. We certainly do.” Click here for a one-pager on the Small Business Tax Equity Act with additional information. ###
04.02.2015	Washington, DC–Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement on the announcement that a framework agreement has been reached on an Iran nuclear deal. “Despite efforts by many to scuttle diplomacy with Iran, today’s framework agreement is an extension of steady, incremental progress from all sides, since day one. It makes clear that all parties are committed to securing the only alternative to military action in Iran, which is a negotiated solution to their nuclear program. “The framework is not just symbolic – Iran has made meaningful commitments that, if implemented, will allow for the most intrusive IAEA inspections in history and prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. “We’ve set the stage for a paradigm shift in the country and in the region, but much heavy lifting remains because there’s no deal until a final deal is reached. As a result, Congress must restrain itself from unhelpful actions in the coming months. It is not constructive to demand a ‘better deal’ that no negotiator could secure.” ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement welcoming bipartisan support and passage of H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, to stabilize the Medicare system. “I was delighted that H.R. 2 finally got across the finish line. While I never voted for the legislation creating the Medicare sustainable growth rate (SGR), it has been an object of great concern to try and fix it for the past 18 years. “This legislation meets a variety of objectives beyond eliminating this annual ritual of the so-called ‘doc fix.’ It extends two years of funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers. Of particular interest to Oregonians, it extends for two years the Secure Rural Schools program that is desperately needed in many parts of rural Oregon suffering from economic adversity. “But beyond the positive elements of the legislation, there is a hint here that Congress can in fact come together to accomplish things. We saw the first glimpse a couple of weeks ago when Speaker Boehner accepted support from Leader Pelosi and the Democrats to be able to fund Homeland Security. Here, the top Republican and Democratic leaders empowered their committees to realize the fruit of three years of hard work and several near misses. There are any number of legislative candidates for this same sort of cooperative spirit, empowering committees and providing leadership to solve problems. “My choice for the next accomplishment would be fully funding our six-year surface transportation reauthorization. We've assembled a vast coalition of interest groups – business, labor, professional groups and local government, all supporting legislation I’ve introduced to increase the gas tax for the first time in 22 years. Thirteen states have already been able to do this. It’s time for Congress to act and do so before the May 31 deadline that sends states around the country into great financial difficulty.” ###
03.23.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced the Smarter Approach to Nuclear Expenditures (SANE) Act – a bill that would save the United States approximately $100 billion over the next 10 years by reducing or eliminating unnecessary nuclear weapons programs. As Congress considers the FY 2016 budget, the SANE Act aims to adopt a more practical and stable nuclear deterrent to reduce costs and risks without compromising U.S. security or that of our allies. Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. A recent report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that U.S. nuclear weapons planning calls for spending over $350 billion over the next decade, and up to $1 trillion over the next 30 years, to build a nuclear force that will far exceed what the administration and security experts have said will be needed to effectively deter a nuclear threat. Such spending is not only problematic for taxpayers, but those deeply committed to a strong and capable military. The SANE Act aims to inject fiscal responsibility and strategic reality into the administration’s nuclear weapons planning. “Instead of spending this year’s budget debate focused solely on repealing defense spending caps, or stuffing excess Pentagon spending into the Overseas Contingency Operations account, Congress should instead be focusing on ways to extract more value and greater savings from existing programs,” said Representative Blumenauer. “The SANE Act would do exactly that by aligning our nuclear weapons spending with what the Pentagon has said is necessary to maintain a strong and credible deterrent, which is a one-third reduction in deployed nuclear weapons, not a complete $1 trillion rebuild above and beyond existing capacity.” “We are robbing America’s future to pay for unneeded weapons of the past,” said Senator Markey. “As we debate the budget and Republicans rally around devastating cuts to Medicare, Head Start and investments in research and science, it makes no sense to fund a bloated nuclear arsenal that does nothing to keep our nation safe in the 21st century. We should cure disease, not create new instruments of death. We should fund education, not annihilation. Even within its own budget, the Defense Department should prioritize spending for current threats from ISIL, al Qaeda and cyberterrorists. The SANE Act cuts the nuclear weapons and delivery systems that we don’t need and will never use so we can invest in the people and programs that will make America safe and prosperous in the future.” “The more tangible threats facing the United States today come from a suitcase or a personal computer,” Tony Fleming, Campaigns Director of Citizens for Global Solutions said. “We're more likely to suffer a cyber or terrorist attack from a small rogue group than be hit by an nuclear bomb that require massive government infrastructure and investment. U.S. citizens deserve to have their tax dollars be used to protect them from real, 21st century threats, not Cold War-era relics.” “Pouring more than one trillion taxpayer dollars over the next three decades into last century’s weapons is a nonsensical national security strategy. Our current plans for newer nuclear weapons are simply unaffordable, unnecessary, and unsafe. A sensible first step is to eliminate the most wasteful spending,” said Angela Canterbury, Executive Director of the Council for a Livable World and Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation. “We applaud Senator Markey and Rep. Blumenauer, and their cosponsors, for offering SANE and strategic savings. Just imagine how $100 billion could strengthen our economic and national security. These smart savings will not in the least reduce our overwhelming nuclear defense and should garner bipartisan support.” “More than two decades after the end of the Cold War, the U.S. is still wasting billions of dollars on a nuclear weapons program built for this bygone era – and the Friends Committee on National Legislation (Quakers) supports Sen. Markey’s and Rep. Blumenauer’s bill to take steps to reduce the U.S. nuclear arsenal and spend taxpayer dollars more wisely,” said David Culp, Legislative Representative of Friends Committee on National Legislation. “At a time of tight defense budgets, it makes no sense to increase spending on nuclear weapons, which do not address the highest priority threats we face,” said Tom Collina, Director of Policy at the Ploughshares Fund. “The SANE Act lays out a common sense approach to saving billions in nuclear spending, in a way that protects planned warheads levels. By allowing scarce resources to flow where they are needed most, the SANE Act will enhance U.S. national security.” "At a time of record national defense spending, these cuts are a smart and safe way to help bring the Pentagon budget under control and increase national security,” said Danielle Brian, Executive Director of Project On Government Oversight. “We are hopeful that these common sense reforms will receive bipartisan support and are happy to see both chambers working together on such an important issue." “The SANE Act is exactly what our nation needs as we grapple with how to invest in our future responsibly,” Susan Shaer, Executive Director of WAND, said. “As nuclear weapons become less relevant in the 21st century, the SANE Act rightly puts a pause on excessive plans for the nuclear arsenal. The billions saved through the SANE Act can be invested in other more pressing priorities like fixing aging roads and bridges, supporting energy independence, and investing in good paying jobs. I commend Senator Markey and Congressman Blumenauer for a dose of sane thinking on nuclear weapons.” The full text of the bill and a one-page summary are attached. Representative Blumenauer’s essay on the bill is hereand a recent floor speech can be found here. The SANE Act is supported by: Beyond Nuclear ? Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation ? Center for International Policy? Friends Committee on National Legislation ? Green Cross International ? Just Foreign Policy ? JustPeace ? National Priorities Project ? NETWORK, A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby ? MoveOn.org ? Peace Action ? Physicians for Social Responsibility ? Progressive Democrats of America ? The Rachel Carson Council, Inc. ? Women’s Action for New Directions ? Concerned Citizens for Nuclear Safety (Santa Fe, NM) ? Georgia WAND ? National Green Party (Washington, DC Chapter) ? Nuclear Watch New Mexico ? Oak Ridge Environmental Peace Alliance (Oak Ridge, TN) ? Peace Action West ? The Peace Farm (Amarillo, TX) ? The Rocky Mountain Peace and Justice Center (Boulder, CO) ? Tri-Valley Communities Against a Radioactive Environment (CAREs) (Livermore, CA) ###
03.10.2015	Washington, DC–Last week, Representatives Earl Blumenauer and Vern Buchanan, Co-Chairs of the Congressional Bike Caucus, introduced H.R. 1274, the Vision Zero Act of 2015. Communities across the country are recognizing that there is only one number of acceptable deaths on our streets: zero. “Vision Zero” is the goal of eliminating all transportation-related fatalities, including pedestrians, bicyclists, transit users, motorists and passengers. Cities from New York to Los Angeles are implementing interagency Vision Zero plans connecting engineering, education, and enforcement, to reach the goal of ending transportation deaths. There is a strong need for safer communities: Being struck by a motor vehicle is the leading cause of injury-related death for children under 14. Being struck by a motor vehicle is the second leading cause of injury-related death for seniors. A person hit by a car while crossing the street has a 5% chance of death if the car is going 20 mph. If the car is going 40 mph, chance of death is 70%. Lower-income neighborhoods have much higher pedestrian fatality rates than higher-income areas. Fatalities on our roadways have declined overall, but the number of pedestrians killed annually rose 16% from 2009 to 2014. The Vision Zero Act creates two grant programs within the Department of Transportation to award money to communities to develop and implement Vision Zero. $5 million a year is set aside for planning grants to help communities draft the Vision Zero plan required for implementation funding. $25 million a year will be awarded to five communities for implementation of a written and officially adopted Vision Zero plan. 25% of the annual funding must be awarded to eligible entities with a population of 200,000 people or fewer. “Bicycling has come a long way since I founded the Bike Caucus in 1996—there are many more riders, cycling is a booming industry and safety has increased dramatically,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. “But when well over 1,000 bicyclists and pedestrians are killed or seriously injured each year, we can do much better. I’m excited to introduce the Vision Zero Act with my new Bike Caucus partner Mr. Buchanan as a way to make streets safer for all users, especially the most vulnerable ones. We should no longer accept bicycle and pedestrian fatalities as harsh reality, and the Vision Zero Act gives us the tools to reverse this trend. I look forward to helping make streets safer for all users from Sarasota to Portland.” “As Co-Chairman of the Congressional Bike Caucus, I am committed to ensuring the safety of pedestrians and cyclists." Rep. Vern Buchanan said. "I am proud to introduce this worthy legislation with my friend Mr. Blumenauer that will move us closer towards the goal of zero pedestrian and cyclist fatalities." Buchanan stressed the importance of HR 1274for public safety and noted that his hometown newspaper, the Sarasota Herald Tribune, recently editorialized on the issue.” “I applaud Rep. Blumenauer’s leadership. One death on our roadways is one too many. That’s why we have adopted Vision Zero,” said Leah Treat, Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. “People of all ages and abilities deserve safe streets that support multimodal uses. We appreciate Congress’ support to help cities across the country develop and implement comprehensive safety programs that will not only save lives, but add to the resiliency of the urban environment.” “The culture around traffic safety that accepts 33,000 deaths annually as unfortunate but inevitable needs to change,” said Andy Clarke, President of the League of American Bicyclists. “Vision Zero is a game-changing policy approach that starts with the assumption that no fatal traffic crash is acceptable -- which is why the League of American Bicyclists wholeheartedly endorses and welcomes the introduction of the Vision Zero Act by Representatives Earl Blumenauer and Vern Buchanan.” "Every person should have equal access to safe, walkable communities, in order to access every day needs and destination. America Walks supports the Vision Zero Act as a starting place to creating this reality," said Director Scott Bricker of America Walks. “AAA supports Reps. Blumenauer and Buchanan’s efforts to focus attention on reducing the number of deaths on the nation’s roadways by introducing the Vision Zero Act,” said AAA Federal Affairs Director Avery Ash. “Recent findings from the annual AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety Culture index indicate that more than five in six drivers support their state adopting a vision to reduce the number of people killed in crashes to zero – this legislation is a step in the right direction. We look forward to working with Rep. Blumenauer and Rep. Buchanan to improve the community action safety plans that will ultimately lead to saving lives.” The Vision Zero Act is supported by AAA, Alliance for Biking and Walking, America Walks, American Planning Association (APA), American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA), City of Portland, League of American Bicyclists, National Association of City Transportation Officials (NACTO), National Association of Realtors, PeopleForBikes, Rails-to-Trails Conservancy, Safe Routes to School National Partnership, Transportation for America, Washington Area Bicyclist Association (WABA).
03.04.2015	The statement below is an addition to a previous one detailing my decision not to attend the Prime Minister's speech to Congress. That statement can be found here. While I chose not to serve as the backdrop for a campaign ad days before Israelis go to the polls, I watched Prime Minister Netanyahu’s address very closely in my office. The speech – which was opposed by a majority of both Israeli’s and Americans – was strong in tone, but weak in terms of providing an alternative to military action. Netanyahu said the administration is pursuing a “very bad deal” and that “We’re better off without it.” His alternative? An agreement that demands everything and concedes nothing. In short, a goal that he, and anyone involved in a negotiation, knows to be impossible. The Prime Minister was wrong about the need for military action in Iraq, he was wrong about the Joint Plan of Action being stalling tactic by Iran to pursue nuclear weapons, and he’s wrong that a strategic deal with Iran is better than no deal at all. I stand with Israel. That is why I chose to not undercut our diplomats in the midst of negotiations by attending today’s Joint Session. That is why I have pushed so hard to secure the only means to preventing a nuclear-armed Iran, which is a diplomatic solution. It was also troubling to hear him say that Iran “will always be an enemy of America.” To me, there is a difference between the hateful ayatollahs and their minions, and the people of Iran. Rejecting a strategic deal would only empower the hardliners while undercutting the moderates, putting further out of reach a potential thawing of relations which, in the end, only undermines our interests in the region. Netanyahu offers one perspective, but not mine. Challenging his ideas is not anti-Israeli, the same is challenging President Obama isn’t anti-American. Within and between democracies, the critique of ideas is what makes us strong. I welcome a feasible alternative to a “bad deal,” but I’ve yet to hear one, especially from the Prime Minister. Until I do, I will stand with Israel by empowering our negotiators, not undercutting them.
03.04.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer and Representative John Conyers announced the reintroduction of the Saving America's Pollinators Act. The legislation requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to take swift action to prevent mass bee die-offs and protect the health of honey bees and other critical pollinators by suspending the use of certain bee-toxic insecticides, known as neonicotinoids. It also requires the Secretary of the Interior, in coordination with the Administrator of the EPA, to monitor the health of native bee populations and to identify and publicly report the likely causes of bee kills. Recent research provides convincing evidence of a link between neonicotinoids and poor bee health. Bee populations have declined steadily since 2006, and the continued decline will have serious implications to our food supply. “Honey bees and native bees jointly provide U.S. agriculture an estimated $18 to $27 billion in pollination service annually, and one out of every three bites of food people eat is from a crop pollinated by bees,” said Representative Blumenauer. “It is imperative that we take a step back to make sure we understand all the factors involved in bee population decline and move swiftly to protect our pollinators.” The crops pollinated by bees include apples, avocados, cranberries, cherries, broccoli, peaches, carrots, grapes, soybeans, sugar beets and onions. However, these crops and numerous others are threatened by the dramatic decline of pollinator populations throughout the country. Over the past decade, documented incidents of honey bee colony collapse disorder (CCD) and other forms of excess bee mortality have been at a record high with some beekeepers repeatedly losing 100 percent of their operations. “The EPA plans to wait until 2018 before reviewing the registration of neonicotinoids,” said Representative Conyers. “But America’s bees cannot wait three more years. Neither can the thousands of farmers that rely on pollinators. Our honeybees are critical to ecological sustainability and to our economy. I am urging all of my colleagues to please protect our pollinators and support the Saving America’s Pollinators Act.” With the introduction of the Saving America’s Pollinators Act, Congress will follow the example of local communities like Eugene, OR, Spokane, WA and Seattle, WA that have already adopted measures to ban the use of neonicotinoids on municipal lands. The federal government has also taken action to discontinue the use of neonicotinoids on national wildlife refuge system lands. This is a small step in the right direction, but greater action needs to be taken to protect bee populations at the federal level. “The Saving America’s Pollinators Act remains the gold standard when it comes to legislation designed to protect bees and other pollinators from exposure to toxic insecticides,” said Andrew Kimbrell, Executive Director of Center for Food Safety. “We rely on bees and other pollinators for so much of our food and it’s in everyone’s best interest to do all we can to protect them. EPA has remained tone deaf to the influx of damning scientific evidence identifying neonicotinoids as a primary culprit in poor pollinator health and it is high time that the U.S. take action, just as other countries have, to suspend their use. “It is time for the Environmental Protection Agency to take a stronger stance on pollinator protection.” said Scott Hoffman Black, Executive Director of the Xerces Society. “We hope that the reintroduction of this bill further encourages EPA to work with its partners to better manage the possible risks to bees posed by pesticides, including neonics.”
02.23.2015	The Portland District Office will be closed on Friday, February 27th due to a scheduled move. The Office will reopen on Monday, March 2nd at noon in its’ new location: 911 NE 11th Ave., Suite 200 in Portland. If there are questions or concerns during this time, please call our Washington DC Office at 202-225-4811.
02.20.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Representative Jared Polis (D-CO) introduced two bills that together would legalize and tax marijuana at the federal level. Representative Blumenauer’s legislation, H.R. 1014, the Marijuana Tax Revenue Act of 2015, creates a federal excise tax on non-medical marijuana sales and moves this quickly growing industry out of the shadows. Representative Polis’s legislation, H.R. 1013, the Regulate Marijuana Like Alcohol Act, removes marijuana from the schedule set by the Controlled Substances Act; transitions marijuana oversight from the jurisdiction of the Drug Enforcement Agency to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; and regulates marijuana like alcohol by inserting into the section of the U.S. Code governing “intoxicating liquors.” More than 213 million people live in a state or jurisdiction that allows the some form of legal use of marijuana. Twenty-three states currently allow for medical marijuana, while four states--Colorado, Washington, Oregon, and Alaska--and the District of Columbia recently legalized the recreational use of small amounts of marijuana. Eleven additional states have passed laws allowing the use of low-THC forms of marijuana to treat certain medical conditions. Following federal legalization, the Marijuana Tax Revenue Act would impose a federal excise tax on the sale of marijuana for non-medical purposes as well as apply an occupational tax for marijuana businesses. The bill would establish civil and criminal penalties for those who fail to comply, like those in place for the tobacco industry. The bill also requires the IRS to produce periodic studies of the marijuana industry and to issue recommendations to Congress. It phases in an excise tax on the sale by a producer (generally the grower) to the next stage of production (generally the processor creating the useable product). This tax is initially set at 10% and rises over time to 25% as the legal market displaces the black market. Medical marijuana is exempt from this tax. The Regulate Marijuana Like Alcohol Act would remove marijuana from the schedule set by the Controlled Substances Act; transition marijuana oversight from the jurisdiction of the Drug Enforcement Agency to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; and regulate marijuana like alcohol by inserting into the section of the U.S. Code that governs “intoxicating liquors.” "It’s time for the federal government to chart a new path forward for marijuana.”said Mr. Blumenauer. “Together these bills create a federal framework to legalize, regulate and tax marijuana, much like we treat alcohol and tobacco. The federal prohibition of marijuana has been a failure, wasting tax dollars and ruining countless lives. As more states move to legalize marijuana as Oregon, Colorado, Washington and Alaska have done, it’s imperative the federal government become a full partner in building a workable and safe framework.” “Over the past year, Colorado has demonstrated that regulating marijuana like alcohol takes money away from criminals and cartels, grows our economy, and keeps marijuana out of the hands of children,” said Mr. Polis. “While President Obama and the Justice Department have allowed the will of voters in states like Colorado and 22 other jurisdictions to move forward, small business owners, medical marijuana patients, and others who follow state laws still live with the fear that a new administration – or this one—could reverse course and turn them into criminals. It is time for us to replace the failed prohibition with a regulatory system that works and let states and municipalities decide for themselves if they want, or don’t want, to have legal marijuana within their borders.” National trends reflect state efforts. More than 46% of people 18 and older have tried marijuana at least once and public opinion research reveals more than half of the U.S. population supports legalization. Yet even as states and local governments have taken the lead in finding legal arrangements for marijuana, federal law classifies it among the most dangerous illegal drugs. The enforcement of these laws wastes federal resources and ruins lives. Individuals, states, and marijuana businesses are trapped in a patchwork of conflicting state and federal laws. It is time for Congress to end the federal prohibition on marijuana, remove it from the Controlled Substances Act, and create a sensible tax and regulatory framework. This represents a unique opportunity to save ruined lives, wasted enforcement and prison costs, while simultaneously helping to create a new industry, with new jobs and revenues that will improve the federal budget outlook.
02.09.2015	Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) released a new report - Enough Is Enough: A Comprehensive Plan to Improve Gun Safety. While there is no single solution to the challenges associated with gun violence, insight can be gained from other challenges that the United States has faced and overcome. Using the examples of automobile safety and tobacco use, two significant public safety challenges where the government responded in ways that dramatically reduced injury and death, success came from defining the problem, identifying risk factors, testing prevention strategies, and ensuring widespread adoption of effective solutions. By applying that same process we can begin to make incremental progress to reduce gun-related deaths and injuries. The stark fact is that Americans suffer more gun violence than any other developed country. In an average day in America, there are 31 firearm homicides. On average, there are 53 firearm suicides each day, and firearm suicide attempts are lethal 85% of the time - more lethal than other attempted suicide means. In 2012 - the most recent year available for statistics - there were 33,563 deaths due to injury by firearm. These include 11,622 homicides, 20,666 suicides, and 548 accidental deaths. In 2011 firearm deaths exceeded motor vehicle deaths in 14 states Among other suggestions, the Congressman highlights these strategies in his report: Keep Guns from the Most Dangerous Users: The “private sale loophole” should be closed - no private sales should be conducted without background checks. Comprehensive and uniform background checks will help ensure that only law-abiding, responsible owners have access to guns. More restrictions should be in place to prevent individuals with a pattern of violent or abusive behavior from gun ownership. Improve the Mental Health System: We have failed to create a system where people who are mentally ill can receive the treatment they need. Over 60% of all gun-related deaths are suicides and mental illness is a significant risk factor for suicide. Many deaths could be prevented if we developed a mental health system that is more accessible and available. Authorize and Increase Research: Simply improving the ability of researchers and the federal government to study and share information about gun violence would allow us to fully understand the impact and implications of current policies. New approaches to reduce gun violence should be evidence-based; research that can be used to promote policies is the first step in achieving this goal. Control Access to the Most Dangerous Products: Certain types of guns are not safe in any public space. Common sense restrictions on the most dangerous weapons can reduce the carnage that results from their use. Increase Product Safety: Firearms are specifically excluded from regulation under the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Act. As inherently dangerous products, guns should be tested and regulated to ensure consistency and safety for the consumer. Products intended to keep children safe from guns and to prevent accidents are available and their use should be promoted if not required. Empower Healthcare Professionals: In some states, doctors may face disciplinary actionfor discussing guns with patients. Doctors should not only be able to discuss all matters that affect their patient’s health - they should be encouraged to do so. Effectively Regulate Sellers: A small number of gun dealers provide a disproportionately large number of weapons to criminals. Congress should empower the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to take steps to ensure dealers are complying with federal law. Enforcing Existing Laws: Enforcing existing laws is a struggle with the gun lobby actively working to subvert good policies by attacking budgets and undermining their effectiveness. While enacting new policies will be necessary to create safer communities, enforcing existing laws is an important part of the solution. Mitigate Loss of Life in Shootings: First responders such as police and fire departments, ambulances, and emergency rooms must be able to respond where tragedy strikes. Schools and public facilities personnel should receive appropriate training to deal with active-shooter situations. These necessary components can reduce fatalities when gun violence occurs. Gun violence in the United States is not inevitable, nor should Americans accept it as the status quo. Congress, the Administration, state and local governments, and the American people need to address this issue for what it is: a crisis that threatens the well-being and peace of mind of urban and rural communities across the country. ###
02.05.2015	Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Representative Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA), introduced The AWARE Act to ensure that farm animals used in agricultural research at federal research facilities be included in the definition of “animal” under the Animal Welfare Act. The Animal Welfare Act ensures that certain minimum standards of humane care are adhered to in federal and private research facilities. However, the Act defines “animal” in a way that egregiously excludes farm animals used in agricultural research. Blumenauer and Fitzpatrick will speak with leaders from the Humane Society of the United States and the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) at a press conference today. “It is time to put a stop to this horrible misuse of taxpayer funds,” said Representative Blumenauer. “When USDA research facilities experiment on farm animals, they should be held to the same standard as federal research facilities conducting lifesaving disease research with the same kinds of animals. This bill is common sense for taxpayers, for researchers, and for the humane treatment of animals.” “As stewards of taxpayer dollars, we felt a responsibility to present the AWARE Act as a legislative fix that holds the USDA to the same humane standards that countless research facilities across the country are held to,” said Representative Fitzpatrick. “If we expect staff in these facilities to recognize their professional and legal obligations to safeguard the welfare of animals – we should set the bar at an equal, or higher, level for the federal government. “ A January 20, 2015 front page article in the New York Times, “Animal Welfare at Risk in Experiments for Meat Industry,” examined horrendous abuses at one such facility - the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center in Clay Center, Nebraska. In the last 30 years, over half a million animals have been housed at the center. The center’s experiments have included trying to increase the number of twin births in cows and expand the litter sizes of pigs, without consideration of animal health impacts, and trying to breed “easy care” lambs that are born in open fields without human assistance – all with horrifying, and often unsuccessful results. According to the New York Times, at least 6,500 animals are known to have starved to death at this facility alone. Unknown numbers have died from negligence such as easily treatable infections, exposure to bad weather, or attacks by predators. In just the last 10 years, this single center has cost nearly $200 million with taxpayers footing the bill for this shocking abuse of animals. “The abuses that the New York Times exposed at the U.S. Meat Research Center are unacceptable in a civilized society,” said Wayne Pacelle, President and CEO of The Humane Society of the United States. “Congress needs to pass the AWARE Act so that taxpayers aren’t paying for this kind of diabolical animal abuse.” “Allowing animals to be tortured in the interest of creating bigger profit margins – especially at taxpayer expense – is reprehensible, and we’re grateful to Representatives Blumenauer and Fitzpatrick for working hard to get USDA out of the business of animal cruelty and back to the job of animal welfare,” said Matt Bershadker, President and CEO of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA). “Congress’s swift bipartisan introduction of legislation reflects a strong commitment to ending animal cruelty wherever it happens.” The bill is cosponsored by Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-FL) and Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY). ###
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC -- Yesterday, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), with the support of leaders in the fields of transportation, labor, commerce, and construction, introduced HR 680 to allow passage of the first comprehensive, six year transportation bill since 1997. HR 680: The Update, Promote, and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act would phase in a fifteen cents a gallon tax increase over the next three years on gasoline and diesel. Of all the proposals being circulated on Capitol Hill, this is simplest, easiest to pass, and the only one giving long term stability. Blumenauer will speak with this diverse cross section of groups at a press conference today highlighting the momentum behind such a proposal. As President Reagan said when he led a similar effort in 1982, it won’t increase the deficit or increase taxes due on April 15. Instead, it will be paid for by the gas tax user fee that has supported the Highway Trust Fund since 1956. “Every credible independent report indicates that we are not meeting the demands of our stressed and decaying infrastructure system – roads, bridges and transit,” said Blumenauer. “Congress hasn’t dealt seriously with the funding issue for over 20 years and it’s time to act. The gas tax used to be an efficient road user fee, but with inflation and increased fuel efficiency, especially for some types of vehicles, there is no longer a good relationship between what road users pay and how much they benefit. The average motorist is paying about half as much per mile as they did in 1993. There’s a broad and persuasive coalition that stands ready to support Congress, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National AFL-CIO, the construction and trucking industry, cyclists, professional groups, numerous associations of small and medium businesses, local governments, and transit agencies. We just need to give them something to support.” In 2011, the Federal Highway Administration estimated that over $70.9 billion worth of repairs were needed just to maintain safe bridges; that number has since increased each year. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that surface transportation in the US needs over $2 trillion of investment in order to remain economically competitive by 2020. In recent years, Congress has added to the deficit by transferring over $65 billion of General Fund revenue to the Highway Trust Fund to keep it afloat. In order to maintain current funding levels in the following years, the Highway Trust Fund will need over $15 billion a year by 2018 in addition to current gas tax receipts. Continuing down the current path will mean a 33% drop in federal transportation spending by 2024. The UPDATE Act would solve the problem by providing $210 billion over ten years. “Addressing the infrastructure deficit, stabilizing transportation funding, and helping America’s all-too-slow economic recovery is critical if we want a livable and economically prosperous country in the years to come,” said Blumenauer. “The UPDATE Act will put hundreds of thousands to work at family wage jobs in every state, while improving the environment and quality of life.” Statements of Support for the UPDATE Act of 2015: “Getting America To Work applauds Congressman Blumenauer for continuing his efforts to ensure America’s transportation and infrastructure needs are funded for years to come. America’s businesses and workers rely on public transportation to keep our economy moving. Our coalition of transit agencies, councils of government and business groups strongly urges all members to follow Rep. Blumenauer’s lead and work together to bring our public transportation systems into a state of good repair.” – Getting America to Work Coalition "Congressman Blumenauer’s proposal for a modest adjustment to the gas tax is a no-brainer for Americans concerned about road and bridge safety. Every day, Americans pay what amounts to a pothole penalty because of the failure of Congress to fully invest in our nations crumbling roads, bridges and transit." – General President Terry O’Sullivan, Laborers' International Union of North America (LIUNA) “The challenges facing the Highway Trust Fund could be easily solved if Congress and the President demonstrated a little policymaking courage. Representative Blumenauer has put forward a very thoughtful proposal to avert the next trust fund crisis and to do so in a fiscally responsible way. Most importantly, his plan would help provide the sustainable revenue stream necessary for states to begin fixing and modernizing their roads, bridges and transit systems.” – President Pete Ruane, American Road & Transportation Builders Association (ARTBA) "Congressman Blumenauer's UPDATE Act provides a much needed boost to our nation's surface transportation infrastructure. UPS alone travels more than 2.9 billion miles on America's roads each year, connecting businesses, consumers and individuals in every state. Increasing the federal motor fuels tax is a long-overdue proposal to provide the dedicated funding needed to maintain our highways, intermodal connections and other related infrastructure projects. Investing in and growing our nation's transportation infrastructure is essential to remaining competitive in today's increasingly global economy." – Laura Lane, Global Public Affairs President, UPS “APTA urges Congress to enact a bill that increases dedicated revenues for the Highway Trust Fund, and the UPDATE Act is a sensible and effective way to address our nation’s transportation needs. We support an increase in motor fuels taxes because they are user based and the most cost efficient way to provide a steady revenue stream to the Highway Trust Fund. Congress must act to restore our transportation system to a state of good repair and provide the public transportation options for our increasing population. A long-term, sustainable transportation bill is essential to grow our communities and ensure that America retains our global competitiveness.” – President Michael Melaniphy, American Public Transportation Association (APTA) "Our cities, towns and suburbs economic vitality require a fully integrated transportation network. Lawmakers at the state and local level across the country have stepped up to do their part to raise additional revenue and address their transportation challenges. In fact, twelve states have raised additional transportation revenues since 2012, and our analysis of recent election results could not find one instance where they lost their positions because of their support. While many cities and states have the courage to do their part they cannot do this alone and require a strong federal partner. The UPDATE Act will strengthen the nation's transportation system by ensuring states and local governments have a strong, reliable federal partner as they invest in their economic future.” -John Robert Smith, Chair, Transportation for America, former Mayor of Meridian, MS The American Traffic Safety Services Association strongly endorses the UPDATE Act. We know that the safety program funded by the Highway Trust Fund has saved thousands of lives over the last five years. However, with more than 30,000 fatalities still occurring annually on our roads, there is much more work to be done. A portion of this proposed increase would be dedicated to bringing even more moms, dads, sons and daughters home safely every day. –Roger A. Wentz, President and CEO, American Traffic Safety Services Association (ATSSA) “On behalf of the Association of Equipment Manufacturers and our more than 900 member companies, we applaud Congressman Blumenauer for his leadership in finding solutions and building bipartisan support to address our infrastructure needs. The UPDATE Act of 2015 could spur economic growth and competitiveness while improving our nation’s ability to efficiently move goods and people. Investing in our national infrastructure is critical to keeping America competitive, and we appreciate Congressman Blumenauer taking these important steps to ensure we can reauthorize the federal highway bill for the long-term.” – John Patterson, Chairman, JCB Inc. and Chairman, Association of Equipment Manufacturers. “What all Americans deserve is a well-maintained transportation system in their community with choices and options relevant to their daily travel needs, their health, their environment, and their pocket book. That means increasing investment in maintaining the existing infrastructure and continuing to invest in the full range of transportation option including bicycling, walking and transit. The simplest and most effective way to do that is a modest increase in the gas tax.” – Andy Clarke, President, League of American Bicyclists "We applaud Congressman Blumenauer for introducing this legislation to find revenue to fund progress for our country's crumbling public transit systems, bridges and transportation infrastructure. Public transit is the lifeblood of our economy. It creates good jobs, safely delivers people to work and customers to businesses, and helps keep the environment clean. It literally moves our economy.” –President Larry Hanley, Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU) “It is time for our nation’s leaders to stand with Rep. Blumenauer and others who support pragmatic and cost-effective steps to improve our country’s transportation system. Americans are paying the price for years of congressional inaction with nothing to show for it but increasing frustration and less time with friends and families. A continued failure to act costs drivers an average of $324 annually in additional vehicle operating costs and 38 hours wasted in traffic each year. Congress should act immediately to restore stable and required funding for our roads and bridges."– CEO Bob Darbelnet, American Automobile Association (AAA) “The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) hails Congressman Blumenauer on his steadfast leadership to restore America’s infrastructure and strongly endorses the Update, Promote and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act. This bill will provide long-term, sustainable funding to address America’s surface transportation infrastructure and comes at a critical juncture as the nation’s Highway Trust Fund veers toward insolvency in a matter of months. In ASCE’s 2013 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, a comprehensive assessment of infrastructure across 16 sectors, the cumulative GPA for the nation’s infrastructure was an abysmal D+. The Report Card estimates total investment needs at $3.6 trillion by 2020 across all 16 sectors, leaving a funding shortfall of $1.6 trillion based on current funding levels. We look forward to working with Rep. Blumenauer and all members of Congress to advance this important legislation to revitalize our nation’s roads, bridges and transit systems for decades to come.”– Robert D. Stevens, Ph.D., P.E., President, American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) “In concurrence with the Highway Materials Group’s funding principles for the next highway surface transportation authorization, the group supports Congressman Blumenauer’s proposed bill that would continue funding the Highway Trust Fund through user fees, while bolstering awareness about the impending Highway Trust Fund insolvency. Due to the magnitude of importance of the issue, increasing the gas tax and implementing a road usage charge based on vehicle miles travelled are only two of the numerous options we support to increase revenues into the HTF. We commend the congressman for taking this bold step toward solving the dire problem facing the nation’s surface transportation infrastructure in the months and years ahead.” – Highways Materials Group “The American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) strongly supports Congressman Blumenauer’s efforts to update the federal user fee dedicated to improving and maintaining our nation’s surface transportation system. We need to look for new ways to fund critical infrastructure projects in the future, and embrace a range of options for doing so. In the near term, however, we must restore the purchasing power of the user fee that has been the basis of the federal-aid program for decades. This is a relatively small price to pay for improving safety, enhancing mobility and ensuring American competitiveness. Congressman Blumenauer’s legislation helps to achieve all of these goals.” – The American Council of Engineering Companies "While we remain open to considering other potential revenue sources, ATA continues to believe a user fee-based system of federal fuel taxes is still our most equitable, efficient , reliable and best source of long-term, sustainable funding for the Highway Trust Fund. We hope the introduction of this important legislation by Rep. Blumenauer will move us closer to passing a long-term surface transportation bill that addresses funding and other important issues prior to the expiration of the current authorization in May." – President and CEO Bill Graves, American Trucking Associations (ATA) “Congressman Blumenauer is demonstrating the kind of wisdom and courage we need more of in D.C. by pushing for the kind of common-sense solution to the funding challenges that have made it increasingly difficult to invest in needed improvements to our roads, bridges and transit systems.”– CEOStephen E. Sandherr, Associated General Contractors of America “Rep. Blumenauer’s proposal to raise the gas tax is a much needed departure from the timid politics and short-sighted thinking that too often dominates Washington today. If enacted, the Blumenauer bill will not only shore up the badly depleted Highway Trust Fund but will also restore the role of transit and highway investments as an engine for middle class job creation.” President Edward Wytkind, Transportation Trades Department, AFL-CIO ###
02.04.2015	For the sake of diplomacy, peace, and respect for our ally Israel, to say nothing of stability in the Middle East, Speaker Boehner must cancel the joint session of Congress with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu. If he does not, I will refuse to be part of a reckless act of political grandstanding. The Republicans may have read the Constitution on the House floor, but they don't seem to understand Article II, which vests the responsibility for foreign affairs in the president. If the invitation was aimed to extract a better deal from Iran and protect our friend and ally Israel, then the speaker miscalculated, for it will do the opposite. If the invitation was aimed at scoring political points by undermining the administration, it's deeply troubling that the speaker is willing to undercut diplomacy in exchange for theatrics on the House floor. The U.S. is in the midst of high-stakes diplomacy between five major powers and Iran. A joint session, organized in this manner, at this time, undermines the only way of stopping a nuclear-armed Iran: a negotiated solution. Preventing this would be not only inappropriate but extremely dangerous. Let me be clear: I would oppose such tactics by any speaker, Democrat or Republican. Leadership serious about bolstering Israel's security should be focused on using the historic, multilateral sanctions in place today that have brought Iran to the table. Sidestepping the White House in this way could easily fracture the united front America has built with Russia, China, Germany, and others. Iran's extremists are eagerly awaiting any excuse to walk away from an agreement. If negotiations do fail to progress, it must be crystal-clear that it was Iran, not the U.S., who failed. This will be critical if we're to have the mandate needed to respond accordingly, and in a multilateral way in the future. Netanyahu is finding this visit to be extraordinarily controversial within his own country. To schedule the joint session immediately before a national election is a dangerous and reckless precedent. I will not dignify this irresponsible joint session -- an affront to diplomacy, process, and security -- with my presence. Congress ought to heed the advice of experts. As former Israeli Ambassador to the U.S. Michael Oren recently stated when asked about the ill-timed joint session, "It's advisable to cancel the speech to Congress so as not to cause a rift with the American government." There's still time for Speaker Boehner to reconsider his ill-advised effort. Wait until Israelis have cast their ballots, and find out if the time on the clock for negotiations runs out. I will not participate in a calculated slight from the speaker and the House leadership to attack necessary diplomacy. When nuclear security and Middle East stability hang in the balance, no member who cares about peace and Israel should participate in this effort to undercut our president. ###
02.03.2015	Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), along with eight bipartisan cosponsors, introduced HR 667: The Veterans Equal Access Act,to make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana in states where it is legal. Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms brought by their patients seeking recommendations or opinions regarding participation in a state medical marijuana program. The Act would authorize VA physicians and other health care providers to provide recommendations and opinions regarding the use of medical marijuana to veterans who live in medical marijuana states. “Post traumatic stress and traumatic brain injury can be more damaging and harmful than injuries that are visible from the outside,” said Blumenauer. “And they can have a devastating effect on a veteran’s family. We should be allowing these wounded veterans access to the medicine that will help them survive and thrive, including medical marijuana -- not treating them like criminals and forcing them into the shadows. It’s shameful.” Approximately 20 percent of the 2.8 million American veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan suffer from PTS and Depression. In addition, a recent study found that of the nearly one million veterans who receive opioids to treat painful conditions, more than half continue to consume chronically or beyond 90 days. Another study found that the death rate from opiate overdoses among VA patients is nearly double the national average. In states where patients can legally access medical marijuana for painful conditions, often as a less addictive alternative, the hands of VA physicians should not be tied. “Veterans For Medical Cannabis Access applauds Congressman Blumenauer for standing up for the doctor-patient relationship by re-introducing the Veteran's Equal Access Amendment.,” said the organization’s Executive Director, Michael Krawitz. “In every state of our union, disabled United States military Veterans stand to gain from this legislation because every veteran deserves the best medical care. This requires an open discussion of all treatments available. We trust our doctors to prescribe morphine; we should also trust them to appropriately recommend cannabis.” “The status quo has numerous harmful effects,” continued Blumenauer. “It forces veterans into the black market to self-medicate. It prevents doctors from giving their best and honest advice and recommendations. And it pushes both doctors and their patients toward drugs that are potentially more harmful and more addictive. It’s insane and it has to stop.” "The Veterans Equal Access Act introduced by Representative Blumenauer and colleagues will allow my doctor to have an honest conversation about the health effects of marijuana,” said Scott Murphy, President of Veterans for Safe Access and Compassionate Care. “If marijuana is the correct option, I value his opinion. If marijuana is not the correct option, I still value his opinion. I simply believe my fellow veterans should enjoy the same freedoms and rights as our family and friends. The willingness to die for America should not be rewarded with less freedom and worse healthcare options. This unequal protection for our nations heroes is a stain on American values. This bill is a great first step to closing the federal policy gap between civilian healthcare and veteran healthcare options." “The Veterans Equal Access Act first and foremost respects our veterans' first amendment rights to free speech with their doctors,” said disabled U.S. Navy Veteran T.J. Thompson. “When we allow for an open line of communication between patients and doctors, we are able to improve quality of life as well as symptoms. With suicide and prescription drug abuse plaguing our veteran population, it is about time that a Member Congress has decided to stand up for those of us who stood up to protect their rights. We should allow access to a natural herbal remedy that can help -- as opposed to too many prescription drugs that can cause harm. I long for a day when I am provided that same freedom of choice at the federal level. I volunteered my life to protect this country, yet due to federal prohibition and interference, my treatment options as a disabled veteran are limited.” The bill is cosponsored by Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Walter Jones (R-NC), Justin Amash (R-MI), Tom Reed (R-NY), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Sam Farr (D-CA), Jared Polis (D-CO) and Dina Titus (D-NV). ###
02.03.2015	As a new session of Congress gets underway, you will be hearing from me on a variety of issues that impact Oregonians and the country. Much of it is part of the debate that is occurring in our community, mirroring broader issues across the nation: how can we make the economic recovery work for everyone? In many ways, in the last six years, we as a nation moved from a mantra of “yes we can” to increasingly “no we can’t.” To be sure, part of the challenge we face here in Oregon and nationally is the lingering trauma from the worst economic conditions since the Great Depression. The effects were all the more jarring because we had settled into a fairly comfortable belief that we understood how to deal with inflation and economic growth. After all, we were surrounded by examples of a booming economy and careful pronouncements by the wise men (and they were almost uniformly men) that we knew what to do. Markets would discipline excesses and fuel growth and innovation. Technology would add value to the lives of all Americans. We received reminders of this on a daily basis with a barrage of emails in our inboxes, of the power of the internet, the interconnectivity we’d achieved and the potential of a global economy. The reality is that the United States has managed its economic recovery better than any other large economy. We’ve created more jobs since 2009 than throughout the entirety of the previous 8 years. The Obama Administration did this despite inheriting an economy in free fall, shedding one to two hundred thousand jobs a week and despite Congress making a foolish decision to ramp back spending in the government sector which virtually all independent experts agree would have speeded the recovery. We enacted healthcare reform and extending healthcare to millions while we’ve seen an unprecedented reduction in the inflation of healthcare costs. Unemployment is down, housing stats are up, and the economy is back on track. Unfortunately, there’s also a disturbing reality; many of these changes which were adding value to the stock market and the GDP were not shared broadly. After three decades where real family incomes more than doubled after World War II, the next three decades found dramatic upset and turbulence. Corporate profits doubled but middle-income family wages stagnated. Today, the typical family is no better off and indeed 80% are worse off than they were fifteen years ago in terms of their real economic condition. The job market became more challenging and unpredictable. The conventional wisdom that making the American work force more productive and companies more profitable would fuel prosperity has been discredited and disproved. The American worker continues to be more and more productive but the share of national income going to workers has dropped dramatically. It’s not just that wages are stuck. There was a dramatic monetary shift to the wealthiest that in the main, did not create real products. They were financial engineers and developed technology which while often useful, really didn’t add to the quality of life for things that mattered most to Americans. Sure, we have unprecedented access to information on the internet, forty or four hundred channels on TV, more media platforms, but in terms of a family’s health, quality of their neighborhoods, prospects for their children, many of these developments matter little for most people. It’s easy to do “Monday morning quarterbacking” about actions taken to avoid economic collapse during the recession. Things were coming at us fast and furiously. Some items that I still think were questionable appear to have worked out better than I had feared. Yet we still failed to use the crisis and the leverage to make broader changes, strengthening America and the middle class. We can’t move forward until we address this issue. A simple step in the right direction would be to raise the minimum wage, giving a boost for people who are working a second job to make ends meet, for college students who have a part time job to help pay tuition or retired seniors who find themselves back in the workforce to stretch their meager savings. There are also systematic reforms that are long overdue. Why do we continue to treat families and their homes different than we treat businesses in bankruptcy? Why do we allow unscrupulous, for-profit colleges and universities to loot the Treasury while they shortchange some of our most vulnerable students? Why do we avoid reforming government regulation so that it is performance-based, which intellectually should be embraced by citizens, businesses, conservatives and liberals alike? To be sure, there are many areas desperately in need of action, from reforming our agricultural policies to reshaping our military, putting it on a more sustainable path by cutting spending on grotesquely unnecessary weapons systems. We must address the looming shortfall in the Social Security trust fund and the immediate shortfall of a bankrupt Highway Trust Fund to stop America from falling apart and falling behind. These are serious problems but they all have solutions that are within our capacity to implement. The United States is a country of contradictions. We are low tax by international standards but we put burdens on families and communities greater than those suffered in other countries. Some of the people who are most critical of government intervention, who preach for limited government and trumpet-free enterprise, are the most adamant about protecting their special government privileges, tax advantages, government markets and subsidies. This is our challenge. It’s about understanding that we are in the middle of an ongoing debate about our future. We as a nation continue to have great riches. Our federal government has tremendous capacity to do more simply by planning better, redirecting existing revenue streams in more productive fashion and ending entitlements which no longer make sense. It does not mean placing the burden, once again, on the majority of American families. There is no need to short change their future, their children, their community and their environment. There is wealth, not just to be protected but to be generated. There is an unparalleled opportunity to not just avoid disastrous consequences, but to move things in a positive direction so that everyone can share in the economic recovery. It is not necessary for us to scale down our aspirations or our vision. It is not necessary to wait for some all-encompassing grand scheme or solution. We can start today on issues large and small, making a difference. As I have done for years, I’ll be putting my ideas and solutions on my website, engaging people in public forums and social media, hosting discussions on how we reset the conversation back to what we can achieve versus only dwelling on what we can’t. I hope you will join me. It will be fun, it will be effective and it will recapture that special spirit which has made America great and will do so in the future. We can do this. ###
02.03.2015	As a new session of Congress gets underway, you will be hearing from me on a variety of issues that impact Oregonians and the country. Much of it is part of the debate that is occurring in our community, mirroring broader issues across the nation: how can we make the economic recovery work for everyone? In many ways, in the last six years, we as a nation moved from a mantra of “yes we can” to increasingly “no we can’t.” To be sure, part of the challenge we face here in Oregon and nationally is the lingering trauma from the worst economic conditions since the Great Depression. The effects were all the more jarring because we had settled into a fairly comfortable belief that we understood how to deal with inflation and economic growth. After all, we were surrounded by examples of a booming economy and careful pronouncements by the wise men (and they were almost uniformly men) that we knew what to do. Markets would discipline excesses and fuel growth and innovation. Technology would add value to the lives of all Americans. We received reminders of this on a daily basis with a barrage of emails in our inboxes, of the power of the internet, the interconnectivity we’d achieved and the potential of a global economy. The reality is that the United States has managed its economic recovery better than any other large economy. We’ve created more jobs since 2009 than throughout the entirety of the previous 8 years. The Obama Administration did this despite inheriting an economy in free fall, shedding one to two hundred thousand jobs a week and despite Congress making a foolish decision to ramp back spending in the government sector which virtually all independent experts agree would have speeded the recovery. We enacted healthcare reform and extending healthcare to millions while we’ve seen an unprecedented reduction in the inflation of healthcare costs. Unemployment is down, housing stats are up, and the economy is back on track. Unfortunately, there’s also a disturbing reality; many of these changes which were adding value to the stock market and the GDP were not shared broadly. After three decades where real family incomes more than doubled after World War II, the next three decades found dramatic upset and turbulence. Corporate profits doubled but middle-income family wages stagnated. Today, the typical family is no better off and indeed 80% are worse off than they were fifteen years ago in terms of their real economic condition. The job market became more challenging and unpredictable. The conventional wisdom that making the American work force more productive and companies more profitable would fuel prosperity has been discredited and disproved. The American worker continues to be more and more productive but the share of national income going to workers has dropped dramatically. It’s not just that wages are stuck. There was a dramatic monetary shift to the wealthiest that in the main, did not create real products. They were financial engineers and developed technology which while often useful, really didn’t add to the quality of life for things that mattered most to Americans. Sure, we have unprecedented access to information on the internet, forty or four hundred channels on TV, more media platforms, but in terms of a family’s health, quality of their neighborhoods, prospects for their children, many of these developments matter little for most people. It’s easy to do “Monday morning quarterbacking” about actions taken to avoid economic collapse during the recession. Things were coming at us fast and furiously. Some items that I still think were questionable appear to have worked out better than I had feared. Yet we still failed to use the crisis and the leverage to make broader changes, strengthening America and the middle class. We can’t move forward until we address this issue. A simple step in the right direction would be to raise the minimum wage, giving a boost for people who are working a second job to make ends meet, for college students who have a part time job to help pay tuition or retired seniors who find themselves back in the workforce to stretch their meager savings. There are also systematic reforms that are long overdue. Why do we continue to treat families and their homes different than we treat businesses in bankruptcy? Why do we allow unscrupulous, for-profit colleges and universities to loot the Treasury while they shortchange some of our most vulnerable students? Why do we avoid reforming government regulation so that it is performance-based, which intellectually should be embraced by citizens, businesses, conservatives and liberals alike? To be sure, there are many areas desperately in need of action, from reforming our agricultural policies to reshaping our military, putting it on a more sustainable path by cutting spending on grotesquely unnecessary weapons systems. We must address the looming shortfall in the Social Security trust fund and the immediate shortfall of a bankrupt Highway Trust Fund to stop America from falling apart and falling behind. These are serious problems but they all have solutions that are within our capacity to implement. The United States is a country of contradictions. We are low tax by international standards but we put burdens on families and communities greater than those suffered in other countries. Some of the people who are most critical of government intervention, who preach for limited government and trumpet-free enterprise, are the most adamant about protecting their special government privileges, tax advantages, government markets and subsidies. This is our challenge. It’s about understanding that we are in the middle of an ongoing debate about our future. We as a nation continue to have great riches. Our federal government has tremendous capacity to do more simply by planning better, redirecting existing revenue streams in more productive fashion and ending entitlements which no longer make sense. It does not mean placing the burden, once again, on the majority of American families. There is no need to short change their future, their children, their community and their environment. There is wealth, not just to be protected but to be generated. There is an unparalleled opportunity to not just avoid disastrous consequences, but to move things in a positive direction so that everyone can share in the economic recovery. It is not necessary for us to scale down our aspirations or our vision. It is not necessary to wait for some all-encompassing grand scheme or solution. We can start today on issues large and small, making a difference. As I have done for years, I’ll be putting my ideas and solutions on my website, engaging people in public forums and social media, hosting discussions on how we reset the conversation back to what we can achieve versus only dwelling on what we can’t. I hope you will join me. It will be fun, it will be effective and it will recapture that special spirit which has made America great and will do so in the future. We can do this. ###
01.28.2015	Today, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Chris Collins (NY-27) introduced the bipartisan Cider Industry Deserves Equal Regulation (CIDER) Act. The Act, H.R. 600, would amend the section of the tax code that deals with wine and related beverages, 26 USC § 5041, to support the growing number of craft and entrepreneurial cider makers, and tailor IRS rules to reflect variations in craft ciders across the country. During the fermentation process, a variety of factors can lead to small changes in the composition of a cider’s alcohol content and carbonation. Because of the narrow way that hard cider is currently defined in the tax code, these small variations can lead to cider being taxed at a rate fifteen times higher than what the statute clearly intended. The Blumenauer-Collins bill would update the tax definitions to greatly reduce the chance that improper taxation could occur. The bill would also broaden the definition to include both pear and apple ciders. “Cider making is sometimes closer to an art than a science,” said Blumenauer. “As the American apple and pear hard cider industry becomes more prominent on the world stage, and cider becomes a beverage choice for more Americans’ developing palettes, we need to ensure that cideries have every opportunity to expand and meet the needs of this growing market without an unfair tax burden.” “I am proud to introduce legislation that will support our nation’s apple growers and cider makers,” said Collins. “The CIDER Act will help spur growth in these industries by restructuring taxes to fairer rates that take into account the natural variations in the cider making process. I thank Representative Blumenauer for joining me in this goal to reduce burdens on small businesses and simplify our tax code” said Congressman Chris Collins. "Confusing regulations and contradictory enforcement of rules is the name of the game for startup and experienced cidermakers alike,” said Nat West, owner of Reverend Nat’s Hard Cider in Portland. “The cider industry is growing astoundingly fast, with Oregon and the Northwest being a hotbed. With clear regulations and a tax structure that mirrors the real world of this agricultural product, we will expand quickly and make ciders that people want to drink." The changes proposed by Congressman Blumenauer and Collins will update the existing federal definition of cider to better reflect the industry and keep American cider competitive in the international marketplace. Production nationally has been robust, more than tripling from 9.4 million gallons in 2011 to 32 million gallons in 2013. Cider revenues in the U.S. have been just as impressive, tripling from $178 million in 2007 to $601 million in 2012. "We are very pleased that Congressmen Blumenauer and Collins are working to assist cideries--not only in our part of the country, but nationally as well,” said Sherrye Wyatt, Executive Director of the Northwest Cider Association, which represents cideries in Washington, Oregon, Montana, Idaho, and British Columbia. “These Main Street small businesses are ready to expand their capacity to keep up with strong demand, create jobs, and become a key component of the country’s economic recovery. With tremendous growth, it's an unprecedented time in the Northwest cider industry. We need to remove any barriers which may prevent cider from realizing its greatest potential and write a new chapter in history." “Today, Congressmen Blumenauer and Collins took a critical first step towards making the United States hard cider industry more competitive internationally and treated more fairly under the tax code,” said Mike Beck, President of the United States Association of Cider Makers (USACM). “Our industry has tripled in size since 2007 and the existing tax structure is insufficient to deal with this growth. As a result, the potential to stunt this surge exists, and HR 600 will remedy this problem. On behalf of the United States Association of Cider Makers, I am pleased to fully endorse this legislation and pledge our grassroots efforts to this legislation’s success.” Rep. Blumenauer will be addressing the 2015 Cider Convention on February 6th in Chicago. ###
01.23.2015	I voted against H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. This legislation sends the wrong signal, short-circuiting the legal approval process for the construction of a pipeline carrying some of the dirtiest oil in the world – oil extracted from tar sands - from Canada and across the United States to refineries near the Gulf of Mexico. I also voted against the previous nine attempts the House has made to approve the project. While the Nebraska court decision may have answered one question, others remain. I don’t want to establish the precedent of skipping the Administration’s review process and emboldening a Congress driven by extreme political views on immigration, foreign policy, and climate to name a few. Until we put a price on carbon and Canada (and the United States for that matter) adopt stronger climate policies, what ultimately will stop tar sands oil production will be the price of oil and a changing energy economy. It may already be too expensive to produce right now, as oil prices have fallen dramatically below the threshold previously deemed necessary for more expensive oil extraction methods. Considering that, and the fact that the pipeline is projected to only create 35 permanent jobs in the United States if constructed, it hardly seems worth circumventing a process all similar projects must go through. It’s true that the Keystone pipeline would create several thousand construction jobs which are real and needed. More jobs and economic impact would be created with less environmental impact, however, with investments in infrastructure, alternative energy and conservation. In 2013 alone, the clean energy and clean transportation economy created nearly 80,000 jobs in the United States. Supporting these important and still emerging industries is where we should be focusing our attention as policy makers. That’s why I have been a staunch supporter of investing in the production of clean renewable energy, energy efficiency, and renewable energy research. As part of this debate, one factor that Congress can and should address right now is closing a loophole that allows tar sands oil to be carried by the Keystone XL pipeline or coming to US refineries by other means, to be exempt from a tax that funds oil spill cleanup. I’ve introduced HR 214, the Tar Sands Tax Loophole Elimination Act, which would ensure oil companies pay their fair share. These companies already receive billions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies. Regardless of what one thinks about the Keystone XL pipeline, we should all be able to agree that the companies transporting the oil, which are some of the most profitable companies in the world, should be the ones to pay for any spills that damage the environment and our communities, and not you, the taxpayer. ###
01.21.2015	This is my 19th State of the Union speech and never has one been delivered to a more divided audience and critical media. And yet I feel energized by the President's speech this evening and the specific areas of bipartisanship that he laid out for this Congress. Often the best news in a troubled world will get the least attention. The economy, which collapsed in the latter part of the Bush Administration and remained in free fall during the first few Obama months, has not just stabilized, but has turned around and strengthened. It is the best economic performance of any of the large economies in the world. December marked the eleventh consecutive month of job growth above 200,000. The income divide, the growing gap that saps our strength and our spirit, is a welcome focus. Greater investment in our infrastructure would help close it in every state by putting men and women back to work. The simpler the solution the better, and merely increasing the gas tax would be a significant lift. There were many worthy and interesting ideas floated this evening, but implementation is going to be hard. Certainly paid family and sick leave, assistance to particularly low-income families to take advantage of a community college education, and middle class tax relief would help change the direction. We also cannot lose focus on increasing the minimum wage at a time when many Americans have seen their incomes remain nearly stagnant for the last 15 years. Absent a significant adjustment on the part of the people who now control both chambers, this agenda will be hard to accomplish. Part of the question will be whether we are going to implement things this year, or whether we are basically setting the stage for the 2016 election and beyond, ignoring today’s pressing issues. I think it is important to have a sense of where we will be for the next administration and a better Congress, and like the President, I am not yet willing to abandon progress for this Congress. That is why I invited as my guest to the State of the Union speech Cheryl Strayed, the author of the best-selling novel Wild. Throughout the day, Cheryl and I have been meeting with people to share her message, her personal journey and emotional challenge of overcoming adversity, and along the way protecting some of America’s special places. These are the types of messages that resonate widely and can help lift our sights as well as our spirits. I am hopeful that we can use her story as inspiration to do better -- or as the President put it, to "appeal to each other's basic decency instead of our basest fears". It is important that we find ways not to talk past each other and retreat to full campaign mode any sooner than absolutely necessary. I’m willing to fight the good fight for 2016, but I’d like to see us fight the good fight in the months ahead to make progress to address the critical issues facing us now. ###
01.20.2015	Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) has invited New York Times bestselling author Cheryl Strayed as his guest at this year’s State of the Union Address. A constituent of Oregon’s 3rd Congressional District, Strayed is the author of the bestselling memoir WILD, as well as the advice essay collection TINY BEAUTIFUL THINGS and the novel TORCH. Her books have been translated into more than thirty languages around the world. WILD details how Strayed’s 1100-mile hike along the Pacific Crest Trail helped her overcome struggles with substance abuse, divorce, and her mother’s passing. A major movie adaptation of WILD was released in 2014 to positive reviews and featured actresses Reese Witherspoon and Laura Dern. Strayed is a longtime activist on women’s issues and the arts. A passionate advocate for America’s trail system, Congressman Blumenauer currently Co-Chairs the Congressional Trails Caucus. He has sponsored legislation that provides tax credits to landowners who provide permanent easements for access and viewsheds along America’s national trails, including the Appalachian, Continental Divide, and Pacific Crest Trails. ###
01.14.2015	Sadly, I was forced to vote against H.R. 240, a bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security for its important mission. This legislation was hijacked to use as a vehicle for egregious provisions that would devastate the lives of hundreds of thousands of children and families in the United States. It is stunning that our first vote on immigration in this Congress would be to revoke the rights of 600,000 children who came to the U.S. by no choice of their own. These outrageous amendments will probably result in a presidential veto of funding for Homeland Security, complicating our national security at a critical moment. It is ironic, because House Republicans have stonewalled immigration reform and would not work with Democrats. They refused to allow a vote on the bipartisan immigration reform bill when it passed the Senate nearly a year and a half ago. The President's executive action is the right path forward, bringing millions out of the shadows, strengthening families, and growing our economy. His bold step is no substitute for comprehensive immigration reform, but until then, is a critical step in the right direction. I will fight to build on the President's action--and the advocacy that inspired it--to enact comprehensive immigration reform. There is no other solution. In the meantime, I trust cooler heads will prevail in the Senate and we will allow the Department the funding it needs. ###
12.19.2014	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} I was delighted with the President’s decision to set in motion a dramatic shift away from our failed policies towards Cuba. His initial first steps, including reestablishing diplomatic relations, sets the stage for what must ultimately be done, which is lifting the embargo. It's also heartwarming that after five long years, Alan Gross has finally been reunited with his family, who have fought bravely and tirelessly for his release ever since his wrongful imprisonment in Cuba. For as long as I have been in Congress, I’ve been speaking out against this strategic mistake. The United States does not have a coherent sanctions policy, free of any mechanism to determine when it’s time to reevaluate or eliminate them. That would have meant that long ago there would have been a reevaluation of American’s effort of isolating Cuba. In a rational world, and by any objective measure, the Cuban government is no more repressive than the Chinese, the Vietnamese, or some Middle Eastern countries. None of these countries, however, face sanctions as severe, and in most instances, enjoy normal trading status with us. Experts agree that had the United States been more open with Cuba, the force of our ideas – from freedom of speech to personal liberty to open markets – would have chipped away at the repressive Castro regime. Indeed, had that been our policy from the outset, it’s quite possible that the Castro’s would no longer be in power. What’s for certain, however, is that the lives the Cuban people would be better off, and economic benefits would be shared between our two countries. I hope we can have the long overdue, broader discussion in this country and that Congress moves swiftly to reevaluate and ultimately abolish the embargo. There are plenty of other opportunities for us to influence the Cuban government while we strengthen ties with the Cuban people. It is abundantly clear that after 50 years, however, the embargo is not an effective one. Too often American foreign policy is driven by our domestic passions and leads to policies that are punitive in nature, but void of a broader strategy. Worse, often our actions prevent the very outcomes we desire. That has certainly been the case with Cuba. It’s time for a reset, with eyes wide open, and the President set that in motion yesterday. It’s time for Congress to follow through and right this historic misadventure in sanctions policy. Pete Souza/The White House ###
12.16.2014	Last night, the United States Senate passed Congressman Earl Blumenauer's bill, the Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act. The bill will now head to President Obama's desk for his signature. Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement: As we come to the very final day of the least productive Congress in the history of our country, Americans are searching for something, anything, to show that their leaders on Capitol Hill can find ways to put aside politics and do the right thing when needed. Last night, despite the odds, we saw such an achievement as the Senate passed the Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act, my bipartisan legislation to improve global water, health, and sanitation and improve the lives of millions across the world. Since it passed the House unanimously last week, it will now head to the President's desk to become law. I have said for years that politics stops at water. Today, because of the dedicated efforts of champions in the House, like my co-lead Representative Ted Poe and House Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce, our Senate leads, Senators Durbin and Corker, and the advocacy community, we have proven that statement true. Once the bill is fully enacted, it will help the U.S. more effectively deliver clean, potable water to the world's poorest, especially women and girls who spend countless hours, and place themselves at great risk of physical harm, to gather water from often polluted sources every day. The legislation is historic, requiring the first ever U.S. Global Water Strategy, outlining how the U.S. can help the most vulnerable, while at the same time preventing water-related conflict. It will also increase access to toilets and other basic sanitation for the 2.5 billion people globally who currently live without, undercutting the spread of contagious, deadly diseases. I sincerely hope that the passage of the Water for the World Act is only a first glimpse of the bipartisan progress we will make in the 114th Congress once we concentrate on areas of common interest. We can build on this success and make the next two years more productive than the last two. ###
12.08.2014	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2901, the Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act authored by Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Ted Poe (R-TX). The Senate is expected to take action quickly on the bill, sending it to the President’s desk. Once made law, the Water for the World Act will strengthen and refine the implementation of the Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act to ensure that water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) programming is not only elevated in a way that helps leverage the impact of other development assistance, but that it is targeted to help the world’s poorest, and is more effective, with long-term, sustainable impacts. “It’s been almost a decade since we passed the Water for the Poor Act, which has helped millions of people around the world access clean water and sanitation,” said Blumenauer. “Since then, we have worked nonstop in a purely bipartisan fashion to expand and improve international water aid. Working with my friend, Ted Poe, and dedicated advocates, we have shown that politics stops at water and that Congress can come together to pass meaningful, substantive bills when put aside our differences for the good of the country and the world.” “It is unacceptable that in the year 2014 there are women who are still forced to walk miles to fetch water from polluted rivers infected with waste, parasites and other insects,” said Poe. “This ought not to be. Water is key to just about every kind of development. If we don’t get water right, it doesn’t matter how many schools we build or vaccines we pass out. I commend my colleagues in the House on both sides of the aisle for passing this bipartisan bill that will make U.S. water aid more efficient and effective. We have it within our power to fix this and make water a priority in any development discussion- like it should be. Today Congress took one step further towards doing so.” “The global safe drinking water and sanitation challenge is 100% solvable,” said John Oldfield, CEO of WASH Advocates. “This pivotal piece of legislation - passed with strong bipartisan support - ensures that water and sanitation programs will be implemented in a fashion that is increasingly viable in technical and financial terms over the long run. More children will carry schoolbooks instead of water, and more people in Africa, Asia, and Latin America will lead longer, healthier lives.” "Through our work in poor countries around the world, WaterAid has seen the transformative impact of access to safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene,” said Lisa Schechtman, director of policy and advocacy for WaterAid. “These services are basic, lifesaving, efficient and effective. Yet, much more needs to be done to meet the needs of 2.5 billion people living without a decent toilet, and suffering the consequences--from watching children die of preventable diarrhea, to heightened risk of sexual violence. Thanks to the leadership of Congressmen Poe and Blumenauer, the House has taken a huge step in passing Water for the World. We cannot let this momentum go to waste." “The Water for the World Act is a critical piece of the poverty puzzle, ensuring that the United States stays focused on helping those who don’t have access to clean water, proper sanitation and hygiene,” said Lisa Bos, senior policy advisor for World Vision. “World Vision and its advocates, who have been mobilizing in support of H. R. 2901 for the last year and a half, are grateful for the House’s support of this bill and urge swift action in the Senate.” "Global Citizens have taken tens of thousands of actions over the past year in support of the Water for the World Act. Today we were thrilled to see House leadership hold a vote on the bill and hear Members of Congress to raise their voices in support of increased access to water and sanitation for people around the world,” said Justine Lucas, US Country Director of the Global Poverty Project. "We commend Reps. Blumenauer and Poe for their tireless efforts to ensure that U.S. foreign aid programs bring effective water, sanitation and hygiene programming to the poorest individuals around the globe,” said Sam Worthington, President and CEO, of InterAction.“In an era plagued by seemingly endless political gridlock, their bipartisan leadership is a reminder that current global challenges can be addressed in a meaningful way. The U.S. Senate now must act quickly and follow suit." Currently, nearly 800 million people lack access to clean water. An astounding 2.5 billion people worldwide live without access to proper sanitation. This adds to the spread of disease, such as Ebola, and death as much as any other factor in the world. Every day, women and girls spend a combined 200 million hours collecting water, keeping them from school, work, and family. There are over 260 river basins that cross at least one international border, making the management of this finite resource – without conflict – one of our greatest national security challenges. We need only look at the very recent history in Syria for proof, where severe droughts played a key role in the initial uprisings. ###
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Tom Petri (WI-06) stood together to call on Congress to raise the nation’s gas tax in order to save the failing Highway Trust Fund, which funds the United States transportation infrastructure. The event coincided with the one-year anniversary of Blumenauer’s introduction of the Update, Promote and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act and with Congressman Petri joining Congressman Blumenauer as a cosponsor of the legislation earlier in the week. The UPDATE Act would phase in a 15 cent increase to the gas tax over a period of three years and would index it to inflation. The Congressmen were joined by a cutout of former President Ronald Reagan, who called on Congress to raise the gas tax during his Thanksgiving Day Address in 1982. Blumenauer played a few excerpts from President Reagan’s speech. “I want to thank Tom for his leadership on this issue and for joining me on this bill,” said Blumenauer. “He has been a champion for common sense for many years in Congress. Like President Reagan, he knows that that transportation funding was not, and should never be, a partisan issue. We all use our roads, bridges and rail, whether we’re Republicans or Democrats, rural or urban. Reagan also knew that the gas tax is actually a user fee, which means that those who use the roads the most are the ones paying for them. This should be our last gas tax increase ever, as we look for fairer and more sustainable funding methods, but it’s necessary to bridge the gap and keep our country moving.” "I am cosponsoring Rep. Blumenauer's bill because we need a first rate transportation system and the responsible thing to do is pay for it. For too long we have watched unmet infrastructure needs increase and the regular funding source to meet these needs become less and less relevant over time. We have to ask ourselves what is the more fiscally responsible route to take--budget gimmicks that fool taxpayers into thinking we have offset spending but that, in reality, put more debt in the hands of future generations? Or, restoring purchasing power to the Trust Fund so we can meet our transportation needs now and in the future? "Ronald Reagan supported raising the gas tax back in 1982 because he believed in funding American infrastructure in a responsible way. I think he was right, and it's the best course of action we can take at this time.” The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that the United State’s surface transportation infrastructure requires more than $2 trillion of investment in order to remain economically competitive. In 2011, the Federal Highway Administration estimated that over $70.9 billion worth of repairs were needed merely to maintain safe bridges. Even just to maintain current infrastructure funding levels, the CBO estimates that the Highway Trust Fund will need $100 billion in addition to current tax receipts for the period from FY15-FY20. If Congress cannot find a way to make the Highway Trust Fund solvent, this continued disinvestment will mean a more than 30% drop in federal transportation spending by 2024. “While we haven’t seen much action from Congress since the gas tax was raised 21 years ago, there have been a few voices of common sense and rationality,” said former United States Secretary for Transportation, Ray LaHood. “The loudest and most persistent of these has been Earl Blumenauer, who introduced the first bill in the House to raise the gas tax since President Clinton’s first term. It’s one thing to recognize the crumbling state of America’s infrastructure, but another to stand up and call for Congress to show some political courage. Congress should pass Earl’s bill to fully fund our roads, highways, and bridges.” “I’m pleased to see that Congressman Petri has joined Congressman Blumenauer in endorsing the idea of gradually restoring the purchasing power of the federal gas tax to ensure that we can continue to maintain and invest in our nation’s roads, bridges, and transit systems,” said Senator Tom Carper of Delaware. “Ever since I had responsibility for a state transportation system as governor of Delaware, I’ve been convinced that user fees like the gas tax are the most efficient and fairest way to pay for infrastructure investments. Both Congressman Petri and Congressman Blumenauer are leaders who carry clout on this issue, in particular, and I hope that their voices, along with the chorus of varied groups calling for passing and funding a long-term transportation bill, will get us that much closer to action in Congress.”
11.26.2014	The tragedy that was Ferguson, Missouri continues. We hoped that the Grand Jury deliberations in Ferguson would have helped to clarify and calm while bringing about justice. Like many, I was dismayed by the outcome, troubled by the way it was handled by the prosecuting attorney conducting the Grand Jury, and of course, appalled at violent reaction by some. At some level it is understandable that notoriously unreliable eye witnesses have starkly different memories and disagree as to the facts. The long, drawn out process, and the way it was handled probably did more to obscure the truth than to clarify what actually happened. It certainly did not appear from a distance to have been impartial. However, what is not in dispute is that there is good reason for African Americans in Ferguson to feel that they are not treated fairly by the system, that they are underrepresented, and over-arrested. But this is not unique to Ferguson. The evidence nationally is that African Americans are arrested too often, convicted more, and sentenced to longer terms in prison. I hope that the Department of Justice takes this opportunity now that the Grand Jury has issued its verdict, to examine whether there is a pattern of discriminatory behavior on the part of the authorities in Ferguson in terms of practice and patterns. I strongly suspect systematic problems will be revealed and that the Department of Justice has reason to weigh in. This is yet another wake up call to communities across this great nation that we have a long ways to go in securing equal treatment under the law. While the violent reaction by some is to be deplored and resisted at every turn, it is imperative that people who would act recklessly are not emboldened or empowered as a result of systematic failures in our system of justice.
11.26.2014	The tragedy that was Ferguson, Missouri continues. We hoped that the Grand Jury deliberations in Ferguson would have helped to clarify and calm while bringing about justice. Like many, I was dismayed by the outcome, troubled by the way it was handled by the prosecuting attorney conducting the Grand Jury, and of course, appalled at violent reaction by some. At some level it is understandable that notoriously unreliable eye witnesses have starkly different memories and disagree as to the facts. The long, drawn out process, and the way it was handled probably did more to obscure the truth than to clarify what actually happened. It certainly did not appear from a distance to have been impartial. However, what is not in dispute is that there is good reason for African Americans in Ferguson to feel that they are not treated fairly by the system, that they are underrepresented, and over-arrested. But this is not unique to Ferguson. The evidence nationally is that African Americans are arrested too often, convicted more, and sentenced to longer terms in prison. I hope that the Department of Justice takes this opportunity now that the Grand Jury has issued its verdict, to examine whether there is a pattern of discriminatory behavior on the part of the authorities in Ferguson in terms of practice and patterns. I strongly suspect systematic problems will be revealed and that the Department of Justice has reason to weigh in. This is yet another wake up call to communities across this great nation that we have a long ways to go in securing equal treatment under the law. While the violent reaction by some is to be deplored and resisted at every turn, it is imperative that people who would act recklessly are not emboldened or empowered as a result of systematic failures in our system of justice.
11.21.2014	The President's bold action is the right path forward, bringing millions out of the shadows, strengthening families, and growing our economy. This is no substitute for comprehensive immigration reform, but, until then, this is a critical step in the right direction. Throughout this year, House Republicans have stonewalled on immigration reform and refused to work with Democrats. The Speaker refused to allow even a vote on the bipartisan immigration reform bill since it passed the Senate nearly a year and a half ago It’s a sign of our times that a Congress that has failed to act on comprehensive immigration reform for political reasons is concerned with the President’s political motivations. Will it help or hurt Democrats and Republicans going forward in the future? A lot of ink and air time is devoted to making the case that one party or the other is going to suffer. Instead, our focus should be on the millions of people whose families will benefit from this action and on the potential to break the log jam to finish the job for comprehensive reform, strengthening families and the economy. It is ultimately that test rather than the pundits and the pollsters that should be given more attention. I continue to be optimistic that, in the aftermath of this important decision, cooler heads will prevail and will be able to craft a longer term solution that doesn’t leave out millions of others. The loudest voices on Capitol Hill have sat on their hands and turned their backs on our businesses, our faith leaders, law enforcement, and hard-working immigrant families. The President’s action is not without precedent. Over the years, there have been dozens of executive actions taken on immigration matters, including from five Republican presidents. We cannot afford to lose billions in economic growth, and $1 trillion over the next 20 years, that economists estimate the federal budget will lose as a result of our failed immigration policies. We should celebrate this moment and then we must build on the President’s action—and the advocacy that inspired it—to enact comprehensive emigration reform. There is no other solution. I am eager to continue our work together to make it happen
11.20.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03) and Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), along with ten bipartisan cosponsors, introduced the Veterans Equal Access Act, which would make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana. Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms brought by their patients seeking recommendations or opinions regarding a Veteran’s participation in a state medical marijuana program. The Act would authorize VA physicians and other health care providers to provide recommendations and opinions regarding the use of medical marijuana to veterans who live in medical marijuana states. “Post traumatic stress and traumatic brain injury are just as damaging and harmful as any injuries that are visible from the outside,” said Blumenauer. “Sometimes even more so because of the devastating effect they can have on a veteran’s family. We should be allowing these wounded warriors access to the medicine that will help them survive and thrive, including medical marijuana, not treating them like criminals and forcing them into the shadows. It’s shameful.” “Our antiquated drug laws must catch up with the real suffering of so many of our veterans,” said Rohrabacher. “This is now a moral cause and a matter of supreme urgency. It is unconscionable that a VA doctor cannot offer a full range of treatments, including medical marijuana, which in many cases has been shown to have worked, to an American veteran who fought valiantly for our country. Conscience dictates that we not coldly ignore these desperate men and women, and that we remove government from its paternalistic stance between patient and doctor.” Over 20 percent of the 2.8 million American veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan suffer from PTS and depression. In addition, a recent study found that of the nearly one million veterans who receive opioids to treat painful conditions, more than half continue to consume chronically or beyond 90 days. Another study found that the death rate from opiate overdoses among VA patients is nearly double the national average. In states where patients can legally access medical marijuana for painful conditions, often as a less addictive alternative, the hands of VA physicians should not be tied. “Veterans For medical Cannabis Access is very proud to stand by Congressman Blumenauer and support the Veterans Equal Access Act,” said Michael Krawitz, executive director of Veterans For Medical Cannabis Access. "The Veterans Health Administration has made it very clear that, as federal employees, they lack the free speech necessary to write the recommendations for Veterans to comply with state programs. This legislation is needed to correct that legal situation and repair this VA doctor patient relationship." “The status quo has numerous harmful effects,” continued Blumenauer. “It forces veterans into the black market to self-medicate. It prevents doctors from giving their best and honest advice and recommendations. And it pushes both doctors and their patients toward drugs that are potentially more harmful and more addictive. It’s insane and it has to stop.” The bill is also cosponsored by Justin Amash (R-MI), Paul Broun (R-GA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Sam Farr (D-CA), Walter Jones (R-NC), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Jared Polis (D-CO), Steve Stockman (R-TX), and Dina Titus (D-NV)
11.19.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Ted Poe (TX-02) held a press conference to promote the Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act, HR 2901, and to celebrate World Toilet Day. Currently, nearly 800 million people lack access to clean water. An astounding 2.5 billion people worldwide live without access to proper sanitation. Every day, women and girls spend a combined 200 million hours collecting water, keeping them from school, work, and family. Water for the World elevates water, sanitation, and hygiene programs and leverages the impact of other development assistance, ensuring that they are targeted to help the world’s poorest, and are more effective, with long-term, sustainable impacts. “This is a truly bipartisan effort, supported by good people on all sides of the political spectrum,” said Blumenauer. “Congressman Poe and I have always said that politics stops at water, and we hope to prove that right over the coming weeks. The swift passage of this bill this Congress would be a signal that we can come together to improve America’s security, global health, and the lives of women and children without burdening taxpayers or making enemies abroad. We’re committed to working with House leadership to get this bill onto the floor and then through the Senate as soon as possible.” “It is unacceptable that in the year 2014 there are women who are still forced to walk miles to fetch water from polluted rivers infected with waste, parasites and other insects,” said Poe. “This ought not to be. Water is key to just about every kind of development. If we don’t get water right, it doesn’t matter how many schools we build or vaccines we pass out. This bipartisan bill will make U.S. water aid more efficient and effective. We have it within our power to fix this and make water a priority in any development discussion- like it should be.” "We are proud to support the Water for the World Act and work to increase access to water and sanitation around the world,” said Justine Lucas, U.S. Country Director of the Global Poverty Project. “Global Citizens across the United States have raised their voices calling on Congress to pass the Water for the World Act this year." “Water for the World is a critical opportunity to support poor communities to build their own resiliency, improve their health, and better prevent crises like the current Ebola outbreak in West Africa,” said Lisa Schechtman, director of policy and advocacy for WaterAid. “With all these benefits, it's no wonder the bill has such strong bipartisan support on the drive to the President's desk.” “The lack of access to safe water and sanitation facilities and of appropriate hygiene impacts women and girls the most,” said Lisa Bos, senior policy advisor at WorldVision. “We must and can do better and the Water for the World Act helps get us there. Women and girls are the future in the developing world and the basics of water, sanitation and hygiene are essential to ensuring that future is realized.” “The 2012 Intelligence Community Assessment on Global Water Security found that during the next 10 years, many countries important to the United States will experience water problems, and that the developing world will look to the U.S. to lead the global community toward the development and implementation of sound policies for managing water resources. The Water for World Act makes important strides in that direction,” said John Oldfield, CEO of WASH Advocates. “It's also important to recognize that thousands and thousands of Americans - churches, Rotarians, nonprofits, school kids - in all 50 states are working actively to get safe drinking water to people in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. What you see here today on the steps of the Capitol is just the tip of the iceberg." “The US has become a leader in helping poor people get access to safe drinking water and sanitation, but only in recent years,” said John Sparks, director of advocacy and communications at Millennium Water Alliance. “Before 2005, US tax dollars in this area did not have the priority and focus that were needed to make a big difference. Now, US aid is playing the role that Americans across the political spectrum, in poll after poll, say they want it to do. Safe water and sanitation are intuitively supported by the great majority of Americans, whatever their political identification, and Congress can recognize that priority when it passes the Water for the World Act.”
11.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03) and Diane Black (R-TN-06) and a bipartisan group of 32 of their House colleagues wrote to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator, Marilyn Tavenner, asking for appropriate adjustments to the Medicare Advantage risk-adjustment system and the star rating and quality bonus program for Medicare’s most vulnerable population. The text of their letter is below, or for a digital copy, click here. The Honorable Marilyn Tavenner Administrator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear Administrator Tavenner: We write today to urge the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to take appropriate measures to ensure Medicare’s most vulnerable populations will continue to have access to the high quality care provided through the Medicare Advantage (MA) program. The MA program plays an important role in helping 16 million beneficiaries access high-quality health care, including delivering coordinated care to dually-eligible beneficiaries and other low-income seniors who often experience higher rates of chronic illness, disability and mental illness. It is well established that social determinants of health, including socioeconomic status, are important drivers of health outcomes. Dually-eligible individuals are amongst Medicare and Medicaid’s most vulnerable beneficiaries and those most in need of the additional benefits and services, care management, and coordination across providers that MA offers. We are, therefore, concerned that the current MA quality and resultant payment system does not capture the social determinants of health that these beneficiaries may face. We appreciate CMS’s recent interest in the impact of such social determinations, including low-income status on performance ratings, and believe the Request for Information released on September 8, 2014 is an important first step in examining this issue. The current MA payment system—specifically the risk adjustment payment model and the star ratings and quality bonus program—does not adequately recognize the types of high-cost interventions and care management required to provide high-quality care to the unique and specific needs of dually-eligible beneficiaries. Even with additional resources and the best efforts of health care providers, improved health outcomes tend to occur at a slower rate for the most disadvantaged beneficiaries. This, in turn, leads to lower quality ratings for the plans serving these populations and ultimately, lower funding to these plans. Thus, our current system perpetuates a downward funding and quality spiral for the populations who may need the most help. The possibility that a transfer of resources would be made away from the very beneficiaries most in need of such investments is deeply concerning. We want to hold all MA plans to high standards, but we also need to better measure patient outcomes and hold plans accountable for the risks and challenges faced by vulnerable beneficiaries and provide the right resources to help address those risks. The MA payment system should recognize the differences necessary to improve health outcomes for all populations, not discourage it. Any improvement to the risk adjustment model should consider MedPAC’s recommendations to use two years of condition data in the risk adjustment formula, include the number of conditions as an adjustment factor, and include variables for partial and full dual status. In addition, the star ratings should be adjusted to reflect the challenges plans and providers face in caring for the most vulnerable populations. The National Quality Forum (NQF) has recognized the impact that socioeconomic factors have on health outcomes and finalized recommendations to adjust quality measures for such factors on a trial basis. We applaud NQF for their efforts to address this issue, and we strongly encourage CMS to take these recommendations into account as you consider improvements to the Medicare Advantage program. We appreciate the recent effort of CMS to consider this important issue, and respectfully request that CMS make the necessary adjustments in the short term to ensure that both the risk-adjustment system and the star rating and quality bonus program accurately reflect the challenges in caring for vulnerable, dually-eligible individuals. We look forward to further working with CMS to further ensure Medicare's risk adjustment and quality measurement system is as accurate as possible.
11.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03) and Diane Black (R-TN-06) and a bipartisan group of 32 of their House colleagues wrote to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator, Marilyn Tavenner, asking for appropriate adjustments to the Medicare Advantage risk-adjustment system and the star rating and quality bonus program for Medicare’s most vulnerable population. The text of their letter is below, or for a digital copy, click here. The Honorable Marilyn Tavenner Administrator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear Administrator Tavenner: We write today to urge the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to take appropriate measures to ensure Medicare’s most vulnerable populations will continue to have access to the high quality care provided through the Medicare Advantage (MA) program. The MA program plays an important role in helping 16 million beneficiaries access high-quality health care, including delivering coordinated care to dually-eligible beneficiaries and other low-income seniors who often experience higher rates of chronic illness, disability and mental illness. It is well established that social determinants of health, including socioeconomic status, are important drivers of health outcomes. Dually-eligible individuals are amongst Medicare and Medicaid’s most vulnerable beneficiaries and those most in need of the additional benefits and services, care management, and coordination across providers that MA offers. We are, therefore, concerned that the current MA quality and resultant payment system does not capture the social determinants of health that these beneficiaries may face. We appreciate CMS’s recent interest in the impact of such social determinations, including low-income status on performance ratings, and believe the Request for Information released on September 8, 2014 is an important first step in examining this issue. The current MA payment system—specifically the risk adjustment payment model and the star ratings and quality bonus program—does not adequately recognize the types of high-cost interventions and care management required to provide high-quality care to the unique and specific needs of dually-eligible beneficiaries. Even with additional resources and the best efforts of health care providers, improved health outcomes tend to occur at a slower rate for the most disadvantaged beneficiaries. This, in turn, leads to lower quality ratings for the plans serving these populations and ultimately, lower funding to these plans. Thus, our current system perpetuates a downward funding and quality spiral for the populations who may need the most help. The possibility that a transfer of resources would be made away from the very beneficiaries most in need of such investments is deeply concerning. We want to hold all MA plans to high standards, but we also need to better measure patient outcomes and hold plans accountable for the risks and challenges faced by vulnerable beneficiaries and provide the right resources to help address those risks. The MA payment system should recognize the differences necessary to improve health outcomes for all populations, not discourage it. Any improvement to the risk adjustment model should consider MedPAC’s recommendations to use two years of condition data in the risk adjustment formula, include the number of conditions as an adjustment factor, and include variables for partial and full dual status. In addition, the star ratings should be adjusted to reflect the challenges plans and providers face in caring for the most vulnerable populations. The National Quality Forum (NQF) has recognized the impact that socioeconomic factors have on health outcomes and finalized recommendations to adjust quality measures for such factors on a trial basis. We applaud NQF for their efforts to address this issue, and we strongly encourage CMS to take these recommendations into account as you consider improvements to the Medicare Advantage program. We appreciate the recent effort of CMS to consider this important issue, and respectfully request that CMS make the necessary adjustments in the short term to ensure that both the risk-adjustment system and the star rating and quality bonus program accurately reflect the challenges in caring for vulnerable, dually-eligible individuals. We look forward to further working with CMS to further ensure Medicare's risk adjustment and quality measurement system is as accurate as possible.
11.13.2014	Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) hosted a press conference with Representatives Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Jared Polis (D-CO) and Dana Rohrabacher to discuss the recent ballot initiative victories on marijuana in Oregon, the District of Columbia, and Alaska, and Congress’s path forward. Below are Congressman Blumenauer’s prepared remarks. Representatives Earl Blumenauer, Jared Polis, Eleanor Holmes Norton, and Dana Rohrabacher There were many close elections across America last week, but there was one clear winner: ending our failed prohibition of marijuana and instead legalizing, regulating, and taxing adult marijuana use. Alaska and the District of Columbia voters joined Colorado and Washington from 2 years earlier with strong votes to legalize. Nowhere was that more emphatic than in Oregon. Marijuana legalization passed in Oregon by a greater margin than it had in Washington and Colorado. It got more votes than our U.S. Senator Jeff Merkley, who was overwhelming reelected, in a low-turnout, non-presidential year which experts predicted would depress the yes vote. Perhaps just as important as these votes that passed was one to legalize medical marijuana that failed in Florida, but garnered 57% of statewide voters, again in a low-turnout, non-presidential election. Because it was a constitutional amendment that required 60% to pass, it was not approved this time, but there is no question that medical marijuana is in the immediate future for Floridians. If it is back on the ballot in a presidential year it will exceed the 60% threshold. In the meantime, we are going to be working hard to implement the Oregon law and take advantage of the next two years to learn from the experience from others and refining our approach. We need to act in Congress now to solve two serious problems, not just for those states and jurisdictions that have legalized adult recreational use, but the 23 states and counting that have legalized medical marijuana. Firstly, a narrow reading of the federal banking regulations requires that marijuana business be operated with cash only. Congress must fix this by passing HR 2652, the Marijuana Businesses Access to Banking Act, because restricting them from having bank accounts is unwise, and may lead to more criminality. Secondly, I have legislation, HR 2240, The Small Business Tax Equity Act, that would permit marijuana businesses legal under state law to deduct their business expenses from their income tax. Because of a quirk in federal law, commonly known as 280E, small and emerging businesses face punitive federal taxation that is unfair. Passing these bills will help treat this emerging sector of the economy fairly and further protect the public. I am hopeful that as the reality of these elections and future changes set in, we’ll be able to do a better job of permitting them to operate and allow this rapidly emerging area of commerce to serve the public and thrive.
11.06.2014	PORTLAND, OR – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer met with leaders in Portland’s fashion and apparel community at the University of Oregon Innovation Lab at the White Stag Campus. For decades Portland has long been a magnet for footwear and apparel companies, especially in the outdoor and activewear categories. More recently, Portland’s attractiveness to young, creative workers and artisans has led to growth in high-end and custom fashion (including, of course, bow-ties). However, the fashion industry faces the same challenges as other young and growing areas: securing start-up capital, scaling up production, and finding skilled labor. Today’s meeting was to address these challenges and opportunities. “My experience is that Portlanders excel in areas requiring creativity and hard work, which sums up the fashion and apparel industry perfectly,” said Blumenauer. “Companies from our area are global leaders when it comes to sportswear and outdoor gear, and I’m confident that we can recreate that success in other types of apparel. When the name of your city has become synonymous with ‘hip’ and ‘cool,’ it’s time to ensure the designers and makers driving that image have the tools they need to succeed.” Joining Congressman Blumenauer at the meeting was: Nancy Hales – The First Lady of Portland. Crispin Argento, Founder/Creative Director, PINO and Portland Apparel Lab Russell Davis-Cohen, Founder, Bowyer & Fletcher Dawn Yanagihara, Owner, Kiriko Tito Chowdhury, Executive Director, FashioNXT Anna Cohen, Imperial Collection by Anna Cohen Ellen Schmidt-Devlin, Program Leader, University of Oregon
11.03.2014	Tomorrow, the election will be over, and while the next Congress is still two months away, we have a massive amount of work that remains for us before the end of the year. During this period, I will focus on issues that should be moved forward quickly, and which don't need to be partisan. Here at home, the mounting transportation infrastructure crisis in our country, with bridges and roads in severe disrepair and traffic congestion costing the average American family $1,700 a year, needs to be immediately addressed. Falling oil and gas prices represents a unique opportunity. We can raise the gas tax to keep up with inflation and meet the challenges of our failing infrastructure without increasing the financial burden on American motorists, who are enjoying a dramatic reduction in gasoline prices. Passing my legislation to raise the gas tax in the lame duck session would solve our problem, jump start the economy, and demonstrate our resolve to invest in our future. We can also improve Americans' lives by reforming our archaic drug policies. If, as I hope, Oregon becomes the next state to legalize marijuana for adult recreational use, it represents a signal for Congress to move toward reforming federal marijuana policy in a rational and thoughtful way. Medical or recreational marijuana is now legalized under state law for almost half the nation's population. Congress should take simple steps such as allowing legal marijuana businesses to deduct their business expenses from their taxes like any other small business, and giving marijuana businesses access to banking services so they are not dealing all in cash - a sure way to lead to more fraud, waste, and crime. Nothing is served but with punitive levels of taxation and forcing it to be an all-cash business. There is a strong, bipartisan effort expand American global leadership by passing "Water for the World" legislation that I introduced with Rep. Ted Poe. Nothing is more fundamental to global health than access to clean water and sanitation. This bill would take an enormous step toward ensuring sustainable and equitable access to clean water, sanitation, and hygiene for the nearly 800 million men, women and children who don't have it, and the 2.5 billion without even the most basic sanitation services. This spreads disease with terrifying quickness and lethality and can contribute to outbreaks such as the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. A lack of clean water has a disproportionate effect on women and girls, who, in developing countries, walk an average of 3.7 miles every day to get water. The World Health Organization estimates that up to 40 billion working hours are lost each year in Africa alone to gather water. A study by Doctors Without Borders found that 82 percent of women treated for rape in West and South Darfur were attacked while gathering water, firewood, or thatch. This bill has broad support from both parties in the House and Senate. It is time to act. Another important part of sustaining our global leadership and ensuring national security is protecting our allies. We have the opportunity to build on modest success earlier this Congress to make sure we are not leaving behind Afghan and Iraqi translators who bravely served US forces to suffer torture and execution at the hands of the Taliban, Al-Qaida, or ISIS. The Special Immigrant Visa program seeks to provide safe refuge for Iraqi and Afghan men and women who have provided "faithful and valuable service" to the U.S. Government and face an "ongoing serious threat" as a consequence of that service. However, we're in serious danger of running out of visas by the end of the year. Backlog and delay means not just weeks or months, but years, for those who risked their lives to help the U.S. mission. They live in fear and hiding, knowing they or their families could be killed at any moment. We need to authorize more SIVs and make sure the ones that we have are getting out in a timely manner. We can't wait any longer. Our allies in other war torn regions, specifically the devastated areas around Gaza, require our immediate attention. The water and sanitation infrastructure in the region is severely damaged, and the continued pumping of rapidly depleting ground water from wells has set the stage for another humanitarian crisis. This one will occur in a matter of months, not years. This water crisis poses a threat not just to 1.7 million people in Gaza, but to Israel. Raw sewage flowing into the Mediterranean will contaminate the water Israel uses for desalinization. Outbreaks of disease won't be confined to national borders. The same cooperation we have seen by Israelis, Palestinians, and Jordanians with the restoration of the open sewer that is the Jordan River, can be replicated in Gaza. It won't be easy, but the United States can and should play a constructive role in saving lives while helping with the peace process. None of these items are particularly controversial, but represent simple ways that we can save lives, save money, and make laws fairer. It's too early to call it quits for the year -- it will be even more difficult to get anything done next year with half of the Senate running for president. And maybe, just maybe, if we can make progress on some of these issues in a bipartisan, rational way, we can carry that momentum into the next Congress.
10.20.2014	We should be careful in restricting travel between West Africa and the U.S. during this current Ebola outbreak. People in affected countries still find a way to travel, and governments could have a harder time tracking those movements. Sealing off aid and resources to West Africa will likely exacerbate the epidemic and make it more difficult to contain. We must carefully promote actions that have been adopted to make sure they prove effective. The 5 airports that receive the vast majority of the travelers arriving from West Africa—New York City’s John F. Kennedy, Chicago-O’Hare, Atlanta, Newark, and Washington-Dulles—are now implementing extra layers of screening. Passengers will be asked questions about their potential exposure to the virus as well as observed for signs of illness. Those who have a fever will be quarantined and tested for the Ebola virus. Furthermore, the CDC has activated several regional centers with specialty biocontainment units that are equipped and trained to treat highly infectious disease, including Ebola, in order to contain any additional cases. Make no mistake; this is a wakeup call about far more than Ebola. The budget-cutting zealots have been starving our public health infrastructure and medical research. These budget cuts that allow the NIH to fund only one in six research proposals make it hard to develop an Ebola vaccine. To address the current threat of Ebola and prevent similar episodes in the future, we need to increase—not cut—funding for the NIH and CDC.
10.20.2014	The 2014 Ebola epidemic is the largest in recent history, affecting multiple countries in West Africa. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is leading a coordinated prevention effort to prevent the spread of Ebola in the United States. The CDC has activated several regional centers with specialty biocontainment units that are equipped with trained staff to treat highly infectious disease, including Ebola, in order to contain any cases. In Oregon, the Public Health Division of the Oregon Health Authority has established an Incident Management Team to address and monitor the ongoing Ebola situation. This Team is working with a variety of partners including the CDC, local health departments, Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems, the Port of Portland, the Oregon Nurses Association, and the Oregon National Guard. Below is helpful information about Ebola, its spread, symptoms, and best prevention efforts. Ebola is Not Spread Through: Contact with someone who has no symptoms Air Water Food in the U.S. Ebola Only Spreads When People Have Symptoms. The time from exposure to when symptoms appear (the incubation period) is 2 to 21 days. After that period, an exposed person will not become sick with Ebola. Symptoms of Ebola include high fever, severe headache, muscle pain, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach pain, or unexplained bleeding or bruising. Ebola is spread through direct contact with: Body fluids (urine, feces, saliva, vomit, sweat, semen, and blood) of a person who is sick with or who has died from Ebola Objects (like needles) contaminated with the virus Infected animals To Protect Yourself from Ebola: Wash your hands often with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Do not touch the blood or body fluids (like urine, feces, saliva, vomit, sweat, and semen) of people who are sick. Do not handle items that may have come in contact with a sick person’s blood or body fluids, like clothes, bedding, needles, or medical equipment. Do not touch the body of someone who has died of Ebola. Additional Resources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/index.html World Health Organization: https://www.who.int/csr/disease/ebola/en/
10.17.2014	Today Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) attended the Growth Management Leadership Alliance conference in Portland, OR hosted by 1000 Friends of Oregon. The conference brought together a dozen smart growth organizations from around the country dedicated to creating livable communities. Participants discussed future opportunities and challenges facing smart development. Blumenauer stressed the importance of networking and cooperation across fields of land use, transportation and economic development in order to develop best practices. Blumenauer is eager to continue working towards more sustainable and vibrant communities and commends the role played by 1000 Friends of Oregon in ensuring our community serves as a model for the nation.
10.17.2014	Today Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) attended the Growth Management Leadership Alliance conference in Portland, OR hosted by 1000 Friends of Oregon. The conference brought together a dozen smart growth organizations from around the country dedicated to creating livable communities. Participants discussed future opportunities and challenges facing smart development. Blumenauer stressed the importance of networking and cooperation across fields of land use, transportation and economic development in order to develop best practices. Blumenauer is eager to continue working towards more sustainable and vibrant communities and commends the role played by 1000 Friends of Oregon in ensuring our community serves as a model for the nation.
09.30.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and John Conyers (MI-13), along with 58 other Members of the House of Representatives, sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator, Gina McCarthy, with a series of immediate changes that should be made to protect pollinators from the impacts of neonicotinoid pesticides. Commercial beekeepers across the country experienced extremely high colony losses this past winter, and hives have yet to recover to full strength. Native pollinators, such as bumblebees, have also suffered alarming population declines, and two species now have petitions pending for protection under the Endangered Species Act. There are currently over 40 pollinator species Federally-listed as threatened or endangered, and, most recently, the iconic monarch butterfly has declined by 90 percent. Studies have indicated adverse impacts of pesticides to many native pollinator species – these risks must be curbed before more species approach extinction. Most recently, research published in the journal Nature showed that the most severe bird population declines occurred in those areas where neonicotinoid pollution was highest. Starlings, tree sparrows, and swallows were among the most affected. “Protecting our pollinators is essential to the health and future of our environment and our species,” said Blumenauer. “I’m going to keep hammering away on this issue until we can ensure that the products we are using in our backyards and on our farms are not killing pollinators. I’m passionate about it. Oregonians are passionate about it. You only have to look at the reaction to the die off of 50,000 bumblebees in Wilsonville last summer to know that. It’s time for the EPA to act.” “I urge Administrator McCarthy to take immediate action to address the neonicotinoid danger,” said Conyers. “The health of these bees and butterflies is essential to the health of our own human species. This is about more than environmental stewardship—it’s about humanity’s food supply." “It is critical that EPA act swiftly to protect our vital pollinators from harmful pesticides,” said Andrew Kimbrell, executive director of Center for Food Safety. “Until then, it is clear is that Congressional leaders, like Representatives Earl Blumenauer and John Conyers, are willing to stand up on behalf of beekeepers and the environment to ensure that this urgent issue gets the attention it deserves.” “Friends of the Earth applauds these leaders in Congress who are doing the right thing for our environment, farmers and food supply,” said Tiffany Finck-Haynes, food futures campaigner at Friends of the Earth. “We urge EPA to suspend neonicotinoid pesticides and do more to protect pollinators.” The letter and full recommendations are attached.
09.24.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), along with 33 other Members of the House of Representatives, sent a letter to Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator, Marilyn Tavenner, to adopt recommendations that would adequately reimburse Medicare providers for having voluntary discussions about end-of-life care and planning with patients. Currently, the time doctors spend having discussions with their patients about end-of-life care and planning is not reimbursed under Medicaid and Medicare. Without this incentive, these conversations are not happening. A recent study in the New England Journal of Medicine found that more than one in four elderly Americans lacked the capacity to make their own medical care decisions at the end of life. Under those circumstances, care decisions fall to family members and doctors who may not know the treatment preferences of their loved one. Elderly patients with advance directives, however, are more likely to receive the care they want. Evidence also demonstrates that advance care planning and end-of-life discussions reduce stress, anxiety, and depression in surviving loved ones. “Patients who wish to make clear their goals, values, and wishes through discussions with their trusted providers should have the opportunity to do so,” said Blumenauer. “In order to have these conversations, providers must have the adequate time, space, and reimbursement to conduct the complex and time-consuming discussions necessary to learn about the goals and values held by their patients and plan appropriately for their care. “ “Every organization that has seriously considered this issue, from the American Medical Association to the Institutes of Medicine, knows we have to start respecting people’s choices about how they face the end of life,” continued Blumenauer. “Making this simple change will have a profound effect on the way patients and their families spend their final days, and everyone deserves that dignity.” The other signers of the letter are: Henry A. Waxman (CA-33), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Ted Deutch (FL-19), Sander Levin (MI-09), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Lois Capps (CA-24), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Sam Farr (CA-17), Rush Holt (NJ-12), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Barbara Lee (CA-09), Betty McCollum (MN-04), James P. Moran (VA-08), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Ron Kind (WI-03), John Larson (CT-01), John Lewis (GA-05), James P. McGovern (MA-02), William Owens (NY-21), Mark Pocan (WI-02), David Price (NC-04), Linda Sanchez (CA-38), Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Peter Welch (VT-At large), Bobby Rush (IL-01), Janice Schakowsky (IL-09), David Scott (GA-13), Chris Van Hollen (MD-08).
09.24.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), along with 33 other Members of the House of Representatives, sent a letter to Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator, Marilyn Tavenner, to adopt recommendations that would adequately reimburse Medicare providers for having voluntary discussions about end-of-life care and planning with patients. Currently, the time doctors spend having discussions with their patients about end-of-life care and planning is not reimbursed under Medicaid and Medicare. Without this incentive, these conversations are not happening. A recent study in the New England Journal of Medicine found that more than one in four elderly Americans lacked the capacity to make their own medical care decisions at the end of life. Under those circumstances, care decisions fall to family members and doctors who may not know the treatment preferences of their loved one. Elderly patients with advance directives, however, are more likely to receive the care they want. Evidence also demonstrates that advance care planning and end-of-life discussions reduce stress, anxiety, and depression in surviving loved ones. “Patients who wish to make clear their goals, values, and wishes through discussions with their trusted providers should have the opportunity to do so,” said Blumenauer. “In order to have these conversations, providers must have the adequate time, space, and reimbursement to conduct the complex and time-consuming discussions necessary to learn about the goals and values held by their patients and plan appropriately for their care. “ “Every organization that has seriously considered this issue, from the American Medical Association to the Institutes of Medicine, knows we have to start respecting people’s choices about how they face the end of life,” continued Blumenauer. “Making this simple change will have a profound effect on the way patients and their families spend their final days, and everyone deserves that dignity.” The other signers of the letter are: Henry A. Waxman (CA-33), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Ted Deutch (FL-19), Sander Levin (MI-09), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Lois Capps (CA-24), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Sam Farr (CA-17), Rush Holt (NJ-12), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Barbara Lee (CA-09), Betty McCollum (MN-04), James P. Moran (VA-08), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Ron Kind (WI-03), John Larson (CT-01), John Lewis (GA-05), James P. McGovern (MA-02), William Owens (NY-21), Mark Pocan (WI-02), David Price (NC-04), Linda Sanchez (CA-38), Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Peter Welch (VT-At large), Bobby Rush (IL-01), Janice Schakowsky (IL-09), David Scott (GA-13), Chris Van Hollen (MD-08).
09.19.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Dave Loebsack (IA-02), along with 16 other members of Congress, introduced HR 5559, the Bridge to a Clean Energy Future Act of 2014. The bill would extend critical incentives to provide market certainty and to strengthen investment in clean energy such as extending Production Tax Credit for wind energy through 2016, offering parity with the Investment Tax Credit enjoyed by solar energy investments, and granting the solar industry the same access to credits at the start of a project’s construction that the wind industry has. Wind and solar energy are clean, renewable, and American. Creating a tax landscape for renewables that allows them to compete fairly in the market with other energy sources benefits the country by creating a healthier environment and thousands of jobs. It also puts renewable energy on an equal footing with traditional fossil fuels, giving consumers real choice about how they want to power their homes and their lives. “I’m eager to push this across the finish line this Congress,” said Blumenauer. “My state of Oregon is a leader in renewable energy technologies, and Dave’s state of Iowa is the second largest wind energy producer in the nation, so we understand the importance of stability and security in the clean energy sector. His help will be important in advancing this legislation. Making sure these energy sources are on an even playing field with the fossil fuel industry is essential to lowering carbon emissions, creating a cleaner environment, and creating good, non-exportable American jobs.” “The Production Tax Credit has helped the still-growing U.S. wind energy industry employ 80,000 Americans, including thousands of Iowans,” said Loebsack. “Like all businesses, the wind energy sector needs stability and predictability so long term investments and business decisions can be made. The continued expiration of the PTC causes slow-downs at manufacturing facilities and could lead to additional lay-offs. For our nation to move towards energy independence and continued job growth, we need to prioritize clean energy like wind and act immediately to pass this extension of the PTC.” In addition to developing domestic sources of clean energy, strengthening the finance environment for the construction and development of renewable energy installations strengthens the US economy by employing American workers, and supporting American manufacturers. From a strong base at home, American clean energy firms are also able to export this technology around the world, creating new markets for American expertise.
09.19.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Dave Loebsack (IA-02), along with 16 other members of Congress, introduced HR 5559, the Bridge to a Clean Energy Future Act of 2014. The bill would extend critical incentives to provide market certainty and to strengthen investment in clean energy such as extending Production Tax Credit for wind energy through 2016, offering parity with the Investment Tax Credit enjoyed by solar energy investments, and granting the solar industry the same access to credits at the start of a project’s construction that the wind industry has. Wind and solar energy are clean, renewable, and American. Creating a tax landscape for renewables that allows them to compete fairly in the market with other energy sources benefits the country by creating a healthier environment and thousands of jobs. It also puts renewable energy on an equal footing with traditional fossil fuels, giving consumers real choice about how they want to power their homes and their lives. “I’m eager to push this across the finish line this Congress,” said Blumenauer. “My state of Oregon is a leader in renewable energy technologies, and Dave’s state of Iowa is the second largest wind energy producer in the nation, so we understand the importance of stability and security in the clean energy sector. His help will be important in advancing this legislation. Making sure these energy sources are on an even playing field with the fossil fuel industry is essential to lowering carbon emissions, creating a cleaner environment, and creating good, non-exportable American jobs.” “The Production Tax Credit has helped the still-growing U.S. wind energy industry employ 80,000 Americans, including thousands of Iowans,” said Loebsack. “Like all businesses, the wind energy sector needs stability and predictability so long term investments and business decisions can be made. The continued expiration of the PTC causes slow-downs at manufacturing facilities and could lead to additional lay-offs. For our nation to move towards energy independence and continued job growth, we need to prioritize clean energy like wind and act immediately to pass this extension of the PTC.” In addition to developing domestic sources of clean energy, strengthening the finance environment for the construction and development of renewable energy installations strengthens the US economy by employing American workers, and supporting American manufacturers. From a strong base at home, American clean energy firms are also able to export this technology around the world, creating new markets for American expertise.
09.17.2014	In Iraq and Syria, we're facing an excruciating set of circumstances where there is no clear path forward. Our challenge in the face of the atrocities perpetrated by ISIS is to reduce suffering to innocent civilians and our allies, and to protect our security at home. To do nothing is an option, but likely the worst choice. If ISIS were only a potential threat, I’d feel differently. However, ISIS is a well-funded, heavily-armed militia whose strength is increasing, and whose ranks have swollen to over 30,000 and counting by some estimates. They control an ever-expanding area across Iraq and Syria’s border. To stand by, allowing ISIS to expand and strengthen its hold in Iraq and Syria, we will encourage an accelerated deterioration of the security in the region that will become more difficult to address and will become a threat to the United States. Our strategy to deal with ISIS cannot be limited to merely training, arming and providing air support for certain Syrian rebels. We must engage our "allies" who are offering to fund our efforts, while at the same time continue to bankroll the madras’s that foment the type of extremist ideologies underpinning terrorist groups like ISIS. We must also confront those in the region who say they oppose ISIS, but remain unwilling to take action. These regional players have an even greater stake in this struggle than the U.S. The “least bad” option is the McKeon amendment, which does not provide for an authorization for the use of military force (AUMF). I didn't support either wars in Iraq or the later surge in Afghanistan, and I certainly would not support legislation that would expose us to another open-ended, broad commitment. This proposal strictly prohibits the use of US ground forces in the region, and would prevent an open-ended engagement in Iraq or Syria because the authority provided in the legislation sunsets on December 11 of this year. Any air strikes or aid would come at no additional cost to our country, which has already spent hundreds of billions of dollars on wars in the region. This requires that the Department of Defense reprogram existing funds or find regional allies to pay for our efforts. This proposal to empower the president for three months is the most reasonable course of action at this point. It is not going to settle a long-simmering collection of conflicts in the region. Authorizing the president to train and equip highly vetted Syrian opposition fighters and strike a narrow set of ISIS targets may degrade ISIS in a meaningful way. These three months will give the administration an opportunity to show progress and enlist support of other countries. Congress will then reassess these efforts in December. In the meantime, we are not undercutting the diplomatic and military efforts of the administration. Helping the administration respond, allowing the situation to clarify, making some progress, and galvanizing support are the most we can hope for over the course of the next three months. I remain open to alternatives, but after listening carefully to the debate, briefings from experts, and reviewing the materials, I see no better course at this point than the limited, short-term initiative this amendment provides.
09.17.2014	In Iraq and Syria, we're facing an excruciating set of circumstances where there is no clear path forward. Our challenge in the face of the atrocities perpetrated by ISIS is to reduce suffering to innocent civilians and our allies, and to protect our security at home. To do nothing is an option, but likely the worst choice. If ISIS were only a potential threat, I’d feel differently. However, ISIS is a well-funded, heavily-armed militia whose strength is increasing, and whose ranks have swollen to over 30,000 and counting by some estimates. They control an ever-expanding area across Iraq and Syria’s border. To stand by, allowing ISIS to expand and strengthen its hold in Iraq and Syria, we will encourage an accelerated deterioration of the security in the region that will become more difficult to address and will become a threat to the United States. Our strategy to deal with ISIS cannot be limited to merely training, arming and providing air support for certain Syrian rebels. We must engage our "allies" who are offering to fund our efforts, while at the same time continue to bankroll the madras’s that foment the type of extremist ideologies underpinning terrorist groups like ISIS. We must also confront those in the region who say they oppose ISIS, but remain unwilling to take action. These regional players have an even greater stake in this struggle than the U.S. The “least bad” option is the McKeon amendment, which does not provide for an authorization for the use of military force (AUMF). I didn't support either wars in Iraq or the later surge in Afghanistan, and I certainly would not support legislation that would expose us to another open-ended, broad commitment. This proposal strictly prohibits the use of US ground forces in the region, and would prevent an open-ended engagement in Iraq or Syria because the authority provided in the legislation sunsets on December 11 of this year. Any air strikes or aid would come at no additional cost to our country, which has already spent hundreds of billions of dollars on wars in the region. This requires that the Department of Defense reprogram existing funds or find regional allies to pay for our efforts. This proposal to empower the president for three months is the most reasonable course of action at this point. It is not going to settle a long-simmering collection of conflicts in the region. Authorizing the president to train and equip highly vetted Syrian opposition fighters and strike a narrow set of ISIS targets may degrade ISIS in a meaningful way. These three months will give the administration an opportunity to show progress and enlist support of other countries. Congress will then reassess these efforts in December. In the meantime, we are not undercutting the diplomatic and military efforts of the administration. Helping the administration respond, allowing the situation to clarify, making some progress, and galvanizing support are the most we can hope for over the course of the next three months. I remain open to alternatives, but after listening carefully to the debate, briefings from experts, and reviewing the materials, I see no better course at this point than the limited, short-term initiative this amendment provides.
09.16.2014	Washington, DC -- Today Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) met with Mary O’Brien-Murphy, Pam Briece, and Vicki Nelson, members of the Oregon School Employees Association. They shared deeply concerning numbers showing the increase of Oregon children living in poverty—the child poverty rate in Multnomah County climbed from 15.5% in 2000 to more than 24% in 2012—and discussed ways to combat and address that difficult picture. Congressman Blumenauer is eager to work with OSEA and others to fight for higher funding for public education and improve school nutrition and access to food in schools.
09.15.2014	“The nation behaves well if it treats the natural resources as assets which it must turn over to the next generation increased and not impaired in value.” --President Theodore Roosevelt Congressman Earl Blumenauer invites you to a public forum, “The 50th Anniversary of the Wilderness Act: What’s at Stake for Oregon” Please come to learn more about opportunities to protect some of Oregon’s most spectacular and treasured areas, including Crater Lake, Owyhee Canyon, Mt. Hood, and the Kalmiopsis. Experts from Oregon conservation organizations will speak about current wilderness proposals and legislation that is pending in Congress. Who: Congressman Earl Blumenauer; representatives from Oregon conservation organizations What: The 50th Anniversary of the Wilderness Act: What’s at Stake for Oregon” Public Forum When: Tuesday, October 7, 2014. 5:00-6:30 pm (doors open at 4:30 pm) Where: Portland State University, Smith Center, Rooms 327-329 1825 SW Broadway, Portland OR 97201 Please RSVP Below
09.12.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Henry A. Waxman and Rep. Earl Blumenauer, joined by 57 Democratic colleagues, sent a letter to the House Republican leadership urging them to ban polystyrene foam products in the House of Representatives cafeteria. In the letter, the members write, “For more than three years, House members and staff, as well as constituents and visitors to the Hill who eat in our cafeteria, have needlessly been exposed to this dangerous chemical. We have also been contributing to the problem of litter in the District of Columbia. We hope you will reconsider the use of polystyrene foam in our cafeteria.” Two recent developments underscore the hazards posed by polystyrene foam products. In July, the National Academy of Sciences released its Review of the Styrene Assessment in the National Toxicology Programs 12th Report on Carcinogens, strongly supporting the list of styrene as reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen. The same week, Washington, D.C., joined the growing list of over 100 cities that have banned polystyrene products for health and environmental reasons. The letter was sent to Speaker John Boehner, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, and House Administration Committee Chairman Candice S. Miller. The complete list of signers can be found here. The full text of the letter is available online here and below. September 11, 2014 The Honorable John A. Boehner Speaker of the House U.S. House of Representatives H-232 The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Kevin McCarthy Majority Leader U.S. House of Representatives H-329 The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Candice S. Miller Chairman Committee on House Administration 1309 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, Majority Leader McCarthy, and Chairman Miller: Since our last letter in 2011, we remain concerned about the potential health and environmental effects of your current choice to use polystyrene foam products in the House of Representatives cafeterias. Two recent developments illustrate the hazards posed by these materials and highlight that action to remove them from our cafeterias is long overdue. On July 28, the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) released its Review of the Styrene Assessment in the National Toxicology Programs 12th Report on Carcinogens, strongly supporting the listing of styrene as reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen. That same week, Washington, D.C., joined the growing list of over 100 cities that have chosen to ban polystyrene products for health and environmental reasons. It is past time for Congress to do the same. The NAS report notes that “many people in the United States are exposed” to styrene through “food (from migration of styrene from polymer packaging materials), cigarette smoke, vehicle exhaust, and other forms of combustion and incineration of styrene polymers.”[1] The NAS report also found occupational exposures from the production of styrene. The House of Representatives’ continued use of polystyrene containers perpetuates these exposures for those who eat in our cafeterias, those who manufacture the containers we use, and those who live in the areas where our waste is incinerated. These exposures pose potential health risks. Studies cited by the National Toxicology Program and the NAS found lymphohematopoietic, pancreatic, and esophageal cancers in people with occupational exposures to styrene.[2] Animal studies also showed increased incidence of cancer from both ingestion and inhalation of styrene, and mechanistic analyses “provided convincing evidence that genotoxicity is observed in cells from humans who were exposed to styrene.”[3] Based on those studies, the NAS committee concluded that “compelling evidence exists to support a listing of styrene as, at a minimum, reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen.”[4] Our use of these dangerous products also harms the waterways in Washington, D.C.. Trash is a significant problem for the health of the Anacostia River, which is why the river has had in place a Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) for trash since 2010.[5] According to tracking by the Anacostia Watershed Society, foam makes up about 30% of trash in the river.[6] The city is taking action to reduce polystyrene pollution in the watershed by banning the use of polystyrene food containers and requiring the use of compostable or recyclable food service products. Congress shares responsibility for pollution in Washington and we should take the same action. For more than three years, House members and staff, as well as constituents and visitors to the Hill who eat in our cafeterias, have needlessly been exposed to this dangerous chemical. We have also been contributing to the problem of litter in the District of Columbia. We hope you will reconsider the use of polystyrene foam in our cafeterias. Sincerely, [1]National Research Council of the National Academies, Review of the Styrene Assessment in the National Toxicology Program 12th Report on Carcinogens (July 28, 2014) (online at www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=18725). [2]Id. at 7. [3]Id. [4]Id. at 13. [Italicized in original] [5]Maryland Department of the Environment and District of Columbia Department of the Environment – Natural Resources Administration, Total Maximum Daily Loads of Trash for the Anacostia River Watershed, Montgomery and Prince George’s Counties, Maryland and the District of Columbia (Sept. 21, 2010) (online at www.green.dc.gov/sites/default/files/dc/sites/ddoe/publication/attachments/Final_Anacostia_Trash_TMDL.pdf). [6]Anacostia Watershed Society, Nash Rush Trash Trap Project (online ate www.anacostiaws.org/programs/stewardship/monitoring/nash-run-trash-trap).
09.09.2014	This morning, I took to the floor of the House of Representatives to speak out once again about our nation’s failed marijuana policies. As a growing number of states, including my home state of Oregon, move to legalize recreational marijuana for adult use, the conflict between state legality and federal prohibition is only going to get larger. There has been a renewed focus on marijuana policies this week as many across the nation questioned why there seemed to be stricter punishments for players in the NFL who used marijuana than for a player who brutally punched his fiancé. It is important that this hypocrisy did not go unnoticed, and I hope that this sheds more light on the way we work to prevent domestic and intimate partner violence, which must never be condoned or tolerated. Nate Jackson, a former NFL tight end, wrote a piece in the New York Times entitled “The NFL’s Absurd Marijuana Policy,” in which he outlines the injustice and waste caused by the league’s drug policy. Not only does Jackson note that NFL players who smoke marijuana are still able to compete as world class athletes, but he points out that they might have also been able to avoid dependency on pain pills, which can be far more dangerous and addictive. His piece is a must read for anyone who thinks our drug policies are perverse and backward. I will continue to work to reform our country’s marijuana policies and ensure that we are freeing up precious and vital law enforcement resources to combat drugs that are much more harmful such as heroin, methamphetamines, and prescription drug abuse.
09.09.2014	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) brought attention to the failure of irrational marijuana policies and urged Congress to regulate, legalize, and tax marijuana.
09.05.2014	Congressman Earl Blumenauer calls for a federal investigation into the misuse of public funds. See the letter here. See the attachments below: Attachment 1 Attachment 2 Attachment 3 Attachment 4
09.03.2014	The passing of Governor Vic Atiyeh harkens back to an earlier era of Oregon politics where our common commitment as Oregonians often overshadowed partisan differences. It was my pleasure to work with Governor Atiyeh when we were both in the Oregon legislature in the 1970s and I deeply admired his courage in tackling some of the greatest challenges Oregon faced in the state’s economic disaster in the 1980s. One aspect of his stewardship which has received not nearly the attention it deserved was the action he took when Oregon’s storied land use protections were under assault. His leadership and strategic appointments to the Land Development Commission (LCDC) played an essential role in preserving this critical Oregon protection. He also pioneered a new era in international connections for the state bolstering our economy as well as our relationships with foreign countries. Through it all he was a gentleman, considerate and civil. As the only Republican to govern Oregon in 40 years, he leaves a legacy that deserves respect, appreciation and careful attention for today’s policy makers.
09.02.2014	Portland, OR – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) attended the Portland Bureau of Transportation’s unveiling of a new pedestrian crosswalk flashing beacon at the intersection of SE Stark and 113th near Ventura Park and Ventura Park Elementary School. The beacon was launched alongside Portland’s “Operation Safe Return” which aims to raise awareness around the influx of children biking as public schools start the new year. The State of Oregon committed $1.9 million to help build 18 similar crosswalk beacons throughout East Portland to improve pedestrian safety.
08.01.2014	I have decided not to dignify this stunt with my presence. Nothing Republican Leadership is going to propose on immigration is anything my constituents would support or that I would vote for. The Senate has already adjourned and will not even consider it. Their charade will never become law, nor should it. By stonewalling on immigration reform and refusing to work with Democrats, the Republicans are leaving both the unaccompanied children and our communities along the border in limbo while they’re crying out for help. Refusing to allow a vote on the bipartisan Senate immigration reform bill that has sat on Speaker Boehner's desk for more than 13 months, House Republicans have spent the last 30 hours making a bad bill worse in hopes of satisfying their most extreme and destructive members. Many of my Republican friends are appalled. I will return to my constituents to listen and try to explain this embarrassment. I have already volunteered to cut short the August recess, spend more time in September, and work instead of adjourning to campaign in October, if we are going to work on issues of substance. We have much to do and I am eager to work together to get progress on rebuilding America and reforming immigration. What I am not prepared to do is waste my time and the taxpayers money on ill-advised political games.
08.01.2014	I have decided not to dignify this stunt with my presence. Nothing Republican Leadership is going to propose on immigration is anything my constituents would support or that I would vote for. The Senate has already adjourned and will not even consider it. Their charade will never become law, nor should it. By stonewalling on immigration reform and refusing to work with Democrats, the Republicans are leaving both the unaccompanied children and our communities along the border in limbo while they’re crying out for help. Refusing to allow a vote on the bipartisan Senate immigration reform bill that has sat on Speaker Boehner's desk for more than 13 months, House Republicans have spent the last 30 hours making a bad bill worse in hopes of satisfying their most extreme and destructive members. Many of my Republican friends are appalled. I will return to my constituents to listen and try to explain this embarrassment. I have already volunteered to cut short the August recess, spend more time in September, and work instead of adjourning to campaign in October, if we are going to work on issues of substance. We have much to do and I am eager to work together to get progress on rebuilding America and reforming immigration. What I am not prepared to do is waste my time and the taxpayers money on ill-advised political games.
08.01.2014	I have decided not to dignify this stunt with my presence. Nothing Republican Leadership is going to propose on immigration is anything my constituents would support or that I would vote for. The Senate has already adjourned and will not even consider it. Their charade will never become law, nor should it. By stonewalling on immigration reform and refusing to work with Democrats, the Republicans are leaving both the unaccompanied children and our communities along the border in limbo while they’re crying out for help. Refusing to allow a vote on the bipartisan Senate immigration reform bill that has sat on Speaker Boehner's desk for more than 13 months, House Republicans have spent the last 30 hours making a bad bill worse in hopes of satisfying their most extreme and destructive members. Many of my Republican friends are appalled. I will return to my constituents to listen and try to explain this embarrassment. I have already volunteered to cut short the August recess, spend more time in September, and work instead of adjourning to campaign in October, if we are going to work on issues of substance. We have much to do and I am eager to work together to get progress on rebuilding America and reforming immigration. What I am not prepared to do is waste my time and the taxpayers money on ill-advised political games.
07.30.2014	Today, the House passed our bill, H.R. 5195, the Emergency Afghan Allies Extension Act of 2014. This bill secures 1,000 additional, emergency Special Immigrant Visas (SIVs) to bring Afghan translators, who served shoulder-to-shoulder with our troops, to safety in the United States. There was need for immediate action because the State Department has confirmed they have completely exhausted all visas Congress authorized in December. A failure to provide these additional visas ensures the many brave translators the U.S. promised to protect in exchange for their service would be left in Afghanistan, hiding, their lives still threatened daily by the Taliban. As a result of significant reforms to the SIV programs passed by Congress and spearheaded by Secretary Kerry, the State Department has been processing, on average, 400 visas a month, since January. That means these 1,000 additional visas authorized by the House today should last us until the end of September, when we can secure a more permanent extension, and hopefully beyond. We are very grateful to Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and their staffs for working with us in such a bipartisan, cooperative fashion to achieve this important goal today. Without them, it would not have been possible. Now, the bill must pass through the Senate. We urge our colleagues, lead by Senators Shaheen and McCain, to pass this bill with all expediency before they depart for August recess. We have already taken too much time, and the brave translators that are in mortal danger cannot wait any longer.
07.28.2014	Washington, DC– Today, Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced the Columbia River Restoration Act (CRRA). The CRRA would authorize $50 million over five years for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish a voluntary, competitive Columbia Basin grants program for projects that assist in eliminating or reducing pollution, cleaning up contaminated sites, improving water quality, monitoring the basin, and promoting citizen engagement. Toxins are present throughout the Columbia Basin, and are harmful to humans, fish, and wildlife. These contaminants make their way into fish tissue, and can be dangerous to humans if consumed. Some of these toxins are known to cause cancer, and have been linked with neurological, developmental and reproductive problems, including birth defects and learning disabilities. “A clean Columbia River is vital to support Oregon’s fishing and recreation industries, and to protect the health of Oregonians,” said Merkley. “At the same time, the Columbia River basin is the only large aquatic ecosystem that currently receives no dedicated funding to clean up and monitor toxics, leaving Oregonians exposed to the dangers posed by contaminated water and food. It’s time for Congress to act and protect this valued resource.” “The Columbia River provides energy, food, jobs, and recreation for the entire region, and yet we have let it become dangerously polluted,” said Blumenauer. “Everyone in the Pacific Northwest appreciates the many ways in which the Columbia Basin enriches our lives, and we can’t just take it for granted. The CRRA is a crucial step toward restoring the river, and I look forward to working with Senator Merkley and my other colleagues to advance this vital legislation.” The Columbia River is the largest river in the Pacific Northwest. It is 1,253 miles long and its drainage basin extends into seven states. Approximately 8 million people inhabit the Basin, including members of several Tribal nations and angling groups who frequently fish in its waters. Historically, the Columbia and its tributaries have constituted the largest salmon-producing river system in the world, with annual returns peaking at 16 million fish.
07.24.2014	Bipartisan legislation would allow Medicare Advantage plans to reduce certain copayments or coinsurance for beneficiaries to drive better health care outcomes and lower costs. Washington, D.C.– Today, Reps. Diane Black (R-TN-06) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03), both members of the House Ways and Means Committee, introduced H.R. 5183 -- the Value-Based Insurance Design (VBID) for Better Care Act of 2014 -- a bipartisan measure that would establish a regional demonstration program for high-quality Medicare Advantage (MA) plans to utilize V-BID to reduce the copayments or coinsurance for beneficiaries with specific chronic conditions. In doing so, beneficiaries are provided with increased access to the care they need to ensure better health outcomes. V-BID allows plans with the flexibility needed to offer the best possible care coordination for disease management, and provides the right incentives for beneficiaries. “As a nurse for over 40 years, improving our nation’s health care system by implementing policies that help promote patient-centered care and provider accountability is a top priority of mine in Congress,” said Congressman Black. “Specifically, this legislation would allow Medicare Advantage plans the flexibility to improve how care is delivered by allowing them to use VBID practices that give beneficiaries access to lower costs for certain medications or services that are clinically proven to have good health outcomes. Such flexibility has the potential to not only improve beneficiary outcomes, but also to promote cost transparency and encourage greater efficiencies within the health plans. Essentially, this creates an incentive for providers to have better outcomes – and at lower costs.” “There is a growing body of evidence showing individuals forgo necessary care as their out-of-pocket costs increase,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “This demonstration project will allow high-quality plans to lower out-of-pocket costs for the care that beneficiaries need most—building upon private market initiatives already taking place in Oregon and around the country. By reducing or eliminating such costs for medically necessary drugs or services, it will be easier for seniors in MA to get evidence-based care, manage chronic conditions, and follow their treatments.” Specifically, this legislation: Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a demonstration program to test V-BID methodologies in MAplans for beneficiaries with chronic clinical conditions (i.e. increased access to insulin for people with diabetes or beta blockers for people with heart disease); Allows MA plans the option to use V-BID benefits to lower copayments and coinsurance to encourage the use of specific, evidence-based medications or clinical services and/or specific high-performing providers; Explicitly prohibits plans from increasing copayments or coinsurance to discourage use of services; Requires an independent review, assessment, and report on the impact of the demonstration program; and Expands the demonstration program to allow all MA plans to pursue V-BID should the report conclude the demonstration has lowered costs and increased quality for beneficiaries. Click here for bill text. Value-Based Insurance Design (V-BID) was conceptualized and developed by a multidisciplinary team of faculty at the University of Michigan's Center for Value-Based Insurance Design. To learn more about the V-BID Center and ongoing research, please visit www.vbidcenter.org.
07.15.2014	Statement of Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03): American infrastructure, which used to be the best in the world and a point of pride bringing Americans together, is now a source of embarrassment and deep concern as we fall further and further behind other global leaders. We are here with a questionable short-term fix because this Congress has refused to address its responsibility to fund our transportation infrastructure system. The House Ways & Means Committee has not had a single hearing on transportation finance. This is a shame because this is one of our most important obligations, where we should be able to reach general agreement, if not consensus, as we have in the past. Congress shouldn’t duck its responsibilities, but should pass a 6-year plan and its funding into law this year. We shouldn’t recess until we give the American people the transportation system they need and deserve to strengthen the economy, create hundreds of thousands of family-wage jobs, and improve transportation for families across the nation. Ducking our responsibility today harms us all in the long run. Mark my words; next May we’re just going to be back here again, debating the same issue, but deeper in the hole with a steeper climb out.
07.09.2014	Today, I offered an amendment to the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act that would reduce Fossil Energy Research and Development by $14.6 million and add $9.8 million into Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability at the Department of Energy. This money will be used for smart grid research and development, ensuring that the Department of Energy can move towards modernizing the electrical grid. Our electrical grid is a critical part of the infrastructure in our country that drives economic growth, but is aging and in need of repair. With a smarter, modernized grid, utilities will have more information about the exact location of outages and be able to reroute power and isolate the problems, increasing our resiliency to weather incidents and security threats. It could also increase efficiency and help emerging technologies like electric vehicles. The money is offset by reducing funds for Fossil Energy Research and Development. While it’s important to continue some research to improve fossil energy technologies to make them safer, cleaner and more efficient, this research should not be done at the expense of modernizing our electricity delivery system. I hope Congress will prioritize planning for our future over putting more and more money into the energy sources of the past.
07.03.2014	PORTLAND, OR — On Wednesday, July 2nd, Congressman Earl Blumenauer presented two Purple Heart Medals to sisters Rosalee Schiewe and Willamae Matson, whose father and great grandfather earned them during their service during the First World War and Civil War. The medals were never awarded and the sisters tried for many years to see their father and great grandfather properly recognized. The family approached Blumenauer in April for assistance. Both Rosalee and Willamae are in their 80s and excited to see these honors finally bestowed to their family. Jacob Garrett, the sisters’ great grandfather, was born on Feb. 27, 1845 in Mason County, Illinois. He enlisted into the Union at age 13 and was injured while serving with the Second Calvary in the Illinois Infantry. He was married to Mary Elizabeth Rhodes on Jan. 19, 1870 and they had ten children. Garrett’s eldest daughter Eliza married Ben Matson and, among six other children, gave birth to Frank Albert Matson, Rosalee and Willamae’s father, March 22, 1891 in Galt, Missouri. Frank enlisted in the Army Infantry in 1917 and served as a Private in France. He was cited for gallantry action upon rescuing an officer under heavy fire from enemy machine guns. In the course of this action he was wounded and treated at a hospital, but shortly returned to serve in the trenches. Less than a month later, an explosive shell fractured his left leg. In recognition of his bravery in combat he received the Silver Star Medal and the Purple Heart Medal, but never received a Purple Heart for his first injury. Matson was married to Nellie Umbenhower on March 29, 1926 and became a charter member of the American Legion in Broadwater, Nebraska. After his discharge, he was in and out of the hospital for the first wounds he received and passed away in the ambulance on his way to the hospital for his 7th surgery at the age of 48. He was laid to rest in the Lovell Cemetery in Wyoming.
06.26.2014	Statement of Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) on his amendment to HR 4899, the “Lowering Gasoline Prices to Fuel an America that Works Act of 2014” that would strongly incentivize oil companies to renegotiate drilling leases and end their holiday from paying royalties to the American people. In 2013, the big five oil companies earned a combined total of $93 billion in profits, making them some of the most profitable companies in the world. Yet, despite this breath-taking profit, many oil companies are currently not paying any royalties to the American people for offshore drilling leases on public lands in the Gulf of Mexico that were issued between 1996 and 2000. A report issued last year by Natural Resources Committee Democrats showed that roughly 25 percent of the oil currently produced in the Gulf of Mexico is not subject to royalty payments. That report also showed that more than 100 oil and gas companies fully or partially own more than 200 royalty-free leases for deep-water drilling in the Gulf, and that this royalty-free drilling will cost an estimated $15.5 billion in foregone revenue over the next 10 years. The original intent behind this royalty relief was to encourage drilling in the Gulf of Mexico despite low oil prices. This is simply no longer relevant with oil prices currently at over $100 a barrel. Furthermore, a large number of these leases are held by state-owned or partially state-owned foreign firms. It is unacceptable that we are allowing foreign governments to drill on American public lands without paying a dime in royalties to the American people. My amendment would give these free-loading oil companies a strong incentive to renegotiate their leases and to pay their fair share of royalty taxes. It would offer them a choice: either continue to produce without paying royalties in the Gulf of Mexico, but not be able to receive any new leases on public lands, or agree to pay their fair share and be able to bid on new offshore areas.
06.19.2014	Today, the House of Representatives voted on my amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2015 that would have prevented a $3.4 million down payment on a new nuclear-armed air-launched cruise missile (ALCM) and redirect that funding towards the cleanup and removal of unexploded military ordinance that litters every state in the country. This amendment looks modest, only redirecting $3.4 million. Allowing this seed money to go forward, however, commits us to billions down the road, without a reason or rationale for doing so. The new ALCM does not yet have an official price tag, but estimates range from $20 to $30 billion. A rebuilt nuclear warhead to go on it adds another $12 billion. That’s over $40 billion. Based on our past experience with runaway costs for nuclear weapons development, it is very likely that cost is going to increase over time. We don’t need a new nuclear cruise missile, especially when our current arsenal is good through the mid-2030s. We certainly don’t need both a bomber armed with new air-dropped nuclear bombs that taxpayers just finished paying for, and a nuclear cruise missile to meet our deterrence requirements and those of our allies What’s worse, a mass U.S. deployment of new nuclear cruise missiles could renew an arms race we’ve already agreed to end, pushing China, Pakistan and others to seek this capability. This $3.4 million is just the beginning. My amendment would have stopped the momentum for this wasteful program that does nothing to keep America secure. It would have instead used that money for the accelerated cleanup of unexploded bombs on US soil, something that would actually keep our families and communities safe, while returning land to productive economic use at the same time. My amendment to rein in spending on nuclear weapons didn’t pass, which is disappointing, but I’m not going to stop working to convince Congress and the American people that we need to get our priorities straight, make our communities safer, and stop expanding our already bloated nuclear programs.
06.19.2014	Today, the House of Representatives voted on my amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2015 that would have prevented a $3.4 million down payment on a new nuclear-armed air-launched cruise missile (ALCM) and redirect that funding towards the cleanup and removal of unexploded military ordinance that litters every state in the country. This amendment looks modest, only redirecting $3.4 million. Allowing this seed money to go forward, however, commits us to billions down the road, without a reason or rationale for doing so. The new ALCM does not yet have an official price tag, but estimates range from $20 to $30 billion. A rebuilt nuclear warhead to go on it adds another $12 billion. That’s over $40 billion. Based on our past experience with runaway costs for nuclear weapons development, it is very likely that cost is going to increase over time. We don’t need a new nuclear cruise missile, especially when our current arsenal is good through the mid-2030s. We certainly don’t need both a bomber armed with new air-dropped nuclear bombs that taxpayers just finished paying for, and a nuclear cruise missile to meet our deterrence requirements and those of our allies What’s worse, a mass U.S. deployment of new nuclear cruise missiles could renew an arms race we’ve already agreed to end, pushing China, Pakistan and others to seek this capability. This $3.4 million is just the beginning. My amendment would have stopped the momentum for this wasteful program that does nothing to keep America secure. It would have instead used that money for the accelerated cleanup of unexploded bombs on US soil, something that would actually keep our families and communities safe, while returning land to productive economic use at the same time. My amendment to rein in spending on nuclear weapons didn’t pass, which is disappointing, but I’m not going to stop working to convince Congress and the American people that we need to get our priorities straight, make our communities safer, and stop expanding our already bloated nuclear programs.
06.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), H. Morgan Griffith (VA-09), Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) and Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) along with 26 other members of Congress, sent a letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Matthews Burwell requesting that the process through which certified scientists obtain marijuana for medical research be made less burdensome. Currently, scientists not funded by the NIH seeking to conduct research on marijuana are subject not only to the review process that applies to other Schedule I substances, but to an additional review process by the Department of Health and Human Services that allows for access to the only source of marijuana grown in the United States that can be legally used for research. This additional review adds a layer of uncertainty for researchers and can lead to delays or even denial. “Two weeks ago, we took a very important vote in the House to stop the DEA from interfering in states’ medical marijuana programs,” said Blumenauer. “Now we need the Administration to stop targeting marijuana above and beyond other drugs when it comes to research. By increasing access for scientists who are conducting studies, we end the Catch-22 of opponents claiming can’t they support medical marijuana because there’s not enough research, but blocking research because they don’t support medical marijuana.”
06.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), H. Morgan Griffith (VA-09), Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) and Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) along with 26 other members of Congress, sent a letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Matthews Burwell requesting that the process through which certified scientists obtain marijuana for medical research be made less burdensome. Currently, scientists not funded by the NIH seeking to conduct research on marijuana are subject not only to the review process that applies to other Schedule I substances, but to an additional review process by the Department of Health and Human Services that allows for access to the only source of marijuana grown in the United States that can be legally used for research. This additional review adds a layer of uncertainty for researchers and can lead to delays or even denial. “Two weeks ago, we took a very important vote in the House to stop the DEA from interfering in states’ medical marijuana programs,” said Blumenauer. “Now we need the Administration to stop targeting marijuana above and beyond other drugs when it comes to research. By increasing access for scientists who are conducting studies, we end the Catch-22 of opponents claiming can’t they support medical marijuana because there’s not enough research, but blocking research because they don’t support medical marijuana.”
06.10.2014	Supported Legislation Background checks HR 1565 – Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2013 – closes gun sales loopholes by requiring comprehensive and enforceable background checks, included at gun shows, over the internet or through classifieds HR 137 – Fix Gun Checks Act – close loopholes to ensure that more names of drug abusers, the seriously mentally ill, and other who are federally prohibited from having guns are included in NICS, the FBI-run system for background checks on gun buyers HR 141 – the Gun Show Loophole Closing Act of 2013 Guns and Accessories HR 138 – Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act – places restrictions on large capacity ammunition magazines. HR 437 – Assault Weapons Ban of 2013 – Ban the sale, transfer, manufacturing and importation of certain assault weapons HR 2566 - To modify the definition of armor piercing ammunition to better capture its capabilities. HR 2567 - Child Handgun Safety Act - To require all handguns have child-safety mechanisms built in Mental Health Improvements HR 274 – the Mental Health First Act of 2013 - would permit HHS to award grants to train law enforcement and community leaders to recognize the signs of mental health crisis HR 320 – the Student Support Act - would direct the Secretary of Education to establish a grant program to assist school districts in the hiring of additional mental health professionals HR 628 – The Mental Health in Schools Act School Safety HR 1318 – Youth PROMISE Act – Provide resources to communities to engage in comprehensive, evidence-based prevention and intervention to decrease violence, gang crime, illegal drug activity and other crime. Responsible Retailers, Owners and Enforcement HR 93 – Fire Sale Loophole Closing Act – would prohibit a gun dealer whose license is revoked or denied renewal from converting the gun inventory into a private collection to be sold without the requirement of performing a background check on the purchaser. HR 236 – Crackdown on Deadbeat Gun Dealers Act of 2013 – increased the ability of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to enforce gun laws HR 321 – The Firearm Safety and Public Health Research Act of 2013 – would lift current prohibitions on research into firearm safety for the CDC and NIH HR 1369 – The Firearm Risk Protection Act – would require liability coverage for gun ownership HR 452 – Gun Trafficking Prevention Act of 2013 HR 427 –Trafficking Reduction and Criminal Enforcement Act –This bill requires firearms manufacturers to print an infrared serial number on the weapon’s receiver. It requires Federal Firearms Licensees to conduct a physical inventory of their stock. It also gets rid of additional provisions regarding appropriations that limit the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives from investigating gun crimes HR431 - Gun Transparency and Accountability (Gun TRAC) Act of 2013 —This bill would overturn restrictions that pertain to crime gun trace data, force the FBI to destroy records of approved background checks after 24 hours, or bar the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) from requiring gun dealers to submit reports of the inventories. This bill also increases the penalties for gun dealers who refuse to comply with the ATF order to submit a report of their inventory to a fine, or prison sentence, or both. Other HR 2465 – To require the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service to submit to Congress an annual report on the effects of gun violence on public health. Recent Articles {loadposition related}
06.05.2014	PORTLAND, OR — Last night, Congressman Earl Blumenauer hosted a public forum,“The Cost and Threat of Nuclear Weapons,” focused on the fiscal, humanitarian, and environmental legacy of US and international nuclear weapons programs. Over 150 attendees visited the information fair and presentations from Blumenauer and a panel of experts representing Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility, the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, and Columbia Riverkeeper. Blumenauer also presented Carol Urner, from Women's International League for Peace and Freedom and member of the Oregon PSR Peace Work Group, with Lifetime Achievement Award. According to a recent Congressional Budget Office report, the US currently spends over $150 million per day maintaining its nuclear arsenal. Earlier this year Blumenauer introduced HR 4107, the Reduce Expenditures in Nuclear Infrastructure Now (REIN-IN) Act of 2014. This legislation would save $100 billion over 10 years by reducing unnecessary nuclear weapons programs and significantly reduce the number of inter-continental missiles currently on 24-hour high alert. Last month, Blumenauer’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act requiring the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to annually update its report on the projected 10-year costs of our nuclear arsenal passed the House by a vote of 224-199 and was included in the final bill. For more information visit: Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility Nuclear Age Peace Foundation Columbia Riverkeeper
06.02.2014	If you accept modern science, you cannot deny the combined weight of over 10,000 peer-reviewed, published scientific studies which tell us climate change is happening, that human activity is a driving factor in rising temperatures, and the consequences are extremely serious. If you fight wildfires, farm, run a ski resort, or live in a low-lying coastal area, you are already living with the impacts of climate change on a daily basis. All of these studies and experiences are telling us the same thing: carbon pollution produced by human activities is warming the Earth. It is driving more extreme weather events, more heat waves and droughts, longer and more intense wildfires, rising sea levels, and ocean acidification. The United States is a major contributor to global carbon pollution. We have a moral responsibility to mitigate where we can, and to place sensible limits on our emissions. Transitioning to a low carbon future will not just help stave off the worst impacts of climate change, it will also help to grow the “green economy,” create thousands of jobs, and save money in the long run. In 1993, as a member of the City Council, I was proud to help Portland, Oregon became the first U.S. city to adopt a plan to address global warming by reducing emissions. In 2009, I strongly supported the City as it adopted one of the most aggressive emissions reductions programs in the country, agreeing to slash emissions 80% below 1990 levels by 2050. The plan is working: as of 2012 greenhouse gas emissions are now 11% below 1990 levels and down 33% per person, even though population has grown 30% over that time. And the number of jobs is up 18% since 1990—notably in the areas of energy efficiency, green building design and construction, renewable energy development, and residential and commercial building weatherization. Today the Administration took an important step forward in the fight against climate change – with new clean air safeguards that will cut carbon pollution from existing power plants for the first time. This is crucial for public health. Climate change will bring increased extreme weather, worsening air quality and increase threats to illnesses that will threaten our health and safety. Over the long-term, we will need a permanent legislative solution – such as a carbon tax – to reduce our emissions and the impacts of climate change. Yet climate change presents us with a significant opportunity to transform our economy and infrastructure to be more efficient, cost effective, and resilient to meet the challenges of the 21st century. Today marks a bold first step that moves us in a new direction.
05.29.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Tom Cole (OK-04) introduced the Rural Wind Energy Development Act to provide an investment tax credit to ranchers, farmers, and small businesses to offset the up-front costs of owning a distributed wind turbine. This modest expansion of current law will keep small business energy jobs growing across the United States. Small wind turbines (generating up to 20 megawatts of clean energy) allow farmers, ranchers, and other consumers to cut their energy bills and, at times, sell power back into the grid. They also allow thousands of businesses—from “mom and pop” stores, to retailers, to ranches, and to breweries—to reduce their energy load, to help clean the environment, and to save money. The Department of Energy’s national laboratories estimate that community wind generates a strong economic multiplier for local communities, helping rural areas rebound from challenging economic times. “Community wind energy not only creates American-produced electricity, but American jobs as well,” said Blumenauer. “Approximately 90% of distributed wind turbines sold in the U.S. are made here, according to domestic manufacturing content, creating non-exportable, family wage jobs.” “I am pleased to once again work with my friend and colleague in furthering the success of the same credit we worked to create in 2008,” said Cole. “Not only does the credit play an important role in encouraging and developing an all-of-the-above energy approach for our nation, but it also ensures that America continues to be a leader in innovation. By modestly increasing this credit, we can continue to encourage economic development, especially in our rural communities.” The existing investment credits, which may be taken in lieu of the federal Production Tax Credit for large-scale wind projects, have worked very well, but are too limiting. This bill strikes the existing 100 kilowatt nameplate limitation for small wind systems, and adds the opportunity to obtain credits for small wind projects with an aggregate capacity limitation of 20 megawatts, in line with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission definition of distributed and community wind power. This will provide stability and certainty for the distributed wind market and unlock the necessary investment to grow our global leadership role in distributed wind power, while helping Americans take advantage of clean, renewable, affordable power.
05.29.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Tom Petri (WI-06) introduced the bipartisan Medicare Transitional Care Act, which will support and coordinate care for Medicare beneficiaries as they move from the hospital setting to their homes or other care setting and ensure that appropriate follow-up care is provided during this vulnerable period. The benefit is flexible, supporting a number of much-needed care models including improved assessment, planning, medications management, movement between care levels, and coordination of support services such as meals and medical equipment. “Transitions from hospital to home can be complicated and risky, especially for individuals with multiple chronic illnesses,” said Blumenauer. “There’s a lot of confusion and uncertainty over instructions, medications, and prognosis. Our bill will support people coming out of the hospital so they don’t just wind up right back in, which is expensive and dangerous.” “It doesn’t make sense to have a program that only provides part of the care Medicare patients need just to have them become sick again as soon as they leave the hospital,” said Petri. “Providing greater support for Medicare patients as they transition from the hospital back home would improve their health and quality of life while saving taxpayers’ money.” “As providers seek to improve patient outcomes through more coordinated care, Congress must continue to look for effective policies that address gaps in care for our most vulnerable patients, and improving transitions between care settings is critical to that effort,” said National Transitions of Care Coalition Executive Director, Cheri Lattimer. “The Medicare Transitional Care Act puts in place necessary infrastructure and incentives to foster care transition interventions, with collaborative team approaches that have proven successful, which will lead to better health outcomes for beneficiaries and offer real cost savings for patients, the health care system and taxpayers.” Researchers with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation have estimated that inadequate care coordination, including inadequate management of care transitions, was responsible for $25 to $45 billion in wasteful spending in 2011 through avoidable complications and unnecessary hospital readmissions. The Medicare Transitional Care Act is supported by organizations including The National Transitions of Care Coalition, American Society of Aging, Caregiver Action Network, Case Management Society of America, Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine, Hudson Health Plan, Rush University Medical Center, and Sanofi.
05.29.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Tom Petri (WI-06) introduced the bipartisan Medicare Transitional Care Act, which will support and coordinate care for Medicare beneficiaries as they move from the hospital setting to their homes or other care setting and ensure that appropriate follow-up care is provided during this vulnerable period. The benefit is flexible, supporting a number of much-needed care models including improved assessment, planning, medications management, movement between care levels, and coordination of support services such as meals and medical equipment. “Transitions from hospital to home can be complicated and risky, especially for individuals with multiple chronic illnesses,” said Blumenauer. “There’s a lot of confusion and uncertainty over instructions, medications, and prognosis. Our bill will support people coming out of the hospital so they don’t just wind up right back in, which is expensive and dangerous.” “It doesn’t make sense to have a program that only provides part of the care Medicare patients need just to have them become sick again as soon as they leave the hospital,” said Petri. “Providing greater support for Medicare patients as they transition from the hospital back home would improve their health and quality of life while saving taxpayers’ money.” “As providers seek to improve patient outcomes through more coordinated care, Congress must continue to look for effective policies that address gaps in care for our most vulnerable patients, and improving transitions between care settings is critical to that effort,” said National Transitions of Care Coalition Executive Director, Cheri Lattimer. “The Medicare Transitional Care Act puts in place necessary infrastructure and incentives to foster care transition interventions, with collaborative team approaches that have proven successful, which will lead to better health outcomes for beneficiaries and offer real cost savings for patients, the health care system and taxpayers.” Researchers with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation have estimated that inadequate care coordination, including inadequate management of care transitions, was responsible for $25 to $45 billion in wasteful spending in 2011 through avoidable complications and unnecessary hospital readmissions. The Medicare Transitional Care Act is supported by organizations including The National Transitions of Care Coalition, American Society of Aging, Caregiver Action Network, Case Management Society of America, Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine, Hudson Health Plan, Rush University Medical Center, and Sanofi.
05.22.2014	Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer’s (OR-03) amendment to require the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to update its report on the projected 10-year costs of our nuclear arsenal passed the House by a vote of 224-199 and was included in the final bill. Below is the Congressman’s statement on passage: This week, I offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that requires the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to update their report on the projected 10-year costs of U.S. nuclear forces. A CBO report on US spending for our nuclear forces was released last December as a one-time snapshot. It has since proven to be so incredibly valuable for Members, staff, and civil society organizations that it should be made annual. The amendment was adopted today by a vote of 224-199 with bipartisan support. The United States is scheduled to spend one-half to two-thirds trillion dollars over the next 10 years on our nuclear forces and related programs. This spending, adjusting for inflation, is higher than at the height of the Cold War. While we can and should debate the merits of that spending, there should be no objection about knowing how much these programs will cost. Transparency and nonpartisan oversight strengthens our democracy and promotes greater efficiency and effectiveness in government, especially in monitoring government spending. There is nothing more patriotic than making sure our tax dollars are spent wisely. Some argued that we don’t because we already have that information from other sources. But, the CBO found that a report from the Administration underestimated the cost of the nuclear program by $150 billion. I don’t think I’m alone in saying that, when it comes to keeping track of our nuclear arsenal, which can destroy the world several times over, we should take the time to double check our math. It’s not a sign of weakness; it’s a sign of diligence. As Thomas Jefferson said, “Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.” It is impossible to justify keeping the public in the dark for a program that a majority of Americans oppose. When the only defense you have – calling the request for greater transparency an attack on national security – is a straw man argument, it’s telling. Let’s not fall asleep at the button.
05.08.2014	Shaheen, McCain, Blumenauer, Kinzinger introduce Special Immigrant Visa Program extension for civilians who served alongside Americans in Afghanistan (WASHINGTON, DC) – Continuing a bipartisan effort to honor the service of civilians assisting the U.S. mission in Iraq and Afghanistan, U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and John McCain (R-AZ) and Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) introduced the bipartisan Afghan Allies Protection Extension Act. The legislation, co-sponsored by Senators Shaheen, McCain, Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Ed Markey (D-MA), Rob Portman (R-OH,), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Representatives Eliot Engel (D-NY), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Ted Poe (R-TX), David Reichart (R-WA), Adam Smith (D-WA), and Steve Stivers (R-OH), will extend and reform the Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program for Afghan civilians who risked their lives working with the U.S. government, American media and non-profit organizations. The SIV Afghanistan program, which is set to expire at the end of the fiscal year, provides visas to Afghans who have provided faithful and valuable service to the U.S. mission in Afghanistan and face threats as a result. The bipartisan Afghan Allies Protection Extension Act introduced Wednesday night would extend the SIV program for Afghanistan for another fiscal year and institute other reforms, including the authorization of an additional 3,000 visas and expanded eligibility, so that the U.S. can keep its promise to the individuals and their families who served alongside Americans overseas. “We have a responsibility to fulfill our obligation to the thousands of civilians who risked their lives and that of their families to help our country during a time of war,” Senator Shaheen said. “Even as we conclude our mission in Afghanistan and face tough issues at home, we have a clear responsibility to make good on American promises to our Afghan allies who are now living in fear of retribution because they believed in our mission enough to risk their lives for it.” “These Iraqi and Afghan translators and guides risked their lives to assist American soldiers, and we made a promise to take in those who had served us when the American presence was scaled down and they no longer had our protection,” Representative Blumenauer said. “If we pass this bill, we can come one step closer to keeping that promise for all who served. This legislation also expands the opportunity for sanctuary to translators who served just as bravely for U.S. media outlets, NGOs, and the International Security Assistance Force, as well as their families who would be in life-threatening danger if left behind.” “The Afghan men and women who risked everything to assist American forces during the war deserve to know that the United States will honor the promises made to them and their families,” Representative Kinzinger said. “This is more than just the right thing to do, it is necessary to show that we as a nation can be taken at our word both now and in the future. It is naïve to think the United States will never be in another conflict and holding up our end of the bargain today could very well save American lives down the road.” The Afghan Allies Protection Extension Act is supported by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), the Iraqi Refugee Assistance Project (IRAP), and the Truman National Security Project among others, who were in attendance at a press conference on Capitol Hill today. Adrian Kinsella with his interpreter Mohammad. Matt Zeller with his interpreter Janis Shinwari.
05.02.2014	Bill would allow eligible individuals with serious medical conditions to stay in their homes and communities Washington, DC – Today, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Chris Smith (NJ-04) introduced HR 4543, the PACE Pilot Act, a bipartisan and budget neutral bill that would allow The Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) programs greater flexibilities to expand their successful model to care for people under age 55 who have special health risks. PACE integrates Medicare and Medicaid benefits for members of our society who have some of the most serious and costly health care problems. The program seeks to keep people living in the community rather than in long-term care institutions. Currently, PACE is only available to individuals age 55 or older and who are certified by their state as being eligible for a nursing home level of care. Expansion of these programs will offer younger individuals with disabilities this same integrated, community-based option that supports their independence and quality of life. “PACE has been a huge success,” said Blumenauer. “What we have realized is that there is a group of people out there who currently don’t qualify for PACE because of the age requirement, but would otherwise greatly benefit from the program due to serious medical conditions. This bill allows us to see how we can bring them into the fold efficiently and affordably.” “PACE continues to provide patient centric care to many of the frailest members in our society, while enabling them to live in their homes and stay in their communities,” said Smith. “We know that all PACE participants are eligible for nursing home care, yet 90 percent continue to live at home. By removing the nursing home level of care requirement, we can help ensure that people have greater access to preventative services and treatments, thereby helping them maintain their quality of life.” Currently, a total of 103 PACE sites in 31 states serve about 56,000 enrollees nationwide. A number of research studies show that beneficiaries enrolled in PACE had fewer hospitalizations and nursing home admissions, and lower mortality than similar beneficiaries who were not enrolled in PACE.
05.01.2014	Statement from Representative Blumenauer on the Vote to Allow Veterans Greater Access to Medical Marijuana On Wednesday, the House sadly voted 222-195 to deny veterans the opportunity to discuss medical marijuana with physicians at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), even in the 21 states and the District of Columbia where medical marijuana is legal. But, there was a silver lining. There was a spirited and very strong floor debate in support of the amendment. The move towards making marijuana reform less of a partisan issue was underscored as there were more Republicans voting for the amendment (22) than Democrats voting against (18). And, with probable votes of members who were absent, it’s very likely the vote total in favor or my amendment would’ve been 200 or more. I was pleased with the bipartisan support in the debate, the bipartisan support on the floor, and the growing realization that our veterans have the right to be advised by their VA doctor about what is in their best interests, whether that be advice for or against the use of medical marijuana. Still, it’s inexplicable and inexcusable that VA doctors can’t answer their patients’ questions and give their best advice. The amendment would not have allowed VA doctors to prescribe or provide medical marijuana, but would’ve allowed them to have the open discussions that are so important in providing quality healthcare to our veterans. We will continue to fight to make sure that our veterans are not treated as second class patients among the more than hundred million Americans who are legally able to seek medical marijuana therapy under state law, while at the same time promoting a broader understanding among the public and my colleagues of the broader issue. This is another important step in reforming our federal marijuana laws. Last year’s successful amendment to the farm Bill to expand research on industrial hemp and our agricultural institutions was a strong and significant accomplishment. We continue to encourage the Administration to refine its position, making federal policy less onerous, inconsistent, and burdensome. Of course, with each passing week there is more movement around the country as citizens and people at the state and local level continue to march past the federal government. It’s only a matter of time before federal policies catch up. The fourteen marijuana reform bills already introduced in the House are illustrative of this progress. Perhaps the most powerful moment of the evening for me came as I was leaving the floor after the debate. A House employee shared a story with me about how their brother needed medical marijuana to keep up his appetite and strength in the fight against severe illness, but lived in a state where medical marijuana was illegal. He was forced to buy it on the street as a last option, but it gave him the strength to beat the disease. He was lucky, but survival should not depend on luck. We cannot afford anymore stories like this, and I will fight through any means possible to make sure that no one has to go without the medicine they need to survive because of failed, unreasonable federal drug policy.
04.30.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) plans to offer an amendment to the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act in an effort to make it easier for qualified veterans to access medical marijuana. The amendment is expected on the floor near the end of consideration of the bill this evening. Currently, the Veterans Administration (VA) specifically prohibits its medical providers from completing forms brought by their patients seeking recommendations or opinions regarding a Veteran’s participation in a state medical marijuana program. Blumenauer’s amendment ensures that no funds made available to the VA can be used to implement this prohibition, which would, in effect, strike it down. “Veterans should not be forced outside of the VA system to seek a simple recommendation for treatment if they are eligible to use medical marijuana under their state’s law,” said Blumenauer. “Similarly, VA doctors should be able to make recommendations to fit the needs of their patients, not handcuffed by bureaucracy.” Twenty-one states and the District of Columbia have passed laws that provide for legal access to medical marijuana. As a result, over one million patients across the country, including many veterans, now use medical marijuana at the recommendation of their physician to treat conditions ranging from seizures, glaucoma, anxiety, chronic pain, and the symptoms associated with chemotherapy. There are also nine states, including Oregon, that now allow physicians to recommend medical marijuana for the symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress (PTS). “Over 20 percent of the 2.3 million American veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan suffer from PTS and depression,” Blumenauer continued. “While there is no single approach to aiding our veterans, we clearly should not allow outdated drug policies to serve as a roadblock on the path to recovery. This should not be controversial.” Over 70% of physicians have said they would prescribe medical marijuana to appropriate patients if it were legal. Support for legalizing medical marijuana has also exceeded 70% in several major national polls.
04.29.2014	
04.23.2014	PORTLAND, OR — Last night, Congressman Earl Blumenauer announced Pacific Crest Community School senior Anne Bunch as the winner of Oregon’s Third District Congressional Art Competition. Bunch is now invited to attend a June reception in Washington, DC where her artwork will be displayed for one year in the Capitol. First launched in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition is held in every congressional district with hundreds of thousands of high school student participants. This year, Congressman Blumenauer received 65 student submissions from nine schools across the District. Patrick Forster and Sara Kaltwasser from the Pacific Northwest College of Art judged each submission. Bunch’s winning entry was announced at last night’s gallery showing at the YU Gallery with other students, their families, and teachers. NaYoung Kim from Portland Christian School and Ian of Hufnagel from David Douglas received second and third place acknowledgements. Brendan Korsgren from Southwest Airlines presented Bunch with two free tickets to attend the June reception and Forster presented PNCA tuition discounts to the participants. “I want to take a moment to congratulate Anne and all the participants, who have created the wonderful pieces of art we have the opportunity to showcase here. What amazing skill and talent,” Blumenauer said. “We must also acknowledge the parents, families and art teachers that helped to cultivate this creativity. In an era of severe budget cuts for programs like music, theater, and art, our teachers deserve a long round of applause for all of the hard work that they do with limited resources, time and compensation.”
04.09.2014	Congressman Blumenauer calls on the Attorney General and the DEA to reschedule marijuana to make it easier for researchers to access, and to allow legal medical marijuana businesses to be taxed fairly like other small businesses. Learn more about Rep. Blumenauer's ideas for marijuana and drug reform.
04.02.2014	The history of the United States and the exceptional strength of our people is exemplified by the bravery of our soldiers in battle, from the Revolutionary War to World War II and beyond. These were exceptional bursts of energy. But just as important in developing the character of our nation was our economic development during these times. It was the ports, railroads, highways, that gave the United States the strength to be victorious in battle, to have the economic strength to be able to meet national challenges, and to provide economic security and well-being for our families. Unfortunately, American infrastructure is no longer the envy of the world as it has been in the past. In fact, we’re not even near the top of the pack – we’ve fallen in the lower ranges of the developed world . The American Society of Civil Engineers has given our infrastructure a grade of D+ and we’ll need to invest $3.5 trillion over the next 6 years just to remain economically competitive in the global marketplace. This failure to deal with our infrastructure is going to cost American families billions of dollars – far more than would be necessary to adequately fund our soon-to-be bankrupt Highway Trust Fund. The Republican budget being debated today ignores this pending crisis, let alone meet the growing needs of American communities. The budget would freeze us in decline, make it difficult, if not impossible, to deal with projects of national significance and severely strain ongoing maintenance of our highway and transit systems. It doesn’t have to be this way. A broad and powerful coalition from the AFL-CIO and the US Chamber of Commerce to the truckers, AAA, bicyclists, environmentalists, local government, contractors, businesses large and small have joined with a group of 17 bipartisan governors and 31 heads of state chambers of commerce to urge that Congress face this funding crisis so that we can have a full 6 year reauthorization. My amendment in the Budget Committee today would have simply created the capacity to meet this need. I am disappointed it was not adopted. Instead of wasting more time on this pointless and doomed-to-fail budget, we should address our failing bridges, roads, and water system. Our future demands it and our constituents expect no less.
03.21.2014	PORTLAND, OR — On March 21, Congressman Earl Blumenauer and Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard hosted a discussion on issues facing women veterans. Those recently returned from deployment, as well as women veterans from earlier conflicts as far back as World War II, were in attendance. Congresswoman Gabbard was visiting Portland at Blumenauer’s invitation and was able to provide a unique perspective to the veterans: she and is one of the first female combat veterans to be elected to Congress, has served two deployments to the Middle East and is currently a Military Police Company Commander with the Hawaii Army National Guard. She currently represents Hawaii’s second congressional district. Questions ranged from Gabbard’s experiences in Congress, to changing the culture in the military, and addressing the widespread problems of military sexual assault. Blumenauer and Gabbard are both supporters of the Military Justice Improvement Act of 2013 that removesthe conflict of interest posed by the military chain of command’s current sole decision-making power over whether cases move forward to a trial. Companion legislation in the Senate was blocked earlier this year. Prior to the discussion, the Representatives met with members of Portland State University’s unique Woman Veterans Outreach Action Team, which provides outreach to women vets, raises awareness about the unique needs of women veterans, identifies resources that would be beneficial to women veteran students, and works to create ties with Veterans’ Student Services.
03.21.2014	PORTLAND, OR — On March 21, Congressman Earl Blumenauer and Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard hosted a discussion on issues facing women veterans. Those recently returned from deployment, as well as women veterans from earlier conflicts as far back as World War II, were in attendance. Congresswoman Gabbard was visiting Portland at Blumenauer’s invitation and was able to provide a unique perspective to the veterans: she and is one of the first female combat veterans to be elected to Congress, has served two deployments to the Middle East and is currently a Military Police Company Commander with the Hawaii Army National Guard. She currently represents Hawaii’s second congressional district. Questions ranged from Gabbard’s experiences in Congress, to changing the culture in the military, and addressing the widespread problems of military sexual assault. Blumenauer and Gabbard are both supporters of the Military Justice Improvement Act of 2013 that removesthe conflict of interest posed by the military chain of command’s current sole decision-making power over whether cases move forward to a trial. Companion legislation in the Senate was blocked earlier this year. Prior to the discussion, the Representatives met with members of Portland State University’s unique Woman Veterans Outreach Action Team, which provides outreach to women vets, raises awareness about the unique needs of women veterans, identifies resources that would be beneficial to women veteran students, and works to create ties with Veterans’ Student Services.
02.28.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced HR 4107, the Reduce Expenditures in Nuclear Investments Now (REIN-IN) Act of 2014. The bill would save $100 billion over the next 10 years by reducing or eliminating unnecessary nuclear weapons programs. Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate, the Smarter Approach to Nuclear Expenditures (SANE) Act, S 2070. Today, the United States spends more for nuclear weapons and programsthan it did at the height of the Cold War. A recent report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that between 2014 and 2023, the costs of the Administration’s plans for nuclear forces will total $470 billion. Other ten year estimates come closer to $700 billion, which is more than the federal government will spend on education over the next five years. Worse, there are plans in the works that would commit the U.S. to decades more of waste by spending billions of dollars modernizing our nuclear stockpile of missiles, submarines, and bombers. Specifically, the REIN-IN Act will generate savings from: Sea: $15.7 billion in savings. Cut the current fleet of nuclear submarines from 12 operational at sea to eight operational at sea. Delay the purchase of new nuclear submarines, and reduce future procurement from 12 to 8. Reduce the number of ICBMs. Air: $37.45 billion in savings. Delay development of the Long-Range Strike Bomber. Eliminate funding to make the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter nuclear-capable. Reduce the size and scope of the B-61 Life Extension Program. Land: $10 billion in savings. Delay development of the Future ICBM. Eliminate funding for the W-78 Life Extension Program. Other: $36.5 billion in savings. Cancel new, wasteful nuclear weapons facilities. Cancel the Medium Extended Air Defense System (MEADS). Increases Americans’ safety by cutting the number of intercontinental ballistic missiles currently on 24-hour high alert from 450 to 150. “We cannot afford these weapon systems and we don’t need them,” said Blumenauer. “They are dangerous and costly to store and maintain. As we’ve seen in recent stories, the human beings who control them can be unreliable. We can make the world, and our country, safer by reducing the number of ICBMs on 24-hour high alert and reducing spending on these programs that we haven’t used in 69 years and are better suited for the Cold War than the strategic challenges we face today.” “America faces a real choice: spend billions on nuclear weapons we no longer need or fund programs that educate our children and help find cures to deadly diseases. The security of our nation’s future will be ensured by investing in education not nuclear annihilation,” said Markey. “We need to stop pouring billions into the nuclear weapons programs of the past and instead prioritize our nation’s most pressing needs. The SANE Act will cut spending on outdated, wasteful nuclear weapons and related programs over the next ten years and will strengthen our long-term economic and national security.” The current nuclear arsenal of the United States includes approximately 5,000 total nuclear warheads, of which approximately 2,000 are deployed with three delivery components: long-range strategic bomber aircraft, land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles, and submarine-launched ballistic missiles. The bomber fleet of the United States comprises 93 B–52 and 20 B–2 aircraft. The United States maintains 450 intercontinental ballistic missiles. The United States also maintains Ohio-class submarines, up to 12 of which are deployed at sea at any time. The full text of the bill is attached. Congressman Blumenauer’s essay on the bill is here. The REIN-IN Act is Supported by: Alliance of Baptists on the Interfaith Committee on Nuclear Disarmament, Arms Control Association, Church of the Brethren, Citizens for Global Solutions, Colorado Coalition for the Prevention of Nuclear War, Cumberland Countians for Peace & Justice, DC Statehood Green Party, Franciscan Action Network, Friends Committee on National Legislation, Georgia WAND, Global Green USA (US affiliate of Green Cross International), Global Security Institute and Bipartisan Security Group, Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, National Council of Churches of Christ, USA, Network for Environmental & Economic Responsibility of United Church of Christ, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, Nuclear Watch New Mexico, Oak Ridge Environmental Peace Alliance, Peace Action, Physicians for Social Responsibility, Ploughshares Fund, Project on Government Oversight (POGO), Rocky Mountain Peace and Justice Center, Tri-Valley CAREs, Women's Action for New Directions.
02.20.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Committee on Natural Resources Ranking Member, Peter A. DeFazio (OR-04), along with 120 other members of the House of Representatives sent a letter to US Trade Representative Michael Froman, urging him to continue to push for a robust, fully enforceable environment chapter in theTrans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal. “TPP must include new and robust commitments for member countries to protect and conserve forests, oceans, and wildlife and obligate member countries to comply with both domestic environmental laws, not derogating from those laws, and meet their commitments under multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs),” the letter reads. “These commitments must be strong, binding and enforceable, and subject to the same dispute settlement procedures as the commercial chapters, including recourse to trade sanctions.” Recently leaked documents, referenced by the New York Times, make it clear that the US is under great pressure from other countries to weaken strong environmental protections in the TPP. This letter urges the Ambassador not to allow reluctant partners or artificial timelines to steal away the historic opportunity he has led to secure environmental protections capable of generating benefits for decades to come. “In a region with a weak history of protecting its rich natural resources from exploitation, the US has an opportunity to secure a robust, fully enforceable environment chapter in TPP,” said Blumenauer. “If done correctly, this will be about more than just conservation. It will enable the US to undercut the black market in illegally sourced plants and wildlife, while at the same time leveling the playing field for US companies consistently placed at a disadvantage because of poor or unevenly enforced environmental laws in other TPP countries.” “I’m pleased over 120 of my colleagues joined Rep. Blumenauer and I in pushing the US to adopt strong, binding, enforceable environmental standards that will better address climate change, safeguard finite natural resources, and protect American businesses,” said DeFazio. “If TPP is really a ‘21st century trade agreement’ we must deal with global environmental problems such as illegal wildlife trafficking and poaching, illegal fishing, shark finning, and illegal logging. TPP should not reward trading partners that undermine our international environmental agreements and have weak environmental and labor standards.” The full letter and list of signatories are attached and can be found linked here.
02.12.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) along with 17 other members of Congress, sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama asking him to direct Attorney General Eric Holder to reschedule marijuana from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act, as is permitted by 21 U.S.C. § 811. “You said that you don’t believe marijuana is any more dangerous than alcohol: a fully legalized substance, and believe it to be less dangerous ‘in terms of its impact on the individual consumer,’” the letter reads. “This is true. Marijuana, however, remains listed in the federal Controlled Substances Act at Schedule I, the strictest classification, along with heroin and LSD. This is a higher listing than cocaine and methamphetamine, Schedule II substances that you gave as examples of harder drugs. This makes no sense.” If a drug is listed under Schedule I, it means that the federal government recognizes no medical use. Including marijuana in this classification disregards both medical evidence and the laws of nearly half of the states that have legalized it for medical purposes. A Schedule I or II classification also means that marijuana businesses in states where adult or medical use are legal cannot deduct business expenses from their taxes or take tax credits due to Section 280E of the federal tax code. “Cocaine and methamphetamine are more dangerous than marijuana. Everyone knows this,” said Blumenauer. “Tobacco, which is a legal substance, kills an estimated 443,000 people a year, while there are no recorded examples of marijuana overdoses. The Administration needs recognize the relative dangers of these drugs if it wants to restore its credibility. The first step is to reschedule marijuana, which the Administration can do unilaterally. We can’t let this arbitrary and incorrect bureaucratic classification ruin any more lives.” The signatories on the letter along with Congressman Blumenauer are Representatives Steve Cohen (TN-09), Sam Farr (CA-20), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Mike Honda (CA-17), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), James P. McGovern (MA-02), James P. Moran (VA-08), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Jared Polis (CO-02), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), and Peter Welch (VT-At Large).
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record regarding his vote against the Conference Report on H.R. 2642- Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013: I voted against the farm bill conference report because it represented a missed opportunity to enact necessary and long-overdue reforms. Supporters of this legislation claim $23 billion in savings, but by setting commodity target prices at today’s high prices, independent experts expect that as prices drop, this legislation would cost us more in the long run. The bill does have some bright spots. The removal of the King amendment and the inclusion of language cracking down on animal fighting are victories for animal welfare. The SNAP cuts are not as draconian as the version that passed the House last year. I am thrilled that the amendment I worked on with Representatives Polis and Massie easing restrictions on the cultivations of industrial hemp was included, which shows we are ready to look at hemp as an agricultural commodity, and not a drug. There are welcome investments in renewable energy and organics in this bill as well. On the whole, however, the bill falls short of enacting necessary reforms, and maintains the pattern of cutting SNAP benefits for our most vulnerable while spending taxpayer dollars on wasteful agriculture subsidies. In Oregon alone, 78,000 households will face cuts to their nutrition assistance as a result of this bill, while simultaneously the bill adds to the already-bloated crop insurance program and creates even more subsidies that benefit large agribusinesses and encourage farmers to farm the system, not the land. It continues loopholes that allow one farm to claim multiple subsidy payments despite the fact that both the House and Senate passed farm bills eliminating these loopholes. I am also disappointed that this legislation cuts overall funding for conservation programs, and fails to enact many important reforms that I have put forward in my legislation – the Balancing Food, Farm and the Environment Act of 2013 – that would strengthen the conservation title. I was pleased to see the inclusion of language establishing conservation compliance, as well as enactment of a Regional Conservation Partnership Program, which will help encourage farmers to work together to protect water quality, water supplies or wildlife habitat at watershed or regional scales. Overall, however, conservation language could and should have gone much further to provide adequate funding while optimizing results and making it easier for farmers to apply their conservation knowledge to their land. On balance this bill represents the minimum effort that enabled its passage. It is fiscally irresponsible and continues the alarming trend of subsidizing large agribusiness while cutting benefits for our most vulnerable Americans. We can and should do better, and I will continue working to reform our federal agricultural policies to that end.
01.28.2014	Washington, DC– In June 2013, Representatives Jared Polis (CO-02), Thomas Massie (KY-04) and Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) included an amendment to the Farm Bill, H.R. 1947, that would allow colleges and universities to grow industrial hemp for research purposes in states where it is already legal to do so. This amendment was included in the version of the Farm Bill which passed the House in July and is included in the final bill after conference with the Senate, which the House will be voting on tomorrow. Not only is the research amendment included, but the bill contains additional expanded language allowing for “agricultural pilot programs” to study the growth and marketing of industrial hemp in states where hemp is legal. Only institutions of higher education and State Departments of Agricultures would be allowed to grow industrial hemp. “I am pleased that this bipartisan, common sense amendment that I offered with Representatives Blumenauer and Massie was included in the final FARM bill,” said Polis. “For far too long, states that have legalized the growth and cultivation of industrial hemp have been unable to conduct academic research on this important and historic crop. This is a step in the right direction towards utilizing this crop in a way that improves our economy and creates jobs.” "This is an important victory for farmers, manufacturers, and consumers in Kentucky and across the country,” said Massie. “Our amendment paves the way for production of industrial hemp by first allowing America's academic and research institutions to demonstrate that hemp and the products derived from hemp present a great economic opportunity for our country.” “The inclusion of our industrial hemp amendment in the farm bill reflects widespread support for cultivating industrial hemp and proves Congress can work together in a bipartisan fashion to help the American economy at a time when creating jobs is a national priority," Massie continued. “I am further encouraged to continue working with Congressmen Blumenauer, Polis, and Schrader to pass HR 525, our standalone industrial hemp bill that will eventually permit all farmers to cultivate hemp in states like Kentucky that allow it." “The inclusion of our industrial hemp amendment and expanded language is a very promising and important step in the right direction,” said Blumenauer. “From Oregon to Colorado to Kentucky, voters across the country have made it clear that they believe industrial hemp should be regulated as an agricultural commodity, not a drug. The inclusion of this amendment sends a symbol that we are ready to examine hemp in a more appropriate way.” ###
12.19.2013	Thousands in Oregon set to lose coverage statewide WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), and Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) released a new county-by-county breakdown of the number of people in Oregon who would immediately lose all of their unemployment insurance on Dec. 28 if Congress fails to extend the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program. Republicans last week blocked an effort by House Democrats to extend the program into 2014. Overall, about 20,000 people in Oregon are set to lose their federal extended unemployment insurance coverage immediately on Dec. 28. While around 2,200 of these individuals are likely to be eligible for state benefits based on their work history, up to an additional 29,000 people in Oregon could lose their coverage in the first six months of 2014 if Republicans continue to block an extension of the program. “This is a gut punch to out-of-work Oregonians right in the middle of the holiday season,” said Blumenauer. “Families in Multnomah and Clackamas Counties in my district will be the first and third hardest hit, respectively, by this failure to extend unemployment insurance. It’s shameful that House Republicans always seem to be able to find time to cut food aid for hungry families or extend giveaways to large agribusiness, but can’t find time to help out families when they need it most.” "As the numbers show, this economic downturn has been especially cruel to many of our neighbors,” said DeFazio. “The bottom line: jobs are still scarce across the state. While we work on long-term plans to create good-paying jobs in the U.S., it is unacceptable for Republicans to turn their backs on our most vulnerable citizens, all while making sure corporate tax loopholes are left intact." “It is unconscionable that House leadership did not let us vote on legislation to extend unemployment benefits before adjourning for the year,” said Bonamici. “Even though the Speaker did not keep the House in session to pass an extension, as many of my colleagues and I requested, I will continue to urge him to take this up immediately upon our return in January. I hope we can extend these benefits and provide certainty to those individuals and families struggling to make ends meet.” Federal extended unemployment insurance took effect in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since as Americans continue to recover from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Despite the real progress the economy has made since its near collapse in 2008, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs than there were before the recession began and long-term unemployment as a percentage of the unemployed is 37 percent, near historic highs. Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance would also hurt job growth throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. The CEA estimates that in Oregon alone, failing to extend the program will cost 3,829 jobs. The county-by-county breakdown, based on the total number of people in Oregon currently receiving federal unemployment insurance, is below. The information was provided by the Oregon Employment Department. COUNTY # of People Losing Coverage Dec. 28 BAKER COUNTY 64 BENTON COUNTY 204 CLACKAMAS COUNTY 1,705 CLATSOP COUNTY 146 COLUMBIA COUNTY 284 COOS COUNTY 369 CROOK COUNTY 147 CURRY COUNTY 98 DESCHUTES COUNTY 863 DOUGLAS COUNTY 569 GILLIAM COUNTY 6 GRANT COUNTY 35 HARNEY COUNTY 40 HOOD RIVER COUNTY 83 JACKSON COUNTY 1,080 JEFFERSON COUNTY 65 JOSEPHINE COUNTY 490 KLAMATH COUNTY 390 LAKE COUNTY 36 LANE COUNTY 1,604 LINCOLN COUNTY 178 LINN COUNTY 659 MALHEUR COUNTY 69 MARION COUNTY 1,490 MORROW COUNTY 29 MULTNOMAH COUNTY 3,637 OUT OF STATE(WA, ID, & CA) 826 POLK COUNTY 318 SHERMAN COUNTY 5 TILLAMOOK COUNTY 114 UMATILLA COUNTY 363 UNION COUNTY 93 WALLOWA COUNTY 25 WASCO COUNTY 121 WASHINGTON COUNTY 2,358 WHEELER COUNTY 1 YAMHILL COUNTY 482 OUT OF STATE (other states) 1,021 Total 20,067
12.13.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced HR 3733, the Trade and Environment Enforcement Act, also known as the Green 301 Act. Green 301 expands the Section 301 provisions of the Trade Act of 1974 to encompass environmental effects. It provides tools to help prevent practices by other countries that cause negative environmental impacts to human, animal, or plant life or health, or to prevent the conservation of exhaustible natural resources domestically or internationally. “The United States has helped create the largest trade network the world has ever seen,” said Blumenauer. “As we leverage our commercial influence in the global economy, we can also ensure the countries we are doing business with adhere to basic environmental standards.” Green 301 would allow the US government to impose penalties, including the increase of tariffs, on countries that: Fail to effectively enforce the environmental laws of a foreign country; Waived or otherwise derogated from the environmental laws of a foreign country or weakened the protections afforded by such laws; Fail to provide for judicial or administrative proceedings giving access to remedies for violations of the environmental laws of a foreign country; Fail to provide appropriate and effective sanctions or remedies for violations of the environmental laws of a foreign country; or Fail to effectively enforce environmental commitments in agreements to which a foreign country and the United States are a Party “The promise of an open, mutually beneficial trade relationship with the US is both a carrot and a stick,” continued Blumenauer. “Green 301, which is supported by the top environmental and conservation groups, lets our trade partners know that, not only does the United States expect our partners to adhere to environmental agreements, but now there could be serious economic penalties for countries that don’t hold up their end of the bargain.” Oregon and other states heavily dependent on international commerce are greatly disadvantaged when trading partners derogate from their environmental laws, which provide them with an unfair advantage and undercuts U.S. companies, which operate under strong environmental protections. “Oregon’s iconic brands wouldn’t exist without strong international trading relationships,” said Blumenauer. “But my support for international trade agreements has always been predicated on the notion that the agreements establish a balanced trading regime. Our companies play by the rules, and we expect others to as well.”
12.12.2013	I very reluctantly voted for H.J.Res 59, having been quoted accurately that it is a D+ piece of legislation. It sadly represents what Congress has become. It is now a victory to avoid another government shutdown. It is a victory to temporarily prevent application of the Sustainable Growth Rate that would penalize medical providers and our senior citizens. It is the least we could do to find a tiny bit of budget breathing room so that it may be possible for the appropriations process to resume again. It is frustrating that, at a time when there are still many unmet needs of our citizens and while our economy is sputtering, people are celebrating legislation that doesn’t damage the economy more. It is sad that it has come to this. I am hopeful, however, that this might serve as a point of departure over the next three months to be able to face the realities of what America needs. I, for one, will continue working for the big picture, on the three bills that I have introduced to help rebuild and renew America and on arguing for a grander bargain, rather than the least that we can do. I will fight to build on the platform of healthcare reform so that we get medical providers off the SGR merry-go-round, instead moving towards the promise of healthcare reform. It is shameful that Congress is willing to cut food stamps yet give money to wealthy farmers, while ignoring the plight of the long term unemployed, illustrating the gap between what the American public expects and what we should do. I am hopeful that the new year will be more constructive. In the mean time, we will celebrate avoiding another damaging government shutdown and we will celebrate not having a destructive resolution on the floor muddying diplomacy with Iran. I suppose in the holiday spirit we should be thankful for what we can get and then usher this least productive session in Congressional history out of town.
12.12.2013	Today, in the National Defense Authorization Act, Congress extended the Iraqi Special Immigration Visa (SIV) program for 9 months and secured critical reforms for both the Iraq and Afghanistan SIV programs. In addition, the State Department can continue to process SIV applications for as long as it takes, until they hit the new cap of 2,500 SIVs. Some of the essential reforms include greater transparency, authorization for applicants to hire legal counsel to be present during their interview, appointment of senior embassy staff to oversee the reform process, and a requirement for all applications to be completed within 9 months, with an exception for national security concerns. These Iraqi translators and guides risked their lives to assist American soldiers. In 2007, I worked to create the SIV program to, in some small way, pay back our dedicated allies and show them what kind of country the US is. At that time, we made a promise to take in those who had served us when the American presence was scaled down and they no longer had our protection. Now, at least for the next year, we can keep that promise. Starting tomorrow, the real work begins. I will continue my efforts to extend the Iraqi SIV program further, making sure that every translator and guide that put their life on the line for our troops has a chance to come to the country he or she helped protect. I will also fight until the SIV program for Afghan translators, who risked their lives just as bravely as their Iraqi counterparts, is extended as well so that they and their families are out of harm’s way. I’m also pleased that the NDAA includes my amendment that will require all Department of Defense new construction and redevelopment to increase the quality of life for our service members and their families by requiring our military installations to be more livable. Our military families deserve the very best, and ensuring our bases are planned and built in a way that promotes close-knit communities, where you can walk instead of drive your car, and have shared and green spaces to make difficult times more bearable, is essential. Our victories in expanding the Iraqi SIV program and increasing military quality of life, however, were not enough to salvage the entire bill, and I voted against NDAA. This legislation wastes too much money and is a missed opportunity for greatly needed reform. For example, the bill spends $7.9 billion maintaining a nuclear stockpile that is enough to destroy the world several times over. Wouldn’t it be better to reduce that arsenal and fully fund SNAP and other programs that help poor and hungry American families? Congress needs to show leadership and prove that we have the ability to make difficult choices. We have to acknowledge that recklessly funding an antiquated military strategy undermines our security. Crumbling bridges and roads, failing schools, and a massive national debt all put us at greater risk than modest and reasonable cuts to defense spending, so I could not support the bill.
12.10.2013	Letter Urges OMB to Finalize and Strengthen Regulations WASHINGTON – This week, Congresswoman Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and twelve members of Congress sent a letter to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to finalize a regulation to curb the overuse of antibiotics on the farm, a practice that has contributed to a rise in antibiotic-resistant infections. The proposed regulation, called Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Guidance #213, recommends that the drug industry and agriculture companies refrain from using antibiotics for growth promotion and requires veterinary oversight of antibiotic sales. Even once Guidance #213 is finalized, its provisions would be voluntary, and although the FDA says it will evaluate whether the Guidance is effective after a three-year period, the FDA has provided no metrics by which they would measure the effectiveness. A draft of Guidance #213 was released in April 2012, but the administration has not yet finalized the guidance. Reps. Slaughter and Blumenauer have criticized the voluntary nature of the FDA’sproposal as being toothless, but in lieu of other action from the administration on stopping the overuse of antibiotics in food animals, Slaughter and Blumenauer urged swift action on Guidance #213. Currently 80 percent of the antibiotics sold in America are used on food animals, usually to promote growth and compensate for unsanitary conditions on the farm. Bacteria that are subjected to low doses of antibiotics often become resistant, and then when these bacteria infect humans, those antibiotics are ineffective in treating the infection. Furthermore, antibiotics are used to prevent infection during many routine operations, a practice that could be affected by the uptick in antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Rep. Slaughter, the lead sponsor of legislation that would prohibit the routine use of eight critical classes of antibiotics on the farm, said: “The longer the FDA drags its feet on stopping antibiotic overuse on the farm, the worse the problem will get. We need federal agencies that put people’s health before the interests of the drug companies and agribusinesses. Finalizing this guidance is the least the FDA can do– what we really need is a solid regulation that will preserve the effectiveness of antibiotics for future generations.” “Among lawmakers, the medical and scientific communities, conservation groups, members of the agricultural industry, and the public, there is a growing sense of urgency to create a regulatory framework that reduces the overuse of antibiotics in livestock raised for human consumption. The Federal Drug Administration has been working on such regulations for over two years, and they are long overdue. I strongly urge the Obama Administration and FDA to move forward on implementing such a framework without delay.” Click here to read the full letter.
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC--Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Ron Kind (D-WI) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) today implored Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor to keep loopholes for multimillionaires closed in any final Farm Bill. Both the House and Senate-passed versions of the Farm Bill reformed payment limits for commodity programs by capping the total number of “active personal management” who can receive commodity payments. “It is unconscionable that these conferees would try to reverse the reforms backed by a majority of their colleagues so as to continue the flow of millions of dollars, beyond what they are entitled to, to a relatively few mega farms,” the representatives wrote. “CBO [Congressional Budget Office] has estimated $170 million in savings if Congress reforms payment limits for commodity programs by placing a hard cap of $250,000 (for married couples) on the total amount of commodity payments that producers can receive.” Members of Congress are currently negotiating a new five-year Farm Bill that could cut billions from nutrition and anti-hunger programs, even as multimillionaires continue to get exorbitant farm subsidy payments. The farm subsidy programs are rife with fraud, as the Government Accountability Office recently detailed. By contrast, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP or food stamps), has one of the lowest error rates of any federal program. Over 90 percent of all food stamp spending goes to families living at or below the poverty line. The letter can be read in its entirety here.
12.06.2013	Why are you proposing raising the gas tax now? Our roads and bridges are falling apart, and so is the mechanism we use to build them. If we don’t take action now, on October 1st, 2014 the Highway Trust Fund, which funds all of our transportation projects, will go broke.There won’t be enough money in the fund to pay for the projects that have been approved. To avoid this, we have three alternatives. Congress can transfer General Fund revenue, which we’ve done in the past, to the Highway Trust Fund. This keeps the Trust Fund going but increases the deficit, and lets Congress avoid the real problem (sound familiar?). The other option is to use the user fee that is supposed to fund the Highway Trust Fund—the gas tax. Because Congress didn’t index the gas tax to inflation, it has not kept up with spending since it was last raise in 1992. By increasing the gas tax by fifteen cents, which is what has been recommended by multiple bipartisan budget commissions, my legislation basically makes the same change that would have occurred had we tied the gas tax to inflation back in the early 1990s. The third option is that Congress can drastically reduce the number of transportation projects that are funded. This would impact our interstate highway system, bridge reconstruction and maintenance and reduce the ability of local communities to make transportation improvements or fund transit systems. Why are you focused on this issue? I’ve cared about transportation and infrastructure issues my entire career. When I was in the Oregon legislature, I worked to create the transportation commission and multimodal statewide transportation plans to make sure that the state was spending money wisely. As the Portland City Commissioner in charge of transportation, I learned firsthand about the challenges of maintaining streets, reducing the paving backlog and the importance of sidewalks so that people would have a safe way to walk in their neighborhood. As a member of Congress, I’ve literally talked to thousands of people in Oregon and across the country, attended countless meetings, participated in public hearings, and reviewed numerous reports. I’ve reached the same conclusion as most transportation, finance, and budget experts: our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems are bad shape and we need more sustainable, long-term funding to maintain our infrastructure and make it work better. Doubling the tax -- do we really need to do that? I don’t like raising the gas tax either. But the reality is that it’s necessary. If we had pegged the gas tax to inflation back in the 1990s, it would be close to the level I’m suggesting we raise it today. If we raise the gas tax by less than fifteen cents, we will have to transfer money from the general fund to spend on transportation projects. That increases the national debt. How will this be implemented? Fifteen cents is a lot! The bill phases in the gas tax increase over three years to help give individuals time to adjust. Won’t this hit low income families the hardest? Low income families are hit hardest when they aren’t given choices. Generally people in the bottom third of incomes pay more on transportation than they do on housing. They are the ones who are profoundly affected if there is congestion because they work by the hour and if they can’t get to work that is money out of their pocket. If the roads are bad and are shaking the cars apart, they can’t afford to get it realigned or to replace their tires. Adequately investing in our transportation system enables us to provide transportation choices, so that low income and fixed income individuals can find cheaper options than driving, or can reduce the length of their commute. Also, investing this extra money in transportation creates jobs. Studies show that for each billion dollars that is spent on infrastructure, 36,000 jobs are created. Most of these are family wage jobs that can’t be outsourced overseas. Other impacts ripple down to local coffee shops, bookstores, and cleaners so everybody is better off. This creates more tax revenue from business activity that will end up supporting schools, parks, and police. This is a serious question that I thought deeply about, but I am absolutely convinced that lower income people have more at stake because they have no choice and they bear the brunt if the transportation system becomes more expensive and more dysfunctional. When a big bridge falls down, it always seems to get rebuilt. So why do we need more money? When a bridge falls down, states can access emergency federal money to help rebuild a bridge. However, this means some other project doesn’t get built, or maintenance in another area is ignored. Over 60% of the bridges in the United States are structurally deficient—we need to provide adequate funding to upgrade and maintain these bridges instead of waiting until they fall down to replace them. That’s not safe. The streets in my neighborhood are full of potholes. How will this help? Right now, states are in charge of road maintenance, but about 40% of the money they use for maintenance comes from the federal government. If the federal government loses 30% of its funding, states will have to cut back on road maintenance, resulting in more potholes, more shaky bridges, and older transit systems. This bill helps us make sure that the bottom doesn’t drop out, so that states have enough money to fix the potholes in your neighborhood. Where is all this gas tax money spent? Gas taxes help build new bridges, pave highways, build transit systems, sidewalks, and goes to all the other projects that help people get where they need to go. Most of the money is allocated to the states, who then distribute the money based on local needs and formulas. If we just spent gas taxes on roads, bridges and highways, would we need to raise the tax? We would. The gas tax is supposed to help fund our transportation system. The question really becomes about whether we should be building only a highway system, or a transportation system. Data has shown that it’s more cost effective to build a transportation system that gives people choices and options about how they get around. This reduces congestion, which decreases the amount of highways we need to build (highways are one of the most expensive projects to build) and uses tax dollars most efficiently. Who supports this? This bill has support from organizations across the political spectrum. It’s supported by the Chamber of Commerce, the American Public Transit Association, Transportation for America, the AAA, the American Road and Transportation Builders Association, the American Trucking Association, several labor organizations and many others.
12.04.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) along with leaders in the fields of transportation, labor, commerce, and construction introduced H.R. 3636 The Update, Promote, and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act. This bill would phase in a 15 cent/gallon tax increase over the next three years on gasoline and diesel. “The gas tax hasn’t been increased since the beginning of the Clinton administration,” said Blumenauer. “Today, with inflation and increased fuel efficiency for vehicles, the average motorist is paying about half as much per mile as they did in 1993. It’s time for Congress to act. There’s a broad and persuasive coalition that stands ready to support Congress, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National AFL-CIO, the construction and trucking industry, cyclists, professional groups, numerous associations of small and medium businesses, local governments, and transit agencies. We just need to give them something to support.” In 2009, the Federal Highway Administration estimated that over $70.9 billion worth of repairs were needed just to maintain safe infrastructure; that number has since increased The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that surface transportation in the US needs over $2 trillion of investment in order to remain economically competitive. In recent years, Congress has added to the General Fund deficit by transferring over $50 billion of General Fund revenue to the Highway Trust Fund in order to keep it afloat. In order to maintain current funding in the following years, the Highway Trust Fund will need almost $15 billion a year in addition to current gas tax receipts. Continuing down the current path will mean a 30% drop in federal transportation spending by 2024. The UPDATE Act would raise around $170 billion over ten years. “Instituting a reasonable gas tax increase now provides the revenues Democrats say they want with a form of a user fee which historically has been acceptable to Republicans including Ronald Reagan, who increased the gas tax by a nickel a gallon in 1982,” said Blumenauer. “Addressing the infrastructure deficit, stabilizing transportation funding, and helping America’s all-too-slow economic recovery is critical if we want a livable and economically prosperous country in the years to come.” Statements of Support: "Strong national infrastructure investment is vital to keep Oregon and the U.S. economically competitive but maintenance and repair needs have risen to a level that threatens a healthy economy. I applaud Congressman Blumenauer for offering the UPDATE Act to stabilize our transportation network and keep Oregon's business climate moving forward." - Ryan Deckert, President, Oregon Business Association “We need strong federal investment to fix the infrastructure crisis here in Oregon and across the nation. I support Congressman Blumenauer’s Update Act, which will help us rebuild America and create thousands of family wage jobs for working men and women.”– John Mohlis, Executive Secretary, Oregon State Building and Construction Trades Council "Congressman Blumenauer's UPDATE Act provides a much needed boost to our nation's surface transportation infrastructure. UPS alone travels more than 2.3 billion miles on America's roads each year, connecting businesses, consumers and individuals in every state. Increasing the federal motor fuels tax is a long-overdue proposal to provide the dedicated funding needed to maintain our highways, intermodal connections and other related infrastructure projects. Investing in and growing our nation's transportation infrastructure is essential to remaining competitive in today's increasingly global economy." – Laura Lane, Global Public Affairs President, United Parcel Service “On behalf of the Association of Equipment Manufacturers and our more than 900 member companies, we applaud Congressman Blumenauer for his leadership in finding solutions and building bipartisan support to address our infrastructure needs. The UPDATE Act of 2013 could spur economic growth and competitiveness while improving our nation’s ability to efficiently move goods and people. Investing in our national infrastructure is critical to keeping America competitive, and we appreciate Congressman Blumenauer taking these important steps to ensure we can reauthorize the federal highway bill for the long-term.”– Rick Patek, Group President, Astec Industries, and Chairman, Association of Equipment Manufacturers “With public transit ridership at record highs, and cars and trucks crowding our roads, our nation’s transportation network is in dire need of repair and maintenance. As happened in this week’s deadly New York commuter crash, more lives will be lost, and the mobility necessary for a thriving economy will be compromised unless we invest heavily in our nation’s public transit infrastructure. Congressman Blumenauer has introduced two bills that dedicate critical funding to public transit, which is the lifeblood of our economy. Public transit creates good jobs, safely delivers customers to businesses and people to work, and helps the environment. It literally moves our economy and it’s time for Congress to approve these bills to ensure our nation’s transportation systems have the critical financial support they need.” –Larry Hanley, International President, Amalgamated Transit Union “Our transportation network is key to the long-term economic competitiveness and growth of our cities, towns, and suburbs. Communities across the country are stepping up and raising additional revenue to meet their transportation challenges but cannot solve these needs alone. The UPDATE Act takes the important step of ensuring communities will have a strong, reliable federal partner as they invest in their economic future.” – John Robert Smith, Chair, Transportation for America, former Mayor of Meridian, MS "Getting America to Work applauds Congressman Blumenauer's efforts to provide a desperately needed increase in funding for transportation infrastructure--increasing the safety of public transit riders, while also boosting the economy. At a time when ridership is on the rise, while infrastructure investment is on the decline – it's critical that members of Congress follow Representative Blumenauer's lead and work to bring our nation's transit systems into a state of good repair." – Getting America to Work Coalition “Federal investment in transportation infrastructure plays an essential role in protecting public health and safety, promoting commerce and keeping America economically competitive. Unfortunately, transportation funding is not keeping pace with maintenance and improvement needs, and the balance of the Highway Trust Fund will be depleted in Fiscal Year 2015. The American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) applauds Congressman Blumenauer for introducing legislation that will avoid debilitating cuts in highway and transit investment with predictable, sustainable and growing revenue from user fees, an effective model that has long enjoyed significant public support. All options must be on the table as Congress considers how to fund our transportation system. The time to act is now, before the crisis worsens. Then we can further study our long-term options, such as a transition to a vehicle-miles-traveled fee or other alternatives.” – American Council of Engineering Companies “In concurrence with the Highway Materials Group’s funding principles for the next highway surface transportation authorization, the group supports Congressman Blumenauer’s proposed bills that would continue funding the Highway Trust Fund through user fees, while bolstering awareness about the impending Highway Trust Fund insolvency. Due to the magnitude of importance of the issue, increasing the gas tax and implementing a vehicle miles traveled fee are only two of the numerous options we support to increase revenues into the HTF. We commend the congressman for taking this bold step toward solving the dire problem facing the nation’s surface transportation infrastructure in the months and years ahead.” – Highways Materials Group “The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) applauds Rep. Blumenauer on his bold leadership and strongly endorses the Update, Promote and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act and the Road User Fee Pilot Project. This bill represents a major step forward in addressing how to fix America’s surface transportation infrastructure. The nation’s infrastructure is facing an increasing number of challenges. In ASCE’s 2013 Report Card for America’s Infrastructure, a comprehensive assessment of infrastructure across 16 sectors, the cumulative GPA for the nation’s infrastructure rose slightly to a D+ from a D in 2009. ASCE looks forward to working with Rep. Blumenauer and all members of Congress to advance this important legislation that will ensure long-term, sustainable funding for the Highway Trust Fund.” – Patrick Natale, Executive Director, American Society of Civil Engineers “We applaud Congressman Blumenauer in strong support of the Update Act, a responsible way to begin addressing the infrastructure crisis in our country. Investing in transportation will help us rebuild America, fire up our economy and increase our global competitiveness – creating jobs and opportunity for tens of thousands of our nation’s workers and their families.” – Terry O’Sullivan, General President, Laborers’ International Union of North America “This proposal provides the kind of long-term funding solutions that virtually every commission, including Simpson-Bowles, has said are needed to repair and upgrade our aging transportation network. What the Congressman understands is that simply talking about the need to find new sources of revenue won’t help until we actually identify, support and enact them.” – Stephen E. Sandherr, CEO, Associated General Contractors of America “It is imperative that Congress address the impending shortfall for federal transit and highway programs in FY2015. Our federal government must increase transportation investment to address our aging infrastructure and provide the transportation options that are necessary for our country to prosper and remain economically competitive.” – Michael Melaniphy, President, American Public Transportation Association
12.03.2013	Our transportation infrastructure is increasingly outdated and inadequate. In 2009, the Federal Highway Administration estimated that over $70.9 billion worth of repairs were needed just to maintain safe infrastructure; that number has since increased. In order to fund all economically justified projects, the Department of Transportation estimates that Congress would need to provide $83 billion a year in addition to current funding. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that our surface transportation needs over $2 trillion of investment in order to remain economically competitive. Instead of addressing the Highway Trust Fund’s insolvency, Congress has added to the General Fund deficit by transferring over $50 billion of General Fund revenue to the Highway Trust Fund in order to keep it afloat. The problem worsens: when the current surface transportation authorization ends at the end of Fiscal Year 2014, Trust Fund balances will nearly be exhausted. In order to maintain current funding in the following years, the Highway Trust Fund will need almost $15 billion a year (in addition to current gas tax receipts). If we do not find a way to make the Highway Trust Fund solvent, the continued disinvestment will mean an over 30% drop in federal transportation spending by 2024. SOLUTION Congress should follow the recommendations of the Commissions it has authorized. We should end the transfer of General Fund dollars to the Highway Trust Fund, phase in a short term gas tax increase, and set the stage for a transition for a long-term, stable funding source that will replace the gas tax. American cannot afford to continue to disinvest in our infrastructure. The UPDATE Act of 2013 turns the recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles report, the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Commission, and the National Surface Transportation Financing Commission into proposed law. It phases in a fifteen cent gas tax increase starting in 2014, indexes the gas tax to inflation, and then confirms Congress’s intention to replace the gas tax with a more equitable, stable source of funding by 2024. Commission Funding Level Recommendation Long Term Revenue Options National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Commission Increase gas tax by 25 to 40 cents, diesel tax by 15 cents, and index both rates to inflation Examine mileage based user fees as a potential replacement for the gas tax National Surface Transportation Financing Commission (2009) Increase gas tax by ten cents, the federal diesel tax and commensurate taxes by fifteen cents, and index to inflation Examine mileage based user fees as a potential replacement for the gas tax National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform “Simpson-Bowles” (2010) Increase gas tax by 15 cents per gallon Not addressed THE HISTORY The federal gas tax was last raised in 1993 by 4.3 cents (to a total of 18.4 centers per gallon) as part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act. Previous to that, it was raised by a nickel in 1982 during the Reagan Administration. Transportation advocates began raising concerns about the solvency of the Highway Trust Fund in the early 2000s, as increasing fuel efficiency, and deteriorating infrastructure heightened strain on the Highway Trust Fund. In 2005, the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (known as SAFETEA-LU) created the National Surface Transportation Financing Commission to recommend options to propose solutions to the looming Highway Trust Fund deficit. The Commission’s report, released in early 2009 is consistent with the recommendations of other commissions, think tanks, and policy leaders, all emphasizing the need for increased investment, and the need to shift away from the gas tax to a more stable source of funding.
11.21.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced the bipartisan Water Protection and Reinvestment Trust Fund Act of 2013, along with Representatives Tim Bishop (NY-01), John Duncan (TN-02), Donna F. Edwards (MD-04) Richard Hanna (NY-22), Jim Moran (VA-08), Tom Petri (WI-06), and Ed Whitfield (KY-01). This bill would provide a small, deficit-neutral, protected source of revenue to help states and local government replace, repair, and rehabilitate critical wastewater treatment facilities by creating a voluntary labeling and contributory system to which businesses that rely on a clean water source could opt-in.This bill introduction comes in the wake of the break in the West Burnside water main in Portland last month. The street closures and repair work caused significant traffic disruption and economic damage to the surrounding businesses. Southwest Portlanders also received notice this week to boil their tap water due to possible contamination. A loss of pressure in the water system during pipe work may have allowed contaminants that cause illnesses to enter the system without being treated. While it would take over $9.3 billion a year to maintain a clean-water infrastructure, funding has averaged just over $1.25 billion a year since 2000. The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) has given US wastewater infrastructure a grade of “D” in their most recent report card. Last year alone, American communities suffered more than 310,000 water main breaks and saw overflowing combined sewer systems, causing contamination, property damage, disruptions in the water supply, and massive traffic jams. “Day by day, and year by year, our water infrastructure falls apart,” said Blumenauer. “This bill allows responsible businesses who are dependent on clean water and effective sewage, to voluntarily contribute to rebuild and renew the system. Over the long term, the bill will save consumers and local governments millions of dollars, while helping maintain and rebuild our clean water system.” "A federal clean Water Trust Fund will leverage billions of public and private dollars to rebuild our nation's water infrastructure and put thousands of Americans to work in the construction and wastewater-support sectors," said Bishop, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment. "Investing now in improvements to publicly-owned water infrastructure will save taxpayer dollars on the local level in the future by reducing long-term operation and maintenance costs and protecting public health. I thank Congressman Blumenauer for his leadership on this critical issue." “Every day, we see the health, safety, and economic effects of America’s crumbling water infrastructure,” said Edwards. “This legislation is a bipartisan effort to stem the tide. In my state of Maryland, we see the devastating effects of polluted runoff, flooding, and sewer overflows on the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries and other rivers across our country. We must act now to create a consistent revenue stream, develop this infrastructure, and partner with businesses to keep our water clean for working families now and in the future.” “Maintenance demands on our clean water infrastructure have outpaced the funds available to pay for it for years,” said Moran. “This bill creates a voluntary, dedicated revenue stream to keep American communities drinking water safe for current and future generations.” “We are potentially looking at billions of dollars in unfunded liabilities over the next few decades due to poor and crumbling water infrastructure,” said Petri. “This plan is a viable, long-term solution that will allow us to meet the needs of our nation’s pipe, drains, and sewers.” “A modern, reliable infrastructure is vital for economic development,” stated Whitfield. “I’m pleased to be a part of this important legislation.” Businesses could choose to place a small label on their products indicating their commitment to protecting America’s clean water. For each unit that displayed such a label, companies would contribute $0.03 to the Water Trust Fund. Most of these funds will be distributed as grants and loans through the existing Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund to provide loans to publicly owned treatment works for wastewater treatment construction. Twenty percent of the funds will support an innovative financing program based on the successful Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act.“Everyone cares about clean water, but the reality is that the system to protect and maintain water isn’t free.” continued Blumenauer. “This bill doesn’t cost the taxpayers a cent, and yet allows businesses and the public to enjoy the benefits of a modern and fully functional water-infrastructure system. It’s a straightforward solution to the problem, and passing it swiftly into law would be a good way to show the American people we can move forward on bills that benefit everyone.” Statements of Support: “APWA is encouraged by Congressman Blumenauer’s efforts to address the infrastructure funding crisis facing wastewater utilities and we applaud Congressmen Blumenauer, Hanna, Duncan and Whitfield on identifying a workable solution to raising new money for wastewater utility investment.” – Peter B. King, Executive Director of the American Public Works Association. “The National Association of Clean Water Agencies (NACWA) applauds Representative Blumenauer and the bipartisan co-sponsors of this bill - which seeks voluntary contributions to a dedicated trust fund to benefit clean and safe water across the country. This bill's introduction is a key step toward ensuring that the federal government recommits to an enduring partnership with our states and municipalities in meeting the nation's growing clean water infrastructure needs, and we urge Congress to swiftly enact this legislation.” – Ken Kirk, Executive Director of the National Association of Clean Water Agencies “We need to step up the nation’s commitment to water infrastructure, which is why this legislation is so important. Congress long ago recognized that the needs of our surface transportation and aviation systems were critical enough to warrant tax revenues dedicated to their maintenance and enhancement. We need to take the next logical step and extend this approach to addressing the enormous backlog of water infrastructure needs throughout the country. ACEC strongly supports the Water Protection and Reinvestment Act.” – Dave Raymond, President and CEO, American Council of Engineering Companies "The United Association of Plumbers & Pipefitters support the Water Protection and Reinvestment Act because our nation’s aging water systems—the pipes, treatment plants and storage tanks that deliver safe, clean water to our homes and businesses—are reaching a tipping point and must be replaced. Investments in water infrastructure will promote American innovation and competitiveness, create thousands of jobs in construction and manufacturing sectors, and ensure our communities have access to safe and reliable water systems.” – William P. Hite, General President, United Association of Plumbers & Pipefitters of the United States, Canada and Australia “The innovative approaches outlined in Congressman Blumenauer’s bill will help us to insure a sustainable clean water future.” – Kevin Shafer, Executive Director, Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District "The International Union of Operating Engineers believe that the Water Trust Fund legislation introduced today by Congressmen Blumenauer is a national imperative and we will aggressively pursue its enactment into law. The bill's comprehensive set of innovative financing mechanisms will deliver environmental and economic benefits for future generations, while also delivering immediate economic benefits for the nation by creating thousands of family wage jobs in the hard-hit construction sector soon after its passage. The IUOE appreciates Congressman Blumenauer's focus and hard work on legislation that seriously begins to address the dramatic needs of America’s wastewater infrastructure. Thank you for your leadership." – James T. Callahan, General President, International Union of Operating Engineers “This bipartisan measure will provide the resources needed to maintain, improve and expand clean water systems across the country,” said, the chief executive officer of the “Establishing this fund will help provide additional funding municipalities need to plan and finance upgrades to our increasingly aging water systems.” – Stephen E. Sandherr, CEO, Associated General Contractors of America. “Our nation is facing a clean water infrastructure funding crisis - EPA, GAO and WIN have all projected annual shortfalls in funding for clean water infrastructure in access of $20 B for the foreseeable future. Congressman Blumenauer’s legislation is a thoughtful approach to funding America’s critical water infrastructure that has earned broad bipartisan support on the Hill and the unwavering support of municipal, construction, labor, conservation and engineering organizations from across the country. – Water Infrastructure Network. “By establishing a clean water trust fund, communities will be able to unlock potentially millions of dollars through the Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund program and a new federal loan program for water infrastructure projects critical to our economy, the environment and the health and welfare of our communities. While municipal bonds help fund three-quarters of infrastructure projects built in the U.S., local governments continue to seek additional financing mechanisms. NLC applauds these leaders on their bipartisan effort to provide new and innovative mechanisms of funding and a reliable, long-term source of capital to meet the growing water infrastructure needs in our communities.” – Chris Coleman, President, National League of Cities and Mayor of Saint Paul, MN “NACo applauds Rep. Blumenauer, Rep. Hanna, Rep. Duncan, and Rep. Whitfield for introduction of the Water Protection and Reinvestment Trust Fund,” said Matt Chase, NACo executive director. “Wastewater and stormwater infrastructure provides vital economic, public health and environmental benefits to American communities and the national economy. Without a long-term funding source, future infrastructure projects could be threatened.” –Matt Chase, Executive Director, National Association of Counties Water Trust Fund One Pager (11/21/13 04:06 PM PST)
11.19.2013	Transcript Mr. Speaker, in an era of violence in the Middle East, tragedy in Syria, and turmoil in Egypt, there’s some encouraging news surrounding Iran. The most important signal may have been the election of Hassan Rouhani, who is by no means a moderate by any one stretch of the imagination, except in the context of Iran. He was the choice of the Iranian people for change, a different path to reduce the collision course with the United States and the crippling sanctions we’ve imposed. His Foreign Minister, Mohammad Zarif, is an able and experienced diplomat with strong relationships with the people who’ve dealt with him for years, both in the United States and Iran. I’m encouraged by the reports in the news and the opinion pages which point out something I’ve long argued on the floor of this House: the convergence of interests between the United States and Iran. People forget the key role the United States played in the emergence of the modern state of Iran: the constitutional revolution beginning in 1905, where American influence was profoundly felt. Unfortunately, for the last sixty years, we have serially mismanaged our relationship with Iran. How would we have felt if a foreign power worked to overthrow our democratically-elected government and install a dictator? That’s exactly what the United States and Great Britain did in 1953, and how the Shah returned to power. It’s amazing that the majority of Iranians still have positive feelings towards the United States, which they do. People forget the alignment of interest between the United States and Iran after 9/11 that lead them to help us deal with post-Taliban Afghanistan. And when in the capitals of some of our supposed allies in the Middle East, people were cheering at that tragedy; on 9/11, people in Tehran were standing in solidarity with Americans. This of course, before George Bush recklessly included them in his infamous ‘Axis of Evil’ pronouncement. The Iranian people are distinct from Arabs, proud of their Persian heritage stretching back thousands of years. Iran is an important part of any ultimate solution stabilizing Iraq and resolving the Syrian conflict. Yes, they have advanced nuclear development and we rightly should be deeply concerned with their pursuit of nuclear weapons. That’s why one of the Obama administration’s greatest foreign policy triumphs has been to marshal support of the world for the stringent, comprehensive regime of sanctions. It’s made a huge difference driving down the value of their currency, depleting their foreign reserves and creating extreme inflationary pressures on their economy. Now is the time to see if a solution can be developed. It’s decidedly not the time to ratchet up sanctions even further. Nothing would undercut the more moderate forces in Iran and more pressure could be very counter-productive because we are at risk of sanctions fatigue by our partners. Other countries that do not share our same policy positions and deep hostility towards Iranians have gone along with sanctions. To expect that countries like China, India and Russia are going to follow us with even more extreme sanctions, and turn our back on the progress, is questionable at best. At worst, it would end up losing support for the sanctions regime we have now, strengthen the hand of the hard-liners who do hate America, and set back long term prospects for peace, not just for Iran, but Syria, Iraq and throughout the Middle East. Most experts I’ve encountered feel Iran could have built a nuclear bomb years ago, but they didn’t. Recently, they’ve slowed the pace of their nuclear activities and been open to proposals unthinkable a year ago. The rush to undercut the process is short-sighted, counter-productive and risks accelerating the development of Iranian nuclear weapons. Now is the time to accelerate diplomacy, not walk away. It is decidedly not the time for the United States Congress to throw a monkey wrench in the diplomatic proceedings and ratchet up sanctions. We can always re-impose sanctions but may not be able to recreate this diplomatic opportunity.
11.18.2013	Currently No Transparency on Where Taxpayer Dollars Are Going WASHINGTON, DC—Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Ron Kind (D-WI) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) today continued their effort for more transparency in the crop insurance program. They are asking the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a review of crop insurance payments and shed some light on how much of the payments go to wealthy individuals and families. “The Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (H.R. 2642) passed in July by the House expanded crop insurance subsidies,” the representatives wrote. “According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, these crop insurance subsidies will cost taxpayers $90 billion over the next decade. USDA reports it spent $14 billion on crop insurance last year alone. “These subsidies overwhelmingly flow to the largest and most successful farm businesses. Unlike other farm subsidies, crop insurance subsidies are not subject to means testing or payment limits and farmers are not required to adopt basic environmental protections in exchange for premium support from the taxpayer.” Members of Congress are currently negotiating a new five-year farm bill that could cut billions from nutrition and anti-hunger programs, while continuing—or even increasing—these crop insurance subsidies that have little to no oversight. Crop insurance payments are also not subject to means testing, payment limits or conservation requirements. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office recently issued a report with common-sense recommendations for saving taxpayer dollars by reducing crop insurance subsidies. The full letter follows: The Honorable Gene Dodaro Comptroller General of the United States U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro: We write to request that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conduct a review of farm subsidy payments, in particular crop insurance payments, under the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008. The Environmental Working Group (EWG) released a report on November 7, 2012 showing that at least 50 billionaires, or farm businesses in which they had a financial interest, benefited from $11.3 million in traditional farm subsidies between 1995 and 2012. It is of great concern to us that farm subsidies have been paid to such wealthy individuals. Many of the same billionaires may have also received premium subsidies through the federal crop insurance program. However, taxpayers have no way of knowing who has received this support because current federal law prohibits the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) from disclosing the identities of crop insurance recipients. Congress is currently negotiating a new Farm Bill that would reauthorize and possibly reform a wide range of agriculture and nutrition programs, including the crop insurance program. At the same time, Congress is also determining funding and policy for the food stamp program, which provides support to millions of low-income households, including over 21 million children. The Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (H.R. 2642) passed in July by the House expanded crop insurance subsidies. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, these crop insurance subsidies will cost taxpayers $90 billion over the next decade. USDA reports it spent $14 billion on crop insurance last year alone. These subsidies overwhelmingly flow to the largest and most successful farm businesses. Unlike other farm subsidies, crop insurance subsidies are not subject to means testing or payment limits and farmers are not required to adopt basic environmental protections in exchange for premium support from the taxpayer. While some farms annually collect more than $1 million in crop insurance premium support, the bottom 80% of policyholders annually collect about $5,000. This may very likely be lawful, but it underscores the need for agricultural policy reform. Reform begins with accurate information. Accordingly, we would like a report answering the following key questions: · How many individuals or families with a net worth over $1,000,000 have or will receive farm subsidies under the current farm bill, the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008? · Of these individuals, how many meet the active farming requirements as defined in Title I of the current Farm Bill? · Of these individuals, how many are members of Congress? · How much money are each of these individuals receiving from farm subsidies? Over what time period? · What programs within the Farm Bill result in the most payments to those with an adjusted gross income greater than $1,000,000? · How many individuals or families with a net worth over $1,000,000 are benefiting from crop insurance premium subsidies? · Of these individuals, how many are members of Congress? · How large are the premium subsidies these individuals are benefiting from and how much are these individuals receiving in crop insurance indemnities? Over what time period? Thank you in advance for your immediate attention to this request. Should you have any questions or need additional information, please contact a member our staff. We look forward to hearing from you on this important issue. Sincerely, Rosa L. DeLauro Ron Kind Earl Blumenauer
11.14.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Howard Coble (NC-06), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), and Mike McCaul (TX-10) introduced the bipartisan Bicycle and Pedestrian Safety Act, which would require the US Department of Transportation to set separate measures for motorized and non-motorized safety. States would be able to set their own safety targets and have the flexibility to choose the best methods to meet them. The legislation encourages states to make their roadways safer without diverting funding from other safety needs. In 2012, more than 34,000 people died due to traffic accidents – and almost 16 percent of these deaths were pedestrians and bicyclists. Yet, less than 1 percent of safety funding goes to infrastructure to protect those on foot or on bicycle. “Everyone is a pedestrian at some point in their trip,” said Blumenauer, “and the number of individuals commuting by bike has increased by more than 60% over the last decade. As transportation systems adjust to handle different type of road users, the federal government must encourage appropriate standards to ensure road user safety.” The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration recently reported a 2 percent drop in roadway fatalities, and a 4.6 percent drop for occupants of cars and light trucks between 2010 and 2011. These safety improvements, however, have not helped all road users. Even as driver and passenger deaths have decreased, the percentage of bicyclist and pedestrian roadway deaths has increased in recent years. “As walking and bicycling continues to grow in popularity, it’s more important than ever to have accurate safety statistics,” said DeFazio. "I’ve long been a supporter of alternative modes of transportation and making the roads safer for everyone. This legislation is a step in the right direction.” “While overall traffic deaths are down, the number of bicyclists dying on our roadways has increased by nine percent and pedestrian deaths have gone up by three percent recently,” said Coble. “This bipartisan legislation strives toreduce the number of bicyclists and pedestrians killed and injured on our roadways. It will help protect all users of our transportation system, while giving states flexibility to enact measures that make sense for them.”
11.13.2013	Washington, DC– U.S. Reps. Mike Thompson (CA-05) and Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), two senior Members of the House Committee on Ways & Means, led a letter to President Obama urging him to work collaboratively with Congress to craft Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation. Strong TPA legislation that enhances the consultative role of Congress throughout the course of trade negotiations will help increase our nation’s international competitiveness, grow the U.S. economy and create good American jobs. “Increasing exports and eliminating trade barriers can be a win for our economy provided the playing field is level and everyone operates under a fair and basic set of rules, said Thompson. “AnyTrade Promotion Authority must support and help create good American jobs, grow the U.S. economy, set basic standards for our partners to live up to, improve market access, protect the environment, and allows for Congressional oversight. By meeting these basic benchmarks, the Administration can work with Congress on meaningful trade policy.” “This letter lays out a clear path of how the administration can work with Congress to craft a thoughtful approach to TPA,” said Blumenauer. “Democratic members of the House Ways & Means Committee who have signed this letter are inclined to be supportive. We believe, however, that TPA must reflect a trade policy that not only creates and strengthens jobs here in the U.S. while improving market access, but also promotes high-quality standards abroad that prevent a race to the bottom. Meeting that benchmark will be critical to our continued support.” The letter presents the ways in which a properly structured TPA can build on the progress Congress has made to transform American trade policy into more than just a means to eliminate trade barriers. It can also be an integral tool for improving the working conditions and environmental protections among our trading partners through enforceable, meaningful standards. In addition, the letter states that TPA should include incentives to help keep well-paying jobs at home; contain a reauthorization of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) programs; and adequately fund our trade enforcement agencies so that we ensure other countries adhere to their commitments and provide fair market access. The full text of the letter is below. Dear President Obama: We support your stated goal of promoting American exports and eliminating barriers to trade. We are optimistic that such efforts, done correctly, will grow our economy and lead to more well-paying U.S. jobs by expanding access to U.S. goods and services abroad and leveling the playing field for American companies and workers. To pursue this goal, we understand that your Administration plans to work with Congress to craft new legislation reauthorizing Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). To gain the broadest possible support for TPA in Congress, this proposal cannot just be an extension of earlier trade promotion authorities. Any new proposed TPA must reflect the changing nature of international trade and ensure that Congress plays a more meaningful role in the negotiating process than in the 2002 TPA, which did not receive large bipartisan support in the House of Representatives. Moreover, we believe that any proposed negotiating authority should help our country and its workers better compete in the modern global economy. A new TPA should include incentives to help keep well-paying jobs at home, and to help spur new American innovation and job creation across all sectors of our economy. A new TPA should also include a reauthorization of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) programs to help retrain workers impacted by changing global trade and by the implementation of trade agreements. Finally, any new TPA should strengthen our trade laws and adequately fund our trade enforcement agencies so that we can hold other countries accountable and ensure they adhere to their commitments and provide fair market access. We note that a well crafted TPA can help build on the progress Congress has made to transform American trade policy into more than just a means to eliminating trade barriers, but as a tool for improving the working conditions and environmental protections among our trading partners through enforceable, meaningful standards . For example, the May 10th Agreement, which incorporated significant improvements in labor and environmental commitments into previous agreements, should serve as a baseline for future agreements. We believe that TPA must reflect a trade policy that not only creates and strengthens jobs here in the U.S. and improves market access, but also promotes high-quality standards abroad that prevent a race to the bottom. Thank you for your attention to this letter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, MIKE THOMPSON Member of Congress EARL BLUMENAUER Member of Congress CHARLES B. RANGEL Member of Congress JIM McDERMOTT Member of Congress JOHN LEWIS Member of Congress XAVIER BECERRA Member of Congress JOHN B. LARSON Member of Congress BILL PASCRELL, JR. Member of Congress ALLYSON Y. SCHWARTZ Member of Congress DANNY K. DAVIS Member of Congress DORIS O. MATSUI Member of Congress JAMES A. HIMES Member of Congress SUZANNE BONAMICI Member of Congress
11.07.2013	Sen. Flake, Reps. Kind, Blumenauer, Petri and DeLauro Continue Push for Ag Subsidy Reforms WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), U.S. Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ), U.S. Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), U.S. Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI) and U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) continued to call for major reforms to current farm subsidy policy in the wake of a report released today that details a long list of billionaires who are profiting from taxpayer-funded farm subsidies. The report, released by the research and advocacy organization Environmental Working Group (EWG), found that the federal government paid $11.3 million in taxpayer-funded subsidies to 50 billionaires (or businesses in which they have an ownership stake) between 1995 and 2012. EWG compiled the list by matching their Farm Subsidy Database with the Forbes 400 list of the richest Americans. According to the list, the billionaires who received these farm subsidies have a collective net worth estimated to be $316 billion. “This perfectly illustrates just how out of control our current agricultural subsidy policies are. The EWG report is further proof that our agriculture programs just aren’t working and need immediate reform. If the late Sen. Bill Proxmire were still handing out his Golden Fleece Awards, this would be a first-place winner for sure,” said Rep. Kind. “This is why I've worked so hard to reform these subsidy programs. They are not responsible to the American taxpayer nor are they helpful to family farmers across the country.” “This is unfortunately only the latest report showing that multi-billion dollar agriculture subsidy programs are funneling taxpayer dollars into the pockets of millionaires and billionaires,” said Senator Flake. “As the House and Senate continue farm bill negotiations, this information should serve as the nail in the coffin of wasteful direct payments, outrageous crop insurance subsidies, and other wasteful agricultural programs that we simply cannot afford to sustain in this time of soaring debt and deficits.” “This report by EWG revealing the number of billionaires who are receiving agricultural subsidies should be eye opening for everyone in America,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “But, while it’s shocking, it’s just the tip of the iceberg in a Farm Bill that lavishes unnecessary subsidies and handouts on farmers who don’t need them and who are better at farming the system than the land. Any report coming out of the conference committee that is going to claim to be fiscally responsible has to include serious reforms, including strict means testing, for all farm payment and crop insurance programs.” “This report highlights the need to close these loopholes by having a means testing component,” said Rep. Petri. “We can’t really blame billionaires for taking advantage of these subsidies because the current rules allow it. But giving subsidies to those who don’t need it costs the taxpayers millions each year. So, I think we need to take a good look at the program to make sure small, family farmers who truly need the assistance have that safety net and those who don’t need the assistance are no longer eligible.” “These findings are absolutely outrageous and further evidence that the indefensible practice of subsidizing millionaires and billionaires needs to end,” Rep. DeLauro said. “Using taxpayer dollars to pad the coffers of the wealthy is reprehensible. I call on my colleagues negotiating a farm bill to do the right thing and end subsidies for America's wealthiest families and agribusinesses, not take food away from the poor and most vulnerable.” EWG states that the total amount of farm subsidies sent to the billionaires is likely to be much higher because many of them also received crop insurance subsidies; the names of the recipients of those payments are not disclosed by law. A new farm bill is currently before a bipartisan, bicameral conference committee. While crop insurance premium subsidies are not subject to means testing, payment limits or conservation requirements, proposed changes in both the House and Senate versions of the bill could give millions more in premium subsidies to the same billionaires who are already collecting them.
11.06.2013	Last week,Congressman Blumenauer convened a forum of community leaders, advocates, and the broader public to discuss our global water crisis and highlight the many organizations in the region who are working to solve this issue. The evening began with an informational fair, as about 200 people crowded into the Mercy Corps Action Center to learn from a host of organizations about how they can be more involved. Representatives from MercyCorps, Riverdale High School, Oregon State University, Living Water International, Engineers Without Borders, Green Empowerment, Portland State University’s SWEET Lab, CARE/Every Mother Counts, ONE.org, and Medical Teams International participated in the fair. Following the information fair, the program kicked off with introductions from Jeremy Barnicle from Mercy Corps and Pastor Rick McKinley of Imago Dei Church, who has worked on global water issues with the Portland Christian community. Blumenauer then praised the bipartisan support in Congress for his Water for the World Act, which would which would build on earlier legislation he passed, the Water for the Poor Act, by refining its provisions, focusing clean drinking water and sanitation U.S. foreign aid spending, and ensuring aid dollars are only allocated to those projects capable of providing lasting benefits to the poorest of the poor. He noted that “there is no investment by the federal government that has more impact for the lives and livelihood of people around the globe.” There is still work to be done, he said, but “it is the people in this room who will do it.” After Blumenauerspoke, a panel of experts talked about their efforts to solve the water crisis. Questions from the crowd ranged from the scientific, about engineering solutions to sinking water tables, to the political, about the dangers of well intentioned development work that all too often fails to be sustainable over the long-term. The evening also honored a local water leader, Riverdale High’s Laurie LePore. Ms. LePore has been teaching her H2O for Life class at Riverdale for four years, inspiring the next generation of global water activists. Students in the class fundraise to build wells for schools in the developing world, as well as raise awareness of water health and access issues in the Pacific Northwest and around the globe. Ms. LePore, flanked by her students, thanked her parents and said she looked forward to many more years of success. To find out more information about Congressman Blumenauer’s Water for the World legislation, click here.
11.05.2013	Thank you to those who have been asking why I voted for the Swap Regulatory Improvement Act (HR 992). I admit to being confused when I read your e-mails, tweets and Facebook posts, because I believed that I had voted “no” on that bill. I asked the Clerk’s office to research the vote and I was informed that I had in fact voted “yes.” This was contrary to how I had intended to vote. I talked to people on both sides of this issue whose opinions I respect and ultimately decided that making this change before the regulatory process was completed is premature. My vote should have been recorded as a “no” and I will be placing the following statement into the Congressional Record as soon as the House of Representative reconvenes. Thank you again to those who pointed this out to me, so that I could correct this mistake.Statement for the Record: I wish to correct a vote I made on Wednesday, October 30, on H.R. 992, the Swaps Regulatory Improvement Act. I mistakenly voted for this legislation, when I intended to vote against it. I have a longstanding record of supporting robust banking regulations that protect taxpayers from risky trading activity. Significantly altering provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act before those reforms have been fully implemented is premature. I wish to clearly state for the record that I did not intend to vote for this legislation, and I look forward to continuing working for strong banking protections for the American people.
11.05.2013	Thank you to those who have been asking why I voted for the Swap Regulatory Improvement Act (HR 992). I admit to being confused when I read your e-mails, tweets and Facebook posts, because I believed that I had voted “no” on that bill. I asked the Clerk’s office to research the vote and I was informed that I had in fact voted “yes.” This was contrary to how I had intended to vote. I talked to people on both sides of this issue whose opinions I respect and ultimately decided that making this change before the regulatory process was completed is premature. My vote should have been recorded as a “no” and I will be placing the following statement into the Congressional Record as soon as the House of Representative reconvenes. Thank you again to those who pointed this out to me, so that I could correct this mistake.Statement for the Record: I wish to correct a vote I made on Wednesday, October 30, on H.R. 992, the Swaps Regulatory Improvement Act. I mistakenly voted for this legislation, when I intended to vote against it. I have a longstanding record of supporting robust banking regulations that protect taxpayers from risky trading activity. Significantly altering provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act before those reforms have been fully implemented is premature. I wish to clearly state for the record that I did not intend to vote for this legislation, and I look forward to continuing working for strong banking protections for the American people.
11.01.2013	Washington, DC – The Bicameral Task Force on Climate Change strongly supports the executive order issued by President Obama today to enhance climate preparedness and resilience for the United States. This order firmly grounds Administration policy in the realities of climate science and acknowledges the variety of challenges that our country will face in coming years due to increasing erratic and dangerous weather patterns and events. It will encourage increased information sharing on all levels of government in order promote smarter, more climate-resilient investments and will help provide state and local governments the tools to identify and make those investments. The order also requires the Departments of Defense, the Interior, and Agriculture, the Environmental Protection Agency, NOAA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Army Corps of Engineers, and other agencies to compile an assessment of the effects of climate change on communities, economies, and ecosystems across the nation. “I commend President Obama’s continued action on climate change,” said Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD). “We are already feeling the effects of climate change through rising sea-levels, devastating wildfires, and deadly superstorms. These harms pose serious risks to the public health, our national security, and our economy. The Task Force the President established today will bring the wisdom and experience of state and local leaders to the challenge of protecting our communities from the worsening impacts of climate change.” “Climate change poses a serious threat to national security, undermines the health and safety of our communities, and represents a substantial risk to taxpayers,” said Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). “I applaud the Administration for issuing an executive order and forming a task force to help communities across the country prepare for the effects of climate change.” “Climate change is already here, lapping at our doorstep in the form of more extreme weather and rising sea-levels,” said Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA). “That’s why we have to deal with the realities of resiliency against these impacts we can no longer avoid, even as we try to cut the pollution that could make climate change even worse.” “Climate change is increasing the severity of droughts and storms and the intensity of wildfires,” saidRepresentative Henry A. Waxman (CA-33), ranking member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Today the President has taken important steps to ensure that the federal government is a good partner in helping our communities prepare for these serious impacts. This is an important complement to his leadership in fighting for limits on dangerous carbon pollution.” With the Republican-controlled Congress refusing to enact any type of legislation, comprehensive or otherwise, that would address the serious impacts of climate change, I applaud President Obama for showing leadership on this critical issue,” said Representative Bobby Rush (IL-01). “Communities of color and low-income communities are disproportionately impacted by the most harmful health and environmental effects associated with climate change. The President’s actions will undoubtedly give us a better understanding of how to protect these communities, in particular, and the nation as a whole from the dangerous and more frequent extreme weather events and disasters that the country has been experiencing.” “In addition to fighting to reverse climate change, we must also ensure that we are as prepared as possible for its inevitable effects, which are already wreaking havoc across our country,” said Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03). “I’m grateful to the President for taking this action and will continue to work toward legislative solutions to combat the man-made sources of climate change and protect our land, soil, and water.”
10.30.2013	Bipartisan bill would empower local nonprofit restoration groups to complete habitat improvement projects, protecting northwest salmon WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) joined with Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) to introduce the Fundamentally Improving Salmon Habitat (FISH) Act today, a bill that would improve efforts to restore salmon habitat in the Northwest. They were joined by Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Congressman Kurt Schrader (D-OR) as original cosponsors of the legislation. In 2000, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was tasked by Congress to carry out salmon restoration projects in the Northwest. However, small but critical projects are often not undertaken through this program because the process is too cumbersome for the large federal agency to carry them out in a cost-efficient manner. Meanwhile, well-established local organizations have developed significant expertise and experience in completing small salmon habitat restoration projects throughout Southwest Washington and Oregon. The FISH Act would designate any salmon restoration projects that cost less than $2 million as ‘small’ and authorize the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to administer grants to local ‘lead entities’ to develop and construct these projects. Congress authorized $30,000,000 in 2000 for ecosystem restoration in the Lower Columbia River and Tillamook Bay estuaries in Washington and Oregon through Section 536 of the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA). The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was tasked with developing plans for projects in conjunction with states and lead entities. The goal of providing block grants to groups that are better equipped to handle these projects is to ensure than more salmon restoration can be completed. Significant expertise and experience from local ‘lead entities’ Over the last 13 years, more than 450 ecosystem restoration projects have been completed in the Lower Columbia region by these local nonprofit fish enhancement groups. Currently, 13 species of salmon in the Columbia basin are protected by the Endangered Species Act including chinook, coho, and steelhead. Projects to improve salmon restoration include building off-channel refuges, installing woody debris, and removing invasive plant species. The lead entity group consists of the Lower Columbia Estuary Partnership, the Tillamook Bay Estuaries Partnership, the Lower Columbian Fish Recovery Board, and the Lower Columbia Fish Enhancement Group. In addition to the lead entities support for the FISH Act, groups like the American Land Rights Association and Washington Farm Bureau have expressed their appreciation that the legislation takes care to respect property rights while balancing the need to improve salmon restoration efforts. “Wild salmon and steelhead play a centrally important role in our economy and our culture here in the Pacific Northwest,” said Jaime. “It’s an honor to team up with Congressman Blumenauer on this issue where we strongly agree -- local groups can play a vital role in federal habitat restoration efforts to protect salmon. Giving local organizations control over smaller recovery projects will complement the Army Corps’ large-scale work, ultimately serving the recreational, economic and environmental interests we have in a healthy salmon population.” “I am pleased to support this legislation, which will allow much needed habitat restoration projects to move forward and help numerous species, including ESA listed salmon and steelhead in the Columbia River Basin,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “The Army Corps and its local partners will also be able to target resources more effectively and efficiently, which, in an era of federal budget tightening, is a must-do.” “This legislation will substantially enhance salmon recovery and ecosystem restoration efforts in the Lower Columbia. It recognizes and retains the important role of the Corps of Engineers in undertaking large and technically complex projects,” said Jeff Breckel, Executive Director of the Lower Columbia Fish Recovery Board. “But, it also creates a role for local organizations, such as the Lower Columbia Fish Recovery Board, in implementing smaller, less complex projects. The Board has a proven program of working with federal and state agencies, the Cowlitz Indian Tribe, local governments, rural communities, landowners, and non-governmental organizations to get work done on the ground in a timely and efficient manner. Incrementally, these smaller projects make a significant contribution to salmon recovery and ecosystem restoration, build local support and participation, and leverage limited resources. We appreciate Rep. Herrera Beutler and Rep. Blumenauer’s initiative and leadership in working with us and others to craft legislation that will strengthen the federal, state, and local partnerships to restore the Lower Columbia ecosystem.” “The lower Columbia region and the Estuary Partnership, have come a long way restoring habitat in the last decade. Together, over 100 partners have restored over 20,000 acres of habitat, not yet a quarter of what has been lost since settlement,” says Debrah Marriott, Executive Director of the Lower Columbia Estuary Partnership. “More needs to be done. This change to the Section 536 of the Water Resources and Development Act recognizes that many local entities, like the Estuary Partnership and the Lower Columbia Fish Recovery Board, are ready to move. We have extensive expertise and the track record, as well as organization capacity and the ability to implement projects efficiently and effectively. That is exactly what it will take to protect the species that depend on a healthy watershed and river and we look forward to working with Congress to make that happen.” “Sources of Salmon recovery funds have been shrinking in recent years, this update to the WRDA program will allow organizations such as ourselves to implement critical on the ground Salmon recovery efforts in the Lower Columbia region,” said Tammy Weisman, Operations Director of the Lower Columbia Fish Enhancement Group. “Salmon recovery is not just essential to our ecosystem- it creates jobs, increases revenue for numerous local businesses and creates and maintains community ownership of these projects.” “The opportunities that this represents for streamlining and getting projects on the ground in Tillamook Bay are wonderful. It represents both potential environmental and economic benefits,” says Lisa Phipps, Executive Director, Tillamook Estuaries Partnership. “As a property rights advocate, I’m pleased that this bill fully respects the rights of private property owners,” said Chuck Cushman, Executive Director of the American Land Rights Association. “I’m also a landowner, and I’ve personally worked with the Lower Columbia Fish Enhancement Group to save riverbanks on my own land that also improved salmon habitat. These organizations do excellent work, and this is a good bill that everyone should support.”
10.30.2013	Washington, DC – Last night, Janis Shinwari, a translator who worked with American troops in Afghanistan, finally landed safely in the United States after an extended ordeal as he applied for a Special Immigrant Visa from the US government. Shinwari’s story gained national attention following the long campaign by Army Capt. Matt Zeller to bring him to the US, which faced numerous pitfalls and spanned several years. “This is an amazing day,” said Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), one of the originators of the Special Immigrant Visa program and author of the recent extension to the program. “Mr. Shinwari and his family stepping foot on American soil, free from the deadly pursuit of those who would do them harm for helping US soldiers, embodies a promise kept.” “But while he is an example of the SIV program eventually working,” Blumenauer continued, “there are still thousands of brave translators and their families stuck in Iraq and Afghanistan. Not every applicant is lucky enough to have an effective and perseverant advocate like Matt Zeller. I will continue my efforts in Congress to ensure that the SIV programs are both extended and reformed, and also continue to put pressure on the administration, State Department, and other responsible agencies to make improvements to increase the efficiency and transparency of the programs.” Blumenauer was able to amend the House National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for 2014 to include reforms for both SIV programs and is in close contact with members of the House and Senate to ensure that these provisions remain in the final bill and properly address the previous shortcomings of the SIV programs. He also introduced and passed a bill to extend the Iraq program through the end of the year, which prevented it from expiring as the House waits for the Senate to pass an NDAA that he anticipates will include a longer-term extension. He recently sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Hagel, Secretary of State Kerry, Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Beers, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Comey, and Director of the National Counterterrorism Center Olsen, urging reforms in the SIV programs.
10.28.2013	Nearly one billion people lack access to safe drinking water, and more than two billion people live without improved sanitation. These conditions kill 1.8 million children under the age of 5 every year, more than from AIDS, TB and malaria combined. Please join US Congressman Earl Blumenauer for an interactive International Water Forum exploring the critical issue of clean water and sanitation around the world and how we can help address it. A panel of experts, including representatives from Living Water International, Conservation International, Oregon State University, Engineers without Borders, Green Empowerment, and Portland State University SWEET Lab will have presentations and be available for a Q&A session. Blumenauer has been a champion for issues related to international water and sanitation and crafted the Water for the Poor Act that was signed into law in 2005. He is currently leading a bi-partisan effort with Rep. Ted Poe to pass “Water for the World” legislation to significantly improve international access to clean water and sanitation by enhancing the capacity of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the State Department to play a greater, more effective role in development assistance as well as mitigate cross-border conflict. Where: Mercy Corps Action Center Auditorium, 28 SW 1st Ave., Portland When: Tuesday, November 5th Tabling: 5:00-6:00pm Program: 6:00-7:30pm Evening’s Agenda - Organizational Table Displays - Opening Remarks, Jeremy Barnicle, Mercy Corps - Introduction, Pastor Rick McKinley, Imago Dei - Congressman Earl Blumenauer Keynote - Congressman Blumenauer Honors Local Water Leader - Water Leader Laurie LePore, Riverdale High School - International Water Panel --Stan Patyrak, Living Water International --John Matthews, Conservation International --Aaron Wolf, Oregon State University --Bethany Foran, Engineers Without Borders --Aaron Liss, Green Empowerment --Evan Thomas, Portland State University SWEET Lab - Question & Answer Session with Audience - Concluding Takeaways by Congressman Blumenauer Featuring MercyCorps, Imago Dei Community Church, Riverdale High School, Oregon State University, Living Water International, Conservation International, Engineers Without Borders PSU, Engineers Without Borders PDX, Green Empowerment, Portland State University SWEET Lab, CARE/Every Mother Counts, ONE.org, Medical Teams International, Water Africa
10.28.2013	It’s time to start growing industrial hemp in Oregon. Join Congressman Earl Blumenauer at a forum to learn what we can do to make this happen! American retailers sell over $300 million worth of products containing hemp seeds and fibers every year. Yet because federal law classifies hemp and marijuana as the same substance, US manufactured hemp products must use hemp grown in other countries. To date, 10 states, including Oregon, have passed legislation defining industrial hemp as distinct from marijuana, and removing barriers from its cultivation. The Oregon Department of Agriculture is currently in the process of forming an advisory committee on hemp production while awaiting clarification on hemp’s legal status from the US Department of Justice. Please join US Congressman Earl Blumenauer at an Industrial Hemp Forum to explore the potential of the industrial hemp production in Oregon. A panel of experts including representatives from the Hemp Industries Association, Oregon Department of Agriculture, Oregon State University, and Whole Foods Markets will share their observations about hemp as an agricultural crop and the expanding market for retail hemp products, followed by questions from the audience. Free and open to the public. Saturday, November 9, 10-11:30 am White Stag Building, 70 NW Couch, Portland, OR 97209; Room WS 142/144 Welcome and opening remarks—Congressman Earl Blumenauer Panelists Eric Steenstra, Executive Director, Hemp Industries Association Lindsay Eng, Certification Development and Program Manager, Oregon Department of Agriculture Rick Rutherford, prospective hemp farmer Errol Schweizer, Executive Global Coordinator, Grocery Team, Whole Foods Russ Karow, Crop and Soil Science Department Director, Oregon State University Audience Q&A
10.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, 200 Members of the House Democratic Caucus, led by Congressmen Timothy H. Bishop and Patrick Murphy, sent a letter to Speaker John Boehner [PDF] demanding a vote on behalf of the American people on the Senate-passed continuing resolution, which would reopen government and end the detrimental, five day long Republican Government Shutdown. The letter, which is signed by 195 voting Members and 5 non-voting delegates, makes clear that there is a bipartisan majority to pass this bill and reopen government now. Below is the full text of the letter: October 5, 2013 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker United States House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, Enough is enough. Today marks the fifth day that the federal government has been shutdown. Please consider how deeply unfair this is to the citizens we represent. The solution to this crisis is a simple piece of legislation that funds the government at levels that have already passed both chambers of Congress. At this point, to attach defunding or delaying the Affordable Care Act to legislation needed to re-open the government is to put our economy at risk in order to advance a political agenda. We demand a vote on a clean continuing resolution immediately so that government functioning can resume and Americans can move on with their lives. The games have to stop. best regards, Congressman Timothy H. Bishop (NY-1) Congressman Patrick Murphy (FL-18) Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra Democratic Caucus Vice Chairman Joseph Crowley Robert E. Andrews (NJ-1) Ron Barber (AZ-2) Karen Bass (CA-37) Joyce Beatty (OH-3) Ami Bera (CA-7) Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-2) Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU-DL) Robert A. Brady (PA-1) Bruce L. Braley (IA-1) Corrine Brown (FL-5) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) G.K. Butterfield (NC-1) Lois Capps (CA-24) Michael E. Capuano (MA-7) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John C. Carney, Jr. (DE-AL) Andre Carson (IN-7) Matthew A. Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Donna M. Christensen (VI-DL) Judy Chu (CA-27) David N. Cicilline (RI-1) Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9) WM. Lacy Clay (MO-1) Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-5) Steve Cohen (TN-9) Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13) Jim Costa (CA-16) Joe Courtney (CT-2) Henry Cuellar (TX-28) Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) Danny K. Davis (IL-7) Susan A. Davis (CA-53) Peter DeFazio (OR-4) Diana DeGette (CO-1) John K. Delaney (MD-6) Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3) Suzan K. DelBene (WA-1) Ted Deutch (FL-21) John Dingell (MI-12) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Michael F. Doyle (PA-14) Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) Donna F. Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Eliot L. Engel (NY-16) William L. Enyart (IL-12) Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth H. Esty (CT-5) Sam Farr (CA-20) Chaka Fattah (PA-2) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL-22) Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2) Pete Gallego (TX-23) John Garamendi (CA-3) Joe Garcia (FL-26) Alan Grayson (FL-9) Al Green (TX-9) Gene Green (TX-29) Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-3) Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-4) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen W. Hanabusa (HI-1) Alcee Hastings (FL-20) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) James A. Himes (CT-4) Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15) Rush Holt (NJ-12) Michael M. Honda (CA-17) Steven A. Horsford (NV-4) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Steve Israel (NY-3) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-8) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-4) Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) Bill Keating (MA-9) Robin Kelly (IL-2) Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. (MA-4) Daniel T. Kildee (MI-5) Derek Kilmer (WA-6) Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-1) Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2) James R. Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John B. Larson (CT-1) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander M. Levin (MI-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Daniel Lipinski (IL-3) Dave Loebsack (IA-2) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan S. Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita M. Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Luján (NM-3) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8) Daniel Maffei (NY-24) Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Doris O. Matsui (CA-6) Carolyn McCarthy (NY-4) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McDermott (WA-7) James P. McGovern (MA-2) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Gregory W. Meeks (NY-5) Grace Meng (NY-6) Michael H. Michaud (ME-2) George Miller (CA-11) Gwen Moore (WI-4) James P. Moran (VA-8) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) Richard Neal (MA-5) Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35) Rick Nolan (MN-8) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-DL) Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) William L. Owens (NY-21) Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-9) Ed Pastor (AZ-7) Donald J. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Scott H. Peters (CA-52) Gary Peters (MI-14) Collin C. Peterson (MN-7) Pedro R. Piersluisi (PR-DL) Chellie Pingree (ME-1) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-2) David E. Price (NC-4) Mike Quigley (IL-5) Nick J. Rahall (WV-3) Charlie B. Rangel (NY-13) Cedric L. Richmond (LA-2) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Raul Ruiz (CA-36) C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) Bobby L. Rush (IL-5) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP-DL) Linda Sánchez (CA-38) Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) John P. Sarbanes (MD-3) Janice D. Schakowsky (IL-9) Adam B. Schiff (CA-28) Brad Schneider (IL-10) Kurt Schrader (OR-5) Allyson Y. Schwartz (PA-13) Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-3) David Scott (GA-13) José E. Serrano (NY-15) Terri A. Sewell (AL-7) Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1) Brad Sherman (CA-30) Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) Albio Sires (NJ-8) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-9) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Bennie G. Thompson (MS-2) Mike Thompson (CA-5) John F. Tierney (MA-6) Dina Titus (NV-1) Paul D. Tonko (NY-20) Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc A. Veasey (TX-33) Filemon Vela (TX-34) Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-7) Peter J. Visclosky (IN-1) Timothy J. Walz (MN-1) Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL-23) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Mel L. Watt (NC-12) Henry A. Waxman (CA-33) Peter Welch (VT-AL) Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24) John A. Yarmuth (KY-3)
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, the House of Representatives passed a bill (HR 3233) authored by Rep. Earl Blumenauer by unanimous consent extending the Special Immigrant Visa Program. Blumenauer released the following statement: Tonight, we have reached an agreement that will preserve the Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa program, which expired on September 30th. These translators and guides risked their lives to help and serve American soldiers. By all accounts, thousands of these people performed critical tasks faithfully, if not flawlessly. We made an implicit promise to protect them when the American presence was scaled down and they risked their lives to help us. Now, many are threatened on a daily basis by enemies of the United States with very long memories. We need to fulfill our promise to get them out of harm’s way. This bill is an example of how the House of Representatives can and should work: in a bipartisan way and in the best interests of our citizens and allies. I thank House leadership and all of my colleagues who supported this effort, especially Representatives Adam Kinzinger and Tulsi Gabbard, as well as the tireless advocates and soldiers who fought so hard to bring attention to this vital issue. Now, the real work begins. Once this program is secured, we must continue to work to make sure it functions in an expedient, transparent, and responsive matter. Those who risked their lives to save ours deserve no less.
10.01.2013	Because Republicans in the House of Representatives refused to fund the government unless the Affordable Care Act was defunded or delayed, many parts of the federal government have shut down. It is difficult to tell exactly what the effects will be, since the last shutdown ended in 1996, but we know that millions of families across the country will suffer. Veterans’ benefits, Social Security, unemployment, and Medicare will continue to function, although payments and disbursements may be delayed due to lack of personnel to process them. My offices, in Portland and at the Capitol will remain open. Legislative activities will continue as the House of Representatives considers proposed bills and resolutions to resolve this impasse. My staff and I will serve you as best we can during this time, responding to your questions and concerns. I’ll continue working to reopen the federal government without giving into the unreasonable and unrelated demands of those who want to refight old battles. This irresponsible shutdown undoubtedly will add to the problems and confusion while avoiding the real challenges of today. Hopefully we can restore sanity and get the government open again as soon as possible. Thank you for your patience.
09.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer, Jared Polis, and Thomas Massie called for the inclusion of language previously approved by the House, allowing institutions of higher education to grow and cultivate industrial hemp for research purposes in the final FARRM bill conference report. In June, Polis, Massie, and Blumenauer, successfully passed an amendment to H.R. 2642, the House passed Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act, allowing for industrial hemp research. The amendment passed with broad bipartisan support by a 225-200 margin, indicating widespread understanding that legislators are listening to the American public who now see industrial hemp as an agricultural commodity, not a drug. “Hemp can be used in thousands of different products, and all of those are legal to make right here in the US,” said Blumenauer. “But we have these laws that just make no sense at all so we have to import hemp. Why are we doing this? Why don’t we give farmers in the US, including my home state of Oregon, a chance to grow this product? Allowing research institutions to grow and study industrial hemp is a good first step, and will show that we’re willing to take the necessary steps to get the federal government out of the way of farmers and business.” “In Colorado and in states across the country, voters have sent a clear signal: hemp is not a drug. It’s an agricultural commodity with the potential to bring jobs and economic development to farming communities throughout the US, and the federal government should allow states to regulate its production if they so choose,” stated Representative Jared Polis. “At the very least, we should allow American universities, like Colorado State University in my district, to research the benefits and risks of growing this important crop. I’m pleased that a bipartisan majority agreed to include this simple amendment in the House-passed FARRM bill, and I am optimistic that Senate will look at the facts of the issue and ensure that any conference report include this common sense provision to allow further research of industrial hemp.” “The House-approved research amendment is the first step toward restoring the rights of American farmers and businesses to profit from this crop, and I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to keep the amendment in the final version of the Farm Bill," said Rep. Massie. "Hemp is not a drug, and it is our goal that the research this amendment enables would further broadcast the economic benefits of the sustainable and job–creating crop." The letter was signed by a coalition of 25 Republican and Democratic Members of Congress. September 26, 2013 Dear Chairwoman Stabenow, Chairman Lucas, Ranking Member Cochran, and Ranking Member Peterson: We write to urge you to include language approved by the House, which would allow institutions of higher education to grow and cultivate industrial hemp for research purposes, in the final FARRM bill conference report. As you may know, American retailers sell over $300 million worth of products containing hemp seeds and fibers every year. Hemp finds its way into more than 25,000 different products around the world, from lotions to protein bars to auto parts to fuel. However, because of outdated laws preventing the growth and cultivation of industrial hemp in the United States, American farmers can’t grow hemp, meaning our businesses are forced to import it from China, Canada, and other countries. Furthermore, our institutions of higher education are prohibited from growing or cultivating hemp for research purposes. In June of this year, the House approved an amendment, introduced by Representatives Jared Polis, Thomas Massie and Earl Blumenauer, by a 225-200 margin that would allow accredited colleges and universities to grow and cultivate industrial hemp for research purposes, in states where such conduct is already legal. The amendment received broad Democratic and Republican support, indicating widespread understanding that industrial hemp is an agricultural commodity, not a drug. The text of the Polis-Massie-Blumenauer amendment was included in H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act, which the House approved in July. Despite the misleading claims made by this amendment’s opponents, hemp is not marijuana. Our amendment defines industrial hemp as a product containing less than 0.3 percent THC. At this concentration, and even at much higher concentrations, it is physically impossible to use hemp as a drug. In fact, George Washington and Thomas Jefferson grew hemp. From Colorado to Kentucky to Oregon, voters across the country have made it clear that they believe industrial hemp should be regulated as an agricultural commodity, not a drug. At the very least, we should allow our universities to research the potential benefits and downsides of this important agricultural resource. Given the widespread support that the Polis-Massie-Blumenauer amendment received in the House, we urge you to include it in any legislation presented to the House and Senate for final passage. We look forward to working with you to ensure that this language is included in the final conference report.
09.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Following recent announcements that President Obama’s Administration will respect state marijuana laws and seek smarter sentences when prosecuting low-level drug offenses, U.S. Representatives Steve Cohen (TN-09), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Sam Farr (CA-20), Mark Pocan (WI-02), and Jared Polis (CO-02) urged the President to take another step towards common-sense drug policy by nominating a new “Drug Czar” who will bring reason, science, and facts to the soon-to-be-vacant position. “We commend you and your Administration on the recent steps you have taken to pursue smarter sentencing and policies that respect state laws regarding marijuana,” wrote the Congressmen. “We urge you to nominate a new Director of ONDCP who will develop policies based on science rather than ideology and move away from the failed policy of criminalizing marijuana. The new Director should promote fact-based education and use medical science and behavioral research to end the questionable practice of equating marijuana with dangerous drugs like heroin, crack, and methamphetamine.” The position of Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), commonly referred to as the “Drug Czar,” has historically been filled by individuals with law enforcement backgrounds who have viewed drug policy as a matter of criminal enforcement rather than as a matter of public health—regardless of the medical science and public research available. The current Director, Gil Kerlikowke, was recently nominated to be Director of U.S. Customs and Border Protection by President Obama. If Kerlikowke is confirmed for that position, the ONDCP will need a new Director. The text of Congressmen’s letter to the President follows: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We applaud the recent announcements by Attorney General Holder that the Department of Justice (DOJ) will seek smarter sentences when prosecuting low level drug offenses and will respect the laws of those states that have enacted frameworks for taxing and regulating marijuana. With your nomination of Gil Kerlikowske, Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), to be Director of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, we urge you to continue these promising steps by seizing the opportunity to replace Mr. Kerlikowske with someone whose policies toward marijuana are guided by common sense and science, and consistent with the recently-released DOJ guidance, rather focusing on failed policies of prohibition. The new Director should promote fact-based education and use medical science and behavioral research to end the questionable practice of equating marijuana with dangerous drugs like heroin, crack, and methamphetamine. Historically, the Director of ONDCP has had a law enforcement background and has been referred to by the unfortunate nickname of “Drug Czar.” As this moniker implies, past Directors have viewed drug policy as a matter of criminal enforcement rather than as a matter of public health. We ask that you break from this tradition and nominate someone with a background in science. Particularly in light of the rapidly growing public support for marijuana legalization and broader drug policy reform, it would be a mistake for you to appoint someone who merely continues to prosecute the failed War on Drugs. Instead, the new Director of ONDCP should promote scientific research into the benefits and risks of marijuana legalization and be guided by the results of those findings. He or she should take note of the growing movement at the state level to make marijuana legal for medical or personal use and help shape national policies based on the lessons learned in those states. At a minimum the new Director should urge strict adherence to the recent DOJ guidelines regarding criminal enforcement in those states. We also hope that the next Director of ONDCP will build on the important steps that Director Kerlikowske took to recognize the collateral consequences of conviction for a minor drug offense. His replacement should continue to advocate alternatives to incarceration and reducing barriers to reentry for incarcerated individuals. Promoting these policies will not only help keep thousands of Americans on the path to success, it will also save this nation the precious resources it cannot afford to waste on prosecution of minor drug offenses. We commend you and your Administration on the recent steps you have taken to pursue smarter sentencing and policies that respect state laws regarding marijuana. We hope that these measures signal a strong shift toward a more rational drug policy. To further this goal, we urge you to nominate a new Director of ONDCP who will develop policies based on science rather than ideology and move away from the failed policy of criminalizing marijuana. We look forward to working with you as you consider candidates for this important post. Sincerely,
09.19.2013	As the House Republicans prepare to shut down the government and threaten the global economy with debt ceiling blackmail, it’s ironic that they refuse to allow their members to vote on their own spending bills. They even refuse to allow a conference committee with the Senate to resolve the budget impasse. I suppose it should be no surprise that their denial extends to climate change and the future of the planet. But Americans don’t have that luxury. Between this summer’s wildfires in the West, last year’s drought, Super-storm Sandy, and the recent horrific flooding in Colorado, Americans are seeing the impact of climate change. Tuesday, Matt Russell, a fifth generation Iowa farmer, gave a quick history of what climate change looks like in Iowa. In 2008, they suffered a 500 year flood. In 2010, there was another series of hundred year floods. The next year, the Missouri River wiped out thousands of acres of farmland, some of which will never be farmed again. And in 2012 was the catastrophic drought. In half a decade, Iowa saw the worst flooding and the worst drought in over a century of record keeping. This is what climate change will look like; and it will get worse, and more extreme. Which is exactly what’s happening this year. May 4th, a foot of heavy, wet snow. The most snow ever recorded in Iowa in May. Then it began raining. The most rain ever recorded in the month of May in Iowa. Then it was drought. Last month was the driest August on record; even dryer than last year’s epic drought. And in between, July was one of the coldest on record, with temperatures in the thirties. And now they’re experiencing one of the hottest Septembers on record. The hottest days in 2013 came after Labor Day: multiple days of over 100 degree temperature. This is what climate change means: “the wrong weather at the wrong time.” Their joke is that February came in May, along with all the rain for the summer; and September came in July, and July came in September. And now they wonder what month is going to show up in October. But it’s not a joke for the people who are trying to farm. It’s not a joke for the taxpayers who are picking up the cost of crop insurance, which totaled almost two billion dollars last year. Now, farmers in Iowa and elsewhere are working to be part of the solution. But, you know, what they can’t afford is for Congress to continue wasting time with debate, ignoring science, and spending billions of dollars on disaster relief. They want us to spend money up front: not just to save money in the long run, but the lives, and indeed the environment for all our families to enjoy. Listening to America’s farmers, or just looking out of the window and paying close attention to the news, tells Americans all they need to know. The science is real, and the time for action is now. Farmers, small business, utilities, insurance companies, universities: we all should insist that Congress stop playing games with the budget, threatening the global economy with debt ceiling blackmail, and the future of the planet.
09.18.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Mike Thompson (CA-05), along with more than 100 other members of the House of Representatives, sent a letter to the leadership of the House urging them to adopt language from the Senate Farm Bill, S. 954, the Agriculture Reform, Food and Jobs Act of 2013, which maintains the decades old compact between taxpayers and producers known as conservation compliance, when the Farm Bill goes to conference with the Senate. “Through conservation compliance, we’ve improved our water quality and drinking water supplies and protected important habitat. Conservation compliance has contributed to a more sustainable agriculture system and benefited farmers, consumers and the environment. These successes should be continued,” the letter reads. “The Senate extended conservation compliance to their crop insurance and revenue support programs, and there is significant support for such provisions in the House. We urge you to include conservation compliance in any eventual conference report.” As a result of conservation compliance measures Congress enacted in 1985, farmers have adopted basic land management practices to reduce soil erosion and protect wetlands in exchange for farm program benefits. As a result of these measures, soil erosion has been reduced by 40 percent on over 140 million acres of farmland. Agricultural productivity has increased, drinking water and important habitat have been protected, and water quality has improved. “We’re gratified to see more than 100 Members of Congress support extension of a common sense conservation policy that we know works,” said Tim Male, Vice President for Conservation Policy at Defenders of Wildlife. “Basic soil and wetland protection has been linked to farm subsidies for many years and has been one of our most successful if least well-known conservation programs on America’s farms.” “We've lost more wetlands and prairie to the plow in the last four years than we have in the last 40 years,” said Scott Faber, vice president of government affairs for the Environmental Working Group. “That's why it’s so important that basic protections are tied to our farm safety net.” “We thank these members of Congress for sending the message that farm subsidies should not be used to harm our nation’s soil, water and wildlife. We hope the final farm bill includes these critical conservation measures.” Said Julie Sibbing, Director of Agriculture and Forestry Programs at the National Wildlife Federation. Download the full text of the letter and list of signatories. [PDF]
09.12.2013	Grover Norquist and Representative Earl Blumenauer identify unjust application of tax code for legal marijuana businesses at press conference with the National Cannabis Industry Association executive director Aaron Smith. Washington, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Americans for Tax Reform (ATR) president Grover Norquist, and National Cannabis Industry Association executive director Aaron Smith held a press conference today to mark the release of a new white paper from ATR entitled Legal Cannabis Dispensary Taxation: A Textbook Case of Punishing Law-Abiding Businesses Through the Tax Code. The paper calls for reform of Internal Revenue Code Section 280E, which essentially forces medical marijuana providers to pay taxes based on gross receipts rather than income, unlike all other small businesses. Additionally, the paper details Americans for Tax Reform’s endorsement of H.R. 2240, the Small Business Tax Equity Act, introduced earlier this year by Rep. Blumenauer and strongly supported by the National Cannabis Industry Association. Mr. Norquist also sent a letter explaining his support for H.R. 2240 to House Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp. Statement from Representative Blumenauer: Small, legal marijuana businesses are being victimized by the tax code. They cannot deduct their business expenses like all other businesses. Then cannot claim advantages like the work opportunity tax credit if they hire a veteran. They cannot depreciate their American-made irrigation equipment. This is why I introduced the Small Business Tax Equity Act. Only Congress can fix this problem by updating the federal tax law that forces these businesses to close their doors, or drives them underground, encouraging evasion. I welcome Americans for Tax Reform in endorsing this legislation, a commonsense fix with appeal across the political spectrum. Statement from Aaron Smith, National Cannabis Industry Association: Congress needs to take swift action to amend 280E, a leftover relic in the Tax Code that was never intended to apply to small businesses complying with state laws. Without the technical amendment needed to allow these businesses to be treated equally under tax law, states and municipalities that are currently embracing the emerging regulated cannabis industry will never be able to realize its full economic potential. We are pleased to be able to stand with Grover Norquist and Representative Blumenauer on this non-partisan and commonsense issue.
09.10.2013	Call on House to Pass the Commuter Parity Act of 2013 to make transit benefits equal for drivers and public transit commuters WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), McGovern (D-MA), and Peter T. King (R-NY)were joined by the Commuter Benefits Work for Us Coalition in calling for passage of the Commuter Parity Act of 2013 (H.R 2288). This revenue-neutral bipartisan legislation will establish permanent tax credit parity between the parking and transit/vanpool portions of the transportation fringe benefit. Without the fix, commuters taking public transportation will see their tax benefit cut almost in half to $125, while those who drive and park will maintain the current $245 tax benefit. The Transit Parity Actequalizes the transit and parking benefits by capping both at $220. This makes the change deficit neutral, and ensures that our tax code is fair and applies equally to all consumers. “Providing commuters more tax relief for their parking costs than their transit costs distorts consumer choices, and encourages commuters to spend more time in traffic. The Commuter Parity Act fixes this inequity, in a cost-neutral way, by setting parking and transit benefits at $220. This saves consumers and businesses money and reduces congestion, while giving Americans real choices that aren’t influenced by congressional policy,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “With outrageous tolls, high gas prices, and over-crowded streets, Congress must focus on common sense policies that encourage Americans to use public transportation, instead of pushing them back into their cars. Without transit parity, we continue to create an incentive to drive and put an unfair financial burden on New York City’s hard-working families and residents who rely daily on public transportation. It is only fair that the pre-tax benefit be made permanently equal, no matter how one commutes to work, which is why my colleagues and I are working hand in hand with the Commuter Benefits Work for Us Coalition to push for the Transit Parity Act to be passed here in Congress,” said Rep. Grimm. “For most working families, transportation is the second largest household expense,” Rep. McGovern said. “The transit benefit is one small, but significant, piece to making commuting more affordable for millions of Americans. It allows American families to have a little more money in their pockets. The transit benefit makes sense for employers too, especially small businesses. I’m proud to once again join in this bipartisan effort,” said Rep. McGovern. “Transit parity provides an incentive for millions of working Americans to use mass transportation, which reduces our dependence on foreign oil and eases traffic congestion on our roads. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this critical matter,” said Rep. King. On January 1, 2014, almost 3 million of America’s commuters will face a tax increase unless Congress acts. Transportation is the second largest household expense for American families, and currently Congress provides a tax credit to commuters to help account for parking and transit costs. However, without congressional action, on January 2nd, the cost for those who use the transit benefit will practically double. While the parking benefit will remain at $245 a year, the transit benefit will drop to $125, leaving families and commuters with up to $1,440 a year in additional tax burden. In addition to increasing commuters’ taxes, if the transit benefit reverts to $125 while the parking benefits stays at $245, the federal tax code will distort individual’s choices in a way that increases congestion, time spent in traffic, and wear and tear on the roads. Under existing federal law, employers can offer their employees an option of up to $245/month in pre-tax parking or transit benefits. This tax credit directly benefits American commuters and their families. Businesses have also enjoyed a tax break from this commuter benefit. In 2010, participating transit riders across the country saved their bosses about $300 million in payroll taxes. The Commuter Benefits Work for Us Coalition is composed of employers, public transportation agencies, national associations, benefits providers, vanpool providers, and others who share a common interest in using the transit benefit as a tool to provide commuters with options.
09.03.2013	After urging the President to involve Congress in the decision about whether to attack Syria, when he does so, I owe the courtesy to hear the administration’s arguments and plans for military action before making my final judgment. That said, it is hard for me to see a good outcome from military action. It remains unclear to me who the “good guys” are in this war. There are many possible unintended consequences. Any strike, no matter how limited, carries serious risk of collateral damage to innocent civilians. There is also the strong probability of retaliation from other parties inspired and supported by the Assad Regime, Iran, Hezbollah, or other terrorist forces. In the end, the question is what the outcome will be and what next steps will follow, even if the action is “successful.” I look forward to the evidence and the deliberation. The American public is well served by taking the time to understand and get this right.
08.30.2013	On a Trek brand ‘Portland’ bicycle, Congressman Earl Blumenauer toured four cycling shops in NE and SE Portland before hosting a round table focused on the growing impact of cycling and cycling businesses on Portland’s economy. The Congressman visited River City, Universal Cycles, Crank, and the Bike Gallery before arriving at VeloCult for the discussion with twenty members of Portland’s cycling economy businesses. Discussions centered on how to create a safer bike-riding experience for children and senior citizens, what the future innovation in bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure might look like, and how to effectively advocate for increased cycling funding and supportive legislation. “The work you’re doing is part of a broader vision of how we can save the world. Creating a strong cycling economy encourages healthier communities, eases congestion cheaply and sustainably, and directs money into the local economy far more effectively than automobile travel can,” Congressman Blumenauer stated. A bike advocate from his earliest days in the Oregon State Legislature, Congressman Blumenauer’s efforts have helped shape the state and region with bike friendly policies and infrastructure that continue to generate positive results for health, livability, and the economy, and quadrupling Portland’s bicycling rate to the highest in the country. What Does A Cycling Economy Look Like? Portland's 235,508 households save a total of $1.1 billion on personal transportation annually, approximately $800 million of which stays in the regional economy. Cycling contributes $90 million annually to Portland’s economy and between 850-1150 jobs. The total number of bicycle-related companies has grown exponentially over the last decade to around 150. Portland currently hosts more than 4000 annual races, rides, events and tours. This has nearly doubled since 2006, when the number of rides was 2100. A comparison of 58 projects in 11 U.S. cities found that bicycle improvement projects created 46% more jobs per dollar than road-only projects. On average, a roadway improvement project can be expected to create 7.8 jobs per $1 million spent, compared to a bicycle improvement project that creates an average of 11.4 jobs per $1 million spent. Bicycle traffic across the Hawthorne Bridge increased between 1993 and 2012 from approximately 1,920 trips to 6,889 trips per weekday. From 1994 to 2011, cycling experienced a 268% increase in the city of Portland, while auto use declined 9.3%. Portlanders drive 20% less than the national average, meaning that they have $2,500 more per family to spend more on housing, healthcare, education, or shopping in local bookstores. Recreational bicycle travel accounts for $400 million of Oregon's annual $9 billion tourism industry. Bicycling is a $6.5 billion business nationally—providing more than 70,000 jobs across the United States.
08.29.2013	PORTLAND, OR – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement in response to the announcement today of new Department of Justice marijuana enforcement guidance: I commend the Justice Department’s new guidance regarding marijuana enforcement. This represents a more rational approach to marijuana policy and will help to clarify many of the questions states will face in implementing laws legalizing production, distribution and possession of marijuana. While this is an important step in the right direction, there remains more work to be done. Marijuana should be removed from the list of Schedule I or II substances under the Controlled Substances Act in order to recognize its legitimate medical use by over a million patients across the country. Congress should do its part and pass legislation to ensure that marijuana business owners complying with state law are treated like all other legal businesses. Eventually, we must move toward taxing and regulating marijuana like cigarettes and alcohol. I have proposed policies that would help to achieve all of these goals and look forward to continuing work in Congress to enact reform.
08.28.2013	Oregon Democratic Representatives Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) today joined more than 100 of Members of Congress in signing a bipartisan letter to President Obama strongly urging him to consult with and receive authorization from Congress before ordering the use of U.S. military force in Syria. “The use of chemical weapons against civilians in Syria is appalling and outrageous,” said Rep. Blumenauer.“However, rather than rushing into an amazingly complicated and treacherous arena, Congress and the American people should have the opportunity to consider our actions and be mindful of the consequences.” “Any commitment made by President Obama to use U.S. military force against the Syrian government first requires congressional authorization,” Rep. Schrader said. “Respectfully, it is the constitutional power of Congress, not the President, to approve military action in situations when we have not been attacked or threatened with an attack. After more than a decade of war and billions of dollars spent, the United States can no longer afford to be the world’s police. I urge the President and my colleagues in Congress to continue to work with the international community to end the violence in Syria, but direct U.S. military involvement at this time is one of the worst of many bad options.” "Under the U.S. constitution, the solemn war-making powers were granted to the Legislative Branch, not the Executive,” said Rep. DeFazio. “If the president intends to engage U.S. forces, he has an obligation to recall Congress and ask for such authority. In asking for this authorization, he would be required to propose the scope, duration, and objective of the U.S. forces in this conflict. Under the War Powers Resolution, the president can enter into hostilities without approval from Congress only in a situation of immediate national security where U.S. citizens and troops are under attack. In this case the president does not have the authority to act without first consulting Congress. While the use of chemical weapons by any country against their own civilians is morally reprehensible, the U.S. must engage the international community on effective responses through the United Nations Security Council and Congress must assess any recommendations made by the U.N.”
08.26.2013	We live in an ever evolving world of new technology, leading to new threats to security and new threats to civil liberties. Recent revelations about National Security Agency surveillanceprograms have sparked renewed interest and controversy over what private information the government can or should be collecting in pursuit of keeping the public safe. Last week, Congressman Blumenauer and Senator Ron Wyden, with the City Club of Portland, held a special forum focusing on this important issue.
08.19.2013	Washington, DC --- Today, Dr. Raul Ruiz (D-Palm Desert), joined by U.S. Representatives Jon Runyan (R-NJ) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) sent a bipartisan letter signed by 60 Democratic and Republican members to the House Committee on Ways and Means advocating for renewable energy in tax reform. The letter is endorsed by the American Wind Energy Association, the Solar Energy Industries Association and the Geothermal Energy Association. “We must embrace a 21st century energy portfolio that encourages the growth of renewable energy from wind, solar, wave, biomass and geothermal sources,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “This investment would create jobs across Oregon and the US, strengthen national security by reducing dependence on oil, and help to address the greatest challenge of our generation: global warming." “Renewable energy is a critical area of economic growth for California’s 36th district and the rest of the country,” said Rep. Ruiz. “We have to work together to advocate for renewable energy jobs, domestic manufacturing and American energy independence.” “Renewable energy must be a part of an all of the above energy policy aimed at helping us to achieve energy independence. In my district the solar and wind energy industries have a strong presence and help support our local economy,” stated Runyan. “When considering tax reform we must remember the value of renewable energy as not only a piece of a larger long term energy strategy but also as a job creator in New Jersey.” Below is the text of the letter: Dear Chairman Camp and Ranking Member Levin: As the Committee on Ways and Means debates tax reform we urge your continued support for renewable energy. With an estimated 3.4 million green jobs in the U.S., which include renewable energy jobs, the industry needs policy certainty to continue to create jobs, grow domestic manufacturing, and produce sustainable, American-made energy. The race to develop renewable energy is widely considered one of the most important areas of economic growth for the 21st century. According to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, investment worldwide in renewable energy totaled over $244 billion last year. While investment in a number of countries has increased in recent years, the United States saw a 34% decrease in renewable energy investment last year due to policy uncertainty. Maintaining policies in the tax code that promote investment in and deployment of renewable energy technologies will help ensure that the American consumer continues to benefit from renewable energy innovations while also reaping the benefits of a diverse energy economy. Sources of renewable energy like wind, solar, biomass, geothermal, landfill gas, hydropower, and hydrokinetic energy are critical to America’s energy future. And renewable energy manufacturing, services and products apply the technological innovations that will continue to allow the industry to grow. In 2012, the wind energy industry grew by 28%, setting a new installation record and supporting 80,000 American jobs. Likewise, the U.S. solar market grew by 76% and supported 119,000 American jobs. We must work together to ensure that the United States leads the way. As you develop tax reform legislation, we urge you to include policies that promote America’s renewable energy economy.
08.06.2013	Merkley, Blumenauer, Bonamici Highlight Wall Street Speculation That Is Costing Middle Class Families Portland, OR – Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley, Congressman Earl Blumenauer and Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici visited Hopworks Brewery today to call attention to Wall Street speculation in commodity markets that is driving up the prices of aluminum, copper, gas, and electricity. This speculation is in turn raising the prices of everyday products that middle-class families use, including beer cans, home improvement products that contain copper and even gas for cars. “Nothing gets an Oregonian madder than messing with our Oregon beer, and that’s just what Wall Street is doing,” said Merkley. “We can’t let Wall Street get away with rampant speculation in commodity markets that in turn hurts our middle class families and our Oregon brewers. That’s why I’m calling on our federal regulators to rein in this speculation. Families shouldn’t have to pay a speculation ‘tax’ at the pump, the home repair store and the beer aisle.” “I will continue working with Senator Merkley and Congresswoman Bonamici to shine a light on runaway speculation,” said Blumenauer. “This unregulated gambling does little to serve the broader economy while burdening American families who have already suffered at the hands of Wall Street’s reckless behavior.” “Small businesses are an important part of our economy and our communities. it’s alarming to learn that commodity speculation is driving up costs for our local businesses," said Bonamici. "Federal regulators need to prevent these rising costs by moving quickly to enforce the Dodd Frank reforms, and members of Congress should be fighting attempts to undermine implementation through funding cuts and piecemeal repeal. We should be doing all we can to help families and small businesses in Oregon and across the country." In recent days and months, it has been reported by various media outlets that: Banks, hedge funds, and financial investors are dominating an opaque and convoluted aluminum trading market, which beer makers have testified is raising the price of beer cans by over $3 billion; Speculation in the oil market by banks and financial investors is responsible for as much as $14 for every tank of gas purchased by American drivers; Banks were manipulating electricity trading markets, taking millions of dollars out of ratepayers pockets; The copper market is at risk of being dominated by a bank-sponsored investment fund; and Financial speculation in grain commodities is driving up the price for bread and rice for hungry families in the U.S. and around the world. During a Senate Banking committee hearing two weeks ago, major beer manufacturers testified about how the aluminum market has drastically changed over the past few years driving aluminum prices up through a convoluted exchange and warehouse system. This has resulted in long wait times to acquire aluminum and an increased price. “Hopworks Urban Brewery’s investment in canning its organic beer created job growth as well as increased support for local, regional and national suppliers,” said Ettinger. “Small businesses face many challenges. And while we certainly understand increased material costs, we are compelled to add our voice in calling out questionable market speculation driving increased prices.” Today, Merkley, Blumenauer and Bonamici joined together to send a letter to financial regulators calling on them to take the necessary steps to end the speculation driving up the prices for middle-class families. The full text of the letter sent to regulators is below. Dear Messrs. Bernanke, Tarullo, Curry, Gensler, and Gruenberg, and Ms. White: In light of a series of revelations about the relationship between our financial sector and physical commodities, we call on you to use your full regulatory authorities to rein in excessive speculation in commodities and restore the principle that our financial system serves the real economy, helping us build our economy “from the middle class out.” In recent days and months, the American public has learned that: Banks, hedge funds, and financial investors are driving up the cost of aluminum, costing brewers and beer drinkers a combined $3 billion.[1] Speculation in the oil market by banks and financial investors is responsible for as much as $14 for every tank of gas purchased by American drivers.[2] Banks are manipulating electricity markets, costing ratepayers millions of dollars in higher utility bills.[3] The copper market is at risk of being dominated by a bank-sponsored investment fund.[4] Even the price of bread and rice – staple foods for American families and hungry children around the world – is being driven up by financial speculation in grain commodities.[5] Something is very wrong with America’s current system of finance. Middle class families and businesses want an economy that powers us all into the future, with a financial system that invests in new and innovative businesses, that helps states and local governments repair roads and bridges, that allows families to buy homes and go to college, and facilitates investments in the clean energy future we need. The job of the financial system is to take the savings that families and businesses work hard to earn and return it to the real economy through investments that create jobs, enhance productivity, and raise living standards. Banks, in particular, have a special role in taking deposits and making loans, while capital markets investors play a critical role in helping companies grow and expand productive capacity. To be sure, healthy commodities markets are critical to ensuring manufacturers have the materials they need, when they need them. But when financial speculation dominates these markets, it overwhelms the farmers, trucking companies, and airlines that use these commodity markets as a hedge against their actual commodity use. In short, a healthy financial system is critical to robust economic growth, but when allowed outside of its proper channels, commodity speculation can be a drain on and a risk to businesses, families, and the economy in general. The economy needs tough cops to keep Wall Street in its lane. American free markets have a long tradition of robust regulation of Wall Street to ensure that capital efficiently flows to productive commercial investments, and not into bubbles and busts. President Teddy Roosevelt broke up the Wall Street “trusts,” President Franklin Roosevelt separated banks, securities, and insurance companies and established strong limits on financial speculation in commodities, and President Dwight Eisenhower solidified the principle that ordinary commercial businesses should be separate from financial businesses like banks.[6] Unfortunately, over the last three decades, these basic rules of the road have been weakened.[7] The result has been that far too much investment flows takes forms that are unproductive for investors, risky for our banking system, and damaging for manufacturers, service providers and the real economy overall.[8] The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act does much to help restore the focus that Wall Street should have on serving the real economy. It mandates strong limits on commodity speculation, separates banks that take deposits and make loans from high-risk hedge fund-like trading, and puts in place other key protections to prevent bailouts and collapses. But the law’s protections are not yet fully in place, and we are far from finished with the reforms we need. We believe that the events of the last several months regarding commodities and banks demands that you speed up your efforts to implement the law and its full range of authorities, as well as use the other authorities you have, to ensure that American families’ savings and investments power our real economy. We appreciate your attention to these matters and look forward to your reply. [1] Joe Richter, MillerCoors Sees Metal-Warehouse Delay Costing Buyers $3 Billion, Bloomberg, July 22, 2013 [2] Bart Chilton, Speculators and Commodity Prices—Redux, Feb. 24, 2013; Speculators and the Gas Pump, N.Y. Times, April 18, 2012 [3] Brian Wingfield & Danw Kopecki, JPMorgan to Pay $410 Million in U.S. FERC Settlement, Bloomberg, July 30, 2013 [4] Josephine Mason, SEC again rejects copper users’ challenges to JPMorgan ETF, Reuters, March 29, 2013 [5] Kharunya Paramaguru, Betting on Hunger: Is Financial Speculation to Blame for High Food Prices? Time, Dec. 17, 2012 [6] See John Krainer, The Separation of Banking and Commerce, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (2000) [7] See, e.g., Saule T. Omarova, Large U.S. Banking Organizations’ Activities in Physical Commodity and Energy Markets: Legal and Policy Considerations July 2013 [8] See Wallace Turbevile, Cracks in the Pipeline: Restoring Efficiency to Wall Street and Value to Main Street, Demos, Dec. 5, 2012
08.04.2013	On Saturday, Congressman Earl Blumenauer began his district work period by meeting with residents of the South Waterfront district. Meeting at Mirabella, the facility's social activity committee chair, Muriel Mendonca, began the meeting by recognizing residents who have been involved in Oregon politics: Maribel Cadmus, Antoinette Hatfield, Kathryn Boe-Duncan, and Norma Paulus. Blumenauer then spoke about this session of Congress leading up to the August Recess. The conversation focused on the budget and recent legislation that he has introduced, followed by questions from residents ranging from public transportation to healthcare to national security issues. Blumenauer acknowledged the neighborhood’s commitment to being a livable community. “Here you can walk, bike, bus, take the streetcar, and soon the MAX, to nearly anywhere in Portland," Blumenauer said, adding, "And I guess that some of you might even have cars.”
08.02.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Chris Collins (NY-27) introduced the bipartisan Cider Industry Deserves Equal Regulation (CIDER) Act. The act would amend the section of the tax code that deals with wine and related beverages, 26 USC § 5041, to allow hard cider makers increased flexibility in their final product without potentially facing increased tax liability. During the fermentation process a variety of factors can lead to small changes in the composition of a cider’s alcohol content and carbonation. Because of the narrow way that hard cider is currently defined in the tax code, these small variations can lead to cider being taxed at a rate fifteen times higher than what the statute clearly intended. The Blumenauer-Collins bill would broaden this definition to include pear as well as apple cider and to greatly reduce the chance this improper taxation would occur. “Cider making is sometimes closer to an art than a science,” said Blumenauer. “As the American apple and pear hard cider industry becomes more prominent on the world stage and cider becomes a beverage choice for more Americans’ developing palettes, we need to ensure that cideries have every opportunity to expand and meet the needs of this growing market without an unfair tax burden.” “I am proud to introduce legislation that will support our nation’s apple growers and cider makers,” said Collins. “This bill will help spur growth in the American apple industry by allowing it to be more competitive on an international level, and I thank Representative Blumenauer for joining me in this goal” said Congressman Chris Collins. “Blumenauer and Collins’s Cider Bill comes at a crucial time for the small but quickly growing cider industry,” said James Kohn, owner of Wandering Aengus Ciderworks in Salem, Oregon. “The current excise tax for fermented ciders does not capture accurately the ciders we produce or most of the ciders in the US. And this is very confusing to current producers and the growing number of new cider producers in Oregon and the Northwest. This Cider Bill will end this confusion and ensure ciders are taxed consistently." "We are very pleased that Congressmen Blumenauer and Collins are working to assist cideries not only in our part of the country, but nationally as well,” said Sherrye Wyatt, Executive Director of the Northwest Cider Association, which represents cideries in Washington, Oregon, Montana, Idaho, and British Columbia. “These Main Street small businesses are ready to expand their capacity to keep up with strong demand, create jobs and become a key component of the country’s economic recovery. The changes proposed by Congressman Blumenauer and Collins will update the existing federal definition of cider to better reflect the industry and keep American cider competitive in the international marketplace. It's an unprecedented time in the Northwest cider industry. We're experiencing tremendous growth. We need to remove any barriers which may prevent cider from realizing its greatest potential. It's time for cider to write a new chapter in history." “Today, Congressmen Blumenauer and Collins took a critical first step towards making the United States hard cider industry more competitive internationally and treated more fairly under the tax code,” said Mike Beck, President of the United States Association of Cider Makers (USACM). “Our industry has tripled in size since 2007 and the existing tax structure is insufficient to deal with this growth. As a result, the potential to stunt this surge exists, and HR 2921 will remedy this problem. On behalf of the United States Association of Cider Makers, I am pleased to fully endorse this legislation and pledge our grassroots efforts to this legislation’s success.”
08.01.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced HR 2901, the Paul Simon Water for the World Act of 2013. The bill would take an enormous step toward ensuring sustainable and equitable access to clean water, sanitation, and hygiene for the nearly 800 million men, women and children who don’t have it, and the 2.5 billion without even the most basic sanitation services. Since Congress passed the Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act of 2005, the U.S. has become a global leader on efforts to increase access to clean water and sanitation, developing and implementing some of the most innovative approaches to help those in greatest need. The Paul Simon Water for the World Act of 2013 will enable the U.S. to give water and basic sanitation the attention needed to avoid greater and unnecessary loss of life and conflict in the future. It would ensure water, sanitation, and hygiene programs are reflected in other development assistance; prioritize long-lasting impacts of U.S. foreign aid dollars; and increase the focus on monitoring, evaluation, transparency and capacity building. “Half of the world's hospital beds are filled with people suffering from water-related illnesses who cannot work to support their families,” said Blumenauer. “This has to be our number one international aid priority – the best intentioned efforts at development will fail without access to clean water.” A lack of clean water has a disproportionate effect on women, who, in developing countries, walk an average of 3.7 miles every day to get water. The World Health Organization estimates that up to 40 billion working hours are lost each year in Africa alone to gather water. A study by Doctors Without Borders found that 82 percent of women treated for rape in West and South Darfur were attacked while gathering water, firewood, or thatch. “Water is key to just about every kind of development,” said Poe. “If we don’t get water right, it doesn’t matter how many schools we build or vaccines we pass out- we might as well throw our money down the drain. This bill is about using taxpayer dollars more effectively by making water a priority in any development discussion- like it should be.” Of the two and a half percent of Earth’s water that is fresh, two-thirds is frozen, leaving less than 1 percent of global freshwater available for human use. Of that, 90 percent goes toward growing food, raising livestock, energy and industry use. Thus, only 0.1% of the Earth’s water that is available for people to drink. This tiny fraction is diminished by deficient or nonexistent water infrastructure. Nothing is more fundamental to global health than access to clean water and sanitation. More needs to be done, and it needs to be done well. People across the world are demanding better results and greater transparency from foreign aid. Congressmen Blumenauer and Poe will continue working together and building support among their colleagues in the goal of saving lives and improving communities around the world.
07.31.2013	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Michael Fitzpatrick (PA-08) introduced the Captive Primate Safety Act (CPSA) of 2013. The CPSA would add nonhuman primates to the list of animals that cannot be purchased or transported across state lines by individuals for use as pets. This legislation, which passed the House of Representatives in 2009 with strong bipartisan support, protects public health and safety by prohibiting the interstate commerce in primates for pets. Twenty-five states have banned or significantly restricted the ownership of primates as pets, and CPSA complements these existing state laws. “Allowing primates to be held as pets for individuals can result in nothing but tragedy,” said Blumenauer. “Time and again we have seen that it is dangerous and unhealthy for both humans and captive primates and is cruel to the animals.” While most incidents go unreported, records show that scores of children are among the more than 275 people injured by captive primates in 43 states since 1990. Law enforcement agencies expend countless hours and resources addressing the escapes, attacks, and cruelty cases that inevitably arise when these wild animals are kept as pets. Along with the risk of attack, primates can carry life-threatening diseases. The importation of nonhuman primates into the U.S. for the pet trade has been prohibited by Federal health regulations since 1975. Still, these animals are bred in the U.S. and are readily available for purchase from exotic animal dealers and over the Internet. “In the 21st Century, there is no place for keeping primates as pets,” continued Blumenauer. “This legislation will protect our families, and ensure the humane treatment of these animals. We will continue to gather support for this bill and educate as many members as we can until it passes and this unacceptable practice is ended.”
07.24.2013	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) offered an amendment that would prevent any funds in the Department of Defense Appropriations bill from being used to implement or carry out a furlough for National Guard technicians. When the House of Representatives passed the Continuing Resolution earlier this year, there was language that gave Defense Department flexibility to avoid furloughing troops and other employees. One area this did not cover, however, was the nearly 60,000 National Guard technicians, more than 1,000 of whom live and work in Oregon. The amendment to protect the technicians was adopted and will become part of the final bill. Blumenauer made the following statement: The National Guard has done an outstanding job performing above and beyond, and we need to make sure that they are covered by the same rules that apply to all the other men and women who serve in uniform. This amendment is about the basic principal of fairness and quality. National Guard technicians should not be subject to arbitrary cuts of sequestration. Our Nation's National Guard and Reserve military technicians--or MILTECHs--are some of the most important assets we have to keeping our servicemen and women safe. Just like any other servicemember, they proudly wear the military uniform to work. Perhaps most importantly, every one of them is deployable, many having deployed all around the world. They are making sure the equipment that our warfighters need is operating. We cannot allow big Army, Air Force or Navy to push their sequestration-woes onto our citizen soldiers. While we must continue working to replace the devastating sequester cuts for all affected, furloughing military technicians undermines our last decade of investment, which is imprudent and will cost us in the long run. The Army National Guard serves both state and federal governments. This means that, while Guard units are combat-trained and can be deployed overseas, they are just as likely to serve in their home communities. The many Guard and Reserve deployments over the last decade have resulted in highly seasoned guardsmen with more skill and experience than we’ve ever seen. They have also been on hand to support communities dealing with natural disasters, from wildfires to devastating floods, all across the U.S. Over 400,000 citizen soldiers who live and work in thousands of communities across the country are ready to confront our challenges at home as well as abroad. This means that right here at home, at the peak of fire season, MILTECHs are ensuring our helicopters and other equipment can get back out, into the field, protecting the public. The dedication of these citizen soldiers and adaptability of their mission makes the National Guard an ideal complement to the standing military force. When it comes to keeping America safe in the midst of shrinking budgets, the National Guard is an investment with a very high return and should play a critical role in meeting the demands of our 21st century commitments. I am proud to have played a small part in supporting them in this bill and will continue to look out for the interests of Guardsman in Oregon and across the country.
07.24.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer offered a series of amendments to the Fiscal Year 2014 Defense Appropriations Bill. The bill contains $512.5 billion in non-war funding plus an additional $85.5 billion in war funding for Overseas Contingency Operations, making a total of $598.3 billion. Adjusted for inflation, this is one of the highest amounts ever spent by the Department of Defense, including the period of unprecedented military buildup during the Cold War. “We’re winding down two wars and facing a very different situation than we were when the Soviet Union was preparing for our annihilation,” said Blumenauer. “And yet here we are funding a military that is geared toward these threats from the past, instead of listening to our military leaders and preparing for the threats we face right now.” Congressman Blumenauer’s amendments were geared toward reducing some of this unnecessary spending and keeping our public lands safe. The first amendment, which did not pass, would have reduced the amount spent on Ohio-class submarines by 10%. Ohio-class submarines carry approximately 50% of the United States’ nuclear arsenal. “Nuclear weapons are hazardous and expensive to store and maintain, with a projected cost of two-thirds of a trillion dollars over the next ten years,” continued Blumenauer. “We can certainly afford to make a small reduction to one of the three, redundant, delivery systems.” As founder and co-chair of the Congressional Unexploded Ordinance (UXO) Caucus, Congressman Blumenauer also introduced an amendment to restore funding to the Defense Environmental Restoration Program-Formerly Used Defense Sites Program (DERP-FUDS) to FY 2013 levels. 2,600 properties nationwide still require cleanup of dangerous explosives and harmful chemicals left over from military training in order to be safely reused at an estimated cost of over $18 billion. FY 2013 DERP-FUDS funding was $287 million but has been cut to $262 in the FY 2014 bill. “The Department of Defense has an obligation to remediate these areas, which are often in public places, in a timely fashion,” continued Blumenauer. “This program employs skilled high tech workers to clean up this land and prepare it for economic development. I’m disappointed that the amendment failed because we need the opportunity to do this right.” Unfortunately, the amendment failed by a vote of 176-242.
07.19.2013	A few weeks ago, Republicans in the House forced through a partisan farm bill that managed to unite environmentalists, farm groups, and taxpayer advocates in unanimous opposition. Today, they’ve done it again. By introducing a bill that guts education funding, rolls back protections for disadvantaged students, and removes accountability provisions that ensure all students receive an excellent education, Republican leadership has unified business, education, and civil rights groups to oppose it. This bill not only undercuts specific programs for education, it also dramatically reduces the total spending on education. It even keeps the harsh cuts imposed by sequestration and locks in these unacceptably low funding levels through 2019. In Oregon, this would result in a $10 million annual cot to education spending. Oregon also has a firsthand, vivid example of the impact of this shortsighted approach. I represent Grant High School in Portland, which won the national competition for the U.S. Constitution contest this year, and Lincoln High School which won the contest in 2012. That project, called ``We the People,'' has been zeroed out by Congress. If we continue down the path this bill sets us on, students in Oregon, and around the country, are going to miss out on invaluable opportunities like this. Their futures, and the future of the nation, will suffer for it. I voted against the passage of this bill today because I feel that it is a terrible mistake to shortchange the students of today in order to save a few dollars in the short term. Investing in educating the thinkers, leaders, and entrepreneurs of tomorrow is how we improve our economy, and that’s what we should be doing.
07.12.2013	PORTLAND, OR -- Today Representative Earl Blumenauer announced that he will be introducing The Save America's Pollinators Act . The legislation suspends certain uses of neonicotinoids, a particular type of pesticide that is suspected to play a role in the bee die-offs happening in Oregon and in bee declines around the world, until the Environmental Protection Agency reviews these chemicals and makes a new determination about their proper application and safe use. Dinotefuran, the neonicotinoid ingredient in Safari insecticide, is blamed for last month’s mass die-off in Wilsonville, OR of an estimated 50,000 bumble bees – the largest such die-off ever recorded. The Oregon Department of Agriculture is investigating the die-off and is temporarily restricting the use of 18 pesticide products containing dinotefuran. Blumenauer has long sought federal funding for increased research on pollinators, protections for declining bee populations, and is the co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Pollinators Caucus. He was joined at the announcement event by Scott Hoffman Black, Executive Director of the Xerces Society, who discussed the specifics of the Oregon die-off and how to prevent future incidents, and Lori Vollmer, the owner of Garden Fever nursery in Portland, who stopped selling neonicotinoid products after the Wilsonville disaster. “Pollinators are not only vital to a sustainable environment, but key to a stable food supply,” Blumenauer said. “When incidents like the alarming bee die-off in Wilsonville occur, it is imperative that we take a step back to make sure we understand all the factors involved and move swiftly to prevent similar tragedies from happening in the future.” “It is time for the Environmental Protection Agency to take a stronger stance on pollinator protection.” said Scott Hoffman Black, Executive Director of the Xerces Society. “The European Union has put restrictions in place on several neonicotinoids -- we need a similar response here.” Rep Blumenauer with Scott Hoffman Black, Executive Director of the Xerces Society, and Lori Vollmer, the owner of Garden Fever nursery
07.11.2013	The Farm Bill that passed the House of Representatives today is a total boondoggle. The manipulative decision of Republican leadership to separate the agricultural provisions of the bill from the nutrition provisions, to abandon all efforts at reform, and to bring the bill without allowing any amendments or hearings, is unforgiveable. This could prove to be the costliest Farm Bill in history. It contains none of the necessary reforms that received broad support from advocacy organizations and during previous votes on the House floor. It concentrates federal cash on the largest most profitable agribusinesses. It shortchanges conservation, and guts protections for wetlands, prairies, and forests. It rewards government dependency, not innovation. This disaster of a bill managed to unite the League of Conservation Voters, the Environmental Working Group, the American Farm Bureau, and the Club for Growth in opposition. I hope the Republicans are proud of this accomplishment.
07.11.2013	Washington, DC – Late last evening, Republican leadership decided to move forward today with a vote on a revised Farm Bill. The Republicans’ last attempt to pass a Farm Bill failed last month by a vote of 234-195, with 172 Democrats and 62 Republicans voting against it. Today’s bill separates the food assistance components of the bill from the agricultural provisions, which would leave millions of women and children lacking the food they need, and is also being presented under a closed rule, meaning no amendments can be adopted. This is the first time in over four decades that a Farm Bill has come to the floor under a completely closed rule, and the first time in history that such a bill comes to the floor with no legislative hearing or markup. Democratic Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), and Ron Kind (WI-03) attempted to offer a variety of amendments yesterday that would have reformed and strengthened the bill, but ALL were disallowed by the Republican-controlled Rules Committee. “A bill pushed through in the dead of night with no reform, no open process, and no chance for amendments? No, thank you,” said Blumenauer. “It’s completely out of touch with reality for Republican leadership to try to bully through this bill, choking off the process. The American people deserve a Farm Bill that has real reform, not this pork-laden giveaway to agribusiness.” “Republicans are recklessly pushing forward a partisan bill designed to cause great harm and shutting down any attempt at an open discussion in the process,” said DeLauro. “We are not allowed a vote on a single amendment even when—as with the amendments I have offered with Representatives Blumenauer and Kind—those amendments would save taxpayer dollars. The Republicans are playing shameful games with the livelihoods of American families.” “The bill that was defeated last month in the House of Representatives failed because it didn’t include the type of reform needed to make the bill more fiscally responsible and responsive to the needs of farmers,” said Kind. “My colleagues and I attempted to include those same reforms in this new bill, but we were shut out from the process by a House majority more interested in appeasing big agribusiness than in protecting taxpayers and family farmers.” The amendments offered included: An amendment capping the total crop insurance subsidies a single farmer could receive at $50,00 (DeLauro-Blumenauer) – saves $4.2 billion; An amendment capping reimbursements and rate of return for companies that administer the program (DeLauro-Blumenauer) – saves $5.3 billion; An amendment that would include the full AFFIRM Act, making a series of much needed reforms (Kind-Blumenauer-DeLauro-Petri) – saves $10.6 billion; An amendment ending direct payments to cotton farmers, which are wasteful, impossible to justify, and have been eliminated for all other commodity producers. (Blumenauer)—saves $823 million; An amendment that would prevent direct payments to the richest farmers with a gross income of over $750,000 a year, and would reduce the subsidy for farmers with an adjusted gross income between $250,000 and $750,000 a year, while making no changes for farmers with an adjusted gross income of less than $250,000 (Blumenauer)—saves $2.46 billion Total Savings – At least $23.3 Billion ###
07.10.2013	
06.26.2013	Today, the Supreme Court struck down the Defense of Marriage Act. Moments after the decision, Congressman Earl Blumenauer spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in response to this historic affirmation of the basic rights of LGBT individuals.
06.25.2013	This morning, Congressman Blumenauer met with the Bus Project’s PolitiCorps Fellows, a summer program that trains young leaders how to plan and execute public interest campaigns. Now in its second week of a nine week program, the meeting featured a lively discussion with Blumenauer about his legislative career and his motivation to continue working in the public sector. The conversation covered immigration, marijuana reform, and marriage equality, before he answered questions about financial security and the emotional highs and lows of participating in a political campaign. “The work you’re doing is very energizing and I’m grateful that you would invest the next nine weeks of your life to join me in doing a deep dive on how to solve these important, difficult issues.” Congressman Blumenauer concluded the meeting by detailing what inspires him to continue each day in the face of tough political climate. He encouraged the fellows to truly stick with issues that motivate them, noting that over time, the results will affirm months or years of difficult, unglamorous and sometimes high stakes work. One example he highlighted is the transportation transformation that years of cycling advocacy has done for Portland.
06.20.2013	The failure by the House to pass the Farm Bill is the right outcome for a proposal that would have slashed nutrition for poor families and refused reforms to provide more benefits to most farmers and ranchers while it protected the largest agribusiness interests. The authors of the bill refused to address the abuses in crop insurance, far greater than in food stamps which they so disdained, extended direct payments for cotton, and attacked conservation programs. The irony should not be lost on the public: the bill lavished extra payments on those who need it the least, hurt poor Americans who need the most assistance, and shortchanged typical Oregon farmers and ranchers who deserve better. I hope that this debacle leads to legislation that is fairer to the taxpayer, does not cut support for hungry men, women, and children (90,921 on food assistance in Oregon alone), and dials back wasteful support for large agribusinesses that don’t need it. I was encouraged that some of our reform proposals for increasing and expanding conservation, reducing support for large confined animal feed operation, and reforming sugar payments gained significant support. My amendment to allow universities to study the industrial uses of hemp was even adopted! It’s worth noting that one of the amendments to implement reasonable limits on the crop insurance program received more votes than the Farm Bill itself. Ultimately these are the keys to save money, do a better job, and build the political support that is going to be necessary for enactment of a Farm Bill that works for all Americans.
06.20.2013	Bipartisan Coalition Votes to Give Colleges and Universities Ability to Conduct Critical Research WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), along with Representatives Jared Polis (D-CO), Thomas Massie (R-KY) introduced an amendment to H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013, the FARM Bill that would allow colleges and universities to grow and cultivate industrial hemp in states where it is already legal without fear of federal interference. The amendment passed today by a vote of 225-200. “Because of outdated federal drug laws, our farmers can’t grow industrial hemp and take advantage of a more than $300 million dollar market. We rely solely on imports to sustain consumer demand. It makes no sense,” said Blumenauer. “Our fear of industrial hemp is misplaced – it is not a drug. By allowing colleges and universities to cultivate hemp for research, Congress sends a signal that we are ready to examine hemp in a different and more appropriate context.” Nineteen states have passed pro-industrial hemp legislation. The following nine states have removed barriers to its production: Colorado, Kentucky, Maine, Montana, North Dakota, Oregon, Vermont, Washington and West Virginia. “Industrial hemp is an important agricultural commodity, not a drug,” said Rep. Polis. “My bipartisan, common-sense amendment, which I’ve introduced with Representatives Thomas Massie (R-KY) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), would allow colleges and universities to grow and cultivate industrial hemp for academic and agricultural research purposes in states where industrial hemp growth and cultivation is already legal. Many states, including Colorado, have demonstrated that they are fully capable of regulating industrial hemp. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson grew hemp. The first American flag was made of hemp. And today, U.S. retailers sell over $300 million worth of goods containing hemp—but all of that hemp is imported, since farmers can’t grow it here. The federal government should clarify that states should have the ability to regulate academic and agriculture research of industrial hemp without fear of federal interference. Hemp is not marijuana, and at the very least, we should allow our universities—the greatest in the world—to research the potential benefits and downsides of this important agricultural commodity.” “Industrial hemp is used for hundreds of products including paper, clothing, rope, and can be converted into renewable bio-fuels more efficiently than corn or switch grass,” said Rep. Massie. “It’s our goal that the research this amendment enables would further broadcast the economic benefits of the sustainable and job-creating crop. I look forward to working with Rep. Polis and Rep. Blumenauer on this issue.” "Vote Hemp applauds this new bi-partisan amendment and we are mobilizing all the support we can. This brilliant initiative would allow colleges and universities the opportunity to grow and cultivate hemp for academic and agricultural research purposes," says Eric Steenstra, President of Vote Hemp. "It would only apply to states where industrial hemp growth and cultivation is already legal in order for those states to showcase just how much industrial hemp could benefit the environment and economy in those regions," continues Steenstra. “Federal law has denied American farmers the opportunity to cultivate industrial hemp and reap the economic rewards from this versatile crop for far too long,” said Grant Smith, policy manager with the Drug Policy Alliance. “Congress should lift the prohibition on the domestic cultivation of industrial hemp as soon as possible. Allowing academic research is an important first step towards returning industrial hemp cultivation to American farms.” In addition to the co-sponsors of this amendment, Ranking Member Colin Peterson (D-MN) and Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY) also spoke in support of this amendment.
06.20.2013	Washington, DC – Today, the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) released a report, “Effects of U.S. Tax Policy on Greenhouse Gas Emissions,” which identified a number of tax provisions in U.S. law that cause the largest increases or decreases in greenhouse gas emissions. The principal finding of the study was that, based on existing economic models, most federal tax provisions don’t appear to significantly increase or decrease the levels of greenhouse gas emissions. Some provisions, such as ethanol subsidies, slightly increase greenhouse gas emissions, while others like the gas tax slightly decrease greenhouse gas emissions, but the limitations of the current economic models make it difficult to estimate the emissions impacts of most provisions. The NAS highlighted that putting a direct price on carbon would be a more efficient way to reduce emissions than current tax subsidies. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) joined Senators Sheldon Whitehouse, Brian Schatz and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Henry Waxman, in circulating a carbon tax proposal earlier this year. “This report is very useful in providing additional information about the complex relationship between the tax code and carbon pollution,” said Blumenauer. “While it could prompt us to take some small steps, like ending ethanol subsidies, it clearly shows that we are not going to be able to nickel and dime our way out of the looming climate catastrophe. Instead, we need bold, aggressive action to recognize the damage that greenhouse gas emissions do to our planet and finally put a price on carbon.” As a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Blumenauer has been engaged in efforts to reform and simplify the tax system in a way that is fair and doesn’t damage the environment. This study provides Congress with important information as it moves forward on tax and climate legislation. The report was written by a committee of environmental lawyers and scientists, economists, and experts in tax policy. Congress called for this study in 2008 legislation written by Congressman Blumenauer.
06.19.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced amendments to the House version of the Farm Bill that would strengthen the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) and improve the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). EQIP helps American farmers with conservation projects that improve air quality, protect clean water, and develop healthy soil systems. Recent data, unfortunately, shows the majority of EQIP’s funding is consumed by large projects inconsistent with most American’s definition of “conservation.” Blumenauer’s EQIP amendment: Provides options to help livestock producers reduce their use of non-therapeutic antibiotics and transition to organic farming practices and more environmentally-friendly pest management practices; Prioritizes projects that focus on managing farmland and habitat, not building expensive structures or buying high-priced equipment; Prohibits the use of EQIP dollars by projects inconsistent with conservation goals, such as wastewater lagoons at factory farms. “Antibiotics use in farm animals has skyrocketed in recent years, with unknown implications for our food supply and human health. My amendment will make it easier for farmers to reduce antibiotic and pesticide use. It will also ensure that EQIP dollars are not going to factory farms to build giant, manure-storage tanks which are a gross perversion of the program’s original intent.” continued Blumenauer.” The CRP provides annual rental payments to landowners to retire vulnerable or environmentally important land from crop production. Congressman Blumenauer’s amendment allows states to target high priority conservation and environmentally sensitive areas, and helps re-enroll farmers continuously, so that the conservation benefits aren’t lost and farmers have the ability to make long term planning decisions. “Small farmers and ranchers are the best stewards of the environment that I have come across, and Congress needs to give them the tools necessary to compete and thrive, while still acting in a responsible and sustainable way. I hope that my amendments, and others offered by my colleagues today, can refocus the Farm Bill on food, farms, and family in a way that strengthens local economies, enhances our environment, provides healthy food and agricultural products, and maximizes taxpayers’ investments without giveaways to corporate, factory farms,” concluded Blumenauer.
06.18.2013	This week, Politifact Oregon focused on a statement I made during a House Ways and Means Committee Hearing last week that a 100 year old statute prohibited political organizations from claiming tax exempt status. Under the 1913 statute, social welfare groups were not allowed to participate in political activities. It was this way until 1959 that the IRS changed the interpretation of the law. By allowing groups to engage in political purpose as long as it was “not primarily” engaged in those activities, the IRS started us on a slippery slope we are contending with today. Politifact Oregon argues that, because political organizations were not explicitly banned, it was inaccurate to say the statute prohibited them. Using Politifact’s analysis, cats and horses could be entered into a dog show unless the show rules explicitly said “yes, it’s a dog show, but cats and horses are prohibited… and rabbits… and parakeets…” Does anybody really think that way? Roberta Mann, the Frank Nash Professor of Law at the University of Oregon School of Law, said, “The language of the 1913 statute does not directly prohibit anything, but does provide a tax exemption for ‘any civic league or organization not organized for profit, but operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare.’ The ‘operated exclusively’ language has been interpreted by Treasury as prohibiting activity that is NOT exclusively for the promotion of social welfare. If political contributions are not within the scope of promotion of social welfare, as would reasonably be inferred from other contemporary statutes prohibiting political contributions by corporations, then the statute certainly prohibits them implicitly if not explicitly.” I invite people to draw their own conclusions from the language of the statute and common sense. The 1913 statute in question says that tax shall not apply to: "[L]abor, agricultural, or horticultural organizations, or to mutual savings banks ... nor to cemetery companies, organized and operated exclusively for the mutual benefit of their members, nor to any corporation or association organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, or educational purposes … nor to business leagues, nor to chambers of commerce or boards of trade, not organized for profit or no part of the net income of which inures to the benefit of the private stockholder or individual; nor to any civic league or organization not organized for profit, but operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare . . . . "
06.14.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to reform the Iraq and Afghanistan Special Immigrant Visa programs (SIV). The amendment, which enhances the SIV programs by providing efficiency, transparency, accuracy, and oversight mechanisms passed by a vote of 420-3 The SIV programs, available to Iraqis and Afghans facing an ongoing serious threat as a result of their employment on behalf of America expires at the end of this Fiscal Year for Iraq and in Fiscal Year 2014 for Afghanistan. “Backlog and delay means not just weeks or months, but years, for those who risked their lives to help the U.S. mission living in fear and hiding, knowing they or their families could be killed at any moment,” said Blumenauer. “We must keep our commitment to provide refuge to the brave Iraqi and Afghan men and women who willingly put their lives on the line and served shoulder-to-shoulder with our service members in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.” Though Fiscal Year 2012, only 22% of the available Iraqi SIVs had been issued, and only 12% for Afghanistan, and, according to the Washington Post, over 5,000 documentarily complete Afghan SIV applications remained in a backlog. If the program expires, thousands of individuals who relied on the promise of the US when they decided to assist the military would remain in peril. “While I am pleased that there is a partial extension of the SIV included in the House NDAA, there is an opportunity for further, bipartisan reform,” continued Blumenauer. “I hope this amendment signals a strong commitment from the House for comprehensive extension and reform that can be taken up with the Senate in conference.” Representative Blumenauer was joined in introducing the amendment by Representatives Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), and Steve Stivers (OH-15), all three of whom served in either Iraq or Afghanistan.
06.13.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), along with Congressmen Mick Mulvaney (SC-05) and Kerry Bentivolio (MI-11), introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would allow the Navy to stay at its current level of 10 aircraft carriers, if it saw fit, instead of going back to a Congressionally-mandated requirement to have 11. In Fiscal Year 2006 NDAA, Congress imposed an unnecessary requirement on the Navy to maintain no fewer than 12 operational aircraft carriers. That number, after proving unsustainable for the Navy, was reduced to 11 the next year. Subsequently the Navy has had to seek out a waiver from Congress to temporarily drop to 10 operational carriers until the Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78) is commissioned into service in 2016. “Our amendment aims to make our Naval fleet stronger and more sustainable by allowing, not requiring, the Navy to stay at its current level of 10 aircraft carriers, instead of going back to a Congressionally-mandated level of 11,” said Blumenauer. Many leading military experts have said that the US could safely drop to as few as eight carriers. In an exercise to develop a strong defense in a reduced budget environment, seven leading organizations across the political spectrum (the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, the American Enterprise Institute, Center for American Progress, Center for a New American Security, Center for Strategic and International Studies, the Foreign Policy Initiative, and the National Security Network), found that the Navy could reduce its operational fleet of carriers by between two and four. “The entire Department of Defense, along with the rest of us, is facing shrinking budgets, changing priorities, and emerging technologies,” said Blumenauer. “Our Navy is being pushed into shallow waters as a result of sequestration. Now more than ever, we should be giving them the flexibility needed to make strategic choices in a challenging budget environment. Click here to see a video of Congressman Blumenauer and other members speaking on the amendment on the floor of the House.
06.07.2013	Recent reports documenting the collection of Verizon customer telephone records by the National Security Administration are disturbing, but certainly not surprising. Programs like this have been a concern since they were authorized in the Patriot Act in 2001. This is one of the reasons I have voted against that legislation every time it has come to the floor for reauthorization. While the White House has explained that the order does not allow the government to listen in to anyone’s conversations, and asserted the program has been valuable in protecting the nation from terrorist threats, I remain dubious about its effectiveness. As of last October, 4.92 million federal employees and contractors had access to secret information, which is larger than the entire population of Los Angeles. I am concerned that the amount of information being reviewed by the intelligence community and number of people involved may actually be making us less safe. I urge Congress to use this controversy, and the Intelligence Authorization Act of 2013 which will soon head to the floor for debate, as an opportunity to reevaluate our methods of domestic surveillance, the growing size of the intelligence bureaucracy, and reiterate the importance of maintaining the privacy and civil liberties of American citizens.
06.06.2013	Bill will protect tax benefits for 3 million commuters by maintaining parity between parking and public transportation benefits WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) was joined by Reps. James P. McGovern (D-MA), Peter T. King (R-NY), and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) in introducing the Transit Parity Act. The bipartisan bill will maintain tax credit parity for drivers and public transportation commuters. Without the fix, commuters taking public transportation will see their tax benefit cut almost in half to $125, while those who drive and park will maintain the current $245 tax benefit. “With rising gas prices and highly congested streets, we should be encouraging New Yorkers to use more public transportation, not push them back into their cars. Without parity, we create an incentive to drive and put an unfair financial burden on New York City’s hard-working families and residents who rely daily on public transportation. It is only fair that the pre-tax benefit be made permanently equal, no matter how one commutes to work, and that is why I have introduced the Transit Parity Act,” said Rep. Grimm. “I have long been a proponent of making tax benefit parity for transit commuters a permanent part of the tax code. I am pleased to join with my colleagues in this new, bipartisan legislative effort. It’s good for workers and for their employers. Mass transit benefits our environment, reduces wear and tear on our roads and bridges, eases traffic congestion and saves energy. We must continue to look for ways to make commuting by transit as affordable and attractive as commuting by car,” said Rep. McGovern. “Transit parity provides an incentive for millions of working Americans to use mass transportation, which reduces our dependence on foreign oil and eases traffic congestion on our roads. I commend Representative Grimm for introducing this critical legislation and look forward to continue working with my colleagues on this matter,” said Rep. King. “A system where workers have access to myriad transportation options creates more livable, healthy, and productive communities. By helping protect commuters’ choices, and preserving equity between those who drive and those who take transit or vanpool, we can avoid a tax increase on millions of families, and continue to give workers the option to use a transportation mode that increases economic productivity, reduces congestion, and is friendlier to the environment,” said Rep. Blumenauer. On January 1, 2014, almost 3 million of America’s commuters will face a tax increase unless Congress acts. Transportation is the second largest household expense for American families, and currently Congress provides a tax credit to commuters to help account for parking and transit costs. However, without congressional action, on January 2th, the cost for those who use the transit benefit will practically double. While the parking benefit will remain at $245 a year, the transit benefit will drop to $125, leaving families and commuters with up to $1,440 a year in additional tax burden. Under existing federal law, employers can offer their employees an option of up to $245/month in pre-tax parking or transit benefits. This tax credit directly benefits American commuters and their families. Businesses have also enjoyed a tax break from this commuter benefit. In 2010, participating transit riders across the country saved their bosses about $300 million in payroll taxes. In addition to increasing commuters taxes, if the transit benefit reverts to $125 while the parking benefits stays at $245, the federal tax code will distort individual’s choices in a way that increases congestion, time spent in traffic, and wear and tear on the roads. The Transit Parity Act equalizes the transit and parking benefits by capping both at $220. This makes the change deficit neutral, and ensures that our tax code is fair and applies equally to all consumers.
06.05.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressional lawmakers and leaders of the cannabis industry joined in Washington, DC to call for sensible reform to federal marijuana policies that would update tax, banking, to reflect the expanding legal marijuana industry. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced H.R. 2240, the Small Business Tax Equity Act, which would change Internal Revenue Code Section 280E to allow state-legal businesses, such as medical marijuana dispensaries, to take standard business deductions when computing their taxes. “These businesses cannot deduct entirely legitimate operating business expenses,” said Blumenauer. “They cannot claim the work opportunity tax credit if they hire a veteran, depreciate their American-made irrigation equipment, or utilize the deductions for the expenses associated with their operating costs. As a result these small businesses are paying federal income taxes that are often double or triple the effective tax rate of most businesses.” Under federal banking laws, many marijuana businesses that follow state law are forced to operate cash-only enterprises and prevented from opening bank accounts and operating as any other businesses would. "We need to address the public safety, crime and lost tax revenue associated when these legal and regulated businesses are operating in a cash-only system,” said Congressman Ed Perlmutter (CO-07). “We also need to provide financial institutions assurance that they can make their own business decisions related to legal, financial transactions without fear of regulatory penalties or criminal prosecution." “As a former entrepreneur who started a number of companies, I know how important it is for our businesses to compete on a level playing field,” said Congressman Jared Polis (CO-02). “The federal government shouldn’t be in the business of picking winners and losers. But even in states where marijuana use is legal, legitimate marijuana businesses face extra scrutiny and are not able to deduct legitimate business expenses like rent and wages. I applaud Congressman Blumenauer for introducing this important legislation, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to end the federal government’s failed policy of prohibition. We can start today by ensuring that all state-legal businesses receive the same federal tax treatment.” Since California first approved medical marijuana in 1996, medical marijuana businesses have existed in a legal gray area, constantly alert to federal prosecution and penalties. Many other states now allow medical marijuana businesses, and voters in Washington and Colorado have allowed the sale and use of recreational marijuana. While states have expanded legal economic opportunities, federal laws continue to burden these emerging small businesses. Sean Luse of Berkeley Patient’s Group said, "The Department of Justice is undermining the authority of state and local officials who steadfastly support medical cannabis in our community by diverting limited resources away from the real issues, such as fighting violent crime and getting illegal guns off our streets, in favor of cracking down on licensed medical cannabis providers. Members of Congress need to hear directly from those who are caught in the middle of the conflict between state and federal law." “Cannabis is poised to become the next big industry in the United States and around the world,” Ean Seeb, Vice-Chair of the National Cannabis Industry Association board of directors and operator of Denver’s first medical marijuana center said. “NCIA is the sole organization that works with business members from across the country, fighting for simple parity on issues like taxes and banking. Association members are headed to Washington with a unified message to legislators: Treat us as you would any other business.”
06.04.2013	Washington, D.C. – The entire Oregon congressional delegation has written to the Administrator of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Marilyn Tavenner, to ask her to use her authority to correct an anomaly used to calculate reimbursement rates for rural home health providers. Inconsistent data from one hospital in Coos Bay on the Oregon coast reduced rates for home health providers throughout the state. Correcting this error would allow rates to truly represent local operating costs. “As you know, Oregon’s rural home health provider rates are based on wage index data from seven hospitals throughout the state. It is our understanding that for [calendar year] 2013, the [average hourly wage] rate for one specific Oregon hospital is significantly lower compared to the remaining six hospitals used. We believe that the question about these data being accurate is irrelevant to our greater concern: that the data from this single hospital, located on Oregon’s coast, reduced the rates for health providers throughout the entire state,” the Oregon delegation wrote. “Coos Bay is 178 miles and three hours from Ashland in southern Oregon; 230 miles and four and a half hours from Bend in central Oregon; and 538 miles and 11 hours from Enterprise in eastern Oregon. We hope you would agree that it is imprecise to use such inconsistent data while establishing rates for providers as far as 538 miles away from one another, regardless of whether it amounts to higher or lower payments. In fact, the drive from Enterprise to Coos Bay is longer than the drive from Baltimore, Maryland to Cincinnati, Ohio,” the members continued. As a result of this calculation, reimbursement for rural home health providers across the state experienced an additional six percent cut for 2013, according to Sarah Myers from the Oregon Association for Home Care. “This change will amount to an additional six percent decrease in home health provider rates across the entire state. A cut of this nature, combined with other cuts being shouldered by the industry, will make operating nearly unsustainable for many providers throughout the state, which in turn will harm patient access,” Myers said. The delegation members ask CMS to use regulatory authority to account for this statistical anomaly and re-sample the data used to calculate this reimbursement rate for 2013 to exclude this single hospital in Coos Bay. They also request that CMS provide the date range from which the data were captured to establish these rates, as well as the date ranges from which the rates for the previous three years were calculated. “We do not consider this an issue of increasing or decreasing provider reimbursements, but rather one of ensuring that those reimbursement rates are set using data that are not only accurate, but also relevant to local communities,” the members write in closing the letter. A copy of the letter is available for download.
05.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Today the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an analysis of the policy implications of enactment of a carbon tax. The CBO report makes a compelling case for inclusion of a carbon tax in any legislation to reduce the deficit or reform the tax code. “CBO’s report shows that a carbon tax is a win-win policy,” said Rep. Henry A. Waxman. “A properly designed carbon tax can help prevent potentially catastrophic changes to the climate and at the same time reduce the deficit or pay for tax reform.” "Carbon fee legislation could stop big polluters from unloading the costs of their pollution on the American public, and correct a flawed energy market,” said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse. “This report shows that a carbon fee also provides economic benefits to American families while significantly reducing carbon pollution. I hope it will inspire more of our colleagues in Congress to consider carbon fee legislation.” “In order to effectively reform the tax code and reduce the deficit, we need not only to simplify, but to institute a broad-based fee such as a carbon tax,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. “The CBO’s report from today shows that a carbon tax could raise more than a trillion dollars over the next decade in addition to helping us deal with carbon pollution. We must carefully manage how the revenue is spent to ensure that it helps the economy grow and does not disproportionately affect low-income individuals.” “Climate change is among the biggest threats facing the world today. As a global leader, the United States has a responsibility to reduce our carbon emissions. Finding an effective way to price carbon is necessary step forward in our climate change efforts,” said Sen. Ben Cardin. “This report points out that a carbon fee could reduce the pollution that causes climate change and help to reduce our federal budget deficit,” said Sen. Brian Schatz. “Earlier this month, the Mauna Loa Observatory reported that carbon in the atmosphere exceeded 400 parts per million for the first time in human history, which underscores the need to act now.” According to CBO, “the ultimate economic effects of a carbon tax would depend on how the revenues from the tax were used” (p. 5). The CBO report identifies two uses of the revenue that could “substantially offset the total economic costs resulting from the tax” (p. 2). They are using the revenues to reduce the debt and using the revenues to reduce marginal tax rates. CBO says that some analyses have even concluded that “a tax swap could lead to a net increase in output” (p. 11). The CBO report addresses the impact of a carbon tax on low-income households and finds that these impacts could be addressed at modest cost. According to CBO, “offsetting the costs for households in the lowest one-fifth of the income distribution would take roughly 12 percent” of the revenue raised by a carbon tax (p. 13). The final section of the CBO report makes a strong case for near-term action to reduce carbon emissions. CBO’s report states that delaying action to reduce carbon pollution “would increase the expected damage from climate change by increasing the risk of very costly, potentially even catastrophic, outcomes” (p. 19). The report defines a “catastrophic loss” as “a 25 percent decline in global output” (p. 16).
05.22.2013	
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the Safe Climate Caucus, spoke on the House floor regarding the reality of climate change. The Safe Climate Caucus members have made a commitment to talk every day on the House Floor about the urgent need to address climate change. Click here to watch Rep. Blumenauer’s speech. “A few days ago the world passed 400 million ppm level of carbon – higher than anything we’ve seen in the atmosphere for over 3 million years. This puts in stark focus on the climate crisis and the indifference we are seeing from Congressional leadership on this problem. In the last 24 hours, there was all you needed to know about the state of play for climate science and dealing with global warming in two articles in the newspaper. “Yesterday, the business section of the New York Times, in an articleby Eduardo Porter, discussed how the re-insurance industry is entirely comfortable with the climate science predicting more rapid extreme weather events and dire consequences. They in the insurance industry after all don’t have the luxury of debating science when they must deal with facts on the ground. This is a dollar and cents for a vast industry trying to help people cope with the consequences of natural disaster. “As a result of the market discipline, they’ve had to embrace reality, accept it, and plan for it. It was poignant that Porter observed and probed their lack of engagement in government policies, at least in the United States that would help minimize future damage. Remember, this is even as the scientists told us we’ve had the highest concentration of carbon for 3 million years. “In today’s Washington Post, there is a front page story about fish populations that aren’t waiting for their habitat to make it impossible for them to live. Species all over the globe are moving. They’re migrating to cooler climates. In a process that’s been taking place for decades now, fish are sorting themselves out and leaving areas that no longer sustain their quality of life, their ability to reproduce and to thrive. They have steadily been moving to areas where the effects of climate change are not so pronounced. “Isn’t it interesting that fish, without fancy scientific instrumentation, or computer analysis, or dare I say it, political focus groups, have reacted to facts in the sea, and moved to where they can function, where they can live, where they can escape for the time being at least the impact of climate change. “They’re also escaping from the people who depend on these fish for their living in the previous habitat, but that’s another story about the devastation that local communities are facing because of the climate change consequences. “Isn’t it time that the political process starts responding to a problem that even fish can figure out? What is it going to take for people in this body to wake up to their responsibilities and act with the same insight as aquatic species that don’t have graduate degrees in computers, but mercifully for them don’t have political blinders and ideological fervor, wasting huge amounts of time on pointless activities like debating whether to repeal Obamacare for the 37th time. “Hopefully, insurance companies and people who depend on these aquatic creatures will lend an air of reality to the discussion of climate change that is almost non-existent here on Capitol Hill, maybe reaching the point where it is no longer debate because it’s really past time for a debate. It’s time for us to take action like our friends in the ocean. "If Charlie the tuna can figure it out, why can’t the Republican leadership in Congress?
05.15.2013	Congressman Blumenauer visited KEEN’s headquarters in Portland where he visited with employees and toured the facility. KEEN, well known for its outdoor footwear and apparel, manufactures much of its product locally and has recently moved into an expanded headquarters in Portland’s Pearl District. “What you have done converting this space with reclaimed material, choosing to manufacture locally, and offering your employees a place to work that they are proud of---this adds value to our community,” Blumenauer commented. “What you are doing with your company is what I am trying to get Congress to do---do things differently.” He then conducted a Q&A with KEEN employees where they discussed water quality, transportation, and support for local civic organizations that support parks and trails.
05.14.2013	Congressman Blumenauer spoke to 75 high school students at St. Mary’s Academy in downtown Portland. After discussing current initiatives in Congress, and his work on universal clean water access, environmental conservation, and reforming crop subsidies, the floor was opened to students for questions and comments. The group touched on fluoride, foreign policy and the Iraq War, as well as strategies for decreasing our dependence on fossil fuels. Blumenauer spoke about both the environmental and the economic costs of this dependence, mentioning to gasps that “in the Iraq War, $18 billion dollars was spent on air conditioning” and that “petroleum cost $100 dollars a gallon to transport during the war.” Later in the morning, Blumenauer spoke with St. Mary’s Mock Trial Team, which had just returned from the National Championship after earning first place in Oregon’s State Championship. Team members discussed their winning strategies, focusing on their unity, unique legal strategies, and ease in the courtroom. Blumenauer closed with a question to the group about their thoughts on the legal process, and future ambitions. “Supreme Court Justice,” one of the girls shouted out. “That’s my dream!”
05.09.2013	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), along with twelve other Representatives, introduced H.R. 1890, the Balancing Food, Farm, and Environment Act (the Balancing Act), which modernizes the Farm Bill’s conservation title to reflect the needs of a changing agricultural system and the American public’s priorities. Download the Balancing Food, Farm, and Environment Act: One Page Summary Section by Section Summary Benefits Summary The Balancing Act: Streamlines conservation programs, and prioritizes long-term results to protect the taxpayers’ investment; Encourages local and regional partnerships to tackle local conservation needs, and allows them to implement performance-based standards, rather than process-based standards; Provides support and technical assistance to farmers facing modern-day challenges, including food safety concerns, water quality issues, and a public interested in more sustainable farming practices; Prioritizes investment for our most pressing conservation issues, including helping farmers address a changing climate, transitioning off of antibiotic-intensive practices, and reducing pesticide use; and Focuses federal dollars where they have the most impact, encourages local and private investment, and limits the amount of payments that can go to any one producer. “People all across the country, from farmers to city-dwellers, understand the importance of conservation,” said Blumenauer. “Unfortunately, the conservation title we designed in the 1980s no longer addresses America’s most important priorities, is difficult for farmers to navigate, and forces a one-size-fits-all policy on a varied landscape. The Balancing Act fixes these problems.” Senator Tom Udall of New Mexico is introducing companion legislation to Blumenauer’s conservation bill in the Senate. "Farmers and the American public recognize that conservation of our resources is good for our crops, our land and our nation's future," said Udall. "America's farmers have a long history of innovation and adaption of new technologies and practices. Our legislation would encourage those who seek to implement new practices that increase quality production through sound management of our precious resources." “Congressman Blumenauer’s Balancing Act helps farmers be good wildlife stewards while also supplying an abundant and safe food supply for our nation,” said Robert Dewey, Vice President of Government Relations and External Affairs for Defenders of Wildlife. “The bill provides farmers with resources to protect and restore wetlands and waterways that are important for wildlife conservation; funding for innovative farming techniques to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and incentives to reduce the use of pesticides. Congressman Blumenauer’s bill is a home-run for farmers, consumers and wildlife.” Congress originally created the Farm Bill’s conservation title to reward farmers for taking actions that protect the environment and benefit the general public. Polls show that farmers and urban Americans alike continue to believe that the conservation title’s role in the Farm Bill should be maintained or increased. "Many farmers are already growing food in ways that protect our families, preserve the productivity of our soil, and protect our natural heritage," said Ken Cook, president of Environmental Working Group. "Many more farmers would produce food in the same way if U.S. farm policy did more to reward stewardship and encourage sustainable farming. America's families, farmers, and food are worth protecting. That's why EWG is proud to support the Balancing Act." “The Farm Bill should be an environmental bill,” continued Blumenauer. “Our farmers are some of the best stewards of the land, but we haven’t given them the tools to support them or helped them address our most pressing environmental needs. We can do that, and reduce the red tape they face when applying to these programs. It’s possible to keep our water clean, our soil healthy, and help our wildlife thrive, while ensuring that people have access to affordable responsibly-raised food.” The original cosponsors of the Balancing Act are Rep. Lois Capps (CA-24), Rep. John Dingell (MI-12), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Rep. Sam Farr (CA-20), Rep. Rush Holt (NJ-12), Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-02), Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03), Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13), Rep. George Miller (CA-11), Rep. Jim Moran (VA-08), Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Rep. Henry Waxman (CA-33).
04.24.2013	Congressman Earl Blumenauer submitted the following statement on the House Budget Committee Hearing on Transportation and the state of the Highway Trust Fund. I hope today’s Budget Committee hearing marks the beginning of a wider, more robust conversation on the budget, specifically transportation infrastructure. The committee has been deeply concerned about the budget deficit and appropriately so, but not enough attention has been paid to our infrastructure deficit. The federal government has largely failed to maintain a system of aviation facilities, the electrical grid, sewer and water systems, and interstate highways that once was the envy of the world. That is a claim that is harder to make today, and its status and condition continues to deteriorate. The majority witnesses focus time their time and energy arguing for devolution – the concept that we don’t need a strong federal presence and support in infrastructure development. They argue that it will be taken care by the individual decisions of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and local governments across America. The fact is that the networks (sewer, road, aviation, and rail) were all created by strong federal policy and investment. America had a 50 year experiment with devolution, local control over infrastructure. We had different gage tracks, missing segments. We had local and commercial interests holding their neighbor hostage because they made more money not having a smooth, transparent, seamless transportation system. The country as a whole was poorer, but individual communities and private interest made lots of money based on that dysfunctionality. I have no quarrel with the notion that we can and should do better. I think an independent review of state and local infrastructure decisions will suggest that where investment has been left exclusively to state and local governments, they were certainly no more visionary, they were no less corrupt and inept, and there was no rational reason for them to help their neighbors either near or far. We are on a path for significant reduction in infrastructure investment. Over the next 20 years, greater fuel efficiency and alternative vehicle modes put on a path to collect even less money. We are breaking the linkage between payment for road use and gallons of fuel consumed. It sketches an alternative scenario where we can fairly and efficiently collect revenues based on use rather than gallons of fuel consumed. It is the wave of the future. My state of Oregon is experimenting with some pilot projects in that regard and I look forward to this Congress expanding on those pilot projects. The potential of unleashing a huge wave of revenue generation and an intelligently managed transportation system with closely aligned benefits and costs. Many people will adjust their travel behaviors accordingly and it is one of the most efficient ways to get more out of the existing infrastructure. Many important centers of commerce are bi-state, in some areas multi-state – New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Kansas City, Missouri, Iowa, Illinois, in my own backyard Oregon and Washington – and this makes it difficult for state and local governments to identify and pay for system-wide benefits . There is an also a national advantage if areas of the country like Chicago or Los Angeles make massive investment in their ports that benefit other parts of the country, but that’s a tough sell to local officials and their constituents when “they’re already got theirs.” Indeed, improvements to freight movement that would benefit the entire nation, which we attempted in the recent highway extension, are in many cases aggressively opposed by local interests. Anybody who has ever been a city councilmember or a city commissioner knows that as vital as truck movements are (virtually every freight movement includes a truck), they are not popular. Because we are a vast nation, states have different needs at different times. States would be hard pressed to make investments at exactly the time they should because the local economy is bad. It beats trying to cut the gas tax when there was a spike in gasoline prices. A quick look at the national situation right now reveals a lack of appreciation and leadership from Congress. We are ignoring the quickest, fastest, most efficient way to get America back to work through local construction to improve roads, bridges, transit. Infrastructure investment would put millions of people to work while it strengthens local economy, the environment, and our national competitiveness. When the United States is perceived by people who control hundreds of billions of dollars as the safest location for their money, people literally give us billions of dollars essentially for free given the low interest rates and modest inflationary pressures. A rational government would be borrowing and investing using other peoples’ money for free to make our system stronger. But we’re not. We need a national system that speaks to the transportation challenges of today. The current system dramatically undervalues investments that result in somebody not being on the road, somebody not being in a car in front of you idling at a traffic bottleneck, or fighting you for a parking space at the end of the journey. In larger metropolitan areas where networks are stressed, where land is at a premium, taking more private property to put more cars in pinch points is extraordinarily controversial and has arguably not been effective in facilitating movement, or reducing congestion or pollution. Making it possible for someone to take mass transit, Amtrak, walk, or bike is the fastest, cheapest, most environmentally benign way to facilitate movement of goods that have no alternative and for people that cannot or choose not to move away from their car. One of the most important trends in America is that people are driving less per capita. This is very much the case with younger drivers. Recent analysis shows a dramatic reduction in VMT, a 40% increase in young people’s transit utilization, and a 25% increase in cycling. They are even getting fewer drivers licenses; a stark change from my generation when you camped out the night before you turned 16 at the local DMV so that you could be the first one through the door to take the test and get your license. I believe this is a lasting change. I welcome this conversation. I look forward to this being the beginning of the budget committee doing its work with the critical arena of infrastructure finance, the opportunities, and the national priorities for us to do our job. I hope that we will be able to expand our hearings and our analysis to hear from the amazing array of people who make their living building, managing, coping with infrastructure or trying to use what is not necessarily there.
04.23.2013	Congressmen Blumenauer and DeFazio sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) strongly urging completion of a full environmental impact statement (EIS) for the proposed coal-export facility at the Port of Morrow in Boardman. “During the past months we have heard from a great number of our constituents who have raised serious and legitimate concerns about potential health, environmental, safety, and economic impacts of exporting coal through the Pacific Northwest,” the letter states. “Despite these concerns, the proposed facility at the Port of Morrow is the only coal export proposal in the Pacific Northwest where the USACE has not already made an initial determination to conduct an EIS.” The letter points out that the USACE is likely required by law to perform an EIS under the National Environmental Policy Act and failure to do so would result in delays and litigation.
04.22.2013	Earth Day is a time to celebrate, but it is also a time of sober reflection. There are serious threats to the planet, such as climate change. Earth Day gives us the opportunity to look at the big picture and how we can improve our environment. This Earth Day, I’d like to focus on the Farm Bill, easily the most important environmental bill Congress will be considering this year. Everything from crop insurance to agricultural subsidies to critical conservation programs are tied into the Farm Bill. I have been working hard during my time in Congress to reform this legislation to save taxpayer dollars, better support farmers and ranchers, and protect the environment. The conservation programs, which benefit farmers and ranchers, are one of the easiest of these issues to get right. Modern industrial-style agriculture has a tremendous impact on the landscape. Chemical fertilizers and pesticides, animal waste, and valuable topsoil clog rivers and streams and cause dead zones along our coasts. Meanwhile, conversion of land to agricultural production destroys the floodplains and wetlands that filter out much of this pollution, and also degrades important wildlife habitat. The goal of conservation programs is to help small and midsize farmers, who depend on the long-term viability of their land for survival, and who perform good stewardship practices that are not only economically viable but even beneficial. I have met no people who, as a group, care more about the environment than the farmers and ranchers in my state of Oregon. Yet too often they are not given the tools or resources to meet their environmental challenges. The next Farm Bill should consolidate a variety of conservation programs and improve their efficiency, eliminating burdensome and redundant paperwork for farmers and ranchers. This would make it easier for small, family farms to get assistance instead of having a huge proportion of the available resources drained away to subsidize environmentally damaging practices of large agribusiness. It will provide flexibility for a local focus on conservation needs, and also shifts conservation programs to a performance based system. A reformed Farm Bill would support technical assistance to farmers facing modern-day challenges, including food safety concerns, water quality and quantity issues, and a public interested in more sustainable farming practices. I would also prioritize investment for our most pressing conservation issues to help farmers address the realities of a changing climate, transitioning off of antibiotic-intensive practices, and reducing pesticide use. In the coming weeks, I will be introducing legislation to meet these goals and work to get it incorporated into the next Farm Bill. Each of us should use Earth Day to reflect not just on where we are but where we’re going. While everybody’s personal agenda to live a little lighter on the land should include active support and participation, supporting a more environmentally conscious Farm Bill is important for today, and even more important for tomorrow.
04.19.2013	Congressman Blumenauer joined with Members of Congress calling for a more thorough and robust Supplementary Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS) for the proposed Keystone XL Pipeline. In a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry [PDF], members cited concerns that the current SEIS is not an accurate assessment of the project: “We strongly encourage the State Department to reevaluate the SEIS and its assessment of the proposed pipeline’s impacts on climate change, our natural resources, our economy, and low-income and minority communities.” The full text of the letter is copied here: April 18, 2013 The Honorable John F. Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry: We write to express our concerns that the Keystone XL Pipeline Draft Supplementary Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS) fails to reflect the full environmental impacts of the proposed pipeline. We strongly encourage the State Department to reevaluate the SEIS and its assessment of the proposed pipeline’s impacts on climate change, our natural resources, our economy, and low-income and minority communities. Climate Change: Climate change is occurring at unprecedented levels, and last year was the hottest on record in the United States. As President Obama said in his Second Inaugural Address, “We will respond to the threat of climate change, knowing that the failure to do so would betray our children and future generations.” It would be incredibly difficult — if not impossible — to meet that promise while allowing the Keystone XL pipeline to move forward. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Keystone XL pipeline could lead to a 27 million metric ton increase in carbon pollution, the equivalent of adding more than six million new cars to U.S. roads. The Draft SEIS mistakenly claims that Keystone XL would not have a significant impact on tar sands oil production — and thus carbon pollution — because it is likely that the oil would eventually be delivered to market through other means. As the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce found in December, “Canada needs pipe — and lots of it — to avoid the opportunity cost of stranding over a million barrels a day of potential crude oil growth.” Without the Keystone XL Pipeline, there is currently no other practical means of importing that much oil. Moreover, any future import pipeline construction would have to go through the same process as Keystone XL, meaning tar sands transport, production, and associated pollution is not predetermined. Natural Resource Impacts: The Draft SEIS fails to adequately recognize the impacts of Keystone XL on our natural resources. The Natural Resources Defense Council warns that the more acidic and corrosive consistency of the type of tar sands oil being piped into the U.S. makes oil spills more likely. The SEIS must include a detailed analysis of the impacts that the pipeline would have on natural resources and wildlife in the area surrounding the construction corridor, along with extensive information on the inevitable effects of tar sands oil leaks and spills. The Keystone XL’s predecessor, the Keystone Pipeline, suffered twelve leaks in its first year of operation. The proposed pipeline route crosses over 1000 water bodies, including over 50 perennial rivers or streams, and impacts several aquifers, such as the Ogallala Aquifer which supplies water to two million Americans. The route crosses countless private family wells that are used for drinking water and agriculture. Spills and leaks would also threaten wildlife, such as whooping cranes and bald eagles that rely heavily on the surrounding areas for survival. We are gravely reminded of the recent incident in which a million gallons of tar sands oil poured into Michigan’s Kalamazoo River from a tar sands pipeline. The spill exposed residents to toxic chemicals, coated wildlife and has caused long-term damage to the local economy and ecosystem. Economic Impacts: The Draft SEIS does not adequately consider the impacts of leaks and spills as well as increases in greenhouse gas emissions on employment and the economy. Farming, ranching, and tourism are major sources of employment along the Keystone XL pipeline’s proposed route. Approximately 571,000 workers are directly employed in the agricultural sector in the states along the proposed pipeline corridor. Water contamination resulting from leaks and spills could have significant economic costs and could result in job loss in those sectors. The SEIS must include an assessment of the economic impacts on workers and communities as a result of environmental degradation, air pollution, and water contamination from the pipeline. Environmental Justice Issues: The Draft SEIS fails to adequately assess the effects of the pipeline on low-income and minority communities, including Indian tribal communities, which will be disproportionately impacted by the Keystone XL pipeline. The Draft SEIS concludes that tar sands oil will displace oil already being refined and therefore will not have increased pollution impacts on refinery communities. Refining tar sands oil, however, emits more pollution than conventional crude oil and results in higher emissions of toxic sulfur dioxide and nitrous oxide. Those emissions cause smog and acid rain and contribute to respiratory diseases like asthma. Refining tar sands oil would increase air pollution in refining areas which could further exacerbate the health impacts on the mostly low-income and minority communities in those areas. The SEIS must qualify air pollution from refining and analyze the health impacts on already burdened communities. Additionally, the SEIS must detail the fulfillment of the Department of State’s federal trust responsibility for government-to-government consultation with Indian tribes on the natural and cultural resources impacts of the pipeline. We urge the State Department to address the above concerns in the final SETS of the Keystone XL pipeline. These concerns not only affect constituencies along the pipeline corridor and in refinery communities, they affect all Americans through increased risk of extreme weather from climate change.
04.19.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR)re-introduced legislation to put an end to the $147 million in taxpayer dollars going to the Brazilian cotton agribusiness each year. “Spending millions upon millions of taxpayer dollars to subsidize Brazil’s cotton industry is absurd public policy,” said Rep. Kind. “Congress needs to get its priorities straight to ensure a fiscally responsible, smart food and farm bill for the 21st century. We need to act now, because the Agriculture Committees have shown that they are unwilling to make the commonsense reforms needed to eliminate these outrageous payouts.” This legislation stops all payments to the Brazilian Cotton Institute, and puts pressure on the House and Senate Agriculture Committees to make the necessary reforms to be World Trade Organization (WTO) compliant to ensure that American goods, services, and intellectual property aren’t subject to future trade retaliations. “Our subsidy program in the US, particularly in the case of the Brazil cotton payout, only serves to coddle corporate agribusiness here in the U.S.,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “It’s time for us to get our own house in order, rather than pay out millions of dollars each year to Brazilian farmers. This legislation is an important step in reducing the cost of the cotton program to the American taxpayer, while simultaneously encouraging reform.” In 2008, Brazil successfully argued before the WTO that U.S. agriculture subsidies to cotton producers violated WTO agreements. Following the WTO’s ruling, instead of reforming the cotton program when facing retaliatory tariffs and sanctions from Brazil, Congress and the Administration agreed to pay the Brazilian cotton industry $147.3 million a year – the amount determined as the losses Brazilians incur as a result of U.S. cotton subsidies.
04.18.2013	Congressman Earl Blumenauer submitted the following statement to the Congressional record following his vote against H.R. 624, “The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act”: Cybersecurity experts in government and the private sector agree that the biggest impediments to strengthening cybersecurity are obstacles that prevent the sharing of cyber threat information. The intent of the bill before the House, H.R. 624, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA) is laudable in that it eliminates some of those obstacles. Security and privacy, however, should not be mutually exclusive and CISPA does not go far enough to protect privacy. This is the bottom line for me, my constituents, and I hope the Obama Administration, and why I oppose this legislation.
04.17.2013	Brilliant sunshine streamed through the YU Contemporary Gallery as Congressman Blumenauer hosted a reception honoring local high school students for the annual Congressional Art Competition. 112 students from seven schools in the Third Congressional District participated in this year’s competition; more than twice the number of submissions received from last year. First launched in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition is an annual event in every congressional district involving hundreds of thousands of high school students. The first place winner from each Congressional District receives two round trip tickets to Washington D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines to attend a June reception where their artwork will be hung in the United States Capitol. Judging the competition this year were Patrick Forster, and Sara Kaltwasser from the Pacific Northwest College of Art (PNCA). Participating schools included David Douglas High School, Grant High School, Wilson High School, Pacific Crest Community School, Reynolds High School, and St. Mary's Academy, and Portland Christian School. Now conducting his 17th Competition in the 3rd District, Congressman Blumenauer honored each participant by featuring their artwork in a local gallery. The YU Gallery, which previously served as an abandoned laundry factory from the early 20th century, was kind enough to donate their space for the reception. “We’re fortunate to have such talent clustered into one beautiful room,” Blumenauer said. “Your work is a testament to continued, robust support for the arts.” Earning first place this year was Madeleine Levin from Grant High School with her piece “Chloe.” She will receive two roundtrip tickets to Washington DC and will have her piece hung in the Capitol. Earning second place was Pablo Iniguez from David Douglas High School with his piece “Me Too Man.” Eleanor Neal from Grant High School earned third place with her piece “Madeline.” Congratulations to all participants. Keep an eye out for next year’s Competition! Students, parents, and friends review all the Congressional Art Competiton submissions Congressman Blumenauer speaks with a father and daughter Congressman Blumenauer presents the winners Madeleine Levin from Grant High School with her piece “Chloe.”
04.16.2013	Congressman Blumenauer speaks on the House floor for reforming and extending the Special Immigration Visa program for the brave men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan who risked their lives to aid our service members, standing shoulder-to-shoulder with them on some of the most dangerous missions. We can, and we must, do better to help them relocate to safety before it's too late for them and their families.
04.11.2013	Last night, Congressman Blumenauer was joined by Representatives Paul Tonko (NY-20), Steve Cohen (TN-09), and Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Ranking Member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee’s Subcommittee on Environment, to discuss some of the vital climate change issues that are facing the country. Along with discussion on the need to fully engage in meaningful, substantive debate on climate change, as was called for by members of the Safe Climate Caucus in a letter to Congressional Republicans yesterday, the Representatives also discussed the implementation of a broad-based carbon tax and increased investment in alternative energy sources. All four Representatives agreed that Congress must take immediate action on climate change if we want to avoid catastrophic global consequences over the coming decades.
04.10.2013	Representative Earl Blumenauer, member of the Budget committee, released the following statement in response to the President's 2014 Budget proposal: I welcome the President’s budget, which marks the first time since 2009 that the House, Senate, and the President have all submitted budgets. This is a start, but the larger question is whether Congress can actually use the budgeting process to show how we will do business differently. The major issues we have to address to fix the budget and our current deficit are spending on defense, health care, and the tax system itself. Although the administration has started us down a path to manage Pentagon spending in the future, we have barely scratched the surface. There are too many unnecessary bases at home and abroad that should be phased down or closed. There is also far too much invested in an antiquated nuclear arsenal that we haven’t used in 68 years and which is many times larger than we need for deterrence, and yet we are set to spend 2/3 of a trillion dollars on it over the next 10 years. We have yet to come to grips with the cost of an all-volunteer army and the balance between reserve and regular forces. Until these fundamental issues are addressed, we are not going to have a military that can face the challenges of the future because we spend too much energy preparing for conflicts from the past. Healthcare expenditures continue to be the greatest overall threat to the budget, but not because the United States doesn’t spend enough money. Even spending far more than anybody else in the world, almost double, we still are not able to deliver quality healthcare for most Americans. Instead of fighting healthcare reform, we should be working together to accelerate it so that we are rewarding value over volume, much like the work presently underway in Oregon. If the Oregon model of healthcare were implemented on a national scale, it could save over $1 trillion in the next 10 years – as much as was fought about in the battle over sequestration. We must also reform the tax code, which is unfair, complex, and costly. Instituting a carbon tax, for example, has the potential of helping reduce the deficit and tax rates for individuals and businesses in a fair and comprehensive form. It also has the added benefit of protecting the planet from extreme weather events caused by carbon pollution. It is also very encouraging the President’s budget again speaks to infrastructure improvement and investment, but we need to be bolder and more comprehensive in our approach. At a time when 17 states have stepped up to increase transportation funding, it is unacceptable that we pay for the Highway Trust Fund with a gas tax that hasn’t been adjusted since 1993. I believe there are fairer and simpler ways of protecting Social Security solvency than the so called “chained CPI”, which could disadvantage low-income seniors and the disabled. Until there are protections for vulnerable citizens that are clear and locked in stone, I will oppose the “chained CPI.” Social Security provides more than half of the income for people over the age of 65 and is going to be even more important in coming decades as fewer Americans have pensions and adequate retirement savings. This is a serious issue that will divide us, rather than bring us together, and have negative long-term consequences if not done very carefully. The introduction of the President’s budget is an important step forward. It will hopefully spark an earnest, thoughtful, focused discussion on how we do business differently, how we pay for the needs of a growing and aging America, and how we get more value for the investments that we are making, all while laying the foundation for a prosperous future.
03.27.2013	Congressman Blumenauer spoke to more than 125 Friends of Trees volunteers on a frosty March morning, helping to kickoff their final planting of the season. The crew, consisting mostly families and local activists, planted about 200 street trees in the Concordia and Vernon neighborhoods Saturday, bringing the organization’s annual total to more than 3,000 trees planted across the city. “Today you’re making history,” the Congressman said. “You’re out in our neighborhoods planting a legacy that’s going to make a difference for generations to come. You’re not only enriching Portland today, but you’re enriching Portland for our children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren, allowing us to live a little more lightly on the planet.” Both Rep. Blumenauer and Charlie Hales, Mayor of Portland, OR, are longtime tree planters! (Photo taken by Linda Kliewer at Friends of Trees' end-of-season planting in 1997.)
03.25.2013	Congressman Blumenauer addressed around 100 students in Grant High School teacher Jamie Zartler’s ‘Food and Culture Class’ last Friday, highlighting federal agricultural policy and the future of how and where we source our food. “My goal is that everyone is able to eat their zip code—that we don’t have to rely on importing fruits and vegetables from Mexico and China.” Students in the course asked in-depth questions regarding the role of corporations and subsidies in agricultural policy, and how we can begin to do things differently as a country. “Habits get ingrained and change is hard,” Blumenauer mentioned, referring to several of the policy recommendations outlined in his Farm Bill reform report Growing Opportunities. “But we are finding an increased awareness around the fact that most subsidies are going to wealthy corporations rather than family farmers and ranchers.”
03.20.2013	Last week’s report by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations on JPMorgan Chase Whale Trades, along with a hearing on the same topic held on Friday, March 15, serves as a reminder to regulators about the importance of implementing a strong Volcker Rule and establishing a firewall between our nation’s core banking system and high-risk investment banking practices. It is clear that JPMorgan Chase was using depositors’ money to engage in high-risk trading practices. According to the Senate report, “without alerting regulators, JPMorgan Chase’s Chief Investment Officer used bank deposits, including some that were federally insured, to construct a $157 billion portfolio of synthetic credit derivatives, engaged in high risk, complex, short term trading strategies, and disclosed the extent and high risk nature of the portfolio to its regulators only after it attracted media attention.” The report also finds that JPMorgan Chase mischaracterized high-risk trading as hedging, hid its massive losses, disregarded risk, dodged oversight and mischaracterized its portfolio to investors, regulators, policy makers and the public. Such conflict-ridden, high-risk trading activities played a central role in big banks’ accumulation of the failed toxic assets that helped freeze credit to businesses and families as a result of the 2008 financial crisis, and lead to trillions of dollars of bailouts of the largest financial firms. Congress established the Volcker Rule as part of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010 to separate such high risk trading from commercial banking and to ensure that taxpayers never have to bail out these kinds of bad bets again. This rule was supposed to be finalized by regulators in July 2012, but is still stagnating, unimplemented. The recent findings of the Senate Committee should serve as a wake-up call to regulators to cease the delays and immediately implement a strong Volcker Rule to protect depositors and taxpayers and strengthen U.S capital markets. Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) Rep. Peter Welch (VT-At Large) Rep. John Conyers (MI-13) Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-25) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Rep. Stephen Lynch (MA-08) Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (GA-04) Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) Rep. Jim Moran (VA-08) Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02)
03.14.2013	Washington, DC: Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced The Personalize Your Care Act, bipartisan legislation that will provide Medicare and Medicaid coverage for voluntary consultations about advance-care planning every 5 years or in the event of a change in health status. The bill also provides grants to states to establish or expand Physician Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (POLST) programs, and ensures that an individual’s electronic health record is able to display his or her current advance directive and/or POLST form. “This bill will help ensure that every family has the tools, even during difficult and emotional circumstances, to manage end-of-life decisions,” said Blumenauer. “From a young person in a terrible car accident to someone who has had a long life well lived, we all deserve to make our own decisions about the care we want and to have the confidence that those decisions will be carried out.” Despite widespread agreement in the principle that individuals should be fully involved in decisions related to their health care, too often this is not the reality. Most adults have not completed advance directives and even in instances where documents are completed, they may not be regularly revisited and can be difficult to locate when needed. These issues are difficult to discuss and in circumstances where conversations with a doctor has not taken place, families can feel ill-prepared to interpret their loved ones’ wishes. These shortcomings leave people faced with the burden of determining their loved ones’ wishes in the midst of crisis, adding greater stress and anxiety. A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine found that more than one in four elderly Americans lacked the capacity to make their own medical care decisions at the end of life. Under those circumstances, care decisions fall to family members and doctors who may not know the treatment preferences of the elderly patient. Elderly patients with advance directives, however, usually receive the care they chose. Evidence also demonstrates that advance care planning and end-of-life discussions reduce stress, anxiety, and depression in surviving relatives. “Families need the tools and ability to work with health care providers to determine and express their wishes for care in the event that they no longer have the capacity to make decisions.” Blumenauer continued, “This legislation gives providers the necessary time, space, and funding to conduct complex discussions with patients so that can be appropriately cared for. These consultations will ensure that an individual’s values and goals for care are identified, understood, and respected.” The bipartisan original cosponsors of the legislation include Representatives Richard Hanna (R-NY), Phil Roe (R-TN), Allyson Schwartz (D-PA), Ron Kind (D-WI), George Miller (D-CA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Ami Bera (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Lois Capps (D-CA), and Tom Reed (R-NY).
03.13.2013	Representative Earl Blumenauer, member of the Budget committee, released the following statement on the 2014 House Budget proposal: The Republican Budget introduced today reinforces the continuing deep divisions in Congress rather than meeting the challenges our country faces and the prescription for correcting them. It has long been clear that the American public supports a balanced Budget solution. The presidential election results substantiate this. The Republican budget ignores this repudiation and proceeds to dismantle programs that help the poorest and most vulnerable among us while putting our fragile recovery at risk. I am committed to a robust vision of rebuilding and renewing America, which includes broad-based revenues and making our policies and programs performance-based. We can and should scale down bureaucratic overhead, increase accountability, and provide federal support for comprehensive initiatives that provide real benefit to the American people. It is possible to build this strong America without weakening Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security and shifting the burden to those who are dependent on those programs. But, to achieve this, we must start doing things differently here in Washington. We should not pass virtually the same draconian budget that has come through the House the previous two years, only to see it be dead on arrival in the Senate and never accepted by the President. Instead, we should turn our attention to problems that we can actually solve right now in this Congress with bipartisan support. These include reforming our tax code, and reducing the over 2/3 of a trillion dollars spent on a nuclear weapons program that is better suited to the long-ago Cold War than to the defense needs of today. We must also reform our wasteful agricultural subsidies, rationalize our drug laws, and institute a broad-based carbon tax to generate the money America needs and protect the planet. In this vein, I am offering an amendment to the Budget that restores funding for transportation investments. The Republican cuts would have a negative impact on our economy, cost us tens of thousands of construction jobs we can’t afford to lose, and stifle efforts to renew and rebuild at a time when communities, and the nation, need it most. Our national freight infrastructure carries 40% of the goods shipped in America, but is outdated and falling apart. Almost 70,000 bridges across the country are classified as “structurally deficient,” according to the Federal Highway Administration. Adequate infrastructure funding is the fastest way to a more stable economy. Now is the time to chart a balanced, commonsense route forward. We should not miss this opportunity to show how we can do things differently here in Washington.
03.12.2013	Congressman Blumenauer addressed the 14th Annual National Bike Summit last week, encouraging attendees to proudly and forcefully advocate to their Members of Congress the multiple benefits that cycling brings to our neighborhoods, cities, and citizens. Cycling infrastructure increases safety for all road users, generates family-wage jobs, reduces commute times by pulling cars off the road, and offers the benefits of an active, healthy lifestyle. "Make no mistake about it--this is a movement and you are the heroes of this movement!" the Congressman proclaimed to a crowd of almost 800 advocates from across the country. The National Bike Summit brings together activists, members of the ‘bike economy,’ policy makers, and elected officials in Washington each year to speak with a united voice for benefits and needs of a growing cycling constituency. In addition to Congressman Blumenauer, who has addressed the Summit each year since 2000, keynote speakers included US Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, US Senator Ben Cardin, and New York City Transportation Commissioner Janette Sadik-Khan. In this era of fiscal austerity and uncertainly about the role of federal funding for transportation, many of the speakers urged attendees to only accelerate their determination. “Everybody is caught in a bind because of the dysfunction of the political process. Our unwillingness to yield and deal with the big items continues,” Congressman Blumenauer said. “Let’s be real-- cutting bike and pedestrian programs are not going to close a multi-trillion dollar infrastructure deficit.” The Congressman closed his address to the group with a simple message: show your elected officials real life examples of your successes. “Your stories are key to making sure that school boards, county commissions, city councils, state legislatures, transportation commissions, do their part,” he said. “While people figure out how to not just cut budgets and raise taxes, but actually change budgets and do business differently, our battlefield will be expanded.”
03.12.2013	Today, Representative Henry A. Waxman, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Representative Earl Blumenauer, and Senator Brian Schatz released draft carbon-pricing legislation and solicited feedback on it from stakeholders and the public. The legislation would establish the polluter pays principle for dangerous carbon pollution, requiring large emitters to pay for the pollution they emit. The “discussion draft” released today contains a new and straightforward approach to putting a price on carbon pollution. The nation’s largest polluters would have to pay a fee for each ton of pollution they release. The legislation assigns responsibility for the assessment and collection of the carbon fees based upon the expertise that has already been developed by EPA and the Treasury Department. Under the discussion draft, EPA’s database of reported emissions would determine the amount of pollution subject to the fee. The Treasury Department would be responsible for the collection and handling of the fees. “Putting a price on carbon could help solve two of the nation’s biggest challenges at once: preventing climate change and reducing the budget deficit,” said Rep. Waxman of California. “There have been carbon tax proposals made by others. What’s unique about this one is its novel design. We are seeking to craft a system in which each agency does what they are good at and that minimizes compliance burdens and administrative costs. Utilities, oil companies, and other major sources are already reporting their emissions to EPA. We build off of this existing program.” “Putting a price on carbon is the best way to reduce carbon pollution and slow the effects of climate change,” said Sen. Whitehouse of Rhode Island. “For far too long, carbon polluters have pushed the true cost of their pollution onto the American people in the form of dirty air, acidified water, and a changing climate. This framework is the beginning of a collaborative process to craft legislation that will reduce carbon pollution while also upholding an important principle: that all of the revenue generated through this carbon fee will be returned to the American people.” “Let’s send a signal to big polluters that it’s past time to start putting a price on carbon pollution,” said Rep. Blumenauer of Oregon. “This proposal has a great deal of potential to help protect the environment, reduce the deficit, create jobs, and support the transition to clean energy sources and low carbon transportation options. I look forward to working with my colleagues and seeking feedback on how best to use the revenue and ensure that the program is administered in a fair and equitable manner.” “I am proud to join Congressman Waxman and Senator Whitehouse in supporting a carbon pollution fee that will help protect our health and economy,” said Sen. Brian Schatz of Hawaii. “By reducing carbon pollution, this proposal would drive real action in combating climate change and improving air quality. Hawaii is a national leader in clean energy and efforts to reduce climate change, and a carbon fee will support that good work.” The Members and Senators are soliciting comments on the discussion draft from stakeholders and the public. Although comments on any aspect of the draft are welcome, the Lawmakers are specifically requesting feedback on the following questions: 1. What is the appropriate price per ton for polluters to pay? The draft contains alternative prices of $15, $25, and $35 per ton for discussion purposes. 2. How much should the price per ton increase on an annual basis? The draft contains a range of increases from 2% to 8% per year for discussion purposes. 3. What are the best ways to return the revenue to the American people? The discussion draft proposes putting the revenue toward the following goals, and solicits comments on how to best accomplish each: (1) mitigating energy costs for consumers, especially low-income consumers; (2) reducing the Federal deficit; (3) protecting jobs of workers at trade-vulnerable, energy intensive industries; (4) reducing the tax liability for individuals and businesses; and (5) investing in other activities to reduce carbon pollution and its effects. 4. How should the carbon fee program interact with state programs that address carbon pollution? All comments are welcome and can be submitted by email to cutcarbon@mail.house.gov. The Lawmakers are requesting that comments be submitted no later than April 12, 2013. Additional information on the discussion draft is available online here. Related Documents: One Pager: "Tackling Climate Change and Raising Revenue for the American People, Carbon Pollution Fee Discussion Draft" (March 12, 2013) Section-by-Section: "Discussion Draft: Fee for Emissions of Carbon Pollution" (March 12, 2013) Backgrounder: "Carbon Pollution Fees: A New Workable Approach" (March 12, 2013) Bill Text: Discussion Draft of Carbon Pollution Fee (March 12, 2013)
03.05.2013	Washington, DC – Today, a bipartisan group of 19 members of the United States House of Representatives, including 6 veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts,sent a letter to President Obama urging him to extend the Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) programs, authorized in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 and the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009, which expire at the end of this Fiscal Year and in Fiscal Year 2014 respectively, and address discrepancies over program eligibility, calling the extension and reform of these programs “a matter of national security.” SIV programs seek to provide safe refuge for Iraqi and Afghan men and women who have provided “faithful and valuable service” to the U.S. Government and face an “ongoing serious threat” as a consequence of that service. Through these programs, between FY08-FY12, only 22% of the available Iraqi SIVs (5,500 visas out of 25,000 visas) have been issued and 12% of the available Afghan SIVs (1,051 visas out of 8,500 visas) have been issued. In October 2012, the Washington Post reported that over 5,000 documentarily complete Afghan SIV applications remained in a backlog. Furthermore, unlike the Iraq SIV program, the Afghan SIV program only permits an applicant’s spouse and children under the age of 21 to accompany an applicant, even if other family members face immediate, serious threats of death because of the applicant’s service. When Iraqi allies and their close family members came under threat in Iraq, Congress created separate provisions for other family members under threat. No such path exists for Afghan family members under threat from the Taliban. The members signed onto the letter are Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Andre Carson (D-IN), Jon Conyers (D-MI), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) Chris Gibson (R-NY), Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Ted Poe (R-TX), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Marc Veasey (D-TX), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Frank Wolf (R-VA). “The United States should continue this valuable program and offer solace and respite for the brave Afghans and Iraqis who put their lives at risk on our behalf. Our letter is truly bipartisan, and we hope that President Obama will put the full power and authority of his office behind making this happen.” – Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) “Protecting the brave Iraqi and Afghan people who put their lives in danger alongside our own troops is not only a matter of keeping a promise, it is also the right thing to do. During my time serving in Iraq, I have seen firsthand the life-threatening risks our partners and their families make in the name of peace and democracy,” – Representative Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) "The Iraq and Afghan Special Immigration Visa (SIV) programs are an important way to express our appreciation to those willing to risk their lives in defense of our country. We must uphold the commitment made by the U.S. to the Iraqi and Afghan men and women who served and protected our nation." – Representative Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) “The Iraq and Afghan Special Immigration Visa (SIV) programs protect the men and women who stood shoulder-to-shoulder with US troops, risking their own lives to strengthen American security. Unfortunately, the majority of SIVs that Congress authorized for our Iraqi and Afghan allies have not been issued due to an unexpectedly slow implementation process. If these programs expire, thousands will be denied entry to the nation they worked to protect. We owe these brave men and women a debt of gratitude and must ensure we do not abandon those who served us so valiantly.” – Representative David Reichert (WA-08) “It is important to recognize the Iraqis and Afghans that risked their lives to help the United States. Extending the Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program is the right thing to do.” – Representative Marc Veasey (TX-33) “The U.S. has a responsibility to follow through on our promise to protect those Iraqis and Afghans who have risked their lives to aid our troops and protect America’s security.” – Representative Peter Welch (VT-At Large)
03.01.2013	Because the Republican-controlled House of Representatives was unwilling to consider a balanced approach to deficit reduction, the federal government will begin instituting cuts next week. These cuts, collectively known as “the sequester,” will bring untargeted spending cuts that threaten the safety of our communities, the productivity of the nation, and will fall harshly on the most vulnerable members of society. Congressman Blumenauer will continue to be a strong advocate in Congress for a more balanced approach. There are smart, targeted budget decisions that, taken over 10 years, are an alternative to the arbitrary sequester cuts. Blumenauer’s proposals would reduce the debt and put us back on a fiscally sustainable path. If the sequester is not changed, how will Oregon be impacted? In the next year in Oregon alone, the cuts from the sequester will affect: Teachers and Schools: Oregon will lose approximately $10.2 million in funding for primary and secondary education, putting around 140 teacher and aide jobs at risk. In addition about 13,000 fewer students would be served and approximately 40 fewer schools would receive funding. Education for Children with Disabilities: In addition, Oregon will lose approximately $6.4 million in funds for about 80 teachers, aides, and staff who help children with disabilities. Work-Study Jobs: Around 240 fewer low-income students in Oregon will receive aid to help them finance the costs of college and around 280 fewer students will get work-study jobs that help them pay for college. Head Start: Head Start and Early Head Start services will be eliminated for approximately 600 children in Oregon, reducing access to critical early education. Protections for Clean Air and Clean Water: Oregon will lose about $1,882,000 in environmental funding to ensure clean water and air quality, as well as prevent pollution from pesticides and hazardous waste. In addition, Oregon could lose another $1,052,000 in grants for fish and wildlife protection. Military Readiness: In Oregon, approximately 3,000 civilian Department of Defense employees will be furloughed, reducing gross pay by around $16.5 million in total. Base operation funding for the Army would be cut by about $1.6 million in Oregon. Law Enforcement and Public Safety Funds for Crime Prevention and Prosecution: Oregon will lose about $155,000 in Justice Assistance Grants that support law enforcement, prosecution and courts, crime prevention and education, corrections and community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement, and crime victim and witness initiatives. Job Search Assistance to Help those in Oregon find Employment and Training: Oregon will lose about $470,000 in funding for job search assistance, referral, and placement, meaning around 16,320 fewer people will get the help and skills they need to find employment. Child Care: Up to 300 disadvantaged and vulnerable children could lose access to child care, which is also essential for working parents to hold down a job. Vaccines for Children: In Oregon around 1,670 fewer children will receive vaccines for diseases such as measles, mumps, rubella, tetanus, whooping cough, influenza, and Hepatitis B due to reduced funding for vaccinations of about $114,000. Public Health: Oregon will lose approximately $366,000 in funds to help upgrade its ability to respond to public health threats including infectious diseases, natural disasters, and biological, chemical, nuclear, and radiological events. In addition, Oregon will lose about $890,000 in grants to help prevent and treat substance abuse, resulting in around 3800 fewer admissions to substance abuse programs. And the Oregon Health Authority will lose about $113,000 resulting in around 2,800 fewer HIV tests. On the national level, The National Institutes of Health (NIH) would be forced to delay or halt vital scientific projects and make hundreds of fewer research awards. STOP Violence Against Women Program: Oregon could lose up to $81,000 in funds that provide services to victims of domestic violence, resulting in up to 300 fewer victims being served. Nutrition Assistance for Seniors: Oregon will lose approximately $690,000 in funds that provide meals for seniors. These harsh cuts will not only harm individuals directly, but will put the fragile economic recovery at risk. Congress should act in the nation’s best interest and find an alternative to the sequester, and Congressman Blumenauer is working to make that happen.
02.28.2013	Congressman Blumenauer submitted the following statement for the record on the passage of S. 47 The Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization: The satisfaction I have that we’ve finally renewed the Violence Against Women Act is tempered by how hard it was to get the acceptance of two critically important provisions. Why should there be any question about respect for Native Americans’ sovereignty in their own territory to protect their own female citizens? Arguments to the contrary are bogus and demeaning. It was also critical that protection be extended to people regardless of their sexual orientation. This victory is a small sign of the shifts in the House where Democrats are united in supporting core values and a minority number of Republicans, increasing in number, are willing to buck their leadership and the Tea Party majority. It would be nice if this could carry forward to other critical issues of the day.
02.28.2013	Today, Congressman Blumenauer spoke on the floor of the US House of Representatives about the perils America, and the world, face from climate change. He also highlighted a bipartisan letter from the Partnership for a Secure America urging immediate international action on preventing and mitigating climate change. Video of One-Minute Speech by Rep. Earl Blumenauer, Safe Climate Caucus (February 28, 2013) Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Safe Climate Caucus, whose members have made a commitment to have at least one member talk on the House Floor each day about the urgent need to address climate change: While Congress is dealing with this manufactured sequester crisis, we have a real climate crisis occurring right outside the window. There is clarity on what should be a bipartisan issue with the public. Seven out of ten Americans agree with scientists that climate change is happening, and that humans are making it worse. Every day, Americans see the impact, with record droughts and extreme storm events. 2012 set more than 3,500 records for extreme heat, rain, and snow. This week, 38 leading Republicans and national security advisors urged international action to prevent and mitigate the impact of climate change. The letter highlights the importance of immediate action, and expresses national security concerns should we fail to address these issues. We should be addressing the real climate crisis, instead of dealing with phony, made-up, fiscal crises.
02.25.2013	Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement on the introduction of HR 689, the States' Medical Marijuana Patient Protection Act: Along with a bipartisan group of cosponsors, I am introducing the States' Medical Marijuana Patient Protection Act, legislation that will allow medical marijuana patients and businesses--who are complying with state law--the ability to access and distribute marijuana free from federal interference. Eighteen states and the District of Columbia have passed laws allowing for the use of medical marijuana for people suffering from conditions such as cancer and severe nausea. As a result there are now hundreds of thousands of medical marijuana patients nationwide. Despite these laws, at the federal level marijuana is currently listed as a Schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act, meaning that it is considered a substance with a ``high potential for abuse,'' with ``no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States.'' This means that the 19 jurisdictions that permit medical marijuana are operating in a patchwork of inconsistent local and federal laws. These inconsistencies create significant challenges for both patients and the businesses working to provide access to medical marijuana. Because of federal tax and banking laws, marijuana businesses--despite operating in compliance with state or local law--are not allowed to deduct their legitimate business expenses and are often unable to make deposits or maintain bank accounts. Simultaneously, the federal government has continued to enforce federal law, and many medical marijuana facilities across the country have been raided by the Drug Enforcement Administration or otherwise targeted by the Department of Justice. The federal government maintains a monopoly on access to marijuana for research, currently run by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). The mission of this Institute is to ``lead the Nation in bringing the power of science to bear on drug abuse and addiction,'' and many researchers have found it difficult to obtain marijuana for research into the potential therapeutic or medicinal effects of marijuana. The States' Medical Marijuana Patient Protection Act would provide for the rescheduling of marijuana under the Controlled Substance Act to a listing other than Schedule I or II, which would mean the federal government recognizes an accepted medical use. It would also ensure that neither the Controlled Substances Act nor the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act would restrict individuals, doctors or businesses from consuming, recommending, producing, distributing or otherwise operating in marijuana in compliance with state or local laws. Finally, it would require that access to marijuana for research into its potential medicinal and therapeutic uses be overseen by an entity in the government not focused on researching the addictive properties of substances. Nineteen jurisdictions have passed laws recognizing the importance of providing access to medical marijuana for the hundreds of thousands of patients who rely on it. It is time for the federal government to respect these decisions, and stop inhibiting safe access.
02.22.2013	Congressman Earl Blumenauer visited Mt. Hood Community College this week, touring the campus’ new state-of-the-art Early Childhood Center. The facility is the first building to be constructed at the college in almost three decades, opening in late 2011 as a joint venture between Mt. Hood CC and Head Start. Funded in part with Department of Education grants and federal stimulus dollars, the Early Childhood Center features eight classrooms, multiple indoor and outdoor play facilities specific to each age group, sustainable building materials, and a nutritional model that even participates in Michelle Obama’s Farm-to-Table kitchen initiative (Check out their experience in the program here!) The visit also included a roundtable discussion with faculty and staff of the university, highlighting the ever increasing diversity of the region, the typical debt profile of a community college student, and how immigration reform will positively affect the outlook for many of the college’s students. “There is a whole generation of young people who are literally without a country,” Congressman Blumenauer said. “Community Colleges provide a point of entry, an educational transition for millions of children and young adults who are already a part of the fabric of our communities to gain a path to citizenship.”
02.20.2013	This week, Congressman Blumenauer spoke to Portland State University’s Planning Club. Approximately 60 students attended, many from the university’s Master’s in Urban and Regional Planning program, to discuss current topics in the field, among them: orphan highways, the pros and cons of funding a transit system with payroll or sales taxes, and how to keep transit costs affordable. “A lot of the issues you’re studying here are things that Americans are really starting to care about and get involved in,” the Congressman said. “Planning can be a thankless profession—studying everything from hydrology to air sheds to traffic patterns. But the things you are doing--they make a difference.”
02.15.2013	WASHINGTON (February 15, 2013) – Rep. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) and Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) today reintroduced legislation to close a special tax loophole for oil companies that import tar sands oil into the United States. In May 2011, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a ruling that tar sands oil was not crude oil or petroleum product and therefore oil companies importing it are not subject to the same tax imposed on the oil industry that funds the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. The largest source of revenue for the fund comes from an 8 cent per barrel excise tax on crude oil received at U.S. refineries or on petroleum products imported into the United States. The legislation, the Tar Sands Tax Loophole Elimination Act, would ensure that oil companies pay into the trust fund for tar sands oil. “Only the oil industry could try to argue that tar sands oil is not crude oil to avoid paying their fair share,” said Rep. Markey, the top Democrat on the Natural Resources Committee. “We should not allow some of the dirtiest oil in the world to get a free ride. The legislation that Representative Blumenauer and I are introducing today would close this loophole once and for all.” “Exploiting tar sands is an environmentally destructive, potentially dangerous, and expensive way to get oil” said Rep. Blumenauer. “And yet, rather than doing everything we can to discourage this practice, we have a system that could allow big oil companies to slip through the cracks and avoid fair taxation. This bill will make sure that oil companies, which already get billions of dollars in taxpayer-based subsidies, are not given an additional free ride on the tar sands.” Last year, Rep. Markey asked the Treasury Department about this tar sands tax loophole and released a report on the loophole. Taxpayers stand to lose nearly $2 billion over the next 10 years as a result of this tar sands tax loophole, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.
02.14.2013	Shaheen-Kirk Sugar Reform Act will save consumers money, lower price support levels Washington, D.C. ­– U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Pat Toomey (R-PA) and Mark Kirk (R-IL) renewed their effort to make commonsense, price-saving reforms to the U.S. sugar program this afternoon when they introduced the Shaheen-Kirk Sugar Reform Act at a joint press conference with Congressmen Joe Pitts (R-PA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Danny Davis (D-IL). “American families are footing the bill for an outdated program that offers a sweet deal to a small group of sugar growers and processors. No program should be immune to updates or improvements, not while we’re losing valuable manufacturing jobs all over the country as businesses close or move abroad in search of lower sugar prices,” Shaheen said. “The Sugar Reform Act is a practical and pragmatic fix that will put money back in the wallets of American families and businesses while upholding a safety net for American sugar growers.” The Sugar Reform Act maintains the basic sugar program while making commonsense reforms that protect the wallets of American families and businesses. The federal sugar program has cost consumers and businesses an estimated $14 billion over the last 4 years, and 112,000 jobs have been lost in sugar-using industries between 1997-2009. This bipartisan legislation will reform domestic supply restrictions, lower price support levels and ensure adequate sugar supplies at reasonable prices, rolling back unnecessary provisions added in 2008 that unfairly benefit wealthy sugar farmers at the expense of consumers. This measure nearly cleared the Senate last summer during debate over the Senate’s Farm Bill when it received 46 votes in support after it was offered as an amendment. This bipartisan coalition plans to build on that momentum and make much-needed reforms to this outdated program. "Illinois is the 'Candy Capital of the world,' but in the last decade the number of jobs in the industry has steadily decreased because of our current policies, which artificially inflate the price of sugar," said Kirk, who maintains the famous Senate "candy desk" with candy stocked from Illinois companies, which employ over 3,000 people. "The SUGAR Act will end unfair pricing in the industry and keep companies from shipping skilled manufacturing jobs overseas." “It’s time to reform the government’s wasteful sugar program. This flawed policy hurts not only candy companies and food manufacturers, but also the families who end up paying higher costs for products made with sugar,” Toomey said. “This bipartisan reform will provide important relief to a very prominent sector of Pennsylvania’s economy and to those families purchasing these products.” "Today, we're joining across the aisle and across the country to make the federal sugar program fairer for U.S. food companies struggling with foreign competitors,” Pitts said. “It's time for the government to reform the protectionist policies that are hurting American workers and consumers. At its heart, our bipartisan bill is about protecting American jobs." “We need more commonsense solutions that make government smarter, more efficient, and simpler,” Blumenauer said. “The wasteful and inefficient sugar program is something that many of us have been fighting for decades, and it’s finally getting the attention that it deserves. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance this legislation and find other opportunities to make government work better.” “Left unchanged, the current sugar program will continue to hurt American workers by driving good American manufacturing jobs to Canada, Mexico, and other foreign countries. Left unchanged, the current sugar program will continue to hurt American consumers by unnecessarily inflating the price of every product made with sugar. It is time to change this anachronistic program,” Davis said.
02.12.2013	Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement following President Obama's 2013 State of the Union address: President Obama’s State of the Union speech dealt with critical issues that we, as a nation must address to secure our future. He, and we all, must deal with the issues of climate change, gun control, and immigration reform in this Congress and not let opportunity pass us by. I strongly support the President’s call to create jobs and grow our economy by renewing and rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure and investing in clean energy manufacturing that will keep us competitive on the global market. Along with progress in these areas, we can right our fiscal ship by making smart cuts to wasteful programs such as our outdated nuclear weapons program, ending tax subsidies to big oil companies, and eliminating direct payments to large agribusiness. At the same time, we should explore new revenue sources. The 113th Congress does not have to be like the 112th – we can make rational, commonsense progress on the many important issues that affect all Americans. While it’s probably impossible for this Congress to be as bad as the last, we must commit to making sure that’s the case.
02.12.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) introduced the Ending Bill Oil Tax Subsidy Act (HR 609), legislation that could save American taxpayers almost $40 billion over the next 5 years. The legislation is modeled on President Obama's proposal to eliminate oil and gas tax preferences in his Fiscal Year 2013 Budget. Right now, Americans are subsidizing some of the largest and most profitable companies in the world with their tax dollars. Taxpayers currently subsidize oil injection, extraction, exploration, drilling, injection, manufacturing, pricing, and inventory valuing, by offsetting foreign taxes, providing generous credits and deductions, and offering tax shelters. "Extremely profitable, well-established, large corporations do not need enormous subsidies from the government, and we simply cannot afford to let them continue," said Blumenauer. "It is well established in a global petroleum market that this subsidy has zero impact on reducing prices for American consumers. Instead of padding the bottom line of oil companies, this money could be better spent renewing and rebuilding our nation's infrastructure, or preventing some of the most draconian cuts that families will face this spring if Congress does not act on sequestration." The act would end 10 of the most egregious tax loopholes enjoyed by the oil industry – tax loopholes that have helped BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil and Shell make a combined profit of nearly $1 trillion over the past decade.
02.06.2013	Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement regarding President Obama's call to included oil and gas tax provisions on a list of possibilities on the table as part of a deficit reduction plan: I support President Obama’s call for an end to unnecessary giveaways to the major oil companies. Currently, United States taxpayers subsidize virtually every stage of oil production: from exploration to extraction to pricing. These subsidies come in the form of price floors, tax offsets, credits and deductions, and allowing the undervaluation of inventory. Over the past decade, the top five oil companies—BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, and Shell—made a total profit of almost $1 trillion. These extremely profitable, well-established, large corporations do not need these enormous subsidies from the government and we simply cannot afford to let them continue. The American public supports ending these tax breaks as part of our effort to reduce the deficit. According to a recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey, 74% of Americans favor eliminating tax credits for the oil and gas industries. I was proud last Congress to lead the effort to end this corporate welfare by introducing the End Big Oil Tax Subsidies Act. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the President to enact similar legislation this Congress.
02.06.2013	Congressman Blumenauer met with Habitat for Humanity for an update on the work they’re doing in Oregon, building 166 new homes in the last two years, in addition to broadening their focus to rehabilitate entire neighborhoods. These efforts also have positive impacts abroad. A portion of their revenue goes toward creating housing solutions for the urban poor in developing countries, focusing on water and sanitation, housing microfinance, and other areas. “Habitat for Humanity is a perfect example of federal funding providing seed money for greater good, bringing together volunteers, church groups, high schools, and many others looking to make our communities safer, healthier, and more economically secure,” Blumenauer said. “I look forward to working with them on these efforts, both at home and abroad.”
02.04.2013	Congressmen Unveil New “The Path Forward: Rethinking Federal Marijuana Policy” Report WASHINGTON – Congressman Jared Polis and Congressman Earl Blumenauer today introduced two pieces of legislation to de-federalize marijuana policy and create a framework for the federal taxation of cannabis. Blumenauer’s Marijuana Tax Equity Act creates a federal excise tax on marijuana. Together, these bills would provide a system of regulation and taxation for marijuana in states where it is legal. Polis’ Ending Federal Marijuana Prohibition Act would remove the Drug Enforcement Agency’s authority over marijuana and allow states to choose whether to allow marijuana for medicinal or recreational use. The Congressmen have also co-authored a new report “The Path Forward: Rethinking Federal Marijuana Policy.” The document reviews the history of marijuana prohibition in the US, current conflicts between state and federal law, and outlines several opportunities to reform and clarify marijuana law at the federal level. Congressman Blumenauer has also posted a FAQ on marijuana and marijuana legislation. “We are in the process of a dramatic shift in the marijuana policy landscape,” said Blumenauer. “Public attitude, state law, and established practices are all creating irreconcilable difficulties for public officials at every level of government. We want the federal government to be a responsible partner with the rest of the universe of marijuana interests while we address what federal policy should be regarding drug taxation, classification, and legality.” The Marijuana Tax Equity Act [BILL TEXT ]would create the following framework: This bill imposes a 50 percent excise tax on the first sale of marijuana, from the producer to the next stage of production, usually the processor; Similar to the rules within the alcohol and tobacco tax provisions, an occupational tax will be imposed on those operating in marijuana, with producers, importers and manufacturers facing an occupation tax of $1,000/a year and any other person engaged in the business facing an annual tax of $500/a year; Civil penalties will be imposed for failure to comply with taxing duties. Criminal penalties will be assessed for intentional efforts to defraud the taxing authorities; and, The bill also requires the IRS to produce a study of the industry after two years, and every five years after that, and to issue recommendations to Congress to continue improving the administration of the tax. “This legislation doesn’t force any state to legalize marijuana, but Colorado and the 18 other jurisdictions that have chosen to allow marijuana for medical or recreational use deserve the certainty of knowing that federal agents won’t raid state-legal businesses,” said Polis. “Congress should simply allow states to regulate marijuana as they see fit and stop wasting federal tax dollars on the failed drug war.” The Ending Federal Marijuana Prohibition Act follows Colorado’s model of regulating marijuana like alcohol by: Removing marijuana from the Controlled Substances Act; Transferring the Drug Enforcement Administration’s authority to regulate marijuana to a newly renamed Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Marijuana and Firearms, which will be tasked with regulating marijuana as it currently does alcohol; Requiring marijuana producers to purchase a permit, as commercial alcohol producers do, of which the proceeds would offset the cost of federal oversight; and, Ensuring federal law distinguishes between individuals who grow marijuana for personal use and those involved in commercial sale and distribution. States could choose to continue to prohibit marijuana production or use in their states and it would remain illegal to transport marijuana to a state where it is prohibited.
02.01.2013	Stumptown Coffee Roasters and Congressman Blumenauer hosted a roundtable with local coffee roasting companies yesterday at Stumptown’s new facility in the Central Eastside District of Portland. Portland’s coffee industry continues to gain global recognition and hosted the Specialty Coffee Association of America’s annual convention last April. Shipments of coffee beans into the Port of Portland have nearly doubled since 2007 and, by various counts, 11 new Portland coffee shops were identified in 2012 alone. The roundtable focused on several topics including compliance with the federal Affordable Care Act, creating a local industry association to align roaster interests, and the overall health the economy in the Portland region. “The roasting community is vital to Portland’s economy as well as a key part of the region’s brand” said Blumenauer. “With some collaboration to form an industry-wide advocacy network like our other craft industries in the region, the fast-growing industry will only go to further heights.”
01.31.2013	As the 3rd Congressional District stretches across the Willamette River to include southwest Portland once again, Congressman Blumenauer has enthusiastically reached out to many of the schools and institutions that he now represents. This week, the Congressman visited two innovative institutions, Lewis & Clark University and Riverdale High School, who carry a larger mission of empowering students beyond the classroom walls. “You have a real opportunity here to focus the next generation of leaders to truly help save the world,” the Congressman said, addressing a group of Lewis & Clark faculty and staff. “With all of the brainpower in this room, on this campus, and in this city, we could create a whole new sector of the economy that focuses on affecting social change.” After speaking to an American Politics course about the importance of voting and public service, the Congressman addressed a lunchtime town-hall led by the university’s Student Body President, Xander Blair. Following his visit to Lewis & Clark, the Congressman spoke to a freshman history course at Riverdale High School about his role and duties in the House of Representatives One of the main highlights of the trip included an opportunity for the Congressman to address an all-school assembly, answering student questions and concerns that spanned such broad topics as education policy, cyber security, healthcare reform, and even nuclear fusion! Blumenauer also convened a meeting of the school district’s faculty and staff concerning the current political and policy landscape in Washington, DC to hear their federal priorities for the 113th Congress.
01.29.2013	Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement regarding the emerging details on a comprehensive immigration reform plan: The momentum we’re now seeing for immigration reform is exciting and presents many opportunities for fixing a system that has been broken for far too long. Today, President Obama laid out many commonsense reforms that will strengthen the nation and the economy. While border security and employment verification are important aspects of any comprehensive reform package, I am especially heartened by a pathway to citizenship offered for those 11 million undocumented immigrants currently residing here. This particular concept is offered in both the President’s comments and the outline from the so-called Senate “Gang of Eight.” Signs point to positive progress on this important issue. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues to craft the details of comprehensive, humane immigration-reform legislation.
01.28.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Jim Moran, Northern Virginia Democrat and co-chair of the Animal Protection Caucus, today joined with Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and a bipartisan group of 44 lawmakers to send a letter to Department of the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar in support of protecting the African lion under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). “Based upon the latest scientific evidence, African lions are increasingly threatened with extinction in the wild,” said Rep. Moran. “As the world’s leading importer of these iconic creatures, the U.S. must accept our share of the responsibility to preserve their future. Listing the African lion in the Endangered Species Act is an important first step to ensuring these vulnerable animals are protected.” Specifically, protection under ESA would reduce the incentive to kill lions by preventing hunters from bringing them back to the U.S. as trophies. The African lion is in danger of extinction throughout a significant portion of its habitat and therefore meets the statutory criteria to be listed as endangered under the ESA. As few as 32,000 African lions are in existence today. In most countries where they exist, their populations are too small and isolated to maintain their species. “The African lion population has decreased by over 50 percent during the past three decades, said Rep. Blumenauer. “Due to habitat loss, hunting, disease and more, this animal is now in real danger of extinction. The United States has a long history of leading the way in global conservation efforts and should act swiftly to protect this treasured species.” On March 1, 2011, a coalition of wildlife protection and conservation organizations petitioned the Secretary of the Interior to list the African lion as an endangered subspecies pursuant to the ESA. On November 27th, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service opened a 60-day comment period on listing the African lion under ESA. Today’s letter was submitted for inclusion in the comment period. “Right now Americans kill more lions through trophy hunting, and import more lion parts for commercial trade, than any other country in the world. However, we could become a global leader in protecting African lions, rather than a contributor to their disappearance in the wild, by listing them as Endangered under the Endangered Species Act,” stated Jeff Flocken, North America Regional Director for the International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW). “The African lion is facing an uncertain future at best,” said Adam Roberts, Executive Vice President of Born Free USA. “There is a real possibility that more African countries will lose their wild lions altogether if the current situation is not reversed. We need to take urgent measures to conserve the African lion before it’s too late.” In addition to habitat loss, the bushmeat trade, exotic diseases, conflict with livestock farmers, and illegal trade for use in traditional medicine, studies show that the United States is the world’s largest importer of African lion parts, responsible for 64 percent of global imports from 1999 to 2008. “The United States is the leading importer of lions and lion parts for hunting trophies and commercial trade—this includes skulls, claws, hides, and live lions,” said Teresa Telecky, Director of Wildlife, The Humane Society of the United States. “Some Americans’ thirst for exotic goods and trophies to hang on their walls is driving lions to extinction. The African lion simply cannot endure this level of exploitation if their long-term survival is to be ensured.”
01.28.2013	On Friday evening, Congressman Blumenauer gave opening remarks to a lecture given by Dr. Ira Byock, the Director of Palliative Medicine at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, New Hampshire and a Professor at the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth. Dr. Byock is nationally renowned for his work on end-of-life care. The lecture was part of a series by the Oregon Humanities Center called “Being Human, Human Being.” Blumenauer introduced Dr. Byock, noting, “We need to ensure that people are empowered to make their own choices about their end-of-life care, that their doctors are in a better position to help their patients have those conversations with them, and that, when the time comes, those choices are honored.” In the 112th Congress, the Congressman was the sponsor of HR 1589, the Personalize Your Care Act of 2011, and plans to reintroduce the bill in the 113th Congress.
01.24.2013	As the 3rd Congressional District now stretches across the Willamette River in Portland, Congressman Blumenauer has recently arranged a series of meetings with many of the region’s higher education institutions he now represents. This morning, the Congressman met with Portland State University faculty to get a sense of their federal priorities for the coming Congress, to learn about the university’s growing partnership with the City of Portland, and how PSU is helping to drive innovation in both public policy and sustainability. A number of initiatives were discussed, including the Vietnam Collaboration Public Leadership Program, the upcoming STEMposium conference that highlights the growing need for graduates in the science and math disciplines, and Portland State’s recently-formed Urban Sustainability Accelerator that exports the region’s best practices in sustainability to interested cities across the country. “I’m always excited to see the innovation coming out of Portland State University and the values, lessons, and best practices that were honed here over the past few decades exported to communities I visit across the country," Blumenauer remarked. As of earlier this month, the new 3rd Congressional District includes Portland State University, Oregon Health & Sciences University, and Lewis & Clark University. The new 3rd Congressional District includes many of the universities that set the Portland region apart in regards to innovation, including Portland State University. From left, Professors Chris Monsere, Ethan Seltzer, and Sy Adler, Congressman Blumenauer, Director Phil Kiesling, and Professors Ron Tammen, Bill Becker, and Rudy Barton.
01.23.2013	
01.23.2013	Congressman Earl Blumenauer released the following statement on the reintroduction of legislation reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act: Last Congress failed domestic violence victims last year by refusing to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). This Congress should move immediately to reauthorize and strengthen it. Since 1994, when VAWA was originally passed, domestic violence for adult women is down 60% and the number of intimate partner deaths has decreased 34% for women and 57% for men. That represents millions of lives saved and changed for the better. While the main purpose of VAWA is to prevent violence and support victims of violence, it also saves the taxpayers money by reducing the monetary costs associated with domestic violence. In its first six years, VAWA saved American taxpayers at least $14.8 billion dollars in net averted social costs. If we do not enact this bill, millions of women, children, and families will be placed at much higher risk for domestic and intimate partner violence. We must put these people first and not play politics with the health and safety of our fellow citizens.
01.17.2013	I agree with President Obama’s comments yesterday on the tragic epidemic of gun violence that all Americans face. Congress and through it, America has been paralyzed on this issue for far too long. I strongly support the President taking action strengthening the current background check system for purchasing firearms, working with mental health professionals to help them know their rights about reporting credible threats of violence, and helping schools develop emergency preparedness plans. These are common sense reforms that can and should be acted on immediately. Congress must also heed the President's call for legislative action, including implementing a universal gun purchasing background check, restoring a ban on military-style assault weapons, and a passing 10-round limit for magazines. Congress should also strengthen laws that punish people who buy guns with the express purpose of selling them to criminals. As a member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, we are working to develop a number of these proposals as part of comprehensive policy recommendations to reduce gun violence. It is important that the President framed the issue of gun violence as a public health crisis, which it is. Congress should move immediately to end the freeze on gun violence research as it relates to public health. For years, Congress has subjected the Center for Disease Control to restrictions ensuring it does not “advocate or promote gun control.” This has been interpreted as a restriction on the CDC from conducting any research on the causes of gun violence. I applaud the President’s interpretation that public health research on gun violence is not advocacy. I hope Congress will provide the necessary resources to the CDC to fund research on the cause and effects of gun violence, and permanently eliminate any language restricting research from our laws. By treating the epidemic of gun violence as we would any other public heath disaster, we will finally make progress in reversing America’s shameful record as the deadliest nation in the world. I refuse to believe that so many more die in the United States because Americans as a people are more mentally unbalanced, reckless or violent than the rest of the world. Instead, I think our politicians are more cowardly and shortsighted and the power of special interests paralyzes the political system. The President’s modest but important proposals are a step in breaking that paralysis.
01.15.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) and Congressman John Campbell (CA-45) offered an amendment to H.R. 152, the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act of 2013, which would protect federal taxpayers from being burdened with an unfair share of the cost of projects extending beyond those specifically assisting victims of Hurricane Sandy. Most beach renourishment projects take place under a 65% federal, 35% nonfederal cost-share agreement, with continuing replenishment cost-shared at 50% federal. These projects are often done at the urging of local communities and most of the benefits flow locally, so it makes sense for those communities to pay a share of the cost. However, an amendment offered by Congressman Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) would waive the 35% nonfederal share for many of these projects and could be interpreted to go even further and raise the federal cost share for continuing replenishment projects from 50% to 100%. The Blumenauer-Campbell amendment clarifies language in the Frelinghuysen amendment that could inadvertently waive the nonfederal cost-share for ongoing construction projects unrelated to Hurricane Sandy. Any waiver of local cost-share for these projects should be limited to the funds provided in H.R. 152. “We need to rebuild,” said Congressman Blumenauer, “but we also need to make sure that taxpayer dollars are being spent wisely , and not on projects that could be ongoing for 10, 20, 50 years and have nothing to do with the damage inflicted by Sandy.” “This amendment is a simple, yet very important clarification that shields the American taxpayer from picking up the tab for ongoing and even future construction projects along the Northeastern seaboard that have absolutely nothing to do with the damage caused by Sandy,” said Congressman Campbell. “It’s a common sense amendment that ensures federal funds are restricted solely and specifically to the recovery efforts for which they are intended.” Most beach renourishment projects are literally “under construction” for decades. For example, according to the Congressional Research Service, beach renourishment projects, “generally remain as active Corps construction projects for up to 50 years, because their initial construction, which often consists of a constructed dune or beach, is followed by regular "renourishment" activities (i.e., replacement of sand).” “Waving the local cost-share for completion of ongoing beach-nourishment projects is not only fiscally irresponsible, it also decreases local communities’ appropriate obligation to be involved in and support projects that benefit them,” continued Blumenauer. “Our amendment simply clarifies that the waiver only applies to the funds in the bill.” This amendment is supported by National Wildlife Federation, Taxpayers for Common Sense, the Reinsurance Association of America, the Association of State Floodplain Managers, the Water Protection Network, and the R Street Institute. ###
01.15.2013	On Thursday, Congressman Blumenauer met with health care providers, hospital and insurance company executives, patient advocacy groups, and professional organizations, like the Oregon Ambulance Association, to discuss the implementation of health care reform in Oregon. Attendees discussed the effects of sequestration on funding public health, graduate medical education, and funding critical research at the National Institutes of Health. They also expressed concerns for policy alignment between the federal and state regulations, and the need for workforce investment and development to help increase access to primary care providers. “To make this work right, there are up-front investments that must be made,” Blumenauer commented. “We cannot save money in this system by making careless cuts.”
01.02.2013	
01.02.2013	
12.31.2012	WASHINGTON - Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) submitted the following statement to the congressional record on the Fiscal Year 2013 Intelligence Authorization Act: Today, I voted against the Fiscal Year 2013 Intelligence Authorization Act. Despite keeping funding levels flat and capping personnel levels to that of Fiscal Year 2012, this authorization is not significantly different than the earlier version I voted against in May. It is another missed opportunity to make significant, smart reductions in our intelligence infrastructure, at a time when we're asking so many others to make significant budgetary sacrifices in the midst of austerity. This legislation continues to spend way too much money - $72 to $78 billion a year - with little transparency or efforts to reduce the sprawling intelligence community and protect privacy rights. It's of paramount importance to keep our country safe, and that's exactly what our intelligence community has done, but we cannot afford to spend as much on intelligence as Russia does on its entire military budget or employ hundreds of thousands of people with secret clearance.
12.21.2012	I have long worked to address Social Security’s future and think we should take action sooner rather than later. I want us all to work with the public to prevent cuts in benefits that are coming in 25 years if nothing is done. Social Security, however, doesn’t contribute to the deficit. Including it in the budget sequestration negotiations only complicates the conversation. A "chained index" would be hard for me to support unless it doesn't harm the very old and lower income recipients. Congress should be pursuing a balanced approach to restore our country's "fiscal fitness." There are a number of commonsense reforms that Democrats and Republicans should support that would reduce the debt and put us back on a fiscally sustainable path. One example is subsidies for large agribusiness. Billions of taxpayer dollars go to unsustainable farming practices that are bad for the environment, the taxpayer, and Oregon’s family farmers and ranchers. This is why I've worked to end the wasteful direct payment farm subsidy program that funnels payments to large corporate agribusinesses. This action could save up to $28.4 billion over ten years that could be used to reduce the deficit. Another example is reining in the bloated Pentagon budget. Ending the war in Afghanistan, reducing the global footprint of military bases, and "right-sizing" our nuclear arsenal would save hundreds of billions over the next ten years. Extending tax cuts to middle class families that make less than $250,000 a year is a temporary action. We should address the larger issue of overall tax reform. The tax code must be simplified, taking actions like eliminating the alternative minimum tax, limiting "loopholes," broadening the base and lowering tax rates. A tax code fairly and efficiently administered will reduce evasion and make compliance easier. This will help us fund important services and rebuild our country. I will continue to push for commonsense proposals that will save money, strengthen the economy, and protect important government services that Oregon families depend upon.
12.19.2012	On December 14th, Congressman Blumenauer held a TeleTown Hall with constituents focused on answering questions about tax rates, spending cuts, and the consequences of possible changes to earned benefits programs like Medicare and Social Security. Almost 5,000 constituents participated in the event. An audio file of the townhall is available for download [MP3] Survey results: 1) Do you think raising the eligibility age for medicare should be part of the fiscal cliff negotiations/budget deal? Yes: 24% No: 66% Don't Know: 10% 2) Do you think that Social Security reform should be part of the fiscal cliff negotiations/budget deal? Yes: 18%No: 70% Don't Know: 12% 3) By law, Social Security can't pay benefits out of general revenue dollars. It must rely on social security taxes, and therefore doesn’t impact the deficit. Now with this information, do you think that Social Security reform should be part of the fiscal cliff negotiations/budget deal? Yes: 15% No: 74% Don't Know: 11%
12.18.2012	The jarring violence of last week seared into our consciousness. It started in Portland, Oregon with a mall shooting that might have been worse and ended in Newtown, Connecticut where it’s impossible to imagine that it would be worse. It’s part of an ongoing pattern of carnage where we lose one life to gun violence every 20 minutes, every hour, every day. The mass murder’s rampage gets the nation’s attention, but the same total loss of life at Sandy Hook happens more than twice every day, all year long. This is personal for me not just because the mall shooter was in my district, but because I had a high school friend who was killed with a random freak drive-by shooting. My brother took his life with a handgun as a young man. I’ve supported gun safety provisions at the state and federal level at every opportunity. It might be different now. Not just because the horrific images of a parade of funerals for little children. I salute mayor Bloomberg’s unstinting advocacy for gun safety and mobilizing America’s mayors who bear the brunt of gun violence. I welcome the president’s leadership and I will support any reform that he advances. But I would urge my colleagues to read the columns in the Sunday Times by my fellow Oregonian Nicholas Kristof and Ezra Klein’s article in today’s Washington Post. They demonstrate that we know what works. There are examples around the world. Even in America with lax, weak gun protections, there are in fact some regulations in some places and they make a difference. Let’s treat gun violence like any public health crisis, which I would say losing 30,000 lives a year would qualify as a crisis. We need to treat it like the threat to public health and families that it is; treat a gun like any other consumer product. This is how we slashed the auto death rate: vehicle design, driver behavior, enforcement and education. For guns, it starts when Congress stops being intimidated by the extremists, and then just do what the majority of gun owners agree we should do: renew the assault weapon ban (which many of us will introduce under the leadership of our dear friend and colleague Carolyn McCarthy), ban the large magazines and the most devastating bullets, and close the gun show loophole for starters. These are things that NRA members agree with. Let’s care as much about real guns as we do about toy gun consumer protection to start us down the road of making our children safer by treating children’s gun safety like they’re auto safety. All the air bags, anti-drunk driving campaigns, child-seats, drivers education, careful licensing - it slashed the accident rate. It didn’t eliminate them altogether, but we cannot imagine a world without these protections for our families. Let’s see if we can imagine a world where our children are safer from gun violence, and then make it happen.
12.13.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) introduced legislation that would fund a Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) pilot program to examine a new source of funding that would help make up for the Highway Trust Fund deficit. The legislation calls on the Secretary of the Treasury to undertake a series of studies to demonstrate the viability of a VMT revenue source in every state, and it reflects a successful pilot program undertaken in Oregon. “We must invest now in our nation’s roads, bridges, and public transit to prevent enormous costs in the future,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “With the Highway Trust Fund facing a 21% reduction revenue by 2040, based on current driving patterns and projected increases in fuel economy, we need innovative solutions to close this gap.” Over the past four years, Congress has transferred over $48 billion from the General Fund into the Highway Trust Fund. Estimates suggest that, when the current transportation authorization expires, the Trust Fund will require almost $15 billion a year in addition to current gas tax receipts simply to maintain 2009 funding levels. Failure to adequately fund transportation infrastructure imposes huge costs on American citizens and businesses: Congestion costs urban Americans 4.2 billion hours and 2.8 billion unnecessary gallons of fuel each year; expressed in dollar terms this is $87.2 billion, or $750 per traveler. By 2015, this cost is expected to increase to more than $900 per traveler. Roughly 40,000 people every year are killed on our streets and highways, with 2.5 million more injured, at a staggering annual economic cost to society. Higher transportation costs and higher inventory carrying costs – partially attributable to an unreliable transportation system – have pushed logistics costs to nearly 10% of GDP. Analysis by the American Society of Civil Engineers suggests that the cost of our failing transportation system could result in the loss of 876,000 jobs by 2020. “Oregon and other states have successfully tested a Vehicle Miles Traveled fee, and it is time to test this model systematically, across the country,” continued Blumenauer. “While evaluating mileage-based revenue sources, this legislation will ensure the system protects privacy and is simple to administer. It will also convene working groups to address the most complex aspects of this transition, including road use, demand management, climate change, and technology needs.” Two blue ribbon commissions have suggested that transitioning to a VMT system, rather than a gas tax, will provide the most stability to the Highway Trust Fund, and will most accurately reflect the user-fee concept it is based upon. The National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission noted that a VMT charge is the “the most promising alternative revenue measure” to the existing gas tax, while the National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission reported that “a charge for each mile driven . . . has emerged as the consensus choice for the future.” Both commissions found that this system was efficient at raising revenue, closely linked system demand to revenues, and could win broad public support. ###
12.12.2012	People across our community in Portland are in mourning following the violent shooting rampage that occurred at the Clackamas Town Center Tuesday. At least 10,000 people were working and shopping in the mall when a young man with an assault-style rifle discharged sixty or more shots. Two people were killed and a young 15-year-old girl was seriously wounded. This country has suffered through one gun episode after another, including the horrific tragedy in Springfield, Oregon in May of 1998, where four people were killed and another 24 wounded. Still, it seems that we can’t have a rational discussion in America on gun violence without unfounded claims of overreach. We have allowed the gun lobby to prevent the federal government from even researching the facts about gun violence, let alone potential solutions. This political intimidation, combined with a lack of willpower in Congress, has made it impossible to even close the gun show loophole where individuals in many states can purchase an unlimited amount of guns without a background check. These gun interests like the NRA argue that all we need is for existing gun laws to be enforced. Then these same individuals and groups systematically set about to restrict and weaken the laws we have and underfund even the most feeble enforcement efforts. We now live in a country where too many people are armed with military-grade weapons that are designed only to kill people. We must fight back against the false messages and fear-mongering. Having a thoughtful and rational conversation about gun safety is not an assault on our rights; rather, it is critical for public health and safety. It is time to recognize these realities and for politicians, gun owners, American businesses and the health community to come together to deal with the epidemic of gun violence the way we would treat any other threat to the safety of our families and communities. There is a ray of hope. When nearly half of all military suicides are committed with privately owned weapons, the Pentagon and Congress are taking steps to allow commanding officers and mental health providers to encourage at-risk soldiers to surrender their privately owned weapons. The military has a long history of requiring at-risk soldiers to surrender their military-issued firearms, but a provision in the FY11 National Defense Authorization prevents commanding officers and mental health providers from extending this common-sense approach to privately owned weapons, which is a huge obstacle to comprehensive suicide prevention. Fortunately, Congress looks poised to include language in this year’s Defense Authorization restoring the ability to discuss firearms kept at home and encourage responsible action such as gun locks. These are simple steps, and if we can do this for our military families, perhaps we can have the same consideration for the rest of our families. We will continue to mourn the tragic deaths on Tuesday and of countless past victims, but we must not sit idly by until the next tragedy. To truly honor the victims of this, and every other shooting, we must be serious about this epidemic once and for all.
12.11.2012	Lawmakers query FDA after workers, customers report serious health impacts from exposure to formaldehyde in hair straightening product WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), and Earl Blumenauer (D-Oreg.) today expressed serious concerns about the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) lack of progress investigating and taking action on the health impacts that result from the use of formaldehyde in hair straightening treatments, including “Brazilian Blowout.” In a letter to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg, the lawmakers state, “The FDA’s inaction on this matter is putting the health of thousands of salon workers and consumers at risk of dangerous formaldehyde exposure from the continued use of not only Brazilian Blowout, but other hair straightening treatments that contain formaldehyde.” Across the country, complaints have been reported by hair salon workers and customers of nose bleeds, breathing problems, vomiting, and hair loss associated with the use of hair straightening products such as Brazilian Blowout. Despite a warning from the FDA in August 2011, the makers of Brazilian Blowout have refused to reformulate their product to eliminate or even reduce the levels of formaldehyde. In January 2012, the California Attorney General’s office reached a settlement with the makers of Brazilian Blowout that required the company to stop advertising as formaldehyde-free and to place warning stickers on the product. “The FDA should not blow-off investigating the serious health impacts associated with Brazilian Blowout and other hair straighteners that contain toxic levels of formaldehyde,” said Rep. Markey. “The FDA should immediately take action to stop the sale of these potentially carcinogenic hair straightening products and continue to evaluate whether to ban formaldehyde from hair straighteners altogether. Reps. Schakowsky and I introduced the Safe Cosmetics Act to help to protect American consumers from being exposed to dangerous and cancer-causing ingredients, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to move this important legislation forward.” “This letter calls for strong action to address dangerous formaldehyde-containing hair straightening treatments,” said Rep. Schakowsky. “The health of salon workers and consumers depends on it. I introduced the Safe Cosmetics Act to provide the Food and Drug Administration with sufficient authority and resources to get dangerous cosmetic ingredients off the shelves. Along with Reps. Markey and Blumenauer, we will continue to push legislation forward. However, the FDA has not used their existing tools to remove adulterated and misbranded products from the market. The FDA must step up for consumers and get dangerous formaldehyde-containing products like Brazilian Blowout out of salons and off the shelves.” “The health hazard posed here is clear, and the practices that the makers of Brazilian Blowout continue to employ are grossly deceptive to businesses and consumers,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “People across the country depend on the FDA to protect them from such unscrupulous actors, and its inaction puts the health of thousands of people at unnecessary and completely avoidable risk.” In the letter, the lawmakers request responses from the FDA to questions that include: What steps has the FDA taken to protect the public from Brazilian Blowout products that contain dangerous formaldehyde? Has the FDA initiated additional enforcement action against the makers of Brazilian Blowout? Is it the FDA’s opinion that the makers of Brazilian Blowout have adequately addressed the violations noted in an August 2011 warning letter? What steps has FDA taken to look generally into hair straightening products on the market and conduct tests to determine whether other cosmetic manufacturers are producing products that may similarly contain dangerous levels of formaldehyde? What is the FDA’s process for evaluating the safety of a cosmetic ingredient when it has already been deemed to be unsafe by the industry’s ingredient review board? In May 2011, Reps. Markey, Schakowsky, Blumenauer and seven other House Democrats called on the FDA to take immediate action after it was found that dangerous levels of formaldehyde were present in popular hair straightening beauty products and serious health impacts were reported by salon workers and customers following use of these products.
12.06.2012	The Full Faith and Credit Act would allow the U.S. Treasury to ensure that our nation’s bills are paid on time and without political brinkmanship WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, citing new momentum in Washington to repeal the federal debt ceiling and prevent future manmade fiscal crises, Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Jim Moran (D-VA) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) renewed their call for passage of their bill, the Full Faith and Credit Act of 2011, which would abolish the debt ceiling and allow the U.S. Treasury to ensure that our nation’s bills are paid on time and without political brinkmanship. During the recent debates on how to avoid the “fiscal cliff,” the Obama administration and numerous opinion leaders have endorsed repeal of the federal debt ceiling. “The debt ceiling is truly arbitrary and has nothing to do with the deficit,” said Nadler. “The debt ceiling does not prevent the United States from incurring new debts, but has become a tool used by right-wing Republicans to hold tax reform and the economy hostage, while punishing millions of Americans. Let us abolish the debt ceiling and get to work, finally, on the critical needs of the American people: creating jobs and economic development, providing aid to states, building infrastructure, and instilling aggregate demand back into the economy.” “Republicans in Congress have already shown their willingness to undermine our economy and the full faith and credit of the nation by threatening to force default last year,” said Johnson. “The Full Faith & Credit Act will prevent politicians from holding the nation’s credit hostage ever again.” “Republicans in Congress have shown they are willing to hold the fate of our economy hostage by using the debt ceiling as a political weapon,” said Moran. “It’s a tactic that has far ranging effects, disrupting financial markets, lowering our credit rating, damaging the peoples’ trust in government and delaying consideration of must-pass legislation. It is highly irresponsible for the federal government to waver on our promise to pay off our debts. Given the ramifications of congressional Republicans’ irresponsible behavior, the debt ceiling should be eliminated.” “Playing politics with the debt ceiling can only serve to create a self-inflicted economic wound,” said Blumenauer. “This kind of nonsense was fully repudiated by voters in November’s election. We should act to make sure that House Republicans can no longer use a manufactured crisis around the debt ceiling to extort benefits for the very wealthy while harming the rest of the country.” The modern debt ceiling, set in 1939 based on amendments to the Second Liberty Bond Act of 1917, consolidated federal debts in order to provide the U.S. Treasury more flexibility to reduce interest costs and minimize financial risks. In the 1980s and early 1990s, the House of Representatives, at times, used a mechanism, referred to as the Gephardt Rule, to automatically increase the debt ceiling to keep pace with annual congressional spending. In the last 10 years, Congress has voted to increase the debt ceiling more than 10 times. The 2011 debt ceiling showdown reflected a shift from 30 years of clean debt ceiling increases and resulted in Standard & Poor’s downgrading of the U.S. credit rating for the first time in history. The Full Faith and Credit Act (H.R. 2931), introduced last year during the debt ceiling confrontation, would remove the unnecessary debt ceiling and ensure that the U.S. does not default on its debts. ###
12.05.2012	Congressman Earl Blumenauer joined 178 colleagues and signed a discharge petition on H.R. 15, the Middle Class Tax Cut Act. The Middle Class Tax Cut Act would extend all Bush-era tax cuts on income under $250,000 for married couples ($200,000 for individuals) through 2013. While there is disagreement about the extension of the tax cuts for upper income brackets, there is consensus that the tax cuts for the middle income bracket should be extended. The Senate the passed the Middle Class Tax Cut Act in July 2012. “Let’s act on things that we agree, let’s rebuild and renew America, and find ways to save the money and put us on a path to fiscal responsibility that the American public needs and demands," Blumenauer Said. If the discharge petition reaches the required 218 signatories, the Speaker of the House would be forced to bring the Middle Class Tax Cut Act to the floor for a vote.
11.29.2012	Mitt Romney weathered a storm of criticism late in the campaign after Hurricane Sandy for his earlier comments about privatizing FEMA and turning responsibility back to State and local governments, but during an era of fiscal restraint and global warming, it’s high time that we start this conversation in earnest. How big do you want your FEMA to be, how generous your disaster relief payments, and how much do you want to pay for it? The potential liability for flood insurance alone is $1.25 trillion, second only to the liability for Social Security. Right now, we have arguably the worst of both worlds. The Federal Government responds to disaster, usually paying too much to the wrong people to do the wrong things. We provide Federal money to put people back in harm’s way and sometimes provide infrastructure to make future risky development worse. We often take remedial action like fortifying beaches, a temporary solution that can actually accelerate erosion elsewhere, shift storm damage down the coast to another spot or more serious flooding down river. By giving the illusion of protection, more people locate in dangerous areas, and the vicious cycle is repeated with untold damage to families, with loss of life, loss of property, disruption of business. Perhaps we’d be better off if we began with a serious conversation about what people expect from FEMA and heavily subsidized flood insurance. What if we require individual property owners to assume more of the cost of disaster mitigation and recovery by paying the full cost of their flood insurance premiums and having recovery benefits provided on a declining scale after repetitive incidents? What if local developers were required to ensure their buildings withstood the cost of certain foreseeable disaster events? Would they be less likely to pressure local governments to approve risky development proposals? If individual homeowners absorbed more of their cost with slightly higher home prices, would make it less likely that they’re going to be buying homes in dangerous locations? Shouldn’t local governments be required to have stronger zoning and building codes to make loss less likely and recovery less expensive? What if these local governments were put on notice that when they invest in infrastructure, that the Federal disaster relief is only going to cover a portion of the loss and that portion will decline with increasing frequency of event? While there appears to be little appetite for overall Federal control, there ought to be even less appetite for the Federal Government to pay for the failure of local control to plan, zone, enact, and enforce strong code provisions and consumer protection. The notion that this is all going to be a one-way street for the Federal taxpayer to pay for repetitive disaster costs is something that needs to be challenged and rejected out of hand. Make no mistake; I think it would be foolish to privatize FEMA because there is a need for Federal response to true disasters. That’s precisely the time that the local economy and taxpayer are least able to pay the full cost for recovery. They need money, personnel, and assistance, but that doesn’t mean a permanent entitlement of risky behavior. The Federal Government should deal with what is truly catastrophic and with the humanitarian costs. Families obviously should not be left destitute, hungry, and homeless in the aftermath of a natural disaster. There is, however, no reason that we encourage the repetition of these terrible events. In a time of fiscal stress and budgetary realignment, we should include government disaster spending, liability and development policy as we address the fiscal cliff. Done right, this will not only save money, but countless lives as well.
11.28.2012	Washington, D.C. —Members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) Energy & Environment Task Force announced today that the CPC is endorsing The American Renewable Energy Production Tax Credit Extension Act of 2011( H.R. 3307). This bipartisan bill, cosponsored by CPC member Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), would extend the Production Tax Credit (PTC) for renewable energy through 2016. PTC provides incentives to invest in wind, geothermal, hydropower and other energy projects. The current law is set to expire on January 1, 2013, and without the extension renewable energy projects could soon be at a standstill. Thousands of jobs are already threatened by the looming deadline. “The CPC is proud to support H.R. 3307, which moves us towards a cleaner energy future and puts thousands of people back to work doing jobs right here in America,” said CPC Energy & Environment Task Force members Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), Ed Markey (D-MA), Jim Moran (D-VA), Pete Stark (D-CA), John Tierney (D-MA) and Peter Welch (D-VT). “In this economy we can’t miss a single opportunity to invest in sustainable job creation, especially in growing sectors. This is the right step for the economy, for working Americans, and for the future of our environment.” The PTC preserves the environment and supports the U.S. renewable energy industry. This legislation keeps renewable energy on a level playing field with fossil fuel companies that have received large federal taxpayer subsidies for decades and will receive more in the future. “To confront the energy challenges of the coming decades, Congress needs to continue to lay the groundwork for growth in clean, sustainable, renewable energy,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Extending the Production Tax Credit will give the wind energy industry the security it needs to plan and invest for this future. If we fail to act now, not only will the United States lose tens of thousands of jobs, but we will miss the opportunity to cement our role as a world leader and take a much needed step toward energy independence.”
11.20.2012	WASHINGTON – Earl Blumenauer joined with Democratic and Republican colleagues to announce the introduction of the “Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act” which would ensure that state laws regarding marijuana will not be pre-empted by the federal government. In last week’s elections, voters In Colorado and Washington State passed state laws legalizing marijuana by six and ten point margins, respectively. Immediately, several lawmakers expressed concern about the federal government’s ability to override these voter-approved initiatives and the states’ rights to exercise the will of their citizens. The “Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act” addresses that concern, clarifies Congressional intent, and provides guidance for the courts. “Today I am proud to join with colleagues from both sides of the aisle on the ‘Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act’ to protect states’ rights and immediately resolve any conflict with the federal government,” said Rep. DeGette. “In Colorado we’ve witnessed the aggressive policies of the federal government in their treatment of legal medicinal marijuana providers. My constituents have spoken and I don’t want the federal government denying money to Colorado or taking other punitive steps that would undermine the will of our citizens.” “I voted against Amendment 64 and I strongly oppose the legalization of marijuana, but I also have an obligation to respect the will of the voters given the passage of this initiative, and so I feel obligated to support this legislation,” said Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-6). “The people of Colorado and Washington voted in overwhelming numbers to regulate the sale of marijuana. Colorado officials and law enforcement are already working to implement the will of Colorado voters, and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress and officials in the administration to deliver clear guidance that ensures the will of the people is protected,” said Rep. Jared Polis (CO-2) “Residents of Colorado and Washington have made it clear that the public is ahead of the federal government in terms of marijuana legalization,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3). “It’s time for Congress to pass legislation – such as the ‘Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act’ – that allows states to implement their own laws in this area without fear of federal interference.” “All across the country, states are choosing to reform their marijuana laws. As Justice Brandeis observed, states are the ‘laboratories of democracy’ and they should be given the opportunity to go forward with this social experiment,” said Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9). “I’m proud to cosponsor this important bill, which will ensure that the federal government respects the people’s judgment.” “The federal government’s failure to develop a reasonable approach towards the varying state marijuana use laws has made this legislation necessary,” said Rep. Sam Farr (CA-17). “From increased raids on legal dispensaries to denying defendants in court the right to present evidence of their legal marijuana use, the federal government has chosen to trample on state rights rather than work with them as a partner to address this issue.” The full text of the “Respect States’ and Citizens’ Rights Act” can be found here.
11.16.2012	
11.11.2012	Today is one of the most important national holidays in America. On Veterans Day, we honor the profound contribution and sacrifice of the men, women and families for their service to our country. 2012 has proven to be a challenging year for our nations’ military and veterans. Our commitments overseas continue to tax the armed forces, and the economy at home is still not fully recovered. Veterans have been hard hit with unemployment and financial uncertainty. As we are working our way out of the recession, there is also great pressure to reduce spending and the deficit. I am fighting hard to make sure that as we work to realign the Defense budget to reflect the realities of 21st century conflict, we target unnecessary programs and not the benefits for the troops, veterans and their families. I am also working to make sure that veterans and their families get the support they need and have earned, including improved health care services. News for Oregon's National Guard Fighting Back Cuts to the National Guard and Reserve: In the past 22 years, the Oregon National Guard has deployed over 9,000 citizen-soldiers in support of every major combat operation in which the United States has been involved. Oregonians have flown the flag of the United States in combat in Kuwait, Bosnia, Iraq, and Afghanistan, and also responded to disasters whenever Mother Nature had off days. The citizen-soldiers of the Oregon Guard do great credit to the people of the state and to the nation as a whole. I support every effort to maintain the investments we’ve made in the National Guard over the last decade so that it remains a fully-funded, agile and operational force. As we move to responsibly reduce our defense spending, it only makes sense to continue to build and rely on our Guard and Reserve as an integrated and operational force. Guard units can cost as little as a quarter to a third as much as their full time, active duty counterparts. The Air Guard performs half of all Air Force missions, but uses only 14 percent of personnel funds. Rather than undermining these investments in the hunt for savings, we must ensure that the Pentagon takes advantage of the savings inherent in the Guard. That’s why I was troubled to see the 11th Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation, which proposed to cut drill pay in half for National Guardsmen and women. Not only was the proposal simplistic, it was illogical. When factoring in down weekends, annual leave, holidays and off-duty time, per-day compensation is higher than that of an Oregon Guard. It was a no-brainer for the Oregon Congressional delegation to mobilize and send a letter to the Pentagon in July, outlining why cutting drill pay by half for the Oregon Guard would not only be unreasonable, but irresponsible. Such a rapid response has sidelined the proposal. When the Air Force tried to find savings for their 2013 budget by cutting 5,100 airmen and 39 aircraft from the Air Guard, the Oregon delegation again mobilized, pushed back, and stopped this unbalanced approach. Oregon National Guard Deployment to Afghanistan in 2014: In September, the Army notified the Oregon Army National Guard’s 41st Infantry Brigade Combat Team to begin preparing for deployment to Afghanistan in 2014. If the 41st Infantry Brigade Combat Team sends 1,800 troops overseas, it would be the Oregon National Guard’s second-largest movement of soldiers since WWII. With President Obama’s plan to withdraw all remaining U.S. and NATO combat troops by the end of 2014, the 41st Infantry Brigade could be among the last U.S. troops in the country. The danger associated with this kind of mission is very real. The fact that the Oregon National Guard was selected for this important mission speaks volumes about their professionalism, commitment, and skill. I stand ready to assist the Oregon Army National Guard and their families as they prepare to undertake this monumental task. Verdict Reached in Oregon Soldiers Case against KBR: I have continued to closely monitor the case of Oregon National Guardsmen who were exposed to hexavalent chromium, and have fought to ensure that this never happens again. I worked to successfully pass an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that requires the Secretary of Defense to notify the Congressional defense committees when the Pentagon enters into indemnification agreements with contractors connected to U.S. military efforts abroad, and explain why such provisions are necessary. While progress has been made for future generations of soldiers, those Guardsmen affected previously continue to fight for the benefits and compensation they deserve. KBR, the massive defense contracting firm with a spotty history of quality control, knowingly exposed Oregon National Guardsmen to the deadly carcinogen hexavalent chromium while the soldiers were deployed in southern Iraq in 2003. Fortunately, the case against KBR was brought to trial, and a positive verdict has been reached. KBR was found negligent in their operations, and was ordered to pay $85 million in compensation to the dozen Oregon Army National Guard soldiers it harmed. Each soldier was awarded a total of $7.1 million in damages. This is an important milestone. I’ve met with these brave soldiers and hearing their ordeal made me heartsick. They have clearly been damaged as a result of their service and negligence on the part of the contractor. It is critical that those who have been abused receive all the help possible in trying to get their lives back in order and further protect their health. However, this ruling is not just about helping those who have suffered, but also sends a strong message of accountability. Much of the support for our men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan relies on private-sector contractors. It is therefore absolutely essential that support services like those managed by KBR be provided at the highest quality possible. Those who put their lives on the line in service of this country deserve no less. Rogue Ales & Spirits’ Tribute to the Troops: In September, I attended the Rogue Ales & Spirits’ tribute to the troops, a special event in honor of active duty military members, veterans, and their families at the Rogue Distillery and Public House in Northwest Portland. Over the last decade, Rogue has designed over a dozen custom beer labels in honor of deployed Oregon National Guard units. Too often, our veterans and service men and women in Oregon don’t receive the public attention and adoration they so rightfully deserve. We lack the large military installations and their associated tight-knit residential communities that are so important in supporting military families. Rogue Ales & Spirits’ tribute to the troops is an excellent example of how local groups and small businesses can raise awareness of the immense sacrifices so many Oregonians have made. At this year’s event, Rogue introduced a new custom beer label commemorating the 10 years of deployments the Oregon National Guard has endured. Challenges for Returning eterans 2012 will go down in history as the first year in military history that suicides in the Army outpaced deaths due to combat operations. Across all branches of the military, service members are taking their own lives at the rate of about one per day – a heartbreaking and unacceptable statistic. I am pleased that the military, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and national and local support networks are taking steps to address this issue and offer hope where it is needed most, but more needs to be done. To survive combat, only to return home and end one’s life, is so very tragic. We must fight here at home to ensure our veterans get the help they need – and most importantly – get it when they need it. In an effort to curb the record breaking numbers of suicides in the military this year, the Army held a service-wide stand down for suicide prevention on September 27, 2012. Ordinary duties were suspended as Army leadership conducted suicide prevention training, resilience-building and mentoring courses. The Department of Defense and the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) launched a joint campaign for suicide awareness, and the White House announced a new Executive Order to improve access to mental health services for veterans, service members and military families in response to this glaring problem,. The Executive Order mandates that the VA ensure that any veteran identifying him or herself as being in crisis must be able to connect with a mental health professional or trained mental health worker within 24 hours. Oregon is unique in the fact that we don’t have any major military installations. When our brave men and women come home, they lack the informal support networks that stem from a military community and the built-in support networks provided by bases in many other states. To fill that gap, Oregon has taken the lead by innovating its way to a solution, expanding the nationwide Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, which provides critical services to National Guard members and their families. I fought to ensure that it was well funded in this year’s Defense Authorization and look forward to strengthening the program in the future. I have also cosponsored the Embedded Mental Health Providers for Reserves Act, which was added to the Defense Authorization, ensuring our Guard and Reservists have access to mental health professionals during routine training. This additional resource is straightforward and increases early detection and opportunities for treatment in Oregon, where care for our service members can be comparatively limited. A short list of the challenges our Veterans face when they return: The VA has a backlog of more than 900,000 unresolved benefit claims. Each claim takes an average of 240 days to complete, versus the VA’s goal of 80 days; veterans who live in rural parts of Oregon must travel long distances to get the care they deserve with few transportation options; even as the economy steadily improves, our veterans continue to struggle to find career opportunities, a significant challenge; many female veterans do not receive the quality, gender-specific health care they deserve; we continue to lack accountability and sufficient progress in prevention and treatment of Military Sexual Trauma for both women and men; there remains a significant gap between the promise of higher education through the GI Bill and actually receiving a quality, accredited degree that will translate into employment; we must continue to fight back efforts to undercut the significant investment we’ve made in our National Guard and Reserve over the last decade, and instead ensure that we shift towards a robust operational reserve; and, we must overcome perhaps the most persistent challenge that awaits our men and women in uniform, which is the transition from Soldier, Sailor, Airman, Marine, and Coast Guardsman to Citizen. How I Can Help You My Portland office has staff members trained to assist veterans with a variety of issues. Assistance is available to veterans in distress or at risk of suicide. The Department of Veterans Affairs operates the Veterans Crisis Line to assist servicepeople and veterans in times of psychological distress. All interactions with the Crisis Line are totally confidential. To reach the Crisis Line: Call 1-800 273- TALK (8255) Send a text to 838255 Or visit veteranscrisisline.net for confidential chat. Over the years, my staff has successfully eliminated roadblocks to claims, found lost DD214s, uncovered answers to long-standing problems, and assisted veterans in getting copies of their military records or service medals. If you need assistance, please contact my Portland office at 729 NE Oregon Street, Suite 115, Portland, Oregon 97232, or call 503-231-2300. Important Links for Veterans and Active Duty Military Members in Oregon Oregon National Guard Reintegration Team: https://oregonbtyr.org - a comprehensive site for all veterans and military in Oregon For information on both the Montgomery and Post-9/11 GI Bills: https://www.gibill.va.gov U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs: https://www.va.gov – or call 1-800-827-1000 Portland VA Medical Center Patient Advocate’s Office: Call 503-273-5319 For help in filing a benefit claim with the VA: State, County and National Veteran Service Officers: https://www.oregon.gov/odva/VSODIRECT/pages/locator.aspx
11.03.2012	PORTLAND –Rep. Earl Blumenauer released the following statement regarding the verdict in the case of Oregon National Guard soldiers and KBR, Inc: Today’s verdict in the defense contractor KBR trial, brought by a dozen Oregon Army National Guard soldiers, is an important milestone. I’ve met with these brave soldiers and hearing their ordeal made me heartsick. They have clearly been damaged as a result of their service and negligence on the part of the contractor. It is critical that those who have been abused receive all the help possible in trying to get their lives back in order and further protect their health. However, this verdict is not just about helping those who have suffered, but also sends a strong message of accountability. Much of the support for our men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan relies on private-sector contractors. It is therefore absolutely essential that support services like those managed by KBR be provided at the highest quality possible and with consequence if not. Those who put their lives on the line in service of this country deserve no less.
11.02.2012	Congressman Blumenauer met with clinicians and researchers from Oregon Health and Sciences University (OHSU) to discuss issues and advances in autism, traumatic brain injury, and post-traumatic stress disorder. It is estimated that there are 5,500 children in the Portland metropolitan region and around 9,000 children across Oregon that have autism spectrum disorder. OHSU’s Child Development and Rehabilitation Center evaluates 500 children per year for this challenging disorder. OHSU also has valuable partnerships with the Portland VA Medical Center for research and clinical care for returning veterans who have experienced a traumatic brain injury or post-traumatic stress disorder. Blumenauer is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus. In May, he successfully amended the Military Construction Bill to fund research for innovative new medicines, enhanced diagnostics, and improved treatment for soldiers and veterans who suffer from traumatic brain injuries and post-traumatic stress disorder. “These issues are pressing for our community and our society at large,” Blumenauer said. “Whether it concerns children, or our returning veterans, investing in neuroscience has huge implications and real benefits for people.”
10.30.2012	Congressman Blumenauer emphasized the importance of community advocacy from a young age to sixty eighth grade students at Beverly Cleary School: Fernwood Campus on Tuesday. The students have spent the fall studying the election, the Constitution, and the branches of federal government, as well as urban infrastructure in Portland. Congressman Blumenauer used the recovery effort from Hurricane Sandy as an example of federalism—the importance of coordination of the federal government with state efforts to clean up their own territory or send resources across the country. The students brainstormed policy ideas for their research projects with the Congressman. “You are in a sweet spot for civic education,” Blumenauer told the students, referring to strong programs focusing on governance and community advocacy in the Portland Public Schools. “You have a lot of good ideas for local and federal policy. Hopefully by the time you’re making that policy, the political climate will be less-focused on partisan labels and more focused on good governance.”
10.29.2012	Congressman Blumenauer visited with the New Seasons leadership today at their headquarters in Northeast Portland. New Seasons grocery stores started in 2000 with the goal of being a friendly neighborhood grocery that supports sustainable agriculture and home grown products. New Seasons has seen significant growth emphasizing this community-based strategy with twelve stores in the Portland region. New Seasons has a “Home Grown” program that points out local products and a commitment to donate ten percent of profits to various organizations in the form of grants and donations. New Seasons is planning an expansion into the Hollywood neighborhood of Portland in the next year. “It was great to get an update on the growth of New Seasons from their team today. This is a local company that has helped tell the Portland story” said Blumenauer. “Many of the neighborhoods that New Seasons has invested in were once under-served. It’s great to see another sign of a Portland company doing right by its residents and suppliers.”
10.24.2012	Speaking before members of the Portland Garden Club (PGC), Congressman Blumenauer answered questions focusing on both the environmental impacts of the Farm Bill legislation as well as ways to move beyond the gridlock in Washington DC. The PGC is a member organization of the Garden Club of America, a volunteer nonprofit organization comprised of member clubs throughout the country that work toward improving communities through education, conservation, and horticulture. Blumenauer praised the Garden Club members for their advocacy work on Capitol Hill and their championing of conservation causes. “I am always heartened when the Garden Club visits Washington,” Blumenauer commented. “A diverse coalition arriving from all across America – red states, blue states, purple states, these are people who are intensely political and focused on the leaving the world a little bit greener. Their passion, energy, and clarity of purpose is striking.”
10.22.2012	Congressman Blumenauer celebrated the grand opening of new student housing at Portland State University this week. The recently completed LEED certified building called University Pointe opened this fall to students and has leased all its units. University Pointe is a 6-story apartment building that will house 978 students public-private development project between American Campus Communities and Portland State University. It has been cost neutral for the school while giving a strong boost to its near-campus housing. “It is great to see PSU, our world class university, continuing to expand.” Said Blumenauer. “This project brings much needed, energy efficient, student housing to PSU and has used a proven public-private development model to do it.”
10.11.2012	Yesterday, Representatives Earl Blumenauer and Greg Walden spoke before a gathering of Oregon’s public broadcasting community as they met to take a look at the current media landscape and the future of public broadcasting in Oregon. Blumenauer is the founder and chair of the Congressional Public Broadcasting Caucus and a tireless advocate for federal support for public broadcasting. Walden is the current Chair of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and was himself a commercial broadcaster for several years. While not shying away from the challenges and controversies faced at the national level, broadcasters and stakeholders from across the state discussed the need to continue capitalizing on changing technology and demographics of media and media distribution, as well as ways to improve efficiencies and collaboration across the state. “Public media is at a crossroads,” Blumenauer commented to those in attendance. “However, I am confident with the innovative leadership and the broad base of support you have now, public broadcasting will emerge from these controversies stronger and more resilient than ever before.”
10.10.2012	On October 9, Congressman Blumenauer addressed members of Women in Transportation Seminar (WTS) - Portland. Reflecting on the vision and projects that have made the Portland region an international icon of livability, he urged attendees to keep their eyes on long range issues, instead of the economic and political challenges the current environment. “When we articulate what people are getting for their investments, people support local projects that enhance their communities. But it’s essential that we engage citizens in the issues that make a difference in their lives. WTS plays a critical role, connecting their members’ professionalism and vision with the energy and creativity of citizens to create more livable communities.”
10.05.2012	There is a battle under way over the very existence of public broadcasting. It wasn’t always this way. Over a decade ago, I founded the Congressional Public Broadcasting Caucus to bring Members together, Democrats and Republicans, in support of public media and the important services they provide to local communities all across America. However, partisan critics are now attacking public broadcasting claiming that it would be able to serve its mission without federal support. In fact, undermining federal support would be a disaster for public broadcasting, closing hundreds of stations across the country and putting this valuable community resource at risk in many others. A recent study demanded by public broadcasting's zealous critics in Congress reveals that there is no alternative to public funding. Other funding options explored in the report, such as advertising, would actually result in less money for public broadcasting because people would refuse to voluntarily contribute to watch commercial advertising. While programs such as Sesame Street and Nova could technically survive without federal support, if there are no stations to show these programs because they have all been forced to close, they won’t last. Sesame Street might as well not exist. Children deserve the unique, educational opportunities provided by public broadcasting without being sold cereal or action figures. Facts about public broadcasting: More than six in ten voters who believe deficit reduction is an important goal also support funding for public broadcasting. Public broadcasting was ranked second by the American public, only behind funding for our national defense, as providing excellent value for their tax dollars. Public broadcasting is America’s most trusted institution. In fact, American voters have twice the level of trust in public broadcasting as they do in our courts of law. It is shameful to single out this valuable institution – the federal investment of which is only $1.35 per American, per year, .012% of the total federal budget -- for attack when billions of dollars are wasted on subsidies for large oil companies, payouts for agribusiness, and the unchecked growth of a bloated defense budget and intelligence network. As Chair and Founder of the Public Broadcasting Caucus, I will continue to fight for the preservation of public broadcasting on behalf of its millions of viewers across the countries that rely on it for quality news, education, and entertainment.
09.25.2012	This month, I join with millions of Americans in recognizing the contributions of Latino citizens during National Hispanic Heritage Month. Hispanics play a vital role in both our nation and Oregon, and this is a time to celebrate the diversity and richness of Hispanic culture. Hispanic communities contribute to every area of life, from the economic to the artistic, and continue to grow. Last week, Causa, Oregon’s Immigrant Rights Organization, held an event on Capitol Hill celebrating the release of their report, “Latino Contributions to Oregon: Strengthening Our State Economy.” There are over 200,000 Latinos in the workforce in Oregon, including immigrant workers. These workers are integral to the success of many industries in our state from the service industry to agriculture and everything in between. It is a valuable report and well worth the read. In order to maintain and foster these contributions from Latinos across the country, it is important that we provide them every opportunity to succeed. That is why I support a comprehensive and reasonable approach to immigration reform. I also strongly support President Obama’s decision to delay the deportation of the “Dreamers,” young people who are as American as any of us and for whom the United States is the only country they know. I am also very pleased to announce that my website is now available in Spanish, to make it more accessible to all of the people living in the third district. As we face the future, it is clear that we are all in this together. Whatever our country of origin, and whatever our immigration status, we all deserve dignity, opportunity, and a chance to contribute to the fabric of American culture.
09.20.2012	Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer met with Oregon representatives of the Hardwood Federation in Washington DC. The Federation represents the thousands of hardwood businesses located in every state in the U.S., many of which are small, family-owned mills. Earlier this year, some in Congress wanted to roll back protections against illegal logging. Thanks to a broad grassroots effort, House leadership canceled consideration of the legislation that would have undermined the 2008 amendments to the Lacey Act, which made it illegal to import plants or plant products that were harvested in violation of foreign laws. Blumenauer expressed his gratitude to them for helping protect 2008 Amendments that undermines the black market for wood, but also to protect the U.S. economy, the environment, and local communities in areas afflicted by these criminal activities. “The 2008 Amendments represent good policy both for the environment, but also U.S. jobs,” Blumenauer commented. “Before the 2008 amendments, illegal timber harvesting was costing the U.S. forest products industry over $1 billion in lost opportunities and lower prices every year. Bearing the brunt of this burden were small, family owned hardwood mills in Oregon and all across the U.S.”
09.13.2012	Congressman Earl Blumenauer's comments regarding HR 5890 - FISA AMENDMENTS ACT REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2012: For over a decade, I have deeply been concerned about the potential overreach of wiretapping legislation and efforts at the NSA. I have voted repeatedly in the past against unreasonable expansion of any administration's ability to intrude in the lives of unknowing and innocent Americans, and I will do so again today. I remain confident that the dedicated members of the intelligence community do not need to erode the rights of Americans in order to protect them. Any apparent gains in security that may be achieved are modest and more than outweighed by longer-term potential loss of civil liberties and oversight, the sense of security that each American deserves. I'm troubled by the implications for our Fourth Amendment rights, the absence of meaningful court review, and the risk to American liberties that stem from the FISA Amendments Act. Frankly I see no reason to rush into voting on a bill so deficient. The American people would be better served if we continued the debate and the examination, had thorough answers from NSA, and took up reauthorization based on a more complete review and process. In fact, I think as we stand here today on the floor, not even the NSA knows the extent to which the FISA Amendment Act may potentially have been abused. The right approach would be refining this bill and more broadly taking a closer look at what over the last decade has become an intelligence community that is, frankly, some feel, growing out of control. It's been over 11 years since 9/11. We ought to be able to get this right. We shouldn't be rushed into doing something that has significant long-term implications for every American. You know, take a deep breath and take a step back. There are over 4.2 million Americans who hold a security clearance. That's more than the entire State of Oregon's population, and let's throw in the city of Seattle for good measure. Almost half of them hold Top Secret security clearances, more than people who reside in Maine or Idaho. When you've got those millions of people, you have an entity that is cumbersome, potential for abuse, and, frankly, potential to be infiltrated or have mistakes. Think about it: 9/11 occurred in part not because we didn't have information. Remember the memo on Bush's desk warning of a potential attack from bin Laden? What we are doing at the same time we are eroding American rights? We're piling on more and more and more information, and it's going to be extraordinarily difficult to sort through. We risk putting Americans in trouble.
09.11.2012	
08.30.2012	Congressman Blumenauer was on hand at the presentation of a new Oregon State Public Research Interest Group (OSPIRG) report “Apples to Twinkies.” The report outlines how taxpayers are subsidizing junk food additives like high fructose corn syrup to the tune of billions of dollars. David Rosenfeld and a number of OSPIRG staff and volunteers illustrated the national policy by comparing the subsidies of apples and Twinkies. According to the report, each taxpayer provides subsidies enough to purchase 21 Twinkies, but only half an apple. “At a time when childhood obesity rates are skyrocketing, it’s absurd that we’re spending billions of taxpayer dollars to make the problem worse,” said Blumenauer. “The Farm Bill shortchanges nutrition programs and Oregon’s farmers and ranchers who grow food, not commodities. It’s time to shine a spotlight on these issues and work toward ending this waste and inequity.” Blumenauer has outlined a number of his own recommendations for reforming national agriculture policy in his own “Growing Opportunities” report.
08.30.2012	Congressman Blumenauer held a town hall with residents of Terwilliger Plaza this past weekend. Opening the conversation, he discussed the opportunities for progress that can be created through legislation such as Water for the World, the Farm Bill, and continuing funding for Public Broadcasting. “These are all ideas and pieces of legislation that have had broad bipartisan support in the past,” Blumenauer said. “I think we need to look at these concepts that both parties can come together and agree that these are good ideas that help many, many people.” Residents then posed a variety of questions on issues that included environmental conservation in the Columbia River Gorge and reforming the tax code.
08.28.2012	Congressman Blumenauer convened a meeting to discuss his Water for the World legislation, and to hear from Portland residents who work on international clean water issues - from Haiti to Zambia to Nicaragua, and many countries in between. The Congressman hosted the meeting to share the progress his bill, Water for the World (H.R. 3658) has made in garnering support from both sides of the aisle – 23 Republicans and 38 Democrats. He was briefed by a variety of constituent engineers, volunteers, and leaders from the faith and non-profit community (as large as Mercy Corps and small as WaterAfrica) who live and work in the Portland area, but have traveled the world to bring clean water to millions of people. Kevin Palau of the Luis Palau Foundation and Pastor Rick McKinley of the Imago Dei church community have been national advocates for clean water and expressed their appreciation to the Congressman as a neutral convener, Blumenauer concluded the conversation by saying, “Perhaps we’ve not harnessed the power of these successful stories. With so little money you are transforming individual lives, and your work is making this happen everywhere – one community at a time. While the statistics can be overwhelming and the numbers make people feel the task is impossible, this conversation and your work reminds me why H.R. 3658 should be voted on and passed. It will help government be the best possible partner - making sure every dollar is used well, and every project is sustainable by the members of the community.”
08.28.2012	Congressman Earl Blumenauer joined Portland Public Schools (PPS) Superintendent Carole Smith in celebrating the partnership between PPS and Abernethy School to keep Abernethy’s School Kitchen Garden open. Although recent US Department of Agriculture regulations improved the nutritional standards for school menus, they also required new analysis and reporting requirements that increased the work load for PPS Nutrition Services, threatening the future of Abernethy’s unique scratch kitchen. Abernethy parents announced their willingness to provide the necessary additional resources; they also offered to provide assistance to other schools who would like to replicate Abernethy’s program. Congressman Blumenauer will be heading up a Congressional work group in Washington DC to support these efforts in Oregon and nationwide. “While New York City had to abandon its innovative Chefs in the Schools program in the face of new regulations, Portland Public Schools and the Abernethy community found a way to keep this important program going,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I couldn’t be prouder of everyone involved. We are not going to be just a local model. We are going to work to expand these efforts in Portland and be a resource for other communities across the country.”
08.24.2012	Congressman Blumenauer convened a roundtable with coffee roasters from across the Portland region on Wednesday morning. The meeting was held at Portland Roasting Company and featured a full range of businesses from large, established roasters to new micro-roasters. Many of the roasters discussed their mutual desire to bring down health care costs for their employees as well as business needs, commodity, and freight concerns. “Once again, we have another powerful Portland story in the growth of our coffee roaster community” said Blumenauer. “The efforts of these enterprises are creating a new hallmark industry in Portland and are getting attention all across the nation. I am excited to work with them as they coordinate on issues like health care, commodity prices, and business assistance needs.”
08.23.2012	Portland, Ore.— This Friday, Portland Public Schools Superintendent Carole Smith and US Representative Earl Blumenauer will make an announcement regarding the continuation of Abernethy School’s scratch kitchen program. Abernethy’s kitchen program involves children in the planting, growing, and “from scratch” production of their school lunches. The curriculum has been successful in educating students to be conscious of all the steps that go into the preparation of meals and encouraging them to consume a healthier, more nutritious diet. Lessons learned in the Abernethy kitchen – and through the statewide farm-to-school movement – have helped PPS improve the district-wide lunch program and create a model for school districts across the nation. New Department of Agriculture guidelines released in January outline updated nutritional guidelines designed to increase serving sizes of whole grains, fruits, and vegetables in school lunches, but also increased nutritional reporting requirements. Abernethy prepares its meals from scratch, creating an additional effort to evaluate their nutritional value and place the program in line with federal guidelines. Abernethy parents and supporters have been working with Portland Public Schools and Congressman Blumenauer to find a resolution that is compliant with federal rules, does not represent an undue burden to the school district, and that allows Abernethy to retain its unique program. In April, Congressman Blumenauer invited Abernethy students to present their experience at his Northwest Food and Farm Summit, co-hosted with Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici, as a model for other schools to follow around the state and nation. What: Announcement of the continuation of Abernethy School’s Kitchen Program Who: US Congressman Earl Blumenauer PPS Superintendent Carole Smith Dwight Holton, Abernethy School parent Students and families of Abernethy School When: Friday, August 24th at 11:30 AM Where: Abernethy School 2421 SE Orange Ave Portland, OR 97214
08.22.2012	Portland, Ore.—Representatives Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) and Earl Blumenauer (OR-3)—with special guest House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-8)— hosted a discussion on federal efforts to support the growth of emerging high tech companies this week at the Urban Airship office in Portland. Representatives from small businesses, incubators, and other stakeholder organizations discussed their goals and priorities for policies to foster high tech industry growth and job creation. While obtaining capital was not a stated issue for the startups, as has been a problem for other small businesses, many of the enterprises expressed dismay for what they saw as a “lack of appetite” for the large scale investments that led to such breakthroughs as the moon landing or the internet. They encouraged the Representatives to keep pursuing these large investments, as well as immigration and patent reform. “You have an important story to tell,” said Blumenauer. “Your experiences will help us work through these issues that aren’t getting the consideration that they deserve right now on Capitol Hill.”
08.07.2012	On Friday, information was released by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) regarding deferred action for undocumented youth, or childhood arrivals, and the process for who can apply and how. On June 15, 2012, the Obama Administration announced a new policy of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals whereby United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), a branch of DHS, was directed to design a process for certain young people residing in the U.S. to apply for deferred action and work permits. The process was directed to begin no later than August 15, 2012, and USCIS today affirmed their implementation of the process starting on August 15. This policy affects children who were brought here without documentation by family and parents, or who were kept here by family or parents after their visas lapsed, and who meet good moral character, education, military service and other requirements. Congressman Blumenauer applauded the announcement, saying the new policy “is good for children, and good for America.” He added, “This is a good step, but we must keep working for a common-sense path to citizenship for these children, who are here through no fault of their own.” www.uscis.gov/childhoodarrivals DOWNLOAD: Guidelines for Deferred Action [PDF]
08.03.2012	On Monday, Congressman Blumenauer met with OSPIRG (Oregon State Public Interest Research Group) Executive Director David Rosenfeld and OSPIRG canvassers Charlie, Sam, and McKenzie to hear about their experiences talking with Oregonians about the problems created when our tax dollars subsidize giant agribusiness and junk food ingredients. Since May, 2011, OSPIRG canvassers have talked with more than 25,000 residents of the Third Congressional District – and more than 70,000 Oregonians statewide. The OSPIRG representatives reported overwhelming support for Farm Bill reforms that would help Oregon farmers and ranchers provide nutritious local food for all Oregonians. Blumenauer vowed to keep the pressure on his Congressional colleagues to pass a more responsible and nutritious Farm Bill.
08.01.2012	Tax reform is a very complicated, very difficult endeavor. True reform—even if it benefits our country and citizens broadly—creates short-term winners and losers. Today, the House of Representatives had the opportunity to vote on the Senate-passed extension of tax cuts. Unlike the Republican plan that actually raises taxes on 25 million families by $1,000 on average by cutting the Child Tax Credit and the Earned income Tax Credit, and by reducing tax credits for education, the Senate-passed bill offered by House Democrats would give tax cuts to 100% of Americans on their first $250,000 of income. Instead of passing this sensible bill, Republicans want to extend tax cuts for the richest 2% of Americans, giving an annual cut of $160,000 to the average millionaire and driving the country even further into unnecessary debt. It's not right. Republicans also rejected my amendment that would have reinstated a sensible estate tax. My amendment would have protected family farms and small businesses without offering giveaways to super-wealthy estates. It would also have provided a measure of predictability to an area of tax law that has remained unsettled for 12 years. Claims that letting the tax cuts expire for the richest 2% will hurt the economy are baseless. Under President Clinton, the richest 2% paid a higher rate than they do now and we saw 22 million jobs created during his presidency. Under President Bush, we saw only 5% of that job growth. It's time to settle this issue, give all Americans a tax cut on the first $250,000 they make, and not waste nearly a trillion dollars over ten years giving more handouts to millionaires. Democrats: Tax Cuts for Certainty and Fairness for Everyone GOP: Holds Middle Class & Small Business Hostage for the Richest 2% Democratic Plan (H.R. 15) Republican Plan (H.R. 8) Extend 2001 & 2003 Tax Cuts for the Middle Class Yes. Yes. Extend 2001/2003 Tax Cuts on Income Above $250,000 No. All taxpayers continue to get tax cuts on the first $250,000 in income Yes. More tax breaks for the richest 2 percent, providing $160,000 for the average millionaire -- on top of the $1 million that they received over the last 9 years EXTEND TAX CUTS FOR STUDENTS AND WORKING FAMILIES YES. Continues current law on the American Opportunity Tax Credit for college, Child Tax Credit, and the Earned Income Tax Credit No. Raises taxes on 25 million families by $1,000 on average, by allowing the credit for college to end, as well as the expansion of the Child Tax Credit and the EITC Small Business Expensing MORE. Provides $297 million more than the GOP plan in small business tax relief -- allowing small businesses to write off more of their investments in capital equipment – up to $250,000 for purchases of new equipment of up to $800,000 LESS. Reduces the amount that small businesses can write off for capital equipment – down to $127,000 for purchases of new equipment of up to $510,000 Deficit DOWN. Ending tax cuts for the richest 2% reduces the deficit by $930 billion over 10 years UP. Increases the deficit by $50 billion in one year for more tax cuts for the richest 2% Estate Tax FISCALLY RESPONSIBLE. H.R. 16 ensures 99.7% of estates will not face any estate tax liability -- returning to the 2009 estate tax levels, with a $7 million exemption (per couple) and 45 percent rate MORE FOR A FEW. Provides more tax breaks averaging $2.4 million for the wealthiest 3,600 estates -- extending current law for one year, with a $10 million exemption (per couple) and 35 percent rate Alternative Minimum Tax 1 Year extension 2 Year extension Capital Gains & Dividends Extends current 15% rate for those making up to $250,000; returns to 20% for those making over $250,000 Extends current special 15% rate for taxpayers, including those making over $250,000
08.01.2012	Would Provide Desperately Needed Investment in America’s Clean Water Infrastructure WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), introduced the Water Protection and Reinvestment Act of 2012(HR 6249), a bill that will provide a deficit-neutral, consistent, and protected source of revenue to help states replace, repair, and rehabilitate critical wastewater treatment facilities. Over the past several years, America’s water infrastructure needs have grown to over $9.3 billion per year while federal funding for clean water has declined and averaged just over $1.25 billion a year since 2000. This enormous discrepancy pushes a higher and higher percentage of costs onto local governments and ratepayers, whose rates have grown at twice the pace of inflation in recent years. New sources of revenue, which will reduce consumer costs over the long term, are necessary to meet communities’ water infrastructure and environmental restoration needs. “We have dedicated funding for the nation’s transportation systems,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “It’s time to establish a similar trust fund to finance clean water infrastructure. We cannot continue to place the burden of protecting public health, restoring the environment, and reducing pollution on communities and individuals who are simply unable to afford it.” The Water Protection and Reinvestment Act would raise revenue by assessing small fees on a broad base of those who use water and contribute to water pollution. These revenue sources were analyzed in a recent Government Accountability Office report and are expected to raise around $6.5 billion a year. These funds would go to a variety of programs including grants and loans through the existing Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund (CWSRF), as well as grants for energy and water efficiency; sewer overflow control; research, development, and technology demonstration; and workforce development. The National Association of Utility Contractors estimates that for every $1 billion invested in water infrastructure, 26,000 jobs are created. Using that estimate, the Water Protection and Reinvestment Act would create at least 169,000 jobs over ten years. Numerous national organizations have expressed their support for the bill including the American Society of Civil Engineers, Association of General Contractors, Sierra Club, National Association of Clean Water Agencies, Rural Community Assistance Partnership, Water Infrastructure Network, International Union of Operating Engineers, American Council of Engineering Companies, American Rivers, American Public Works Association, Alliance for Water Efficiency, and United Association of Plumbers & Pipefitters. “For too long, those who are using vast amounts of water and contributing most to the pollution of our water have gotten free ride on the backs of taxpayers,” continued Blumenauer. “This broadly supported bill will make sure that everyone pays their fair share, and that the funds raised go to securing clean water for our future.” Statements of Support for the Water Protection and Reinvestment Act: Andrew W. Herrmann, P.E., President of the American Society of Civil Engineers: “America’s wastewater infrastructure systems are aging and overburdened. Unless new investments are made by 2020, unreliable and insufficient water infrastructure will cost the average American household $900 a year in higher water rates and lower wages. In addition, without these investments, businesses can expect an additional $147 billion in increased costs and the economy will lose nearly 700,000 jobs by 2020” Ken Kirk, CEO of the National Association of Clean Water Agencies “A Federal Clean Water Trust Fund is the only way to put real money on the table to help communities across the country struggling to meet the ambitious objectives and goals of the Clean Water Act. NACWA commends Congressman Blumenauer for introducing The Water Protection and Reinvestment Act of 2012, a bill that would generate much needed resources and enable us to start closing the water infrastructure funding gap. Every American deserves access to clean and safe water, and we urge Congress to swiftly enact this legislation.” David A. Raymond, President and CEO of the American Council of Engineering Companies “The American Council of Engineering Companies commends Representative Earl Blumenauer for introducing the "Water Protection and Reinvestment Act" -- bipartisan legislation that will create a budget-neutral mechanism providing over $7 B in sustainable annual funding for our nation's clean water infrastructure. The engineering community, along with our clean water partners, supports this legislation and hopes that it can move swiftly through Congress.” Peter B. King, Executive Director of the American Public Works Association: “APWA applauds Congressman Blumenauer for his leadership and commitment to local governments and infrastructure development. We strongly support the Water Protection and Reinvestment Act as it provides a much needed new and innovative funding mechanism for infrastructure projects. Public works professionals manage and operate clean water facilities in communities across the country and recognize there is a critical need for a federal partnership in assuring continuation of clean water.” Stephen E. Sandherr, Chief Executive Officer, The Associated General Contractors of America “Water Infrastructure is the last major public infrastructure category without a dedicated trust fund. We have seen great success with the “user pays” concept with highways, airports, harbors, and inland waterways, and we think that success can be replicated again. Allowing future investments to come from dedicated and sustainable long-term funding sources, instead of depending solely on unreliable and unpredictable annual appropriations, will provide market certainty for contractors and our municipal partners. With the estimated infrastructure needs soaring, and federal investment steadily declining, establishing and funding a clean water trust fund would help the construction industry create thousands of new jobs, secure vital economic growth, and protect our nation’s environmental and public health.” William P. Hite, General President of the United Association of Plumbers & Pipefitters “The United Association of Plumbers & Pipefitters strongly supports the Water Protection and Reinvestment Act introduced by Congressman Blumenauer. At a time when the construction industry is facing high unemployment while seeking to emerge from the national recession, this legislation not only puts people back to work, but also protects the health and safety of our country's water supply. Ensuring American families have access to clean, safe water is a top priority for the United Association and should also be a top priority for our elected officials in Washington, DC.” Robert Stewart, Executive Director of the Rural Community Assistance Partnership “Wastewater services are critical to community and economic development in rural America. The Water Protection and Reinvestment Act would provide a long-term, sustainable, dedicated funding source for wastewater infrastructure. With these funds, small towns would have access to the affordable financing they need to develop the infrastructure necessary to attract industry and entrepreneurs, create jobs, and protect public health and the environment.” Katherine Baer, Senior Director of the Clean Water Program for American Rivers “As we approach the 40th Anniversary of the Clean Water Act, It is time to redouble our effort to achieve clean water. We must embrace smart approaches to clean and reliable water that integrate green infrastructure, water efficiency and other innovation. By supporting these wise water infrastructure investments, the Water Protection and reinvestment Act will help us achieve clean water for generations to come.” Ken Kirk, Executive Director of the National Association of Clean Water Agencies “A Federal Clean Water Trust Fund is the only way to put real money on the table to help communities across the country struggling to meet the ambitious objectives and goals of the Clean Water Act. NACWA commends Congressman Blumenauer for introducing The Water Protection and Reinvestment Act of 2012, a bill that would generate much needed resources and enable us to start closing the water infrastructure funding gap. Every American deserves access to clean and safe water, and we urge Congress to swiftly enact this legislation.” Peter B. King, Executive Director of the American Public Works Association “Public works professionals have long known about the looming crisis within water infrastructure, including regulations, increased population growth, and constrained resources. Public works professionals need a long term dedicated source of funding, like the legislation introduced by Congressman Blumenauer today, to overcome these challenges and to continue provide clean and safe water to their communities and local environment.” Water Infrastructure Network “As America’s leading construction, engineering, conservation, labor, municipal, and manufacturing organizations, the members of the Water Infrastructure Network (WIN) strongly support the ‘The Water Protection and Reinvestment Act’ as introduced by Congressman Blumenauer. This legislation will establish for the first time a water trust fund, guaranteeing long overdue investment in our nation’s critical water infrastructure. ‘The Water Protection and Reinvestment Act’ will create nearly 2 million quality jobs in the short term and contribute to the long term competitiveness of American industry. Clean water is essential to the health of our economy our environment and our citizens.” National Utility Contractors Association “NUCA thanks Representative Blumenauer for introducing the Water Protection and Reinvestment Act of 2012. This legislation is fundamental to building capital for America’s deteriorating water infrastructure which will ultimately lead to more jobs and cleaner water.”
07.30.2012	Call for Immediate Passage in House to Extend Middle Class Tax Cuts WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Democrats today introduced legislation identical to the middle class tax cut bill that passed the Senate last week. The measure, H.R. 15, would extend the Bush tax cuts for households with incomes up to $250,000. The Senate’s 51-48 vote approving the legislation last Wednesday put the onus on House Republicans to quickly act so that middle-income families can rest assured that their tax cuts will be extended next year. Separately, Ways and Means Democrats also introduced legislation, H.R. 16, to reinstate the 2009 Estate Tax provisions (top rate of 45%, $3.5 million exemption) providing responsible estate tax relief and ensuring 99.7 percent of decedents will face no estate tax liability. The Republican bill spends approximately $9 billion more to provide a complete exemption from the estate tax for just 3,600 additional decedents. “House Republicans can and should pass this measure immediately to give certainty to middle class families,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI). “Republicans are holding up an extension of tax cuts for more than 100 million American families for the sake of a $160,000 average tax cut for 374,000 millionaires. It’s time they reset their priorities and put middle class families first.” "The only thing blocking this bill from reaching the President's desk is the stubbornness of House Republicans,” said Rep. Charlie Rangel (D-NY). “The legislation has already passed in the Senate and President Obama could easily sign it into law right away. Will House Republicans hold 98 percent of Americans hostage to benefit the wealthiest 2 percent? The time has come for them to join me and my colleagues in putting the average American first, instead of protecting a select group of millionaires and billionaires." “We all agree that extending tax cuts for the middle class is the right thing to do. Without action, 13.2 million middle class California families will see their federal income taxes increase by an average of $1,600,” said Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA). “What's unconscionable is House Republicans' decision to hold them hostage in order to win tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. These individuals don't go out and spend this money to rev up our economy: the more than 100 million middle class Americans who benefit from this tax break do. It's time to implement this smart, fair tax policy.” “The Senate-passed tax bill provides tax relief to 98% of Americans and it’s a plan that can pass,” said Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA). “I am sick of the hypocrisy among my Republican colleagues. First they say the economy isn’t growing because the tax cuts will expire and taxes will go up. Now they’re opposed to extending tax cuts for 98% of Americans because the richest 2% would get a big enough tax cut. Are the Republicans really worried about lowering taxes for Americans, helping their campaign donors, or simply saying ‘no’ to a real compromise and getting something done? I think the American people will see through the Republicans’ games and demand the relief that our bill and the Senate bill delivers.” “The 400 richest families in America today own more wealth than the half of all Americans combined-- more than 185 million Americans combined,” said Rep. John Lewis (D-GA). “In 1960 those 400 families would have paid around 50 to 70 percent of their income in taxes. Today they pay only around 15 percent. Meanwhile, the tax rate for middle class Americans has increased in that period from around 14 percent to about 20 percent. We applaud the success of the wealthy, but they are already experiencing unprecedented, dramatic reductions in their tax responsibilities. Just as every American reaps the benefits of living in this country, each should bear their fair share of responsibility and sacrifice. It’s not right for Republicans to stand in the way of tax relief for millions of families. The time to act is now.” "During these tough economic times, let's not waste any more time - let's extend the tax cuts for the 114 million American middle class families whose taxes are scheduled go up next year, including 2.5 million Massachusetts families,” said Rep. Richard E. Neal (D-MA). “This is something we all agree on - Republicans and Democrats - let's end this uncertainty for 98 percent of American families and pass this important legislation this week." “Everyone in Washington agrees that preventing a tax hike on working families is the right thing to do in these difficult economic times. Giving Americans some economic certainty and putting money in the pockets of middle-class consumers will help get our economy moving again and build a stronger future. But instead of doing what we all agree on – extending the middle class tax cut – Republicans are holding the middle class hostage to protect huge tax breaks for the very wealthiest Americans. Worse, their plan would actually raise taxes on 25 million lower- and middle-income families and add an additional $50 billion to the deficit next year alone,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson (D-CT). “With a $1-trillion deficit, the country simply can’t afford to keep giving out tax breaks to the wealthy and large corporations and still meet our pressing needs. That’s why Democrats are insisting that we ask the richest 2% of Americans to pay their fair share so that we can start paying down the deficit, create jobs and put people back to work.” “There’s no question we have to pass the Senate-passed tax bill this week, ending the Bush tax cuts for the richest 2% while extending them for everyone else,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR). “It’s not right give tax breaks to billionaire hedge fund managers and CEOs that allow them to pay lower tax rates than working people. The Senate-passed bill allows us to extend the cuts for 98% of the population, help cut the deficit, and protect Medicare and education.” “The GOP tax plan can be easily summed up this way: it’s a tax increase on U.S. military families. By ending tax breaks that benefit working, middle class families, our military families will take a direct hit under the Republican plan,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-NY). “I really don’t see how it’s justifiable or sensible to give a tax cut to the wealthiest among us, but at the same time increase taxes on U.S. soldiers. We have an obligation to reject this tax hike on our heroes and, instead, pass the Democratic proposal.”
07.24.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - All seven members of the Oregon Congressional Delegation today released the following joint statement after signing a bipartisan letter to Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta, expressing grave concerns regarding the proposed changes to National Guard pay and retirement identified in the 11th Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation (QRMC): "The proposal to change National Guard drill pay and retirement seems untenable. At a time when the Active Component is experiencing a reduction in forces, we question any plan likely to jeopardize National Guard recruitment and retention. We are particularly concerned with the detrimental effect on the retention of senior officers and noncommissioned officers should the QRMC recommendations be adopted. The Oregon National Guard deserves the best we have to offer for their service, and we ask for any further consideration of these proposals to proceed with the greatest caution." *Below please find the letter from the Oregon Congressional Delegation to Secretary Panetta.* # # # July 24, 2012 Honorable Leon E. Panetta US Department of Defense 1400 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1400 Dear Secretary Panetta: We are writing you today to express our grave concerns regarding the proposed changes to National Guard pay and retirement identified in the 11th Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation (QRMC). While we appreciate the desire to streamline the authority process for calling National Guard personnel to duty, the proposal to reduce National Guard drill pay by 50 percent and to compensate by providing an "end of year incentive payment" equal to 50 percent of annual drill pay seems untenable. Other proposals in the QRMC need to be defined. Vague QRMC statements such as "In particular, consider compensating reservists with a day's pay for a day's work, including entitlements" need be clarified before there can be any consideration of the proposed changes. The lack of specificity with regard to retirement is a cause of concern with the QRMC recommendations. Although the stated goal is to provide continuity between the Active Component and Reserve Component retirement plans, we fail to see such continuity. Active component retirement is payable on completion of 20 years of qualifying service, while the recommended changes to Reserve retirement require the service member to wait until the anniversary of their 30th year of service or age 60. Yet the effect of reducing the drill pay rate by 50 percent and subsequently reducing the retirement points awarded for drills is not addressed. At a time when the Active Component is experiencing a Reduction in Forces, we question any plan likely to jeopardize National Guard recruiting and retention. We are particularly concerned with the detrimental effect on the retention of Senior Officers and NCOs should these recommendations be adopted. We are proud of the sacrifices made by the members of the Oregon National Guard. They work hard to maintain a high level of readiness and have regularly been called up to serve in combat zones over the past 10 years. They deserve the best we have to offer for their service. What has been placed on the table by the QRMC is simply unacceptable. We ask you to carefully consider the potential negative impact of these recommendations on the recruiting, retention and morale of our citizen soldiers at a time when our country depends on them more than ever for our national security. Thank you for your continued service to our country. Sincerely, ____________________ KURT SCHRADER Member of Congress ____________________ PETER DeFAZIO Member of Congress ____________________ RON WYDEN U.S. Senator ____________________ EARL BLUMENAUER Member of Congress ____________________ SUZANNE BONAMICI Member of Congress
07.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer released the following statement regarding the Colorado shooting: I am deeply saddened by the horrific shooting last night in Aurora, Colorado. My thoughts are with the victims and their families and my heart goes out to the community as it begins to struggle with the aftermath of this tragedy.
07.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Earl Blumenauer released the following statement regarding the U.S. Department of Education waivers for the state of Oregon: Today, the U.S. Department of Education approved Oregon’s request for a waiver from certain negative penalties of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), more commonly known as the “No Child Left Behind Act.” This means that Oregon will retain more control over our educational system without risk of severe punishments, such as forced school restructuring. The flexibility waiver comes as a result of a bi-partisan effort of the Governor and other Oregon stakeholders, as well as a federal effort I supported that includes setting and implementing ambitious goals for improving educational outcomes in Oregon. This waiver will allow Oregon to pursue an approach to accountability in education that is a vast improvement over the one-size-fits-all mandates of No Child Left Behind. No Child Left Behind has left an unfortunate legacy within our nation’s school systems, forcing students, teachers and schools to over-rely on standardized test results that do not reflect the effectiveness of our efforts. We must reform this law to ensure that our children receive a well-rounded education that prepares them for the 21st century. Working together on the state and federal level, I know we can secure continued investment in science, technology, and mathematics training, as well as a focus on other issues such as environmental education, that will provide a world class education. Through these actions, we will secure the future prosperity of Oregon. The waiver announced today is a step in the right direction.
07.17.2012	Congressman Blumenauer this week met with delegation members of Mercy Corps’ guests from the All-China Youth Federation (ACYF). Blumenauer’s presentation to the delegation, entitled “US Federal Government Structure and Role in International Development,” included conversation with delegates about U.S.-China relations, both historically and today. The ACYF visitors are studying international aid and development, and about half are visiting the United States for the first time. When asked how to bridge the enormous geographic and cultural divide between China and the U.S., Congressman Blumenauer responded, “People want their families to be safe, healthy and economically secure – that never changes. So we start today at this individual level, meeting each other and having positive experiences of travel and cultural exchange. This is where we build the foundation that our governments and policies can build upon.”
07.16.2012	Congressman Blumenauer was delighted to give the welcome at the opening reception to the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR) on Sunday evening. SCAR is responsible for the coordinate of scientific research, considering issues of climate change, bio diversity and new ideas to address global issues that impact the Antarctic region. Portland State University is very proud to be hosting this international conference; it has been 26 years since this body has met in the United States. In his comments, Blumenauer noted the importance of the Antarctic to the world and the purpose of the original treaty to ensure “in the interests of all mankind that Antarctica shall continue forever to be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and shall not become the scene or object of international discord.”
07.13.2012	Congressman Blumenauer met with the incoming class of American Leadership Forum of Oregon (ALF). The focus of this statewide organization is to strengthen leaders and improve leadership skills promoting collaborative problem solving and diversity of background, race and geography. Blumenauer, a member of the founding class of ALF, welcomed Class 27 at Marylhurst College. “The political backdrop for your year is unprecedented. While there are deeper divisions and more polarization than ever before, this is a very exciting time. I know we can make progress. You have an opportunity to work together, improving your leadership skills that will benefit all of Oregon.”
07.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) announced that it would be releasing $250,000 (five $50,000 grants) to Oregon and the four other Pacific Coast states seeing a substantial increase in marine debris because of the tsunami that struck Japan in 2011. Upon hearing the news, Senator Ron Wyden, Senator Jeff Merkley, Congressman Peter DeFazio, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, Congressman Kurt Schrader, and Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici made the following joint statement: “NOAA’s release of these funds is great for Oregon and the Pacific Coast, indicative of the type of federal, state and local partnership that is necessary to cope with what is washing up along the coast on a daily basis. The debris poses a navigational hazard to our boaters and fishermen, an environmental hazard to the marine ecosystems, and a threat to the economy of our seaside towns that depend on their pristine beaches to attract tourists and businesses. So far, response and removal has proven to be challenging and costly. We have been working with federal agencies to identify ways to improve response and assist states with the cost of removal. This money is a step in the right direction and a positive sign that NOAA is responding to the tsunami debris issue promptly with concrete action. We look forward to working with NOAA and other stakeholders on these challenges going forward.”
07.12.2012	Representatives from AmeriCorps and Oregon Volunteers met with Congressman Blumenauer to discuss the importance of the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). The CNCS provides support to over 70,000 local and national nonprofits - including the American Red Cross, City Year, Habitat for Humanity, and Teach for America – programs that help drive community solutions in economically distressed urban, suburban and rural communities. Chair of Oregon Volunteers and Oregon Campus Compact Executive Director Emily Gilliliand, AmeriCorps VISTA member Lizzie Martinez, and AmeriCorps Alum Morgan St. Jean shared data as well as personal stories demonstrating how organizations supported by the CNCS have had a positive impact on the people of Oregon.
07.12.2012	Congressman Blumenauer met with Oregon Planned Parenthood Executive Director Laura Terrill Patten, Communications Director Jimmy Radosta, and Field Director Alicia Temple about the need to push back against those seeking to undermine women’s rights. Blumenauer, a longtime supporter of Planned Parenthood, affirmed his commitment to working with partners in Oregon and across the country to provide affordable, quality health care to women and families.
07.12.2012	Today, I was disappointed that the House passed the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2012 (H.R. 4402). Like many people, I am deeply concerned about our country's, and the world's, increasing dependence on unstable and unreliable Chinese mining practices to provide the "rare earth minerals" that our industries need. However, the legislation passed by the House waives almost all environmental laws for all types of hardrock mining, even though the mining of these materials can be extraordinarily dangerous and toxic. This incredibly broad waiver hurts communities, public lands, and the environment, and supports big, mining industries at the expense of the American taxpayer. I had hoped that H.R. 4402 would serve as an expression of our commitment to make sure the United States is properly supplied with these minerals that are essential for the economy and our national security. Instead, I am disappointed because my colleagues failed to tailor the legislation to specifically meet this need and included an overly broad definition of "rare earth minerals." This bill would have benefited from a clear definition of what the rare earth minerals are, which would have been achieved by an amendment offered by my colleague, Rep. Tonko. Instead, the sweeping exemptions from environmental regulations have created a partisan issue where none existed before. I sincerely hope that when this issue is revisited in the future, we are able to work in a bipartisan manner to strike a balance that allows us to acquire our necessary supplies in a way that is efficient, safe for our workers, and protects the environment.
07.06.2012	Congressman Blumenauer met with Jay Zidell and his development team for an update on their South Waterfront Brownfield Clean Up Project. The company is nearing completion of 43 acres of restoration, largely by removing contamination caused by years of ship building/ship breaking activities that left the property unusable. The site is adjacent to the Portland Milwaukie light rail bridge (under construction) with access to the Portland Streetcar and the tram, making it a good location for new development once the cleanup is completed. “I am extremely pleased to see the environmental cleanup that has taken place at this site," said Blumenauer. "The habitat improvements will make eventual development more fish and wildlife friendly, and serve as a model for sustainable development in the future.”
06.29.2012	Today's passage of a two-year transportation funding proposal is strangely anti-climactic. We've spent three years working on a bill that will last for just two. Over the weeks to come, it will be revealed how far short of the mark the bill falls. The policies in this bill do not get us to where we need to be. There is no national vision, no national goals. It does not help bring our transportation system into the 21st century, support local communities as they try to meet the diverse needs of their members, or protect the important safeguards we have supported to protect the environment. It shortchanges bike and pedestrian programs and eliminates the Safe Routes to School program. The bill makes it more difficult for metropolitan area to have control over their transportation planning and their ability to solve problems will be undercut. The offenses range from the serious and significant to the small and the petty. Absence of a rail title, important safety provisions, attacking environmental and community planning provisions, and the ability of metropolitan areas to guide their own future are serious flaws. Some are just inexplicably petty, like the refusal of the Republicans to allow "transit parity" to be part of the bill. Treating all commuters the same whether they take transit or drive would seem to make sense and have bipartisan support. Yet because "transit parity" was in the stimulus program and they are against the stimulus, it was rejected even though many Republicans agree that it is rational and good policy. Sadly, such is the manner in which too much of this legislation has been negotiated and presented to the House. The good news is that the bill is not nearly as bad as my Republican colleagues wanted it to be. Guaranteed funding for transit remains, as does some limited transportation enhancement funding, albeit dramatically reduced. The streamlining of environmental provisions could have been much, much worse. Make no mistake, I am deeply disappointed by this bill, but it is better than a system paralyzed by continued assaults on the program, attempts to starve the funding levels, and endless extensions. Two years of certainty will allow transportation departments to plan and build important projects and put people to work. There are other positive features to this bill beyond transportation. The Secure Rural Schools funding makes a difference for Oregon and a dozen other states, helping to stabilize small, hard-hit communities. Reauthorization of the Flood Insurance Program for the first time in seven years contains many positive features. The student loan provisions will help protect thousands of students from additional increases in their student loan debt. The finance title provisions that allow a higher level of transportation funding than the House Republicans proposed are provided in a way that will help stabilize and protect many private sector pension plans. It's particularly ironic that our vote on the transportation bill occurred this weekend, which is the 150th anniversary of the Transcontinental Railway Act, signed by Abraham Lincoln, and that today is the anniversary of the Highway Bill signed by Eisenhower. How unfortunate is the inability or unwillingness we see today on the part of Republicans to embrace the broader vision of these two presidents from their party of how to rebuild and renew our infrastructure.
06.29.2012	The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations (T-HUD) bill touches almost every aspect of American life. Regardless of where we live, work, and play we all need housing and transportation options that are safe, secure, and sustainable. Additionally, thousands of Americans need the jobs that only a fully funded and intelligent T-HUD bill will support. While I am heartened that this bill increases support from last year for Community Development Block Grants and assistance to homeless veterans, more still needs to be done. I also have concerns about many of the funding levels in the bill, particularly the low funding levels for Homelessness Assistance grants, housing counseling, and Small Starts and New Starts transit investment programs. I am also seriously concerned about the lack of TIGER funding. TIGER is the most popular Department of Transportation grant program, which faces a demand 400 times greater than supply of funds, and which jumpstarts critical transportation projects across the country. At a time when it is more important than ever to put Americans back to work, we should be taking advantage of every opportunity we have to rebuild and renew our communities, create American jobs, and support American businesses. As the Chairman of the Livable Communities Task Force, I am deeply disappointed that the legislation prohibits funding to the Sustainable Communities Partnership. These partnerships help communities build transit-oriented developments, expand location-efficient housing, and develop alternative transportation networks. Republican efforts to block this funding are a short-sighted mistake, which I strongly oppose. I am aware that we live in an unsure fiscal climate, and that belts are being tightened. However, investing in Sustainable Community Partnerships will not only help strengthen communities, but will increase the efficiency of government by reducing red tape, foster wise use of taxpayer dollars by coordinating efforts between agencies, and prevent unnecessary spending. These partnerships, together with other programs that allow local decision-making over investment decisions, help make our communities safer, healthier, and more economically secure. I reject the Republican failure to support these programs and I oppose this legislation. ###
06.28.2012	Today, the US Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that the individual mandate of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) was constitutional, and that the ACA, signed into law in 2010 by President Obama, could continue to provide enormous benefits, both in cost and coverage, to countless Americans. "The Court's decision should help put to rest this unnecessary and divisive political battle," said Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3). "By removing a cloud of uncertainty, we all should be able to get to work on implementation. The ACA will continue to protect Oregonians and Americans from financial ruin because of health care costs, insure more young adults, help people with preexisting conditions, expand Medicaid, and protect Medicare for future generations. Oregon can continue to be an innovator, improve the way we practice medicine, help make healthier families, and will make good on the federal government's $1.9 billion bet that Oregon can make health care better." The ACA has a very real effect for Oregonians in ways that can make all of us healthier and help us, and the government, save money: • Nearly 50,000 people with Medicare in Oregon received a $250 rebate to help cover the cost of their prescription drugs when they hit the donut hole in 2010. • Health plans are now required to allow parents to keep their children under age 26 without job-based coverage on their family coverage. As of December 2011, 43,000 young adults in Oregon gained insurance coverage as a result of the health care law. • Since the law was enacted, Oregon residents with Medicare have saved a total of $42,556,748 on their prescription drugs. • In 2011, nearly 390,000 people with Medicare in Oregon received free preventive services. • 1,356,000 Oregon residents, including 529,000 women and 342,000 children, are free from worrying about lifetime limits on coverage. • Oregon has received $64.7 million in grants for research, planning, information technology development, and implementation of Affordable Insurance Exchanges. • The 196 existing community health centers in Oregon. Health centers in Oregon have received $66.2 million to expand their capacities. Congressman Blumenauer will continue to work to build a healthier future for Americans on the foundation of the ACA, not just through improved health care laws and investment, but by fighting to create a cleaner environment, encouraging more active lifestyles, and improving education and nutrition. ###
06.19.2012	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer had a series of health care related events touching on a variety of topics from brain science to Oregon’s implementation of the Affordable Care Act to a speaking event before the Oregon Hospice Association. On Monday Blumenauer, the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus, held a Neuroscience Town Hall with faculty, researchers, clinicians, and students from Oregon Health and Science University. He recently introduced and successfully passed a bipartisan amendment to secure additional resources for Traumatic Brain Injury and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder in veterans. During the event, he reiterated his strong support for government investment in scientific research, and received feedback on how Congress could better serve the neuroscience community. Blumenauer gathered health care leaders on Tuesday for a roundtable to discuss implementation of health care reform in Oregon. “We have turned a corner – we cannot go back,” said Blumenauer. “With our advanced health insurance exchange, as the only state with two approved Consumer Oriented and Operated Plans, and a $1.9 billion investment from the federal government, I am proud that Oregon is leading the way.” Then on Wednesday, Blumenauer delivered the keynote address to the Oregon Hospice Association. “We need to be engaged with how health care is delivered,” he commented. “We have an opportunity to lead the way in creating a patient and family centered health care system. Hospice and palliative care gives us a model that provides patients and their families with knowledge and the power of choice.”
06.19.2012	Yesterday, Congressman Blumenauer addressed 700 members of the United Transportation Union (UTU) who gathered in Portland this week for their regional meeting. UTU represents 125,000 railroad and mass transit workers from across the country. UTU is set to merge with Sheet Metal Workers International Union next month to form SMART—the Sheet Metal, Air, Rail, and Transportation Union. Congressman Blumenauer eagerly defended federal transportation investment and the labor movement in his welcome address. “Thank you for coming to Portland but, most of all, thank you for working with me and our allies to push back against my colleagues in Washington who say we don’t need strong federal investment in transportation and infrastructure” said Blumenauer. “Now more than ever, when interest rates are at an all-time-low, it’s time to rebuild and renew America. Your union is taking steps to be SMARTer and more organized. With your efforts, we can make sure that a Federal Surface Transportation bill gets done, putting thousands to work.”
06.18.2012	On Friday, Congressman Earl Blumenauer joined more than 250 citizens, food professionals, agency employees and social justice advocates at Multnomah County’s 3rd Annual Food Summit. The Congressman encouraged attendees to become vocal champions of reforms to the federal Farm Bill, citing his own recommendations laid out in the “Growing Opportunities” report. “Every Oregonian has a stake in this important legislation: farmers, ranchers, and people who eat,” the Congressman said. “We ought to make sure this bill helps feed Oregonians through our Farmers’ Markets, the SNAP program, and our successful Farm to School programs.”
06.04.2012	Today at Mercy Corps, the Action Center hosted a free lecture by Jack Sim, founder of the World Toilet Organization. For over ten years, Sim has been drawing attention and funding to the collaborative work by NGOs, faith groups, governments and academics toward solving a pressing problem: the 2.6 billion people on earth who do not have access to safe sanitation and a clean toilet every day. Congressman Blumenauer opened the public lecture with an update on his pending legislation, HR 3568 The Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act. “Every 20 seconds, a child dies from an illness connected to dirty water, and today alone 200 million hours will be spent, mostly by women and girls, collecting water,” Congressman Blumenauer said. “But we know how to solve this problem, and it’s an area of rare, bipartisan support. Passing this bill will impact the poorest of the poor throughout the world on all the things we’re here to talk about – health, school attendance, food security, nutrition, environmental quality and economic development.” Jack Sim, Rep Blumenauer, and Dr. Charles B. Maclean, Senior Health Care Fellow at the Gladys Taylor McGarey Medical Foundation
05.31.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Representative Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) offered two amendments to the Military Construction and Veterans Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (MILCON). The bill appropriates funding for domestic and global military construction and also for veteran-related programs and facilities. A bipartisan amendment offered by the Blumenauer and Representative McMorris Rodgers, co-chairs of the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus, would ensure that the Veterans Administration continues to have the resources it needs to find innovative new medicines and enhanced diagnostics for soldiers and veterans suffering from traumatic brain injuries and post-traumatic stress disorder. It requires that no fewer than $35 million of the Medical and Prosthetic Research Account go toward post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury research and treatment in order to expedite a cure for hundreds of thousands of active duty personnel and veterans suffering the effects of brain- and psychological-trauma incurred during service. “We still have a very long ways to go if we are to fully understand how the brain’s 100 billion nerve cells grow, interact and are altered by our environment,” said Blumenauer. “What better first step could there be toward reaching this goal, a few short days after Memorial Day, than ensuring funding for effective treatments and therapies for post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury, which plague our military personnel who dutifully serve their country?” Representative Blumenauer, along with Representative Polis, also introduced an amendment to align the House bill with the Senate mark for the Energy Conservation and Investment Program by providing an additional $10 million, to $160 million, for planning and design of energy efficient buildings. “The Department of Defense uses over 300,000 barrels of oil per day and 3.9 billion kilowatt hours of electricity per year. That’s as much energy as my home state of Oregon,” continued Blumenauer. “I believe that the Pentagon and Congress have an obligation to taxpayers, who foot the Pentagon’s bill, to not only decrease the military’s overall level of energy consumption through efficiency efforts, but to move towards greater energy independence from Petro-Dictators.” Both amendments were adopted without any objection. Overall, MILCON provides $71.7 billion in discretionary spending for FY 2013, at last year’s level and $700 million below the Administration’s request. It also continues advance appropriations for VA health care by including $54 billion for FY 2014.
05.25.2012	This week, Congressman Blumenauer held a round table meeting with audiologists, optometrists, and dentists to discuss the importance of screening children for hearing, vision, and dental problems at a young age. Screenings are now widely available (such as hearing screenings in newborn babies), but the doctors expressed concern that majors barriers remain to using the results from these screenings and treating the discovered medical issues. For too many families, following up on screenings with therapies or getting corrective devices for their children is prohibitively expensive. Lack of follow up treatment however, can lead to increased disabilities and costs for those affected later in life. “Vision, hearing, and dental care often take a backseat in health care discussions, but a critical lack of access to these services is a symptom of our broken system,” Blumenauer said. He is a sponsor of Breaking Barriers to Oral Health Act that increases access to dental treatment in underserved communities, but wants to use the feedback from medical professionals to develop a greater framework to tackle these problems.
05.25.2012	“On Memorial Day, we take time to recognize the sacrifice of those men and women who gave their lives under the United States flag. In just and unjust wars alike, nothing can besmirch the bravery and loyalty of our nation’s soldiers who paid the most terrible price in the course of their service. “But, as we grieve for the dead, we remember our duty to the living. The families of fallen soldiers have often lost not only a mother, father, or best friend, but also a breadwinner who was the bedrock of their financial security. I consider it my duty, as a member of Congress, to ensure that these families, and the millions of struggling families like them, never fall through the cracks in our support system and do not suffer disproportionately because of cuts to vital assistance programs. I do not accept that expenditures on the machinery of war ought to take precedence over the needs of the hungry and downtrodden. “We must also remember our duty to the wounded soldiers who face a long journey to recovery. Their injuries can often be hidden from the naked eye. Almost one in five soldiers in the previous decade suffered a traumatic brain injury, and fifteen percent of veterans are diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. These harms may not be as visible as a missing limb, but can be even more damaging to a veteran’s future and relationships. “We have had successes in bringing greater awareness to this issue through the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus, including hosting Colonel Dallas Hack, M.D., director of the US Army Combat Casualty Care Research Program at a recent briefing. It is far past time that we fully committed the necessary resources to the treatment and diagnoses of these injuries, which is why I am offering an amendment to this week’s military construction legislation to do just that. “We will never forget the sacrifice that our soldiers have made, and we will rededicate and recommit ourselves to the twin ideals of creating a safe and secure home for them to return to, and working for a future where they don’t have to shed their blood in our name.”
05.24.2012	This week, Congressman Blumenauer joined Food Fight! author Dan Imhoff in a public event that focused on the importance of the federal Farm Bill. Imhoff, a well-known environmental writer, provided a wealth of information on how current federal farm policy impacts our ecosystems, nutrition, economy, and health. Blumenauer followed up with information about the importance of local advocacy and action in passing critical reforms to the Farm Bill as it comes up for reauthorization this summer. “Today, 87% of Oregon farmers and ranchers get no benefit from the Farm Bill,” said Blumenauer. “A reformed Farm Bill, however, could have a transformational effect on rural economies, local food supplies, climate change, and even the political process.” Event sponsors Ecotrust, Slow Food, Friends of Family Farmers, and Salmon Safe offered resources and ideas to attendees on getting involved and making a difference.
05.23.2012	Small businesses are the backbone of communities across the country. As a part of National Small Business Week, Congressman Blumenauer met with “Wake up and Smell the Coffee” to talk about issues that concern small business owners. The discussion was convened by The Main Street Alliance of Oregon, an organization made up of small business owners promoting vibrant businesses and healthy communities as well as fostering leadership development among socially responsible business leaders. About 20 small business owners from various sectors, including real estate, software, and nursery agriculture were in attendance. National Small Business Week gave The Main Street Alliance an opportunity to address many of the challenges facing small businesses, help them grow their ventures, and create good, well paying jobs. “Listening to the claims of some of the biggest business lobby groups, it would be easy to conclude that the primary concerns of small business owners are cutting taxes and gutting regulations. This would be a serious mistake,” the group’s agenda explains. Rather, the proposals presented by the Alliance are far more nuanced and, among them, many issues Blumenauer has worked to advance: investing in local infrastructure projects, instituting a strong Volcker rule and financial speculation tax to limit risky Wall St trading, defending the Affordable Care Act, and comprehensive immigration reform. “Health care reform, equitable solutions to tax reform, campaign finance, and farm policy – these are areas where small, local businesses in Oregon may have a different perspective than their national big business counterparts,” Blumenauer said. “I applaud you for highlighting the importance of these issues, your priorities, the work that must be done, and telling your story.”
05.23.2012	Mick Jagger, Sting, Lenny Kravitz, Bryan Adams, Lana Del Ray join Dave Matthews Band, Willie Nelson, Bonnie Raitt, Jack Johnson, fun., Maroon 5 and many others in defense of Lacey Act. WASHINGTON (May 23, 2012) – Pledging to keep the instruments they love free from illegally-harvested wood, some of the biggest names in the music industry are taking aim at an effort in Congress to eliminate the law that prevents the importation of wood from protected forests. Artists including the Rolling Stones’ Mick Jagger, Sting, Lenny Kravitz, Bryan Adams, Lana Del Ray and Duran Duran’s Simon Le Bon are just the latest musicians to urge lawmakers, suppliers and craftsmen to protect the law known as the Lacey Act, which ensures that musical instruments are made from safe, sustainable, legally-harvested wood. Illegal logging practices in Madagascar and elsewhere have destroyed forest areas, killed wildlife, and often employ child or slave labor to fell forests. “A chorus of the biggest names in music is opposing this Tea Party-led effort to eliminate the Lacey Act, which would open the floodgates to increased illegal logging,” said Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “Killing this vital law would create a new era of ‘blood instruments’ and destroy consumers’ freedom and confidence to buy products that are made from safe and sustainable wood.” “This incredible list of performers and music legends illustrates the breadth of backing that the Lacey Act has across all segments of society,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.). “They clearly understand that the Lacey Act is not even remotely about persecuting musicians, but preserving the natural resources of the developing world and protecting jobs and industry here at home from fraud and illegal activity abroad. Their support is music to my ears.” For over a century, the Lacey Act has enjoyed bi-partisan support and been a primary tool in the effort to combat wildlife crime. In 2008, amendments to the act prohibited the import of illegally-logged wood, helping to protect the U.S. logging industry which was losing jobs and a billion dollars a year to illegal logging outfits overseas. The Lacey Act was the focus of a Natural Resources Committee hearing on May 8, 2012. Adam Gardner of Reverb and the band Guster testified on behalf of the musicians, and offered the pledge to protect the Lacey Act that has now been signed by 40,000 musicians and individuals as evidence of support for the law. The pledge against supporting blood instruments now includes: Dave Matthews Band, Bonnie Raitt, David Crosby, Willie Nelson, Jack Johnson, Maroon 5, Jack Antonoff, F.U.N., Jason Mraz, Bob Weir, Barenaked Ladies, Brad Corrigan (Dispatch), Pat Simmons (Doobie Brothers), Ray Benson (Asleep at the Wheel), The Cab, Of a Revolution (O.A.R), Ryan Dobrowski and Israel Nebeker (Blind Pilot), Brett Dennen, Guster, Razia Said, Mick Jagger (Rolling Stones), Sting, Lenny Kravitz, Bryan Adams, Lana Del Ray, Simon Le Bon (Duran Duran), Lily Allen, My Morning Jacket, Jools Holland, Debbie Harry, Richard Bona Quotes from musicians: Bryan Adams: “This pledge is a way of showing lawmakers that musicians stand behind forests, not illegal logging.” Stefan Lessard, founding member and bassist for Dave Matthews Band: “Dave Matthews Band has been putting forth many efforts to reduce the environmental impact of our touring for over a decade. There are no other products more directly connected to our music than the instruments we use to play it. We need to keep the laws that are in place to help ensure the wood for these instruments is sourced in a legal and environmentally sound way.” Jason Mraz: "Every musician wants to jam on instruments they can feel good about. The Lacey Act helps ensure that our art has a positive impact on the environment rather than contributing to forest destruction.” Adam Gardner, Guster: “Our fans don’t want to see us playing a guitar, violin, or piano made from illegal wood, wood stolen from a national park, or harvested using slave and child labor and violence.”
05.23.2012	Congressman Blumenauer met with representatives of MetroEast Community Media who presented him with a thank you card for his support of the Community Access Preservation (CAP) Act. Modifications to the law under the Cable Act resulted in many community cable access stations across the country closing down. The CAP Act would restore funding for public, educational, and government (PEG) programming eliminated by some state laws, allow PEG funding to be used for operating expenses, and prevent operators from discriminating against PEG channels. “In a time when there are so many media sources available, it is actually more important than ever to keep people informed and grounded to local news and events,” commented Blumenauer. “Community media fills that vital role.”
05.23.2012	Congressman Blumenauer visited a “Wake up and Smell the Coffee” discussion on small business. The discussion was convened by The Main Street Alliance of Oregon, an organization made up of small business owners promoting vibrant businesses and healthy communities as well as fostering leadership development amongst socially responsible business leaders. About 20 small business owners from various sectors, including real estate, software, and nursery agriculture were in attendance. National Small Business Week gave The Main Street Alliance an opportunity to present a policy agenda to address many of the challenges facing small businesses, help them grow their ventures, and create good, well paying jobs. “Listening to the claims of some of the biggest business lobby groups, it would be easy to conclude that the primary concerns of small business owners are cutting taxes and gutting regulations. This would be a serious mistake,” the group’s agenda explains. Rather, the proposals presented by the Alliance are far more nuanced and, among them, many issues Blumenauer has worked to advance: investing in local infrastructure projects, instituting a strong Volcker rule and financial speculation tax to limit risky Wall St trading, defending the Affordable Care Act, and comprehensive immigration reform. “Health care reform, equitable solutions to tax reform, campaign finance, and farm policy – these are areas where small, local businesses in Oregon may have a different perspective than their national big business counterparts,” Blumenauer said. “I applaud you for highlighting the importance of these issues, your priorities, the work that must be done, and telling your story.”
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record regarding the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (NDAA): Today, I voted against the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2013. While nothing is more important than keeping America and our men and women in uniform safe, this legislation wastes too much money and represents another missed opportunity for greatly needed reform. The NDAA offered by the Majority is an example of Congress’ inability to make hard choices on defense spending. Instead they opted for an “all of the above” strategy that put the funding of an already bloated military budget ahead of any semblance of fiscal responsibility – unbelievably, this authorization will consume 57 percent of our total discretionary budget and provide $8 billion more than the cap for defense set by the Budget Control Act. Congress needs to show leadership and prove that we have the ability to make difficult choices. That’s why I, along with Representatives Barbara Lee and Barney Frank, introduced an amendment to cut defense spending for Fiscal Year 13 by $8 billion, aligning this bill with the levels authorized by the Budget Control Act. It’s clear to people across the nation that we can no longer separate national security from fiscal responsibility. Congress needs to get that message. Last week, a Stimson Center poll found that, on average, Americans feel the defense budget should go down by 18 percent in 2013. In addition to the public, budget hawks and military experts also agree that we need to cut defense spending. Instead, we’ll decrease spending by less than half of one percent. In addition to containing excessive spending on weapons systems that correspond to threats that no longer exist, the bill contains a number of harmful policy provisions. It fails to expedite a rapid and secure withdrawal from Afghanistan; an amendment to the bill that I voted for would have made some progress on detainee provisions, but failed; NDAA prevents the administration from closing Guantanamo once and for all; and, it erodes the New START treaty aimed at decreasing the size of America’s nuclear arsenal. Without more cuts to the Pentagon, we undermine the very security here at home we aim to protect through military spending. Crumbling bridges and roads, failing schools, and a massive national debt all pose a greater national threat to America’s power abroad than modest and reasonable cuts to defense spending. President Eisenhower once said, “Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired signifies, in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and not clothed.” Those words still ring true today. Even though my amendment did not become part of the final bill, I will not stop fighting to cut wasteful military spending that actually weakens our country.
05.18.2012	This year’s Congressional Art Competition resulted in a truly impressive selection of artwork from around Oregon’s third district. This year, we received art from Sandy, Rex Putnam, Reynolds, and David Douglas High Schools, as well as Pacific Crest Community School. Submissions included examples of black and white photography, watercolor, scratchboard, vibrant pastels, and more, with subject matter too varied to describe in this entry. After hours of careful consideration, David Douglas High School senior Moises Valiente took the competition with an intricate self-portrait in pen and graphite entitled “Stream of Consciousness.” Moises will head to Washington, DC this June to see his unique piece hung in the Capitol building alongside winning entries from all over the country. “It’s always a pleasure for me to send a talented young artist to Washington to represent our district,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The Congressional Art Competition shows us that education isn’t just about tests and grades, it’s about fostering an appreciation for the arts in our youth and creating well-rounded citizens.”
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer released the following statement regarding the Smith-Amash Amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (NDAA): Today I voted in favor of the Smith-Amash Amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. This amendment repeals the most egregious detainee provisions – making absolutely clear that the U.S. cannot indefinitely detain anyone on U.S. soil, completely removes mandatory military custody requirements, and requires expedited transfer for trial . I expressed concern about the uncertainty of these provisions when I voted against last year’s NDAA and I am disappointed that this amendment was voted down by my colleagues. I will continue to fight to eliminate these and other egregious detainee provisions from law and push for further reform to protect Americans civil liberties and moral standing.
05.17.2012	Last week Congressman Blumenauer visited Brightworks, a sustainable consulting company headquartered in Portland. Brightworks has offices up and down the west coast and has helped numerous organizations, public and private, achieve greater ecological, social, and economic sustainability in their operations and building design. In Portland, Brightworks employs 18 people and has 6 employees in Washington and California. An example of one of their projects is helping Oregon Health and Sciences University (OHSU) design their Center for Health & Healing, saving OHSU $500,000 a year in operational costs . In the last 10 years of consulting, Brightworks is projecting to have saved their clients $8.5 Million annually in operational costs. “It’s an honor to have Brightworks here in Portland. The work they do, reaching a wide range of clients like Chevron, Facebook, and the federal government, is vital to making our communities cleaner, safer, and more secure” said Blumenauer. “Companies like Brightworks are integral in showing the federal government how to lead by example by using tax dollars in a more efficient, sustainable manner.”
05.16.2012	The Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) is one of the great legislative successes of the past 20 years. Since 1994, when VAWA was signed into law by President Clinton, it has helped millions of women by funding community violence prevention programs and a variety of victim assistance services across the country. VAWA was reauthorized in 2000, and again in 2005 under President Bush. The act received broad, bipartisan support in both of those reauthorizations because of the vital services it provides to women who are victims of domestic or intimate partner violence through no fault of their own. This year, VAWA is due to be reauthorized again. I strongly support the passage of another robust, inclusive VAWA like the versions we have had in the past. The Senate has passed such a bill with bipartisan support by a vote of 68-31, with 15 Republicans voting in favor. The legislation passed by the Senate strengthens current law to ensure protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) victims, and provides recourse for Native American victims assaulted on tribal land by non-tribal perpetrators. It also increases the number of emergency visas available for individuals who immigrate to the US on a marriage or fiancé visa and find themselves in an abusive relationship. I would proudly vote for the Senate version of this bill. Unfortunately, the version of VAWA brought for a vote by the Majority Republicans in the House of Representatives is the first proposed piece of VAWA legislation to actually roll back rights, rather than increase them. Not only does it not include any of the new provisions in the Senate bill, but it goes so far as to remove current confidentiality protections for victims who still have immigrant status and are attempting to report abuse or assault . It also reduces violence reporting requirements for colleges and universities. I could not, in good conscience, support this bill. Furthermore, advocacy groups including the Oregon Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence, United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, National Organization for Women, National Network to End Domestic Violence, Futures Without Violence, Break the Cycle, and various tribal groups oppose the House version and support the Senate bill. While VAWA has done an incredible job helping women over the past 18 years, there are still millions of women who are victims of violence in our country. They need a reauthorized VAWA that is more, not less, inclusive. I will continue to work to make sure that the final VAWA that is passed protects all women and does not play politics with their health and safety.
05.15.2012	On Monday, May 14, Congressman Earl Blumenauer visited the ACE Academy, a public, tuition-free charter high school that focuses on Architecture, Construction, and Engineering (ACE). A partnership between the Oregon Building Congress and Centennial, Gresham-Barlow, Parkrose, and David Douglas School Districts, the 3-year-old Academy employs educators and building professionals to teach math, science, English and specific design, engineering, and construction skills to approximately 150 junior and senior high school students. “It’s fascinating to learn how these high school students have applied their technical knowledge to create remarkable scale models of the new Sellwood Bridge and the renovated federal Edith Green/Wendell Wyatt Federal Office Building,” noted Blumenauer. “ACE Academy clearly demonstrates how a partnership between public schools, the trades, and local businesses can help students gain a foothold in the skills needed to build our communities and rebuild our infrastructure.”
05.14.2012	At the beginning of May I sent a letter, with 34 of my colleagues, to encourage Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke to implement the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule would make it harder for banks to make risky investments that could lead to another crisis or the loss of customer funds. It will also create fewer conflicts of interest because banks will no longer be directly pitting the interests of their customers against their desire for profit. We again saw last week why these kinds of protection are so important when J.P. Morgan Chase lost billions of dollars on risky bets. Now is the time for both parties in Congress to embrace the need for this vital regulation so that the wheeling and dealing of banks can’t launch us into another financial crisis. Below, I have included the letter we sent and an article that I think demonstrates how implementation of a strong Volcker Rule would have prevented this loss and would prevent future similar events. Letter to Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke We write as the original sponsors, co-sponsors, and supporters of the effort to establish a strong wall between our nation’s core banking system and high-risk, potentially conflicted trading activities. This wall, commonly known as the Volcker Rule, was established by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2012 and will become effective in this July. We urge you to fully implement a clear, strong, and effective Volcker Rule without delay… Read the full letter here. Why We Regulate – New York Times One of the characters in the classic 1939 film “Stagecoach” is a banker named Gatewood who lectures his captive audience on the evils of big government, especially bank regulation — “As if we bankers don’t know how to run our own banks!” he exclaims. As the film progresses, we learn that Gatewood is in fact skipping town with a satchel full of embezzled cash… Read the full article here.
05.08.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer released the following statement on the first meeting of Surface Transportation Conference Committee: “Today, I had the opportunity to sit down with my colleagues from both chambers of congress to discuss the future of surface transportation investment. Renewing and rebuilding America should be one of our very top priorities as our infrastructure continues to deteriorate, congestion costs Americans more than $85 billion a year, and we collectively spend 4.2 billion hours a year stuck in traffic. “This bill should not be a vehicle to attach political projects and poison pills designed to divide us, such as the Keystone pipeline or a provision blocking the EPA from protecting public health by regulating coal ash. Instead, it should be about putting tens of thousands of our fellow citizens back to work. The transportation bill is a jobs bill. “I hope that as the conference committee moves forward it can address issues such as preserving funding for bike lanes and pedestrian walkways, keeping the Senate-passed NEPA provisions and ‘Fix-It-First’ language, and encouraging transportation infrastructure companies to invest in American businesses with the ‘Buy America’ language. Furthermore, I strongly support efforts to ensure transit parity so that all commuting modes are treated equally. “This conference is an opportunity to adopt many of the provisions from the Senate bill that passed with broad, bipartisan support, and I am excited to continue working with the conference committee to make that happen.”
05.08.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement regarding the Budget Committee markup of bills to replace automatic budget cuts: “Last night, we saw very clearly in the Budget Committee that there is a stark difference between the views that Republicans and Democrats have for how to move our country forward and reduce the deficit without triggering the arbitrary and capricious cuts from an uncontrollable sequester. Time and time again, my Democratic colleagues and I offered common sense, concrete proposals that would reduce the deficit without placing the burden entirely on the most vulnerable members of our society, but were shut down by the Republicans on the committee. “Republicans continue to focus on Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} minutiae and pulling out individual stories of where our current support system has failed, but refuse to acknowledge all of the irreplaceable good that programs like SNAP and meals-on-wheels provide. They would rather help millionaires than mothers, and would rather give aid to farmers who don’t need subsidies than families who don’t have food. Those are not my priorities, are not the priorities of the people I represent." Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} minutia
05.08.2012	RELIEF Act and FOCUS Act would undermine efforts to prevent illegal logging and importing WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer testified before the Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife, Oceans and Insular Affairs on two bills that would repeal significant portions of the Lacey Act. Download Rep. Blumenauer's Testimony [PDF] The Lacey Act, originally passed in 1900, prohibits trade in products that were illegally harvested in their country of origin. In 2008, the Act was amended to add provisions of the Legal Timber Protection Act, legislation authored by Congressman Blumenauer, which would include wood and wood products in this prohibition. Illegal logging threatens not only ecologically important forests around the world but also subjects the U.S. forest products industry – including many in Oregon - to unfair and illegal competition. The two bills that are under consideration today, the RELIEF Act (H.R. 3210) and the FOCUS Act (H.R. 4171), would devastate these protections by reducing financial penalties for violators, gutting longstanding forfeiture requirements, exempting non-solid wood products, removing many of the enforcement mechanisms needed to carry out the law, and removing the requirement that U.S. companies comply with certain foreign laws. “There is so much that’s broken in our government,” said Congressman Blumenauer, “that it seems a terrible shame to take the Lacey Act, one of the best examples of effective legislation we have, and smash it into pieces. The Lacey Act not only protects the resources of developing nations from exploitation, but jobs here at home. With the RELIEF and FOCUS Acts, we’re talking about no longer requiring U.S. companies to follow the laws of other countries in which they do business.” The amendments to the Lacey Act in 2008 were developed by a broad coalition including the timber industry, consumers, importers, labor unions, and conservationists, and they passed with the support of Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate as well as the Bush administration. Opposition to the RELIEF and FOCUS Acts is also broad, including the League of Conservation Voters, the Hardwood Federation, the American Forest and Paper Association, the Sierra Club, and the United Steelworkers. “We have representatives from the American timber industry sitting down with environmental advocates and government regulators,” continued Blumenauer. “They are all committed to making the Lacey Act work rather than undermining its effectiveness. Everyone’s on the same page, except for the very fringe who don’t want to play by the rules under any circumstances.”
05.03.2012	On April 30th, Congressman Blumenauer met with Hispanic leaders from a variety of Oregon organizations to discuss issues that impact underrepresented communities. The event was held at Teatro Milagro (Miracle Theater), Portland’s leading Hispanic cultural arts center, on the Monday morning before their next production is set to open, Oedipus del Rey. Over coffee and pan dulce (sweet breakfast breads), the participants provided Blumenauer with wide-ranging perspectives on the most pressing issues facing Hispanics in Portland, Oregon and around the country. The importance of using education, sustainability and inherent community strengths as positive anti-poverty strategies was a consensus among all attendees. Other issues included jobs, workforce investment, sustainability and diversity in both local communities and the workplace, as well as specific legislation including the DREAM Act, STAPLE Act, StartUp Visa Act – all of which the Congressman supports enthusiastically. Congressional proposals to increase student loan interest rates and end the Child Tax Credit for certain taxpayers (targeting a group of taxpayers that is 80% Hispanic) were discussed; Blumenauer voiced his support for fighting back against them both. “It’s past time to deal with the millions of people who are already here and part of the fabric of our communities,” Blumenauer said. “Often, they are families that include children who are citizens and our current policies inflict damage to these family ties, especially to the children, and not to mention that some of our current policies deny smart people who are educated at great expense – at some of the finest institutions in America – the ability to remain at work here. They end up being hired by foreign overseas competitors or American companies have to create jobs overseas. Ultimately what will help us unwind these problems, save money and heartache, and get about the business of building a stronger American future for all of our families is to address things holistically, which so many of you and your organizations are doing today.” Participants at the event included representatives from Hacienda Community Development Corporation (HCDC), Verde (a non-profit organization that works to train Latinos primarily in green jobs), Catholic Charities of Oregon, the Oregon Commission on Hispanic Affairs, Oregon ACLU and Oregon Hispanic Bar Association, the Center for Diversity and the Environment, the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, PCUN (Pineros y Campesinos del Noroeste) and community organizers from Multnomah and Washington counties.
05.01.2012	“Taxpayers have had enough of bailing out banks who will take any risk and make any gamble if it could raise their bottom line. In 2008, when crisis hit, the financial system was stacked so the entire burden of these ill-advised maneuvers fell on American citizens. The Volcker Rule, which was established by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, is designed to further protect consumers from this kind of financial crisis, and is scheduled to go into effect in July of this year. “The Volker Rule’s mandate is to vigorously address systemic risk and conflicts of interest in major capital market activities. Its provisions separate core credit extension and customer banking services from hedge fund-like trading activities, eliminate egregious conflicts of interest in bank trading activities, and address similar risks at systemically significant non-bank financial firms. “So, what does this mean for you? “It means that when the Volker Rule is implemented, the banks where you save your hard-earned money will be less able to use it to make risky investments that could lead to another crisis or the loss of your funds. It will also create fewer conflicts of interest because banks will no longer be directly pitting the interests of their customers against their desire for profit. “Today, I, along with 34 other members of the House of Representatives, sent a letter to the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Ben Bernanke [PDF], encouraging him to implement the Volker Rule. “The American people suffered greatly because of the financial crisis. The Volcker Rule is a critical protection to help ensure that such a crisis does not happen again. The economy needs these protections, and you deserve these protections.” A copy of the letter can be found here.
04.27.2012	IMPACT Act Would Preserve Wind Energy Tax Credit, Provide Manufacturing Incentives, Push Heavy Duty Natural Gas Vehicles WASHINGTON – Several top House Democrats today introduced legislation that would end subsidies given to the largest oil companies, and instead extend incentives for onshore and offshore wind and other renewable energy production, electric vehicle and clean energy manufacturing, energy efficient appliances and homes, and a new era of natural gas-powered vehicles. The bill represents the energy priorities that Americans have been calling for, namely an end to help for highly-profitable oil companies that need no assistance, and the production of American-made clean energy technologies that will cut our dependence on oil and create a new generation of American jobs. The bill comes as ExxonMobil, Shell, Chevron and ConocoPhillips have reported combined profits of more than $26 billion in just the first three months of 2012. The bill, the IMPACT Act (Investing to Modernize the Production of American Clean Energy and Technology), was introduced today by Reps. Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Henry Waxman (D-Calif.), John Larson (D-Conn.), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-N.J.). By cutting major loopholes for oil companies, even after extending vital clean energy and natural gas and fuel cell programs, the bill would still reduce the federal deficit by more than $11 billion over 10 years. A summary of the bill is below, and a summary fact sheet is available HERE. Full text of the legislation is available HERE. -- Extends for 8 years the Production Tax Credit for wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, landfill gas, hydropower, and marine and hydrokinetic power production. The wind industry alone has said that 37,000 jobs will be lost next year without this extension. --Extends for 2 years the 1603 Renewable Energy Grant Program. The National Renewable Energy Laboratory estimates this expired program that began under the Recovery Act has created more than 75,000 direct jobs. --Supports the construction of the first 3,000 megawatts of U.S. offshore wind facilities --Gives new tax credits for the construction of new and modified American facilities for manufacturing clean energy technologies. --Increases incentives to purchase all-electric cars to reduce oil use and pollution. --Extends expired tax credits for 50 percent greater energy efficient homes for the manufacture of high-efficiency appliances --Pushes for the development of more fuel pumps serving electric, natural gas, and fuel cell vehicles. -- Extends expired tax credits for natural gas trucks that can use American fuel to deliver goods to Americans. --The bill ends $44.8 billion in subsidies for the largest oil companies by eliminating six tax breaks. “When Americans are still paying $4 for a gallon of gas in many parts of the country, Americans shouldn’t also be handing over $4 billion a year in tax breaks to Big Oil when we could be helping manufacture the clean energy and natural gas alternatives to foreign oil,” said Rep. Markey, who is the Ranking Member of the Natural Resources Committee. “Budgets in American households and in the House of Representatives both hand over too much money to oil companies, and it needs to end as the gas pump and at tax time.” “The only real solution to our energy challenges is to reduce our dependence on oil by making a transition to the clean energy technologies of the future,” said Rep. Waxman, the Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “This bill helps us down that road by ending the billions of dollars in unjustified subsidies the oil companies receive every year and using the funds to support investments in clean energy, including electric and natural gas vehicles and wind and solar energy.” “This is a win-win situation for the American people,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Not only will the bill stop many of the extraordinarily wasteful and unjustified tax breaks for oil companies, but the production tax credit for sustainable energy sources will provide stability, encourage investment in these technologies, and save thousands of jobs.” “As President Obama has said, we need an all the above energy policy that will help us build a stronger future for the nation,” said Rep. Larson, the Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. “From natural gas, to fuel cells, to clean energy, we have a wide range of energy choices that not only put us on a path to energy independence, but also have the potential to create hundreds of thousands of jobs across the country that will last for generations to come.” “Wind projects show what should be the twin goals of this Congress,” said Rep. Pascrell. “First, they are an important source of jobs, from manufacturing and construction, to research and development. Second, these farms projects provide a renewable, clean source of domestic energy production that helps to reduce our dependence on foreign energy sources.”
04.27.2012	Security and privacy are not mutually exclusive. The intelligence community – within government and the private sector - has the tools necessary to keep us safe without compromising our civil liberties. Unfortunately, the bill before the House today, H.R. 3523, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA), treats privacy and civil liberties as obstacles to cybersecurity. Therefore, I oppose this legislation. Just as the Internet has revolutionized the way people do business, learn, and interact, it has also transformed the nature of the threats against our national security. Every day bad actors - rogue states, terrorist organizations, and hackers – attempt to infiltrate America’s cyber networks. Some security experts warn that a cyber attack poses the greatest threat to our national security. The intent of CISPA is laudable. Cybersecurity experts in government and the private sector agree that the biggest impediments to strengthening cybersecurity are the obstacles preventing the sharing of cyber threat information. If one network is attacked, other networks could benefit from information pertaining to that attack. However, CISPA fails to adequately protect civil liberties in facilitating this information sharing. CISPA preempts all other provisions of law, including critical privacy laws. The bill does not define “national security” at all, leaving that to the discretion of private entities and the government. The definition of “cybersecurity threat” is too broad and could allow the sharing of private information that does not relate to a real threat. The bill also does not require that the data is scrubbed of key information that may identify individuals. Once this information is shared, it is supposed to be used only for cybersecurity or national security purposes. But again these terms are undefined or only partially defined, leaving open the potential that this information may be abused in a way that does not relate to a real threat. Strengthening America’s cybersecurity is a bipartisan issue. It should be done in a thoughtful and deliberate manner to ensure that we are securing the country while still protecting our civil liberties guaranteed by the Constitution. Unfortunately, CISPA falls short.
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) was named to the Conference Committee on the Surface Transportation Reauthorization Bill (H.R.4348 and S.1813). Congressman Blumenauer was the only Democratic Representative from the House Ways and Means Committee designated as a conferee. Congressman Blumenauer is uniquely positioned to serve on the Conference Committee and represent public interests in the bill as he was a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee for eleven years, and is a current member of the Ways and Means Committee, on which he has served for six years. He has been a lifelong, and leading, advocate for progressive transportation policies, building a nationwide coalition of transportation advocates who have helped push a progressive agenda at the national level. “I am pleased and honored to be designated for this position by Leader Pelosi and Ranking Member Levin,” said Blumenauer. “I appreciate their confidence in the work that I have been doing on the Ways and Means Committee to promote investment in infrastructure and America’s future. “My sincere hope is this will be a meaningful conference that marks the start of genuine progress on infrastructure during the 112th Congress. Having worked on infrastructure finance in Congress and across the country for years, I look forward to the opportunity to be a voice for sound infrastructure financing and transportation policy. “Over the coming weeks, I look forward to many constructive conversations with my colleagues, constituents, and transportation advocates as I take advantage of this opportunity.”
04.20.2012	
04.13.2012	Representatives Earl Blumenauer and Suzanne Bonamici hosted a day-long series of events to highlight Oregon’s agricultural community and its impact on health and the economy. Events included a tour and roundtable with local farmers, an overview of Farm-to-School food programs in the Beaverton School District, and a forum featuring local stakeholders from farms, food production and processing, food service, and hunger-related organizations. The discussion focused on food and agricultural policies under debate for the next Farm Bill. “The Farm Bill may be one of the most important pieces of legislation many have never heard of,” said Blumenauer. “It affects more than just farmers and ranchers, having a profound impact on what we eat and how that food is produced. This summit provides an ideal platform to discuss reform ideas and help craft national agricultural policies that are better for farmers, for consumers, and taxpayers.” “Federal agriculture and nutrition policies affect the lives of every Oregonian,” said Bonamici, “Small farms contribute significantly to the economy of Northwest Oregon. They provide jobs and increase access to healthy food while practicing environmental stewardship that makes Oregon a national model for modern food production and distribution. Schools and food banks especially benefit from easy and affordable access to fresh fruit and vegetables, and I hope we can discuss ways to implement these successful programs nationwide.” The day began with a visit to Skyline Farms with a tour and roundtable with local farmers. Next, Blumenauer and Bonamici reviewed the Farm-to-School program at Vose Elementary. The representatives visited during the school lunch period and met with administrators, advocates, and students to talk about FoodHub, an online marketplace used by the Beaverton School District. FoodHub provides an interactive directory of food producers, allowing the district to easily acquire food from as many local sources as possible. The day concluded with a Northwest Oregon Food Summit and town hall with local experts discussing a variety of topics including an overview of Oregon agriculture and production, processing, marketing, fighting hunger, and nutrition and community health.
04.12.2012	As part of the Oregon Health and Sciences University’s Brain Awareness lecture series, Congressman Blumenauer introduced Jonah Lehrer, a journalist on neuroscience for Wired, The New Yorker and The New York Times Magazine, among others. Speaking about Lehrer’s new book, Imagine: How Creativity Works, Lehrer, Blumenauer discusses the how greater knowledge of how the brain works, decisions, and creativity may create new ways for individuals of different political beliefs to work together as well as understand themselves.
03.29.2012	The Republican budget is yet another missed opportunity to confront America’s challenges in a balanced and responsible way. A budget is a statement of values. This budget makes it crystal clear that Republicans value tax cuts for the wealthy and special interests, even at the expense of America’s middle class, our children, the elderly, and even our economic recovery. The values supported by several other budgets – the Democratic budget, the Progressive budget, and the Black Caucus budget – would restore fairness to our broken tax system, invest in rebuilding and renewing America, and maintain America’s commitment to providing for our most vulnerable citizens. The bipartisan budget offered by Reps. Cooper and LaTourette fell short of the balanced approach required to address America’s challenges that was contained in the Simpson-Bowles proposal. The Republican budget cuts taxes by an additional $4.6 trillion over the next decade and extends the Bush tax cuts, totaling $10 trillion, the vast majority of which benefits the top one percent of Americans. Republicans are not serious about deficit reduction in their call to pay for this tax cut by eliminating tax expenditures and loopholes that they refuse to identify. Would they eliminate the mortgage interest deduction for middle class families? Or the employer-provided health care deduction? Independent analysts have determined it is necessary to cut the mortgage interest deduction, the health care deduction, and most other expenditures in order to pay for their $10 trillion tax cut. Instead of making hard choices, Republicans choose to shift the burden even further onto low and middle-income families, seniors, and the next generation. The Republican budget would cut Medicaid services for disabled individuals, children, and low-income families and seniors by $810 billion over the next decade. It would also cut $122.5 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) that lifted 3.9 million Americans, including 1.7 million children, out of poverty in 2010. This would mean 1,771 fewer jobs and 189 million fewer meals for hungry families in Oregon alone. For decades, Medicare has guaranteed quality and affordable health care to seniors. The Republican budget ends the Medicare guarantee and would force seniors to choose to either pay thousands more dollars for their existing Medicare plan, or to buy plans with meager benefits that will ultimately put their health at risk. Independent analyses show that infrastructure investment is one of the best ways to put people to work and to strengthen the economy, while giving families transportation options and making our communities more livable. The Republican budget would cut transportation funding by a staggering 46 percent, including for projects that have already begun, putting thousands of people out of work and stifling the fragile economic recovery. This budget is another missed opportunity to put people to work, to strengthen the economy, and to rebuild and rebuild America. In contrast, the budgets offered by Democrats, the Progressive Caucus, and the Black Caucus take a responsible and balanced approach to putting America’s finances back on a sustainable path. These budgets address the infrastructure deficit and expand access to education and job training to build a stronger America and to prepare the next generation to be the innovators that will lead us through the 21st century. These budgets restore tax fairness by asking the most well off to pay a little more. Recognizing the need to bring our troops home, eliminate wasteful weapons programs, and right-size our military, these budgets will help reduce the defense budget in a responsible way that maintains the world’s strongest military and supports our troops without threatening our economic security. I am saddened that Republicans produced a political document that continues their belief that massive tax cuts for those who need them the least will move America forward, even while they slash funding for transportation and infrastructure investment, nutrition assistance, Pell grants, and health care. The American people have rejected this unbalanced and unfair approach and so do I.
03.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC, March 27, 2012 – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-3) was today presented with a USA Wind Jobs Champion Award for his determined support and diligent work in helping to create and sustain U.S. jobs in the wind energy industry and its manufacturing supply chain. “I’m proud to champion an industry like wind energy that creates family-wage jobs, clean energy, and has interests from energy executives to ranchers to environmentalists pulling in the same direction,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The advocacy of the American Wind Energy Association and work of Iberdrola and others in Oregon, demonstrates the importance of the Production Tax Credit and what a strong federal partnership with an innovative industry can accomplish.” Rob Gramlich, American Wind Energy Association’s Senior Vice President of Public Policy and Richard Glick, Vice President of Government Affairs at Iberdrola Renewables, presented Congressman Blumenauer with a commemorative plaque and wind turbine bolt made in the U.S.A. from American steel by the Dyson Corporation of Painesville, OH. “Congressman Blumenauer’s continued support of the wind energy industry in the state is helping to keep Oregon working and producing valuable goods all across America,” said Richard Glick, Vice President of Government Affairs at Iberdrola Renewables. Iberdrola is the second-largest wind developer in the U.S. with 11 wind farms in Oregon and two natural gas generation plants near Klamath Falls. In Oregon, the State’s natural wind resources generate approximately 1700 megawatts of electricity. That’s enough power to meet the needs of nearly 700,000 Oregon households. Oregon currently has the 7th most wind power capacity installed of any state. In 2010 alone, the wind industry supports as many as 3,000 Oregon jobs. At least 8 facilities in Oregon currently manufacture components for the wind energy industry and 1 more has been announced. “I want to thank Congressman Blumenauer for his strong support of American jobs and private investment in one of America’s fastest growing manufacturing sectors,” said Rob Gramlich, senior vice president of public policy for AWEA. “Congressman Blumenauer understands that wind power is creating an American success story, but this success depends on stable tax policy. With the Chairman’s strong support, we are working to extend American wind’s crucial Production Tax Credit and save tens of thousands of good American jobs in the wind industry.”
03.26.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Robert J. Dold (R-IL), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Judy Biggert (R-IL), Rick Laren (D-WA) and Charlie Bass (R-NH) released a letter to House Leadership [PDF] asking the House to provide certainty to transportation agencies, construction workers, and commuters across the country and bring the bipartisan Senate bill, Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century, to the House floor. “A ninety day extension puts us squarely in the middle of construction season, ensuring that transportation agencies will not have the funding necessary to begin any significant projects this year,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03). “While the Senate bill is by no means perfect, it will provide much needed certainty to the transportation agencies, while Congress figures out how to deal with our long term funding issues. I hope that my colleagues in the House will realize that it’s time to act like grown-ups and pass the bipartisan Senate bill.” “With funding for transportation and infrastructure projects expiring at the end of the week, it is critical that we act as soon as possible to provide certainty in the transportation and infrastructure sector that employs so many Americans,” said Rep. Robert Dold (R-IL-10). “I firmly believe transportation is a bipartisan priority that extends beyond partisan politics- that is why I am urging the House to consider the bipartisan Senate bill if it cannot bring a viable longer-term bill to the House floor by the March 31 expiration. We must reach a bipartisan consensus now to ensure that local transportation agencies can better plan for the future, and so that these important projects and jobs can continue.” “Transportation and infrastructure investments create jobs and provide substantial economic growth, but only when they are backed by long-term commitments to funding and policies,” said Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL-05). “By taking immediate action in the House on MAP-21, we can provide some much needed certainty to the transportation sector in these tough economic times.” Congressman Charles Bass (R-NH-02) said, “To ensure the safety of our roads and strengthen the economy, we need a long-term highway bill reauthorization so states, local communities, and contractors have the funding certainty they need to advance critical infrastructure projects. In New Hampshire, for example, the I-93 widening project will have a significant economic impact on the southern part of the state and improve safety on one of New Hampshire’s most heavily-traveled roadways. We can’t expect states and contractors to plan and execute infrastructure projects in the face of such uncertainty caused by a series of short-term extensions, so we need to work together to move a longer-term highway reauthorization forward.” “Every day we wait to pass a long-term transportation bill is another day of uncertainty for construction workers and transportation planners. These construction jobs to repair our roads, bridges and highways can’t wait another 90 days,” said Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA-02). “The Senate bill was negotiated and passed on a widely bipartisan basis. It would support hundreds of thousands of jobs by investing directly in our critical infrastructure, laying the foundation for long-term economic growth. Instead of a ninth short-term extension, the House should move forward with the Senate bill.” “For suburban motorists in districts like mine, this isn’t about politics or policy, it’s about getting to work on time,” said Judy Biggert (R-IL-13), who represents Chicago’s south and western suburbs. “We need to act quickly so our regional transportation managers can plan and invest in the roads, railways, and bridges that keep people and commerce moving. A long-term bill is ideal, but a series of short-term extensions just won’t do. We need to work together and send a multi-year plan to the President’s desk.” The bipartisan Senate legislation was passed 74-22 on March 14th, 2012. Current legislation runs out March 31, 2012. The House plans to vote on a three month extension today.
03.21.2012	Washington – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Budget Committee, will offer one of the first amendments during committee markup of the fiscal 2013 budget that will fund the transportation infrastructure provisions of the President’s proposed American Jobs Act. The $50 billion in increased funding will be offset by reducing tax subsidies for big oil companies and closing tax loopholes. [DOWNLOAD A PDF DESCRIPTION OF THE AMENDMENT] “Transportation investment will create jobs now and fuel long-term economic growth,” said Blumenauer. “Helping states and the private sector build roads, railways, bridges and transit systems through this budget will be a step towards rebuilding and renewing our transportation network to keep us competitive in the global economy for the 21st century. While our economy is showing signs of improvement, we still need the hundreds of thousands of new American jobs that will be created by this investment to offset those that were lost during the financial crisis. “These investments don’t just create jobs today in building the new infrastructure. They create jobs over the long term by giving America a modern transportation network to help transport goods and supplies from factories to ports, retail outlets and consumers. They also play a critical role in helping workers and families travel to their jobs, schools and recreational activities. “I’m proud to offer this amendment to create new jobs rebuilding and renewing America.”
03.20.2012	On Thursday, March 15, Congressman Blumenauer took a trip to Catlin Gabel High School for a presentation and Q&A session with students on international relations. Much of the conversation centered on finding a balanced approach for our national defense, with a greater emphasis on development and diplomacy, and the conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa. Blumenauer stressed the need to leave Afghanistan as safely and as quickly as possible, citing the lack of a mission and a beleaguered American military. “Whether we leave in 14 months or 14 years, the result won’t be much different,” he commented. In response to student questions about Iran and how to address the nuclear question, Blumenauer made clear that the most important element to any Iran policy must include robust diplomacy, and cautioned that military action would not only unify Iranians who would otherwise be supportive of the U.S., but would do only set Iran back one to two years. Congressman Blumenauer made clear that much of the instability seen in the region, through the Arab Spring, could have been avoided if the U.S. would have moved away from military assistance to despotic regimes, and instead focus on development assistance and civil society. A key piece of the reforms happening in the region for the Congressman is the need for Israel and Egypt to continue regional cooperation and for vigilance as Syria’s regime refuses to step-down in the face of broad democratic aspirations. Congressman Blumenauer discusses the DREAM Act and immigration policy with students. Congressman Blumenauer chats with Catlin Gabel student body president James Furnary
03.19.2012	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer delivered the keynote address at the 7th Annual Seminar on “The Future of Water Supply and Management in the Pacific Northwest.” Before an audience representing Oregon and Washington municipalities, as well as members of the infrastructure lending and investment communities, Blumenauer outlined the nation-wide need for greater federal participation. Citing a report from the American Society of Engineers, Blumenauer said the nation’s current water and sewage systems rates a “D-,“ with problems in the crumbling system estimated to cost individual families up to $900 per year by the end of the decade without adequate repair. “We’re living on borrowed time,” Blumenauer said, mentioning that some municipalities such as Cincinnati are using the same water systems that were installed over 150 years ago. He is proposing legislation to create a federal Water Trust Fund, financed by small fees on those who rely on the water system, to help local jurisdictions repair aging water systems and infrastructure. More information on the Water Trust Fund can be found here.
03.14.2012	On Monday, March 12, Congressman Blumenauer paid a visit to his alma mater, Lewis and Clark Law School, where he had lunch with Lewis and Clark President Barry Glassner, Law School Dean Robert Klonoff, and faculty and student leaders. “Lewis and Clark continues to contribute to Portland’s reputation for livability,” Congressman Blumenauer told the assembled group. “From your undergraduate programs to your Graduate School and Law School, Lewis and Clark attracts some of the brightest students to Portland and, in turn, produces valuable resources for the city’s continuing efforts to create livable neighborhoods, a vibrant downtown, and a sustainable economy.” Following a hearty discussion of higher education’s challenges and needs, the Congressman visited classes on Animal Law and Public Interest Law, where he shared his perspectives and praised the students’ choice of Lewis and Clark Law School. He wrapped up his visit with a tour of the Edna L. Holmes Residence Hall. This facility, due to open to both undergraduate and graduate students this fall, was designed with extensive input from students and incorporates sufficient energy-efficient design and construction elements to qualify it for a Gold LEED rating.
03.13.2012	Congressman Blumenauer visited Concordia University on March 13, speaking with a class of engaged students about a variety of federal issues before taking a brief tour and lunching with key University staff to discuss federal education legislation. “Concordia University has had a significant and lasting impact on its NE neighborhood over the last decade,” the Congressman said. “From your thriving partnership with Faubion Elementary School to your open library to your new, community-focused athletic field, Concordia is an outstanding model of supportive university/community relationships.” Concordia College is a private, Christian liberal arts university that offers undergraduate, graduate, and online courses in four colleges -- Education; Health and Human Services; Theology, Arts, and Sciences; and Management – to approximately 2500 students. It will welcome its first students to its Law School in Boise ID this fall.
03.12.2012	Congressman Blumenauer met with students from the Lincoln High School Constitution Team Saturday morning. The Lincoln team won the 2012 State Championship and will represent the State of Oregon in Washington DC at the "We the People" National competition. Blumenauer answered questions from the students and shared his thoughts on the balance of power between the three branches of government, the increasingly unwieldy national surveillance and security apparatus, and how the Supreme Court’s Citizen’s United decision has changed the political landscape. “After listening to such thoughtful comments and questions, I am inspired by these young people and very hopeful for this country’s future,” Blumenauer commented afterward.
03.08.2012	Congressman Blumenauer spoke to an enthusiastic young crowd Saturday at the Institute for a Democratic Future’s annual transportation policy weekend. The Washington state-based organization visited Portland to study the region’s history of transportation policy and planning, meeting with policymakers and touring facilities. Blumenauer spoke about the current debate surrounding the reauthorization of the transportation bill currently making its way through Congress, detailing his opposition to the Republican’s House bill that cuts funding for Amtrak and ends the thirty year agreement for dedicated funding for mass transit. “The American public is a vast kaleidoscope of beliefs and opinions--but I’ve never met anyone who is against the Safe Routes to School program,” Blumenauer said, citing attacks in Congress on this and other popular programs that encourage bicycle and pedestrian transportation. “There are those around the country who know that the cheapest way to get highway capacity is to put more people on light rail and streetcar, to encourage bicycling, and to build inner-city and high-speed rail.” The audience, primarily college students and young professionals working in policy, asked questions about the Obama Administration’s push toward high-speed rail and the future of transportation funding at the federal level. “There are movements taking place for livability, increases in cycling, an agriculture policy for the future and for farmers markets.” Blumenauer said. “I am excited that these things are moving forward with your generation. We can really work out the dynamics and provide justice for all communities without the immediate knee jerk reaction some have towards rebuilding and renewing America.”
03.06.2012	Congressman Blumenauer visited Elemental Technologies last week. Portland's Elemental has grown into a leading video processing software provider for TV, personal computers, tablets, and mobile devices. Recently the company has begun a series of Friday brown bag discussions with local public officials. Blumenauer highlighted his current work on transportation and agriculture, as well as fielded questions on range of topics from bipartisanship to the decline of civics education. "I am encouraged by your company's desire to elevate the discussion on a wide range of topics and contribute to our citizen infrastructure," said Blumenauer. "Oregon has a proud history of bipartisanship and innovation which we must preserve and promote in the national debate."
03.05.2012	On February 29th, Garden Club of America members from around the country gathered in Washington, DC to speak with their elected officials about the importance of clean air, clean water, public lands, and an environmentally friendly transportation policy. Congressman Blumenauer was honored to have an opportunity to address the group. He discussed the demise of the House Transportation bill and the potential for reform of agricultural policy in this year’s farm bill. He also spoke to members of the Portland Garden Club about important Oregon conservation initiatives. “You are important advocates for environmental protection and are visiting Congress at a crucial time,” Blumenauer told Garden Club members. “You can help Congress understand what clean air, clean water, and protecting public lands means for our communities. You are an important voice for these issues and can help bring people together from both sides of the aisle.” (left to right) Christine Farrington, Terry Putnam, Rep. Blumenauer, Georgia A. Schell, Pat Wall
03.03.2012	Congressman Blumenauer visited with the Oregon State Association of Electrical Workers last week when they gathered for their annual meeting in Portland. Electrical workers have seen improving employment over the last year but still face a difficult job climate like many construction trades. Blumenauer offered encouragement and a look back on the decades of important work electrical workers have done to build a strong Portland-Metro Region. "Your trade has been such a tremendous part of what has made Portland great, from Intel to our Light Rail system," said Blumenauer. "We have work ahead in construction that will mean more jobs and promote energy efficiency for the region. With your continued partnership I'm confident we will have strong, innovative projects ahead to build on what we have done here."
03.01.2012	Washington – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Budget and Ways & Means Committees, released the following statement regarding the 51-48 defeat of the Blunt contraceptives amendment to the Senate Transportation bill: “The Blunt amendment was irrelevant, politically poisonous, and a perfect example of why the Senate seems to have trouble accomplishing anything these days. More than that, the Blunt amendment was a blatant insult to women in the workplace, telling them that their access to healthcare ought to be subject to the whims of their employers. Antics like this are what Olympia Snowe was referring to when she said that the partisan atmosphere in Congress is blocking progress on our nation’s problems. “Let’s use some common sense here. This debate should be about passing a transportation bill. Let’s see if Republicans can restrain themselves from undermining women’s healthcare for a few days while the rest of us try to rebuild and renew America.”
03.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), a senior member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees and the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC), joined advocates in New York, Washington, D.C. and Southern California in calling on Edward DeMarco, the Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to write down mortgage principal amounts for struggling homeowners. “Nearly one in four Oregon homeowners owe more on their mortgage than their home is worth,” said Blumenauer. “Nationwide, homeowners are underwater to the tune of $700 billion and millions of people have already lost their homes to foreclosure. The government should be doing everything in its power to help families stay in their homes and turn the economy around. Economists and housing finance experts from across the political spectrum agree that reducing the principal balance of underwater mortgages is the single best way to keep families in their homes and to stem the tide of foreclosures that are holding back the economic recovery. Yet FHFA Acting Director DeMarco has refused to take this step for the millions of mortgages that are owned by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “I have joined my colleagues on several occasions to urge Mr. DeMarco to allow for principal reduction, which will help struggling families now and save taxpayers money in the long-term,” he continued. “This is win-win for homeowners and for the economy. I am once again calling on Acting Director DeMarco to help end the foreclosure crisis, and I will continue to do so until the millions of homeowners drowning under water get relief.” Combined, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae own or guarantee more than half of all mortgages in the country. DeMarco has faced criticism for refusing principal reduction for Freddie and Fannie mortgage holders. Protests were held yesterday at regional Freddie Mac offices demanding fair negotiations for themselves and other Americans who have been evicted from their homes. Rep. Blumenauer is also the author of the Bankruptcy Equity Act, which would afford homeowners the same bankruptcy protections that businesses receive, allowing bankruptcy judges to align a homeowner's mortgage to its current value and reduce foreclosures.
02.27.2012	During World War II during a dark chapter in our history, Japanese-Americans citizens were strongly discriminated against and many were placed in internment camps. Japanese-American males were given the opportunity to serve in the war effort and their units, the 442nd Combat Team, the 100th Infantry Battalion, and Military Intelligence Service went on to be some of the most decorated military units in the history of the United States. On Sunday, Congressman Blumenauer had the honor of speaking to over 450 people who gathered in Portland to honor Oregon's Japanese-American WWII Veterans, known as Nisei Veterans. The Nisei Veterans were awarded the Congressional Gold Medal last November for their courage and bravery in WWII. Because many of these veterans were unable to travel to Washington DC, a local ceremony was held to award the medals. "The Nisei Veterans fought to win a horrific war; but they fought in another sense to restore a stain on America’s honor--which they did." said Blumenauer. "The Congressional Gold Medal has only been awarded 147 times and there has rarely been a more deserving set of Americans." After his remarks Blumenauer had the honor of introducing Army Lieutenant General Joseph Peterson, the highest ranking Army official of Hawaiian decent.
02.24.2012	On Wednesday, Congressman Blumenauer joined community members at the launch of the peer-to-peer car sharing company Getaround. The sustainable car service enables individual car owners to put their idle cars to use and offset the cost of vehicle ownership by sharing with friends, co-workers and neighbors. Getaround provides an open marketplace for car owners to determine a vehicle’s pricing, availability and selection of renters. In cooperation with the City of Portland, Blumenauer helped secure the first federal grant to fund a study of the peer-to-peer car sharing company. “This launch marks the beginning of an exciting new trend of eco-friendly collaborative and market-based solutions to everyday challenges,” said the Congressman. “Peer-to-peer car sharing has proven to be a creative and successful trend that will continue to grow and help shape the future of environmentally-friendly legislation.”
02.22.2012	On February 22, Congressman Blumenauer spoke at the 2012 Oregon Wine Symposium, addressing more than 1200 wine growers, vintners, and associated vendors. He reminded them that Oregon’s Land Use Planning Program’s emphasis on farmland preservation has played a key role in their success and congratulated them for the rapid growth of their industry, which now contributes nearly $3 billion a year to Oregon’s economy. “Your environmental ethic, your small business savvy, your stewardship values, and your commitment to a healthy and sustainable workforce make you the Poster Child for Oregon values,” Blumenauer said. He also urged them to become partners in efforts to reform the Farm Bill so that it shifts its priorities from commodities to real food and drink, increases research funding, puts more healthy food in school lunchrooms, and expands valuable conservation programs.
02.22.2012	On February 21, Congressman Blumenauer paid a visit to his old neighborhood, Centennial School District. Starting with a meeting with key principals and administrators at the District Office, the Congressman learned about the challenges faced by educators in elementary schools, middle schools, and Centennial High School as budgets fail to keep pace with today’s needs: students who arrive without any English skills, students who need remedial help with basic reading and math skills, and even families who need help putting food on the table. At Centennial High, the Congressman visited an Advanced Placement Government Class, where he fielded a broad range of questions from engaged and articulate students. Students participating in Centennial’s Student Body Government met with the Congressman wearing “Love Unity Respect” t-shirts from a school unity assembly earlier that day. Blumenauer culminated his visit with a tour of the High School, his alma mater, remarking on the great sense of cooperation and school spirit he found there. “I am amazed at the changes in my old neighborhood and impressed with the sense of community and commitment that exists at Centennial in meeting today’s challenges.” Rep. Blumenauer is joined at the head table by Teresa Baldwin, Centennial District Superintendent. Vice Principal Mark Porterfield, Centennial School Board Member Rod Boettcher, rep. Blumenauer, and Centennial HS Principal Kevin Ricker
02.22.2012	Washington – Today, the NOH8 campaign released images of Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) and others from its first-ever “NOH8 on the Hill” photo shoot. NOH8 is a photographic silent protest against California’s Proposition 8 banning same-sex marriage. Blumenauer released the following statement to accompany the photo campaign: "On the same week that Maryland and Washington stepped up for marriage equality, I stood with NOH8 in solidarity with those who are fighting Prop 8 in California. Gay and lesbian Americans are part of the fabric that makes this country strong. The notion that we could ask these men and women to do everything from paying taxes to serving our country in uniform while denying them the right to marry is offensive to everything I believe in as a public servant. I won’t stop working for equal rights in Congress until they have been extended to every American." Congressman Blumenauer is a proud member of the LGBT Equality Caucus in the House of Representatives. More information on Blumenauer’s efforts in support of LGBT equality can be found on his website.
02.15.2012	One of the more egregious provisions of H.R. 7 is its elimination of the Safe Routes to School Program. Download Image as a Hi-Res PDF (30 MB) This wildly popular and cost-effective program not only helps children be healthy and safe, but involves the community in creating safer streets for all road users. Why is this program being cut? Is it because Republicans don’t care about the safety of our children? If they did, they wouldn’t eliminate a program that addresses the gruesome fact that in 2009 along, 29,000 children aged 5-15 were injured or killed as they walked or bicycled on local streets. Is it because they don’t care if the obesity rates for our children are soaring, making them the first generation that may not outlive their parents? If they cared about this travesty, they would want to support, not cut, a program that provides opportunities for children to increase their activity, reduce air pollution, and make our streets safer for everyone who uses them. As the City of Portland’s Commissioner of Public Works from 1986-1996, I instructed the City’s Transportation Bureau to develop a program to make walking and bicycling to school safer. This program became known locally as Safe Routes to School. Since its inception in 2005, the national Safe Routes to School program has funded more than 4,300 projects in more than 11,000 schools, reaching 4.8 million school children with better sidewalks and bike lanes, educational materials and safe biking programs. In my state of Oregon, Safe Routes to School programs have provided sidewalk and bicycle facilities in 62 schools and provided educational and enforcement funding for 126 schools. Countless other Oregon schools have benefited from pedestrian and bicycle safety education materials, curriculum training and bicyclist safety training. Sadly, our streets are still not safe enough. At the start of this school year, a 9-year-old boy was badly injured when he was struck and dragged by a car while walking to school in my district. All because he had no safe place to walk. Our children and our communities continue to need this program. Restore Safe Routes to School to H.R. 7. Let’s send a clear message that the United States House of Representatives cares about their health and safety.
02.15.2012	One of Congressman Blumenauer’s top priorities is changing national policies that not only shortchange Oregon farmers and ranchers but our health as well. On Friday, February 10, he spoke about the importance of the Farm Bill to the 4th Annual NW Environmental Health Conference, an assembly of representatives from public agencies, environmental interests, and the health community. Calling attention to his report, “Growing Opportunities: Family Farm Values for Reforming the Farm Bill,” Congressman Blumenauer told attendees, “Everyone who cares about the quality of the air we breathe, the water we drink, and the food we eat has an interest in reforming federal farm policy.”
02.14.2012	On Friday, February 10th, Earl invited stakeholders from across the Portland Region and the state to discuss HR 7, the Republican’s Transportation Bill now under consideration in the U.S. House. "I don't think I've ever seen anything like it, " Blumenauer announced, declaring HR 7 the worst transportation bill he has ever seen. The Congressman stressed the long history of bipartisan transportation solutions in Congress and how the current House legislation is a sharp departure from what our nation needs to rebuild and renew the country, eliminating popular programs like Safe Routes to School and dedicated funding for mass transit. A diverse group of attendees including business, labor, and environmental groups expressed similar concerns.
02.13.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), a senior member of the Budget and Ways and Means committees and former 12-year member of the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, released the following statement regarding transportation priorities in the President’s budget: “The President’s budget offers a rational prescription for fixing our crumbling transportation network. While Republicans in Congress are trying to loot the public transit fund and kneecap alternative modes of transportation, this budget lays the foundation for renewing our infrastructure and prosperity. “A six-year, $476 billion transportation reauthorization will allow job creators in the transportation and construction industries the certainty they need to move forward. At a time when the future of Middle East oil has never looked more uncertain, a doubling of our commitment to public transit will help commuters and families through the ups and downs of gas prices. And in a time period when Americans are looking to stretch their dollars as much as possible, the planning provisions in the budget will help communities ensure that their transportation dollars also have a positive impact on economic development, housing options, and environmental protection. Most of all, the fact that these investments will be paid for by savings in the military budget are a powerful sign that it’s time to invest in American prosperity, not costly adventures abroad. “This budget presents a challenge to Congress that will show whether or not members of both parties are serious about sustaining an economic recovery. It’s time for Congress to meet this challenge and pass transportation legislation that is essential to the world’s leading economy.”
02.10.2012	On Friday, Congressman Blumenauer spoke at the dedication of the Randall Children’s Hospital at Legacy Emanuel in North Portland. He was joined by Marian Wright Edelman, the President and Founder of the Children’s Defense Fund, who gave the keynote address for the dedication. Construction on the new hospital began in August 2009 and was completed in January 2012. It is four times the size of the original Children’s Hospital at Legacy Emanuel, and is one of two dedicated children’s hospitals in the state of Oregon. Last year, there were 100,000 pediatric patient visits, with over 19,000 visits to the children’s emergency department. “This new hospital does more than just tick a box,” Congressman Blumenauer remarked, “it gives us a place that provides healing and caring for seriously ill children. A hospital like this is both emblematic of and a testament to the spirit of our community.” Commissioner Loretta Smith, Legacy Health System president and CEO George Brown, Commissioner Diane McKeel, Children’s Defense Fund president and founder Marian Wright Edelman, Congressman Blumenauer, and Commissioner Judy Shiprack
02.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), a senior member of the Budget and Ways and Means committees, released the following statement regarding H.R. 7, the “American Energy and Infrastructure Jobs Act”: “As a member of the Ways and Means Committee, I am appalled at the fantasy finance scheme Republicans are proposing. Rather than working in a bipartisan fashion to find revenue for the Highway Trust Fund, House Republicans instead would tie revenues from oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Wildlife Refuge and in our coastal waters to transportation funding. Drilling in these areas is opposed by the public and runs the same environmental risks that gave us the Deepwater Horizon disaster. What’s more, my colleagues know full well that revenues from this drilling would do almost nothing to close our funding gap. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that the best case scenario would result in $5 billion over ten years, when we need $60 billion over five years to fund the Trust Fund. This bill’s reliance on such an inadequate funding scheme shows just how unserious and partisan an effort it is at real transportation reform.” “What is even more frustrating is the squandered opportunity for doing something that will truly rebuild and renew America. Now, more than ever, is when we should have taken advantage of the opportunity to capitalize on twenty years of work on transportation policy. We should be moving forward and putting Americans back to work updating our sadly outdated transportation system. Instead, the Republican bill moves us back twenty years, to a time when our only answer to any problem was to build more roads and when we didn’t have to compete with China and Brazil, who are both investing almost twice what Republicans want us to invest. Now is not the time to give communities fewer choices, to make it harder for individuals to have a say on how their money is spent, or to reduce protections for environmental and public health.” “The United States needs a comprehensive transportation authorization to put Americans to work, to set the stage for future growth, and to strengthen American productivity. The bill presented yesterday is not only inadequate, it marks a step backward and turns a historically bipartisan bill into nothing more than another example of partisan posturing. Rather than taking a serious approach to strengthening our transportation system, this bill will make it more difficult for local communities to have the flexibility and support necessary to build and maintain transportation systems that serve all of their citizens, to offer transportation choices, and to encourage economic development.”
02.01.2012	Amid record-low approval ratings for Congress, Blumenauer bill offers voters fairness in choosing their representatives WASHINGTON – Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), a senior member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, introduced H.R. 3846, the “National Commission for Independent Redistricting Act of 2012.” The Act establishes a nonpartisan commission that would oversee an independent, professional agency tasked with creating uniform criteria and Congressional district lines for each state that respects the communities of interest, and geographic, ethnic, cultural, and historic boundaries – rather than just partisan affiliation. “In hallways and back rooms in state capitols across America, politicians are hard at work helping members of Congress pick their voters, so that for the next ten years, it will be harder for voters to pick their politicians,” said Blumenauer. “This system divides local communities of interest, resulting in districts that look like a raw egg has been splattered against a wall. It turns districts bright red and bright blue, making it harder to elect representatives with nuanced policies, rewards extremism, and makes it nearly impossible for the members of Congress they elect to reach bipartisan agreement to address our nation’s most urgent needs. This legislation will ensure that Congressional elections are more competitive and fair, and that voters get to choose their representatives. Now is the time to reform the redistricting process and act in a way that reflects broad public interests, rather than narrow and immediate partisanship.” This legislation would establish the National Commission for Independent Redistricting after each Census, beginning in 2020. The Commission would be composed of national leaders with a proven commitment to strengthening our future, such as ex-Presidents, retired Federal justices, previous congressional leaders, and electoral experts from academia. The Commission would oversee an independent, professional agency, tasked with establishing uniform criteria and congressional district lines for each state that promotes competition and respects local communities, rather than simply consolidating and strengthening incumbent advantage. The Commission would also inject greater transparency and accountability into the process by requiring robust public consultation and commentary that must be taken into account, and a website where all maps, hearings, votes with concurring and dissenting opinions, and materials would be made public in a timely fashion. Congress would then approve or disapprove of the proposal put forward by the Commission with a simple up-or-down vote, free from procedural gridlock.
01.18.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), a senior member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, announced that he would black out his Congressional website this afternoon in support of Internet freedom and in solidarity with online businesses and innovators against the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and the Protect IP Act (PIPA). “Today I am joining the millions of Americans who are standing with the world’s most innovative websites against the proposed censorship of PIPA and SOPA,” Blumenauer said. “This misguided, overly-broad legislation would curb the innovation of the small start-up companies thriving in Oregon, while stifling the free flow of information that is one of the fundamental principles of both the Internet and our great nation. “The best way to fight online piracy is through smart, targeted legislation that captures only those websites that are breaking the law. With jobs and free speech on the line, the stakes are too high for us to rush through broad legislation that does not meet our objectives.” Blumenauer’s Congressional website will go dark from 12:00 to 1:00 PM PST. Contact information will still be available for constituents in need of services.
01.18.2012	Oregon is a leading state in implementing, adapting, and taking innovative approaches to health care reform. On Friday, Congressman Blumenauer sat down with leaders of Oregon's health care community to discuss the progress and impact of health care reform implementation. At the first of two such roundtables, the Congressman was joined by 30 health care professionals from patient advocacy organizations, hospitals, insurers, and health care providers. Two of the main concerns expressed by participants were the funding disparities and need for more training opportunities in graduate medical education. The majority of health care providers trained in Oregon stay in Oregon to practice. Roundtable attendees suggested that there needs to be more residency training slots so Oregon can continue to keep medical practitioners in state. Participants also discussed drug shortages; in 2011, the number of new prescription drug shortages reached a record high of 267 drugs. Patients are feeling the impact as some of the drugs are widely used, such as tetracycline, or are only produced by a single manufacturer. Blumenauer concluded the roundtable stating, "This wide ranging discussion is just what we need to understand and advocate for Oregon’s unique health care interests."
01.13.2012	Congressman Blumenauer gave welcoming remarks to the first Streetcar & Bus Circulator Roundtable hosted by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). FTA chose Portland for this event due to city's designation as a national hub for urban mobility and design. Municipal officials from around the country who are developing streetcar and circulator projects addressed issues of development, technical needs, and intergovernmental partnerships. "I applaud all the cities who are embracing these types of projects,” Blumenauer commented. “I am grateful that the FTA chose this first roundtable to occur in Portland, a city that had the vision to pioneer the modern streetcar. I hope fruitful partnerships are developed and lessons learned as you gather here to advance a vision for your own cities." In addition, FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff also attended the Roundtable. Mr. Rogoff graciously applauded the leadership of Portland in promoting streetcar and urban development.
01.06.2012	Congressman Blumenauer met with members of the Lloyd District Transportation Management Association (TMA) the first week in January to learn about their programs and priorities, which include the continuation of the Free Rail Zone, sustained funding for transit, and the development of the Lloyd EcoDistrict. The Congressman congratulated them for their success in significantly increasing the use of walking, biking and transit as commute modes, noting that their efforts are a model for similar programs throughout the country.
12.16.2011	There is widespread agreement that online piracy and the problem of “rogue” foreign sites threaten the economic security and intellectual property of United States businesses. There is also widespread agreement that the Internet has revolutionized the way the world learns, interacts, and does business. Any effort to combat online piracy must both protect intellectual property rights and the role of the Internet in today’s economy. The Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) is intended to protect U.S. businesses by shutting down websites that are dedicated to trafficking pirated materials. Well intentioned though it may be, I have strong concerns that SOPA would infringe on Internet freedom, stifle the innovation that has spurred thousands of startup companies, and threaten Internet security. Many of the companies that are threatened by online piracy would not be as strong as they are today without the Internet. Congress must be careful that in protecting intellectual property rights, it does not do so at the expense of what has made the Internet one of the biggest drivers of the economy. SOPA does not strike this balance and needs to go back to the drawing board.
12.16.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record regarding the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA): Today I voted against the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA). While nothing is more important than providing the resources needed to keep America and our men and women in uniform safe, this authorization spends too much and is a missed opportunity for much needed reform. First, however, I would like to thank Chairman McKeon and Ranking Member Smith of the House Armed Services Committee for including elements of all three of my amendments in this final conference bill. One amendment lifts the veil on classified immunity for defense contractors, a practice that exposed 36 of our Oregon National Guardsmen to toxic chemicals in Iraq. The other two will help protect our troops on the battlefield and save billions of dollars through energy efficiency initiatives. Their inclusion, however, does not offset the overall authorization which fails to reflect America’s priorities or our national security realities. It is deeply unfortunate that this legislation includes the appalling detention provisions and that the bill continues to tie the President’s hands by restricting his ability to transfer detainees to the United States for trial in Federal Court are appalling. Preventing the administration from closing Guantanamo only serves to bolster Al Qaeda and erode America’s security. There is no excuse – even in the name of fighting terrorism – for undermining our ideals. Beyond the practical security considerations, terrorism is an assault on those ideals and we should not further erode them in response to that threat. One thing that most of the Occupy Wall Street and majority of the Tea Party advocates agree upon is that the United States is on an unsustainable path. The economy is still floundering. We are losing the competition with other countries in the international arena when it comes to rebuilding and renewing America’s infrastructure and making advances in education. Even our health care system, improved by the Affordable Care Act, still falls short of the systems in use by most of our major European competitors. These glaring examples of un-sustainability for our infrastructure, our education system and our health care system are all troubling. None of this, however, compares with the un-sustainability of our massive defense and security spending. U.S. defense spending is bloated and not strategically oriented. We cannot continue to spend almost as much as the rest of the world – friend and foe alike – combined. We spend 6 times as much on defense as China, and 12 times that of Russia. Our Navy is larger than the next 13 navies combined. People who are at the front deserve our best in terms of equipment, and they and their families need to be well-cared for, not just in the field, but when they come home. Our armed forces are stressed and continue to be hobbled by the reckless actions in Iraq and further challenged by the war in Afghanistan, and need to come home. We continue to spend in Afghanistan with no clear plan for withdrawal. Today we have a reauthorization of the defense bill that fails to lay the foundation for the dramatic changes that are needed. Scaling back our open-ended spending commitments, nuclear weapons systems that we spend more on today than during the Cold War and are far more out of proportion to what we will ever need or use, patters of deployment, for example, with our Navy, all cry out for reform. Long overdue elements to deal with cost effectiveness and the environmental footprint, energy costs at $400 a gallon for fuel at the frontlines in Afghanistan, and tens of billions of dollars lost to inefficient air conditioning are missing. The greatest threat to our future is losing control of our ability to make tough decisions that will enable us to sustain our military and, more importantly, to sustain the economy. In short, the NDAA ignores the big picture. We should reject this blueprint and begin the process now of right-sizing the military, trimming our burdensome nuclear stockpiles and unnecessary programs, eliminating costly weapons programs, and ending our misguided mission in Afghanistan. We have the most powerful military in the world and will by far even if we invest substantially less. Our problem is that the American public is being ill-served by government. We’re not investing in our future, and our economy will not be able to sustain this ever-increasing military commitment, to say nothing of the demands of investing in our communities and our people, especially the young. This is another missed opportunity to set down a marker for real change, and to lead responsibly.
12.15.2011	Amendment A Legislative Response To Classified Immunity Deal For Contractor KBR That Exposed Oregon National Guardsmen To Toxic Chemicals In Iraq WASHINGTON – Today, Congress sent a version of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011 to President Obama that included an amendment championed by Oregon Reps. Earl Blumenauer and Kurt Schrader and Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley bringing greater transparency to the war contracting process. The amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to notify the Congressional defense committees when the Pentagon enters into indemnification agreements with contractors connected to U.S. military efforts abroad and explain why such a provision is necessary. The legislative victory culminates a process that began during the last Congress to reform how the Pentagon does business with defense contractors. The push was sparked by the stories of 34 members of the Oregon National Guard who are suing KBR after exposure to the lethal carcinogen hexavalant chromium during their 2003 tour in Iraq while protecting the Qarmat Ali Water Treatment Facility. The Qarmat Ali site, contracted to KBR for reconstruction, left Oregon troops with chronic medical problems. The lawsuit revealed the existence of a classified indemnification clause in the KBR contract that could absolve the company from liability and shift the cost of unlimited damages, health costs and court fees onto the Department of Defense and, by extension, U.S. taxpayers. That contract was fully declassified this week as the Iraq war came to an official close. “This is a victory for transparency in our military contracting process,” said Blumenauer. “It is also a victory for the 34 Oregon National Guard members whose health was endangered by a military contractor that received a classified immunity deal from the Pentagon. The tragic case of KBR and the recently declassified indemnification agreement are a perfect example of why we need these protections for American taxpayers. By forcing the Pentagon to conduct business with contractors out in the open, we are restoring a sense of public accountability for companies whose operations may endanger our troops.” “From now on contractors doing business with the Department of Defense are not going to get a free pass to be reckless and irresponsible with the lives and health of American soldiers,” said Wyden. “By shining a light on these secret agreements, we are making sure that there will be no repeats of what happened to National Guard troops from Oregon and other states at Qarmat Ali in Iraq or anywhere else that troops are sent to protect private contractors.” “We have been working to get justice for our Oregon guardsmen for a long time,” said Schrader. “This addition to the conference report marks an important step towards addressing the inadequate processes which unnecessarily put our guardsmen in harm’s way.” “Bottom line: If a private company causes harm, they should be liable for the damages,” said Merkley. “We know all too well from the KBR disaster that these indemnification contracts are bad deals for both our soldiers and their families. Taxpayers should not be on the hook for the misdeeds of private companies.” The Oregon veterans weren’t the only ones affected by the chemical exposure. National Guard troops from Indiana, Texas, West Virginia and North Carolina – who were also assigned to protect Qarmat Ali – have been diagnosed with similar health problems.
12.14.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced H.R. 3658, the “Water for the World Act of 2012,” bipartisan legislation that strengthens U.S. foreign assistance in water and sanitation by leveraging innovation, strengthening partnerships, and improving transparency and accountability without making additional demands on the foreign assistance budget. The bill improves the effectiveness of our aid programs and moves us towards greater country-ownership of projects, while ensuring our investments provide long-term benefits. It allows us to provide more while using less in support of the world’s poorest people. Nearly 900 million people around the world don’t have clean drinking water and 2.6 billion lack access to improved sanitation. The absence of these resources poses a significant challenge for development and security around the world, reinforcing a cycle of poverty and instability that represents both a humanitarian disaster and a national security threat. “We can improve access to clean water by improving leadership and accountability,” said Blumenauer. “We don’t have to spend millions searching for a cure, because something as simple as teaching the value of washing hands or providing access to basic technology we already have is all it takes to save millions of lives. Without asking for any increase in funding, the Water for the World Act puts in place a new set of priorities for our foreign assistance programs that will make them more effective at delivering the help that many so desperately need.” “Water is key to just about every kind of development,” said Poe. “If we don’t get water right, it doesn’t matter how many schools we build or vaccines we pass out- we might as well throw our money down the drain. This bill is about using taxpayer dollars more effectively by making water a priority in any development discussion- like it should be.” Children are most vulnerable to water-related diseases: 90% of all deaths caused by diarrheal diseases are among children under 5 years of age, mostly in developing countries. In all, 1.8 million children under the age of 5 die every year, more than from AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined. The economic impacts are devastating: in India alone, inadequate sanitation costs $53.8 billion every year, or 6.4 percent of the country’s GDP. This legislation drives our development assistance programs to provide a greater, more effective role in providing access to clean water and sanitation. Building upon the success of the 2005 Water for the Poor Act, this bill enhances the capacity of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the State Department to play a greater, more effective role in development assistance as well as mitigate cross-border conflict. The bill: Elevates the existing position of the Global Water Coordinator within USAID to integrate and implement water strategies, and deliver aid more effectively; Elevates the existing position of the Special Advisor for Water Resources within the State Department to coordinate the diplomatic policy of the U.S. with respect to global freshwater issues; Increases the sustainability of water, sanitation and hygiene projects to ensure that our investments continue to provide benefits over the long-term; Increases country-ownership of water, sanitation and hygiene projects to ensure that our foreign assistance dollars meet the needs of poor local communities, rather than officials in Washington; and Increases transparency of aid and creating monitoring and evaluation standards that focus on impact to ensure USAID and the State Department can identify and utilize best-practices.
12.09.2011	Sorry, registration for this event is now closed. Please sign up below if you are interested in being contacted for future telephone town hall events. Loading...
12.08.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, released the following statement on the Senate vote to block Richard Cordray from filling the position of Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: “It is outrageous that financial institutions preyed on unsophisticated consumers for years to make enormous profits while putting the global financial system at risk. The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to ensure that consumers are well informed, that financial institutions clearly warn consumers about risks, and are following the law. "Republicans have been working to defang, derail, and delay the Bureau since its inception. The latest example is the Senate Republican filibuster against a vote on President Obama’s nominee to become Director of the CFPB, Richard Cordray. Blocking this vote significantly weakens the Bureau’s ability to protect consumers from corporate malfeasance; it is no wonder that less than ten percent of the public approves of Congress when so many of its members are clearly working against the welfare of the people." Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} “For too long Congress allowed corporations to put profits ahead of people. It is outrageous that financial institutions preyed on unsophisticated consumers for years to make enormous profits while putting the global financial system at risk. The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to ensure that consumers are well informed, that financial institution clearly warn consumers about risks, put people ahead of profits and to ensure that financial institutions are following the law. “But Republicans have been working to defang, derail, and delay the Bureau since its inception. The latest example is the Senate Republican filibuster against a vote on President Obama’s nominee to become Director of the CFPB, Richard Cordray. Blocking this vote significantly weakens the Bureau’s ability to protect consumers from corporate malfeasance; it is no wonder that less than ten percent of the public approves of Congress when so many of its members are clearly working against the welfare of the people.standing up for the financial institutions that fund their campaigns instead of the people they are supposed to represent.”
12.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today 88 members of the U.S. House of Representatives called for an extension of the successful 1603 Treasury Grant Program supporting renewable energy projects, urging in a letter to House leaders that such an extension will continue a proven track record of job creation and promote further growth in domestic clean energy industries. Created in 2009, the 1603 program has provided essential financing for clean energy projects via grants in lieu of investment tax credits, and has created tens of thousands of jobs by leveraging more than $22.8 billion in private financing to support 22,000 renewable energy projects in all 50 states. Signatories of the letter - led by Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Rush Holt (D-NJ), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Mike Thompson (D-CA), and backed by the House Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition (SEEC) - argue that a failure to extend the 1603 program beyond its current December 31 expiration date would have significant adverse effects on American clean energy industries; shrinking the total financing available for renewable energy projects by 52 percent in 2012, and eliminating tens of thousands of jobs. “It is absolutely essential that we extend the 1603 clean energy program to ensure that these job-creating projects continue to have access to financing and that we continue to lead the world in clean energy innovation,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “My office has received a flood of encouragement for continuing this program from businesses that are creating good jobs in Oregon, the urban and rural communities that these projects support, and from consumers interested in purchasing clean energy across America. With countries like China and Germany deploying renewables like solar and wind at a faster rate than the United States, we need to support the entrepreneurs and workers who are launching clean energy projects here in America.” “Congress must support innovation and job creation by extending the 1603 program,” said Rep. Holt. “At a time when our economy is already fragile, abandoning investment in the sustainable energy sector would cause the U.S. to lose even more high-tech jobs to our foreign competitors, and it would undermine the progress of much-needed new energy technologies.” “In the global race on clean energy and innovation, we must make certain that America finishes first,” said Rep. Tonko “A critical step in remaining competitive is the extension of the 1603 Treasury program, which provides the necessary financing and investment to enable American ideas, American intellect and American know-how to develop the ideas and products of the future. This bold investment has helped create jobs, rebuild the economy and support small and large businesses nationwide – that’s why it must be extended.” “The 1603 Treasury Grant Program is a job creator and economic stimulator,” said Rep. Thompson. “It has created tens of thousands of jobs across the clean energy sector and pumped nearly 23 billion private sector dollars into the economy. Nearly 12,000 projects in my state of California have benefited. Congress must act to renew this program – it is good for our environment, good for our economy and helps reduce our dependence on foreign oil.” Last month over 750 small businesses, companies, and trade organizations wrote to Congress urging an extension of the highly successful 1603 program.
12.06.2011	Creating partnerships to foster sustainable development that creates jobs and strengthens communities is win-win for everyone. On December 1, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, Chairman of the Livable Communities Task Force, highlighted projects from around the country that were recognized by the Smart Growth Achievement Awards program for their contributions to making their communities safer, healthier and more economically secure. As Blumenauer noted, “These are the sorts of projects that have a real impact. They save money, make our communities better places to live, and ensure that local, regional and national governments are working together in partnership to create jobs while making smart, long lasting investments.” The panel was moderated by Environmental Protection Agency Associate Administrator Michael Goo, and featured local elected officials and project managers from El Paso, Texas, Normal, Illinois, St. Louis, Missouri and Howard, South Dakota. More information about the Smart Growth Achievement Awards program.
11.30.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, voted againt the "Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act" that would make it more difficult for unions to hold elections and organize: "I am disappointed by the House passage of H.R. 3094, the so-called “Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act.” This legislation is anti-democratic, anti-union, and anti-middle class. "While I am thankful that the Senate has enough sense to ensure that this legislation will not be enacted, if that were not the case, H.R. 3094 would allow companies to indefinitely delay workers elections, allowing companies to choose when and how workers will vote to form a union. The legislation encourages wasteful litigation and overrides the current National Labor Relations Board decision-making process, replacing it with one that will be more expensive and difficult to navigate, that will take longer to finalize, and that fails to protect the rights of workers. "House passage of H.R. 3094 once again demonstrates that the Republican majority is failing to support American workers and American families. I am proud to have voted against this legislation and in support of Oregon’s workers and families."
11.30.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, urged Congress to pass the payroll tax cuts that would maintain and expand support for middle class families as the economy continues to struggle out of the greatest recession of our lifetimes: “The Senate is currently debating a proposal to extend and expand the payroll tax cut, as well as pay for it. Under this proposal, employees would receive a 50% additional cut in the payroll tax and employers would have a slight reduction in the payroll tax that they pay on their employees up to the first 3.1% or $5 million of payroll. “This would help 98% of businesses without unnecessary giveaways to large, extremely profitable corporations. And most important, it would prevent the typical family from suffering a significant increase in their taxes while the economy is still fragile. This proposal would give the average family an extra $1,500 a year to spend. “The simple fact is that our economy and our families cannot afford to take the economic hit that is poised to pull $100 billion out of the economy with the expiration of the 2% payroll tax holiday that's scheduled to expire this year. “Unfortunately, we have people here that are caught up in an ideology that trumps concern for the economy and the typical American family. Americans were and are ready for action that is bold, big, balanced and fair. Now, we actually can start on the road to recovery by just going on autopilot. The default that is set up that will let the Bush-era tax cuts expire and move towards automatic sequestration will actually solve most of the deficit problem that we face. “We can adjust, we can craft, we can focus it to get the most benefit and we can start with a modest adjustment. I'd hope my colleagues will not let the worship of the top one-tenth of the economic pyramid trump concerns for the rest of the working families and the American economy."
11.23.2011	
11.23.2011	Congressman Blumenauer visited the Oregon Mission of Mercy at the Oregon Convention Center with Dr. Jill Price. Oregon Mission of Mercy, a large-scale free dental clinic, began last year and was the first Mission of Mercy on the west coast. “It is inspiring to see such an enormous community response to the health and wellbeing of our neighbors in need,” commented Blumenauer. This year’s Mission of Mercy is estimated to have served upwards of 2,000 patients, with over 1,900 volunteers donating over $1 million of dental work.
11.17.2011	“Thank you Mr. Speaker. Congress seems determined to undermine recent nutrition standards proposed by the Obama Administration.” FACT: The United States Department of Agriculture, in accordance with congressional direction in the bipartisan Child Nutrition Act, , has proposed updating school lunch nutrition standards. These revisions are based on recommendations by the Institute of Medicine within the National Academy of Sciences. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack has stressed the need for these revisions as an effort to curb childhood obesity and reduce future health care costs. After pressure from lobbyists representing large food conglomerates, Congress has weakened these standards. “It is shameful that we are poised to intervene to make sure that pizza continues to count as a vegetable and that we protect the privileged status of French fries on the lunch tray.” FACT: According to Congress, 2 tablespoons of tomato sauce equals ½ cup of vegetables, thus allowing pizza to be counted as a serving of vegetables in school lunches. “The problem we have in front of us is the institution of vegetables has been weakened in this country, and the effort to redefine it on this vast social experiment that we have going on, redefining vegetables differently than it has ever been defined by mankind before, this effort of this vast social experiment the early data that we see from other places, harms the institution of the family, the raising of the next generation…” FACT: One in three children under the age of 18 will develop Type II Diabetes within their lifetime, with the rate of childhood obesity doubling since 1980. “…and it is harmful to the future of the Republic.” FACT: Our military highlights that a growing number of our young people are too fat to fight, with only one in four meeting the fitness requirements for military service.
11.14.2011	Congressman Earl Blumenauer at a Leaders’ Assembly hosted by CAUSA, Oregon’s Pro-Immigrant Coalition, and Vecinos en Alerta, a new and growing community engagement group based in the Cully neighborhood of Portland. The Assembly provided the Congressman with an opportunity to hear directly from local DREAM Act supporters, Latino families and constituents who support Comprehensive Immigration Reform (CIR) at the federal level. Congressman Blumenauer spoke about his support for CIR, the DREAM Act, the Uniting Families Act and other immigration legislation, as well as his request to President Obama, along with Congressman Serrano and a growing list of House members, to end the Secure Communities program. “We are all immigrants, whether we came 10,000 years ago or in the last ten years, and we all came for a better way of life for ourselves and our families,” Congressman Blumenauer remarked. “I’m hopeful tonight for a conversation about immigration reform in this country that is respectful of the reality we’re in and of those who are here and contributing, and one that is focused particularly on the young people here this evening.”
11.08.2011	Congressman Blumenauer addressed an enthusiastic crowd Saturday evening at the Willamette Pedestrian Coalition’s (WPC) first annual Weston Awards. The award show highlighted WPC’s twentieth anniversary of pedestrian advocacy, and whose namesake honors Edward Weston who walked from Boston to Washington, DC to attend Lincoln's Inaugural Ball in 1861. “Walking and rolling are fundamental rights, yet they are often overlooked and relegated to the status of ‘alternative transportation modes,’” Blumenauer said. “That’s why we need organizations such as the Willamette Pedestrian Coalition, to advocate for safe movement, healthy communities, and a resilient economy.” Joining former Oregon Transportation Chair Gail Achterman and other notable guests, Congressman Blumenauer thanked the organization’s staff, volunteers, and the engaged audience for their dedication to pedestrian safety, highlighting the important role that walkability plays in creating livable communities. The event featured an art exhibit that displayed shoes from local activists and elected officials, including the shoe that the Congressman used to complete his 35th marathon.
11.03.2011	Legislation would remove obstacles fans face in owning professional sports teams Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Congresswoman Janice Hahn (CA-36) reintroduced the “Give Fans a Chance” Act. The legislation would bar professional sports leagues from putting up unfair obstacles to fan ownership of sports franchises and gives communities the opportunity to act before a team is moved. "The millions of Americans who are committed to their hometown sports teams are tired of being pushed around by the handful of billionaires who control major league franchises,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Communities across the country should get the chance to have a stake in their teams and a say in their future. It's time to give fans a seat at the table." “I think it’s time to occupy Major League Baseball,” said Rep. Hahn. “This legislation would simply give fans the chance, in all professional sports, to own their local sports franchise. It is sad when community institutions are subjected to the financial whims of owners who are not part of the community and use teams as their personal piggy bank. Now is the perfect time to give fans the opportunity to have their voice heard.” The Green Bay Packers of the National Football League are currently the only publicly owned major sports franchise in the country. The Packers have an 80,000 person waiting list for season tickets and have sold out nearly 300 home games in a row. This week Major League Baseball announced that it has reached an agreement with Los Angeles Dodgers owner Frank McCourt to sell the team following a stint in bankruptcy. Congresswoman Hahn has long supported giving fans the opportunity to own the Los Angeles Dodgers. As a member of the Los Angeles City Council, Congresswoman Hahn led the effort on a city resolution supporting public ownership. Her father, Los Angeles Supervisor Kenneth Hahn, played a crucial role in bringing the Dodgers to Los Angeles in 1958. Several minor league baseball teams are publicly owned, run as charitable foundations, or operated as a trust. This includes the Wisconsin Timber Rattlers, the Harrisburg Senators, the Memphis Redbirds, the Rochester Red wings, Syracuse SkyChiefs and Toledo Mud Hens. The full text of the bill can be found online here.
11.02.2011	This Monday, Congressman Blumenauer delivered remarks before the National Congress of American Indians. For the first time, the NCAI held their conference in Portland, Oregon and had a record registration of 6,000 participants.
11.02.2011	Bill extends production tax credit through 2016 Washington, Nov 2, 2011 - Washington DC – U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), members of the tax-writing House Committee on Ways and Means, today introduced the American Renewable Energy Production Tax Credit Extension Act (H.R. 3307). This bipartisan bill extends the tax incentive for the production of wind power, geothermal power, hydropower, and other forms of renewable energy through 2016. “Extending this long-standing tax incentive will leverage private investment to bring proven energy projects online, bolster domestic manufacturing, and reduce electricity costs for businesses and families,” said Rep. Reichert. “Renewable energy resources play an important and increasing role in America’s total energy supply and reducing our reliance on foreign energy resources controlled by hostile nations. The certainty this bipartisan bill will provide can further spur growth in this vital sector, increase economic development, and create jobs.” “Tax credits for renewable energy development are an essential part of powering America’s clean energy future,” said Rep. Blumenauer. Investing in the renewable energy industry is vitally important for the American economy, creates jobs, and moves us towards energy independence.” "American wind energy jobs are something that we can all agree are vital for our economic well-being and energy security," said Denise Bode, CEO of the American Wind Energy Association. "The recent stability of production tax credit (PTC) has provided the foundation of wind energy's transformation of a new manufacturing sector based on American ingenuity. Over the last six years, U.S. domestic production of wind turbine components has grown 12-fold to more than 400 facilities in 43 states. Extending the PTC will keep growing U.S. wind energy manufacturing jobs, rather than losing them to other countries." “Extending hydropower tax incentives provides developers financial certainty and will bring additional clean, affordable and reliable hydroelectric power to more American families,” said Linda Church Ciocci, Executive Director of the National Hydropower Association. “A long-term PTC extension sends a market signal supporting project development, in turn leveraging significant private investment.” "The Reichert-Blumenauer bill is a measure that will help diversify our nation’s energy sources while employing thousands of Americans and providing hundreds of megawatts of new clean energy,” said Bob Cleaves, President and CEO of Biomass Power Association. “Biomass power promotes sustainable forestry and farming while providing predictable, long-term energy solutions that contribute to rural economies across the country." “Extending federal tax incentives through 2016 is vital for the future of the US geothermal industry,” said Karl Gawell, Executive Director of the Geothermal Energy Association. “We are already seeing a slow-down in projects unable or unlikely to meet the current deadline. This legislation would stem this downturn and sustain growth in the US geothermal industry.” BACKGROUND H.R. 3307 provides a clean, 4-year extension of the existing production tax credit for wind, biomass, geothermal, small irrigation, landfill gas, trash, and hydropower. It was created in the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and has frequently been extended in year-end packages of expiring tax provisions, as well as in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The current incentive is set to expire next year for wind and in 2013 for other renewable energy forms. Advocates note that historically, at least six to eight months before the tax credit expires, financial lenders hesitate in providing capital for projects because of the uncertainty created by the pending expiration of the credit, stalling projects from coming online. The rush to complete projects as the PTC nears expiration also reduces projects and adds costs, resulting in higher electricity prices.
11.01.2011	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer met with Scot King who rode his bike from Salem to Washington DC over the past several months hitting 32 of the state capitals and our nation’s capital to raise awareness for wounded soldiers. His project is featured on www.rememberthewoundedride.com. Next year, he’s flying to DC and riding back to Portland to visit the remaining capitals. Scot is from Portland and went to school at David Douglad High School. Map of Skot's route
10.26.2011	Connecting with communities across the country to promote small businesses, jobs and economic development is a part of Congressman Blumenauer’s work in Congress. Last Thursday in NW Portland, Blumenauer spoke to a delegation from Silicon Valley who were participating in their 2011 Annual City to City Study Mission organized by the San Jose Chamber of Congress. Almost 65 people were part of the group that visited a number of sites in the metro area, meeting with local business leaders, elected officials and community advocates to learn more about Oregon, focusing on regional job creation efforts, land use and sustainability and economic development strategies for both large and small businesses. With Grace Davis and Jonathan Williams of Intel
10.26.2011	Report Offers Vision for a Farm Bill That Better Serves Small and Midsize Farmers and Ranchers, the Environment, Taxpayers and Consumers WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer was joined by leaders from the environmental, taxpayer and free enterprise communities in unveiling a vision for common-sense reforms to the Farm Bill. The report, titled “Growing Opportunities: Family Farm Values for Reforming the Farm Bill,” [PDF] offers a roadmap to wiser use of taxpayer dollars to support small and medium farmers and ranchers while cutting wasteful spending in the form of handouts to big agribusinesses. “It’s time for a Farm Bill that works for America’s family farmers and ranchers,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. “For years, Americans have seen their tax dollars ill-spent on wasteful handouts to huge agribusinesses that don’t need them, while family farms, conservation initiatives and nutrition programs languish. We have a tremendous opportunity to reform this Farm Bill in a way that spends tax dollars wisely while creating jobs and making our communities healthier.” “Rep. Blumenauer is a leading champion for a healthy, sustainable food system that most Americans want and more and more consumers are demanding,” said Ken Cook, President of the Environmental Working Group. “His report, which highlights the wasteful taxpayer spending on well-off agribusiness, is a critical component of the farm bill debate that we are in danger of losing to the secrecy of the Super Committee. I’m thrilled the congressman shares EWG’s vision for a proposal that supports healthy food reforms and protects our water, soil and wildlife habitat.” “Congressman Blumenauer’s plan goes a long way towards reforming the crop insurance and direct payments programs that will save taxpayers money and help the farmers who truly need it,” said Henry Olsen, Vice President and Director of the National Research Initiative at the American Enterprise Institute. “Fixing those two programs is a part of a larger conversation this country needs to have about how we substantively reform agriculture policy to make it smarter and less costly.” “Farm bills have been harvesting cash from taxpayers for years,” said Steve Ellis, Vice President at Taxpayers for Common Sense. “Rep. Blumenauer has hit the nail on the head with this report. Americans do deserve a better farm bill. And with the nation staring into a nearly $15 trillion chasm of debt, we cannot afford wasteful subsidies that are more about lining big agribusiness pockets than putting food on the table.” “The next Farm Bill should be an investment strategy, not just a spending plan,” said Tim Male, vice president for Conservation Policy at Defenders of Wildlife. “By targeting our conservation dollars towards the programs and farmers that are producing results for wildlife, we get the biggest bang for our buck not only for the environment but for the taxpayer as well.” A copy of the report can be downloaded here.
10.25.2011	This week marks the 10th anniversary of the USA PATRIOT Act. In 2001, I voted against this bad legislation and have also voted against subsequent extensions. Now, a decade later, there are still serious questions about the need for such broad intelligence gathering authority. The Patriot Act is set to expire in June of 2015. It's time for a more accountable approach that balances individual privacy with our national defense. When families are struggling and our economy is barely moving, the US Government spends close to $80 billion a year on a sprawling intelligence bureaucracy. Over 4.2 million Americans hold security clearances. And of those 4.2 million total, the number who hold top-secret clearances is over 1.4 million. That's as many people who live in San Antonio, the seventh largest city in America. We should redirect these resources towards things that truly protect American families and their individual privacy, and to efforts that help communities become more economically secure. On this 10th anniversary of the USA PATRIOT Act, it is my hope that we can work with the administration to limit the scope of how the PATRIOT Act is used as well as highlight the opportunity for its reform in Congress.
10.20.2011	Congressman Earl Blumenauer was a highlighted speaker at the national Rail-Volution Conference held in Washington, DC, October 16-19. Blumenauer, called the “Godfather of Rail-Volution,” inspired the Livable Communities movement with a keynote speech alongside Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and American Public Transportation Association President Bill Millar. Blumenauer congratulated attendees on the progress they've made in spite of Congress' refusal to invest in critical transportation and community needs. Secretary LaHood affirmed the Obama administration's commitment to the Partnership for Sustainable Communities and urged attendees to contact their Congressional delegations in support of the President's Jobs Bill. Millar highlighted the value public transit has added to numerous communities and urged Congress to find the funding needed for continued investments. This year's conference presented a stellar line-up of speakers, work sessions, and mobile workshops for almost 1200 attendees from 197 communities across the US and 5 other nations, providing the latest information and insights on how investments in transit systems and bicycle and pedestrian facilities have increased transportation choices, improved public safety, decreased greenhouse gas emissions, strengthened local economies, and saved American households money. National experts Chris Leinberger of the Brookings Institution and Dr. Manuel Pastore of UCLA provided valuable insights into the nation's dramatically changing real estate markets and demographics. GSA Commissioner of Public Buildings Bob Peck focused on the federal government's commitment to green building design and location, while noted New Urbanist planner Peter Calthorpe explained how Livable Communities can impact global climate change. Next year’s Rail-Volution conference will take place in Los Angeles, California, on October 14-17, 2012.
10.17.2011	Congressmen Cite “Serious Concerns about the Objectivity of the Process” WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) was joined by 32 of his House colleagues in calling on the U.S. State Department to find the proposed route of the Keystone XL pipeline not in the national interest. Citing emails showing a too-cozy relationship between State Department officials and TransCanada lobbyists, as well as the fact that TransCanada was allowed to handpick the company that conducted its environmental review, the Congressmen also said that serious concerns had been raised about the objectivity of the review process. “Rather than acting as fair arbiters of TransCanada’s application to build a massive pipeline across environmentally sensitive areas of the United States, State Department officials appear to have acted as little more than cheerleaders for the company’s bid,” the letter reads. “Any manipulation of the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) process taints its outcome and makes the final product unacceptable as the basis for a finding of national interest.” The letter was also supported by environmental groups that have been leading opponents of the proposed pipeline. “It means a great deal that so many members of Congress are speaking out and calling attention to the corruption of the pipeline review process,” said Erich Pica, President of Friends of the Earth. “The conflicts of interest, bias and complicity at the core of the State Department’s review make it clear that the review has lost credibility and can no longer be trusted as the basis for the pipeline decision.” "I'm so glad to see House members sticking up not just for the integrity of the atmosphere, but also the integrity of the political process,” said Bill McKibben, founder of 350.org. “If environmental reviews are run by the companies involved, there's really not much point in doing them; hopefully this letter will help Obama's Administration figure out that it's time to start over again."
10.13.2011	WASHINGTON – This morning, the House Ways and Means Committee unanimously approved H.R. 674, a bipartisan bill led by Reps. Earl Blumenauer and Wally Herger to repeal the 3% withholding requirement on payments made to vendors by government entities. Under Section 3402(t) of the Internal Revenue Code, beginning next year, federal, state, and local governments with more than $100 million in annual expenditures will be required to withhold 3% of their payments for goods and services. The Blumenauer-Herger repeal bill protects cash-strapped state and local governments as well as the private businesses that contract with them from the new withholding requirement. “The 3% withholding requirement hurts small businesses and costs jobs,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. “Many government contractors are small businesses whose profit margins are less than 3%, which means that the withholding requirement would create serious cash flow problems and disrupt their ability to provide goods and services. Worse, the cost to the federal government of simply implementing the withholding requirement will be greater than any revenue raised through increased tax compliance. Efforts to close the tax gap are important, but they should be targeted at those who are failing to pay taxes rather than imposing higher costs on law-abiding businesses.” Although the 3% withholding requirement does not take effect until Jan. 1, 2012, business and government contracting processes are already affected by this damaging requirement, making swift Congressional action to repeal it necessary. Oregon businesses are already wrestling with these requirements. “Three percent withholding will be especially burdensome for small shipyards,” said Frank Foti, CEO of Oregon-based Vigor Industrial LLC and vice-chairman of the Shipbuilders Council of America. “Compliance with this law will impose significant, unnecessary financial burdens on our nation’s shipyards at a time when many are struggling to stay afloat. The withholding is a flat percentage of revenues from government payments that bears no relationship to companies’ taxable incomes and will restrict cash flow needed for day-to-day operations and investments. In addition, the administrative and capital investment costs that compliance with three percent withholding will impose on businesses will be substantial, and the mandate will be exceedingly complicated to implement.” Since the rule was added by the Senate in 2006, Rep. Blumenauer’s office has received hundreds of letters from businesses, trade associations and local governments calling for repeal, including the Associated General Contractors of America, the National Underground Contractors Association, the National Association of Counties, the National Association of State Procurement Officials, the American Farm Bureau Federation, the Edison Electric Institute, the American Society of Civil Engineers, and the American Institute of Architects.
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, issued the following statement regarding the ongoing ‘Occupy Wall Street’ protests that have spread to cities across the country. “Citizens who are participating in the ‘Occupy Wall Street’ movement are giving voice to a widely shared but too-seldom expressed frustration that the policies and practices in this country are tipped against the interests of the vast majority of Americans and the long term interests of our nation. “There ought to be outrage when big banks urge homeowners to continue making payments on loans that are far greater than the value of their property at interest rates that are far above the market while businesses are busy using the tools available to them to reduce mortgage balances and the interest rates that they pay. Business can use bankruptcy laws to reset the terms and conditions of their loans, but homeowners under the same circumstances are trapped. There ought to be outrage when massive subsidies go to the richest agribusiness interests while most farmers and ranchers get little or no support. There ought to be outrage when large financial institutions are propped up by artificially low interest rates while retirees, people who are saving for college, and families across the country get virtually no interest for their savings and money market accounts. “Simply put, middle class Americans have every right to be outraged by what they see going on our economy today. They are paying the price for the Wall Street mess by having their wages, collective bargaining rights, pensions, and health care whittled away while government policies and business practices benefit those who need it least. “Why shouldn’t the 99% be outraged about the continued refusal to invest in rebuilding and renewing America when we have work to be done and workers willing to do it? Unemployment of 20% or more in building or construction trades is absurd at a time when we have roads and bridges in need of repair, transit systems that need to be expanded, sewer and water systems that are inadequate, an outdated electrical grid, and schools that need to be modernized. These are common sense steps that will pay dividends over the next two decades, but government refuses to put people to work to invest in our future and save money in the long term. Who shouldn’t be offended that there is simultaneously a massive push for more tax relief for businesses that are already sitting on almost $2 trillion in cash, enjoying record profits while laying off workers, and all the while fighting against billionaires paying the same tax rate that most middle class families in America pay? “These outraged citizens are not just venting frustration. They are demanding a policy response, and Congress would do well to listen. “Congress needs to step up and defend the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act from attempts to weaken it. The financial crisis that is hurting so many families and small businesses was caused in part by big banks taking excessive risks. Recent reports, however, indicate that financial regulators have proposed weakening the “Volcker Rule” that was passed by Congress to halt the reckless behavior that led to the economic collapse. This is unacceptable. While I am pressing regulators to create strong, enforceable rules that will prevent another Wall Street financial crisis, this is a very specific challenge that merits not just the attention but the active work of the protestors. “Congress must also pass legislation that will prevent banks from nickel-and-diming the American people with excessive fees. When consumers get fed up with practices like Bank of America’s new monthly debit card fee, they should be free to take their business elsewhere without penalty. That is why I support legislation that will prevent banks from charging a fee to close an account, delaying the closure of a customer’s account, or requiring that customers close their accounts in person. "Congress must also curb corporate influence in the political process. The Citizens United decision allowing unlimited corporate spending on political campaigns further tilts the playing field towards a narrow and already well-represented range of interests. If the Supreme Court interprets the Constitution in a way that affords corporations the same rights that you as an individual have, then Congress must amend the Constitution. I am a cosponsor of two constitutional amendments to clarify that Congress has the authority to limit corporate funding of campaigns.”
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement regarding the South Korea, Panama and Colombia Free Trade Agreements: “The Korea and Panama Free Trade Agreements represent a constructive development for America’s economy, and particularly for Oregon. Across the state, businesses will see increased sales abroad of machinery, technology, and agricultural products – sales that will in turn lead to increased activity at our ports. Beef exports from Oregon will increase, helping Oregon’s farmers and ranchers, and services ranging from engineering and design to the legal sector will see increased demand. The South Korea and Panama Free Trade Agreements mean jobs for Oregonians. “Some people have complained this process took too long, but I commend this administration and my colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee for not rushing to approve trade deals that weren’t good enough for American businesses and workers. Dramatic improvements have been made, including adding core labor and environmental protections and remedying blatant unfairness towards American automobile sales in South Korea. Indeed, the South Korea Free Trade Agreement is now supported by the association representing American workers who make cars. “In total, these agreements represent a step forward, but there is more that can be done. We need to redouble our efforts to ensure the benefits of trade are more widely distributed across our economy, and that rules are enforced. I’ve been encouraged by the renewed commitment to use the rules of international trade to enforce fairness: I was pleased the Senate has acted on Chinese currency manipulation, and that the administration’s decision to impose tariffs on illegal Chinese activity in the tire market was sustained by the World Trade Organization. I look forward to helping ensure a continued focus on appropriate trade enforcement. As our state’s economy has grown more interlinked with the rest of the world, our best efforts are required to ensure we achieve the promise of international trade. As Congress advances international trade opportunities for our firms, it has an opportunity to ensure that American workers can also compete. Since 1962, trade adjustment assistance has helped workers respond to the continual changes in our economy. In 2009, Democrats expanded the program to insure service workers, doubling the size of the program. The expansion of the program appropriately reflects the challenges trade poses to our service economy, and continues our commitment to the manufacturing sector. The extension of the program passed by Congress yesterday will help American workers continue to compete in a globalizing economy. “I continue to have reservations about the Colombia Free Trade Agreement and voted against its passage. The agreement fails to support the laudable commitments made by both countries in the Action Plan for Labor. That agreement could mark a watershed moment in Colombia labor rights, but it will require diligent enforcement by both nations to ensure its effective implementation. Including that commitment in the text of the agreement would have helped carry out those promises. I am also greatly concerned with the prospects for smaller farmers in Colombia. The U.S. heavily subsidizes certain crops and I am concerned that the agreement does not do enough to ensure that Colombian farmers are not driven from the Colombian market, further destabilizing the Colombian countryside.”
10.11.2011	On October 10, Congressman Blumenauer visited East Portland to hear from a number of groups about their challenges and priorities. The first stop was a visit to David Douglas High School, where the Congressman met with David Douglas Superintendent Don Grotting, DDHS Principal John Bier, and Assistant Principals Sharon Webster, John Murray, Mark Haner, and Charlene Bassine. Along with cuts to federal and state education funding, the most pressing issue is how to help students from so many different cultures get a good education. More than 30% of DD HS students are non-native English speakers; more than 32 different languages are spoken at the school. Yet funds to continue helping these students continue to dwindle. After the Congressman toured DDHS with Student Body President Tanner Adrian, he stopped by a History Class to answer students’ questions about President Obama, the state of the economy, and the future of federal college loans. Congressman Blumenauer then attended an event to mark milestones in the Johnson Creek Flood Plain Restoration Project. The City of Portland, Oregon Emergency Management and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) are working cooperatively to reduce the frequent flooding that often closes SE Foster Road and damages businesses and homes. Restoring the natural floodplain will help to keep citizens out of harm's way and save taxpayer dollars in cleaning up after a flood occurs. photo by Bruce MacGregor At lunch, the Congressman met with members of the Midway Business Association, the Gateway Area Business Association, and the East Portland Chamber of Commerce, where the discussion focused on the difficulties small business owners face in these time of economic and political uncertainty. The final stop on the day’s tour was at the Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization (IRCO), which has served thousands of new Portland residents since its founding in the 1970s. After a brief tour, the Congressman met with key IRCO members as well as members of the East Portland Action Plan to hear their thoughts on public perceptions of East Portland, the President’s Job Bill, equity in transportation improvements, cutbacks to transit service, the challenges that immigrants face, cuts to federal education and student loan programs, and better access to health care.
10.07.2011	Letter Responds to Reports of Weaker-than-Intended Section 619 Proposals WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer and Maurice Hinchey are sending a letter to financial regulators [PDF] expressing concern about recent press reports that initial proposals on section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (The Act), popularly known as the “Volcker Rule,” are significantly weaker than intended by Congress. The Act clearly intends the Volcker Rule to prohibit proprietary trading by U.S. banking entities in order to limit risk, protect shareholders, and protect the global financial system. “Families in Oregon are still reeling from the financial crisis, which was caused in part by banks taking excessive risks,” Rep. Blumenauer stated. “Congress passed the Volcker Rule to prevent this reckless behavior from ever happening again. The proposed rule reverses course and would allow banks to continue taking the kinds of risks that would once again raise the specter of global financial collapse. I am urging the regulatory agencies to draft a strong Volcker Rule to protect consumers and to put an end to the ‘heads, banks win; tails, taxpayers lose’ mentality.” Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) added, "When the economy collapsed because of the recklessness of big banks, ordinary people paid the price with their jobs and savings. That's why I'm urging Chairman Bernanke to implement the Volcker Rule in a way that stops the risky trading as soon as possible. We have to put an end to the casino-like atmosphere that has dominated our banking sector for far too long. We gave the Fed the tools they need to rein in the risky trading and now they need to use them." Reps. Welch, Conyers, and Filner also signed the letter, which was sent to Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, Acting Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Board of Directors, Martin Gruenberg, Acting Comptroller of the Currency, John Walsh, Securities and Exchange Commission Chairperson, Mary Schapiro, and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman, Gary Gensler.
10.05.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement regarding trade agreements passed out of the Ways and Means Committee: Today marks an important step in the development of America’s trade agenda. On balance, the package of measures moving forward is a constructive development for America’s economy and particularly for Oregon. The people I represent will see increased sales abroad of machinery, technology, and agricultural products. This in turn will lead to increased activity at Oregon’s ports. Beef exports from Oregon will increase which will help our states ranchers and farmers. There will be long overdue assistance for the workers hurt by the trade. Not everyone wins in trade, so it is critical to have the Trade Assistance Agreement help for American workers who are disadvantaged. Some people have complained that this process took too long, but I commend the administration and my colleagues in Congress who didn’t rush to approve trade deals that weren’t good enough. Dramatic improvements have been made to the Korean FTA where blatant unfairness toward American automobile sales in Korea has been addressed. Indeed, the Korean FTA is now supported by the American workers who make cars. The ensuing time has also resulted in improvements to the Panamanian Agreement, particularly by bringing their labor laws up to ILO standards and improving international tax compliance. It’s no secret Colombian Agreement has been the most troubling. The United States has a responsibility to help this country that has been damaged by the United States appetite for illegal drugs. This illicit trade in drugs posed huge problems for Colombia. Over the years there has been progress dealing with a disturbing trend of violence towards union activists that has gained attention far and wide. Colombia appears to be the most dangerous place on earth to be a union worker. According to the international Trade Union Conference, in 2010 Colombia had more union worker assassinations -49- than the rest of the world combined. ENS, a labor think tank cited by the ILO and State Department, estimates more than 20 unionists have already been murdered this year. Although there has been progress on some trends and with the adoption of a labor action plan, I did not support the Colombian agreement. The fact that such a plan was not incorporated into the text of the agreement and was not therefore enforceable though the agreement and the continuing labor violence led me ultimately to vote against the deal. I am hopeful that if the agreement goes forward, that there is a platform that we can build upon to make progress in the future. In total, these agreements represent improvements that we can build upon, but does not signal that we can relax our efforts. There is more that can be done. We need to redouble our efforts to assure benefits of trade are more widely distributed and the spirit in which we discuss today, that they are in fact enforced. I am encouraged by renewed commitment to use the tools of organized trade as they’re supposed to be enforced. I was pleased that the Senate is acting on Chinese currency manipulation which I feel violates the letter and the spirit of our international trade agreements. I appreciate the Administration’s decision to impose tariffs on illegal, Chinese activity on the tire market, which was sustained by the WTO. I look forward to helping ensure a continued focus on appropriate trade enforcement. Our economy has grown increasingly interdependent around the world, especially in Oregon. Our best efforts are needed to make sure we realize the promise of international free trade and that it is not a one way street. The years spent to improve these trade agreements was an important step in that direction.
10.05.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Louise Slaughter and other House Democrats released a letter to the Judiciary Committee [PDF] calling for hearings on the pattern of potential ethical lapses by Justice Clarence Thomas. Reports of Thomas’s actions have created serious concerns regarding conflicts of interest that undermine appellants’ rights of due process and also raise substantive questions about his impartiality as a member of the Supreme Court heading into a new term. The letter urges that the Committee hold hearings regarding the nature of these questions, their factual basis, and their potential to undermine the public’s trust in the Supreme Court. “The Supreme Court’s greatest assets are its integrity and the public trust,” said Blumenauer. “Yet for months now, concerns have been building about the unwillingness or the inability of the Supreme Court to address allegations of potential ethics violations by Justice Clarence Thomas. It is particularly troubling that he suddenly stopped disclosing information concerning the income and employment status of his wife as required by law, and that he failed to report gifts from wealthy supporters and inappropriately solicited donations for favored organizations. Because the Court continues to operate without a binding code of ethics or a transparent recusal process, it is time for Congress to exercise its Constitutional role and become involved in this process.” “The issue of non-disclosure is about whether or not Justice Thomas broke the law,” said Slaughter. “If he willfully misrepresented his wife’s employment for 13 years, that is a violation of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978. All appropriate governmental bodies, including the House Judiciary Committee, should be investigating ethical issues such as this, and exploring ways to improve the accountability of the Supreme Court while maintaining its independence as the third and equal branch of government.” The letter is signed by Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Louise Slaughter, Peter Welch, Chris Murphy, Mike Thompson, John Larson, Xavier Becerra, John Lewis, Bill Pascrell and Joseph Crowley. It remains open for signatures.
10.05.2011	Today marks the 41st anniversary of the founding of our Public Broadcasting System (PBS). PBS delivers unparalleled quality programming including news, children’s shows, arts and cultural entertainment. The American public, year after year, has identified PBS as “the most trusted institution in America,” even ahead of our courts system. Where would America be without public broadcasting? Families would lose access to award-winning programming that has proven its ability to boost a child’s reading and comprehension skills. Not everyone can afford a costly cable package. Not only is it universally available, the content is solely focused on teaching our kids, not selling them something. Much of the content on PBS is not commercially viable. One of America’s greatest living historians and documentarians, Ken Burns, has said: Not one of my documentaries, produced solely for PBS over the past 30 years, could have been made anywhere but on public broadcasting… Each time I patiently explain to my new suitor what I have planned for my next project…I am laughed out of their offices, sent, happily, back to PBS. This value is realized by the American public. A recent poll showed that over two-thirds of all voters – Democrat or Republican – oppose proposals to eliminate government funding for public television and public radio. Some in Congress aren’t hearing that same message. Another bill has been introduced attacking federal funding for public broadcasting. Everyone should mark this anniversary by fighting against these attacks and work to ensure that our communities will continue to have the extraordinary service that public broadcasting provides.
09.23.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, issued the following statement regarding H.R. 2401, the Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation (TRAIN) Act: “Under the guise of asking for more information, the TRAIN Act delays two of the most crucial clean air protections of the last decade. It is a blatant giveaway to polluters that will cost thousands of American lives and hundreds of billions of dollars in preventable healthcare needs. For my colleagues who keep repeating the claim that delaying pollution protections is something we need to do because of the recession, we should be very clear: delaying these clean air protections will have an overall negative impact on the economy by dramatically increasing healthcare costs. “Mercury, arsenic and chromium are poisons to the human body. They damage the developing brains of children, cause heart attacks and many forms of cancer, and threaten women who are pregnant. Every year that the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards are delayed by a Congress that ignores the needs of American families, 17,000 people will die prematurely, hospitals will see 12,000 preventable new visits, and Americans will suffer 120,000 needless cases of aggravated asthma. Every year of delay will cost our healthcare system at least $60 billion and perhaps as much as $140 billion. This is between 5 and 13 times the cost of simply complying with the new pollution standards. “The TRAIN Act also delays the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule, which cuts down on the air pollution that people are forced to breathe that’s blown into their communities from belching smokestacks two or three states away. Every year these protections are delayed, another 34,000 people will die prematurely, hospitals will see 19,000 unnecessary new visits, and Americans will suffer 400,000 needless cases of aggravated asthma. This will cost our beleaguered healthcare system another $120 billion to $280 billion a year, a staggering 150 to 350 times the cost of just implementing the pollution controls. “Americans overwhelmingly support government protections that keep our air safe to breathe, our water safe to drink and our food safe to eat. Stripping those protections away will cost lives and money, and it is wrong on every level.”
09.22.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, issued the following statement in the wake of last night’s failure in the House of Representatives of a Continuing Resolution to fund government operations: “The budget debate in Congress has effectively been reduced to an argument over which of our feet to shoot. “The latest example of brinksmanship is that Republicans are holding up urgently-needed disaster relief funds in the wake of Hurricane Irene over demands that the spending be offset elsewhere in the budget. Yet the same Republicans are bitterly defending wasteful tax giveaways to big oil companies and millionaires. This double standard – painful cuts for the people who need help the most, with nothing asked of those who can better afford it – makes it nearly impossible to have a rational conversation about bringing sanity to our budget. “It doesn’t have to be this hard. Millions remain unemployed or underemployed, and it’s not because businesses don’t have enough money to invest. The problem is that Americans don’t have enough money or confidence to create demand. We need bold investments in the foundations of our prosperity. Rather than laying off teachers and construction workers as Tea Party Republicans are demanding, we should be investing in our schools and rebuilding America. I hope we can set aside this damaging ideological brinksmanship and work together to renew our country.”
09.20.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, issued the following statement in response to recent controversy surrounding Gibson Guitar and the Lacey Act: “Enforcement of the Lacey Act’s ban on the importation of illegally-harvested wood products is essential for the American forest products industry’s success. Before we amended the Lacey Act with bipartisan support in 2008 to cover illegally harvested timber, that industry was losing more than $1 billion a year in lost opportunities and lower prices. “The American forest products industry is highly competitive and adheres to strong environmental and labor laws. But it cannot compete with illegal timber operations. Illegal timber harvests are an economic, environmental and humanitarian disaster. Half of the world’s forests have already disappeared, and the illegal removal of high value threatened tree species destined for international trade is often the first step leading to forest clearance. The tracks and roads built to access and remove timber become entryways for further illegal cutting, hunting and burning. “In today’s economy, Congress should be looking to strengthen the Lacey Act’s enforcement – not weaken it. Enforcing the Lacey Act protects the American timber industry against unfair competition from illegal logging and helps to prevent the off-shoring of more wood and wood products jobs. I call on members of both parties to uphold their longstanding commitment to protecting American jobs, American businesses and endangered species by defending this law.”
09.20.2011	Congressman Blumenauer visited Con-way Freight's Clackamas facilities on Friday to discuss freight movement, hauling and maintenance jobs, and cost savings through energy efficiency in trucking. Environmentally friendly technology on newer Con-way vehicles can actually improve air quality! As one employee noted, in smoggier metropolitan areas like Los Angeles, air running through newer engines comes out cleaner than the air taken in. Con-way Freight distributes 1.8 Million pounds of commercial and industrial cargo daily from the Clackamas facility. "I'm glad to visit Con-way's facilities here at home and work with them in Washington DC,” Blumenauer said. “This company understands that improving freight goes hand in hand with improving the transportation options for all Americans." Con-Way is a $5 billion diversified freight company that has 300 centers throughout the U.S.
09.20.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, a senior member of the House Ways & Means and Budget Committees, submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record in regards to the end of the Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy: "Today, we move one step closer towards full equality by ending the immoral and irresponsible practice of discriminating against courageous Americans who want to serve their country. I am proud to have voted again and again for Don’t Ask Don’t Tell’s repeal because I know – and the military has told us – that ending this policy will strengthen our armed forces. "A comprehensive report from the Defense Department found that of the 400,000 service members and 150,000 military spouses, 70% of military personnel thought the repeal would be positive, mixed, or no consequence. This is a remarkable finding, and makes the policy seem all the more indefensible for the more than 14,000 service members who have been discharged. "Brave Americans have served and sacrificed in silence for years while the military enforced a discriminatory and harmful policy. Today this policy is officially a thing of the past, a relic of a different time. "The road to equality is long, winding, and will have many bumps along the way. Today, I have the 14,000 discharged service members in my thoughts as we celebrate the end of an era of discrimination. Tomorrow, we will get back to work, fighting for the Employment and Student Non Discrimination Acts, the Safe Schools Improvement Act, and the Respect for Marriage Act that will overturn DOMA."
09.16.2011	Congressman Blumenauer met with the Oregon Association of Minority Entrepreneurs (OAME) on Monday to discuss support for minorities and women emerging small business. OAME operates a business incubator in the heart of the North Williams area in North/Northeast Portland and has gone from 8 members in 1987 to over 600 businesses today. At Monday's meeting, OAME members and Congressman Blumenauer were on the same page regarding the need to rebuild and renew the country. Congressman Blumenauer pointed to improving water, sewer, electric and transit infrastructure as way to create jobs for minority and women owned businesses and beyond. “I will push Congress to fund transportation and infrastructure and to expand opportunities for OAME members” said Blumenauer. "Keep up the great work you do mentoring small businesses and helping them succeed in these trying times."
09.09.2011	Reading the names of New York firefighters and police who died responding to the 9-11 attacks Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) issued the following statement regarding the 10th anniversary of September 11, 2001: Like Franklin Roosevelt’s December 7th, 1941 Pearl Harbor, “a moment that will live in infamy,” the memories of 9/11 are seared in the minds and hearts of all Americans. That instant in the House, where in the manner of Congress we had been discussing issues of the day -- international health, a budget surplus (imagine that), business initiatives - when the Parliamentarian took me aside to say that a plane had hit one of the World Trade towers. I returned to my office to watch the second tower explosion. There were some in shock. Some panic. As the drama unfolded with the plane hitting the Pentagon, another flight was unaccounted for and rumored heading our way. Our nation’s Capitol is like a small town of 15,000 people. It was, in a sense, a microcosm of what was happening across America as people were horrified, grieving, shocked and frightened. Before the day was over, some of the numbness, fear, apprehension, and anger had worn off and was replaced by caring for the victims and their families, indeed for all our families who had been victimized that day. 9/11 gave a view into the best and worst of humankind, and the strength of America. Today, so many of our problems are actually under our control but terrorism and associated violence continues. It has not faded or been replaced, but it has been joined by apprehensions about our family’s security, health, future of their planet, and their economic wellbeing. We still mourn those who died but let 9/11 be a stark reminder of not just of the loss, but of American resolve, commitment, caring for one another, and determination for a better future.
09.09.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), a senior member of the House Budget and Ways & Means Committees, issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s speech to a joint session of Congress: “The President was sincere and emphatic. He talked about simple, commonsense things that we can do at a time when Americans and particularly Oregonians are desperately concerned about jobs and employment. “It’s modest, doable and bipartisan with a number of proposals that should not be controversial. If we can do much of this, it is a great signal that Congress will start working together again. “If we can’t, it’s a signal that politics is trumping economic recovery and we’ll continue to have rough sledding, not just in the next twelve weeks as the Super Committee meets but for the next 14 months and beyond. “I don’t believe that tax cuts will create as many jobs as investing in infrastructure but I look forward to reading the President’s plan and to more details. We must guard against people just taking the easy political step of cutting taxes and not the heavy lifting of tax reform and funding our failing infrastructure.”
08.24.2011	Congressman Blumenauer met with members of Mirabella Retirement Community and residents of the south waterfront for a town hall meeting on the morning of August 19th. He presented his views of what has happened in the 112th Congress to date, and his vision for the future. Residents posed a wide range of questions regarding infrastructure and transportation issues in Portland, education and No Child Left Behind, health care reform, budgetary concerns, and the current political climate in Congress.
08.17.2011	Today, Congressman Blumenauer led a boat tour on the Willamette River of several critical areas in the Portland Harbor Superfund clean up plan and restoration process. Joining him were colleagues Senator Ron Wyden, Senator Jeff Merkley, Congressman Kurt Schrader, EPA Region X Administrator Dennis McLerran, and representatives from the Lower Willamette Group, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, the US Army Corps of Engineers, and the Portland Harbor Natural Resource Trustee Council. These experts described the fascinating history and connection to ship building activities in WWII, as well as the challenges and opportunities for each site. The Portland Harbor Superfund Site was placed on the National Priority List in 2000. The group renewed their commitment to working with local stakeholders, EPA, and colleagues in Congress to ensure that the resources and commitment are available to clean up and restore this section of the Willamette River and preserve the economic vitality and jobs in our working harbor. Below is background information on the Harbor (PDFs). Portland_Harbor_Background_1.zip Portland_Harbor_Background_2.zip
08.15.2011	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer hosted Nancy Sutley, White House Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality as part of her visit to Oregon. At a renewable energy roundtable, Chair Sutley met with local stakeholders from the wind, solar, wave, green building, labor, education and economic development sectors to learn about clean energy development projects taking place in the region. Participants also encouraged Sutley to consider Oregon for a national renewable energy demonstration project, an idea that she agreed has potential. Such a project would bring resources, job creation and further momentum to these growing 'green collar' industries. Later at a rooftop reception with local environmental leaders, Chair Sutley emphasized the importance of the Clean Air Act in protecting both individual health and the environment. Questions and comments from attendees included the importance of protecting wild salmon to the ecosystem, as well as recreation and industry jobs tied to salmon.
08.12.2011	Set amidst the rugged backdrop of the West Hills, the Multnomah Village neighborhood offers a walkable, friendly destination for many Southwest Portlanders. Congressman Blumenauer toured this community on Thursday, taking the opportunity to visit several of the small businesses that make up this historic and growing part of the city convening an informal roundtable at O’Connor’s Restaurant for a more focused discussion on community and economic issues. Members of the Multnomah Neighborhood Association, the Multnomah Block Initiative, the Multnomah Village Business Association and others joined the Congressman as he listened to the concerns of local, small businesses that focused on healthcare reform, transportation needs, and access to capital. See more pictures from the Multnomah Village Street Stroll.
08.11.2011	In recognition of National Health Center Week, Congressman Blumenauer toured the Oregon Health and Science University (OHSU) Family Health Center at Richmond in southeast Portland. Touring with Medical Director Nicholas Gideonse Recognized for its patient-focused medical home model, the clinic provides access to affordable primary care for patients in southeast Portland who are uninsured or who are low-income. Blumenauer also met with health care providers at the clinic and members of the Oregon Primary Care Association (OPCA) to discuss the implementation of health care reform and the ways reform can be protected and encouraged. “We need to focus on value, not volume,” Blumenauer stated in the meeting. “Health care reform isn’t about short-changing anyone – this is about focusing on the patient and ensuring they receive appropriate care when it’s needed from the right medical providers.” In a separate ceremony, Blumenauer was awarded OPCA’s Health Center Hero Award for his continuing leadership in the health care reform debate and his support at the federal level for community health centers through programmatic requests. He was also recognized for leading a recent delegation letter to President Obama that stressed the importance of Medicaid for our most vulnerable citizens and advocated for the protection of this critical program.
08.10.2011	Congressman Blumenauer spoke to farmers, advocates, and “people who eat” at a Friends of Family Farmers inFARMation meeting last night. Friends of Family Farmers’ goal is to promote and protect socially responsible agriculture in Oregon. Blumenauer noted that although the political environment in Washington DC is increasingly toxic, there are allies on both sides of the aisle in the fight to reform farm subsidies, protect clean water, and help farmers and ranchers succeed. “The full price isn’t in there,” Blumenauer emphasized, speaking on cheap, referring to cheap, highly processed foods. “What is the total environmental cost to the land? What are the health care costs down the road?” He encouraged his audience to become visible advocates in their communities of the benefits of farmers markets, sustainable agricultural practices, and defending federal nutrition programs. Blumenauer concluded, “If we don’t make this into a political issue, we’re going to get rolled again in the next Farm Bill.”
08.10.2011	Congressman Blumenauer toured Thetus Corporation's headquarters yesterday in Portland's Old Town District. As part of the growing software sector in the Portland area, Thetus specializes in complex system organization for agencies and companies. The company has been developing rapidly and is quickly outgrowing their current space and personnel. They plan to double their workforce in the next year and are currently renovating an additional floor to add to their operations. Rep. Blumenauer speaks with Danielle Forsyth of Thetus and Luke Kanies of Puppet Labs Exploring the space Thetus will expand into
08.09.2011	One of the most vibrant communities in Portland is Sellwood! Congressman Blumenauer toured this Southeast Portland neighborhood on Monday, taking the opportunity to visit the Meyer Boys and Girls Club and meet with members of the Sellwood-Moreland Business Association. After a tour of the Club from CEOs Joe and Lisabeth Marziello, the Congressman met with students and staff of the organization for a look at the wide range of resources provided to the community. Following the discussion, he walked the SE 13th Ave. Business District, stopping at several local businesses for informal conversations, before arriving at the Blue Kangaroo Coffee House for a more focused discussion on issues surrounding small businesses and the economy. Members of the Sellwood-Moreland Business Association and Metro Councilor Barbara Roberts joined the Congressman as he listened firsthand to concerns of business owners, answered questions and discussed how Congress can play a role in jumpstarting the economy. See more pictures of the Sellwood-Moreland Street Stroll. Handing out Bike Pins at Meyer Boys and Girl's Club Visiting the Sellwood Moreland Branch of the Multnomah Co Library
08.08.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), a senior member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, released the following statement regarding the S&P downgrade of U.S. debt: I suppose it is hard to give ‘chutzpah’ a bad name, but S&P is certainly pushing the limit with its downgrade of US debt. Their errors are not limited to just the $2 trillion dollar miscalculation in their rush to play the downgrade card. These people have been the subject of a rare bipartisan consensus in Washington that S&P and their fellow ratings agencies weren’t just complicit in the financial meltdown; they actually aided and abetted the reckless behavior that created it by completely failing in their duty to analyze the bogus financial instruments that were involved. They completely failed their fiduciary duty and could not move quickly enough to put their stamp of approval on financial instruments that nearly wrecked not just the American economy, but the global economy. America continues to pay the price today for their poor judgment. A major part of the furor in this country about our debt and spending is a direct result of the financial meltdown, the collapse in revenues it created, and the necessary efforts including new spending to keep the recession from getting even worse. The meltdown and the painful yet necessary policy response would have been largely averted if S&P and its fellow rating agencies had managed to do their job.
08.02.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), a senior member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, released the following statement regarding the ongoing debt ceiling debate: I voted against this debt reduction plan because government on autopilot, locked in a slow downward spiral, is not a victory. For weeks now, we've faced the artificial Republican debt crisis, which was a Republican crisis of choice. This agreement may spare a short term default, but it leaves us vulnerable, delaying important work while weakening both the economy and the decision-making process. First, this proposal empowers the most reckless and extreme elements, not just in for House Republican caucus today, but as a blueprint for mischief for either party in the future. It will make it exceedingly difficult for the House to meet its governing responsibilities. Next, we are starting down a path of budget cuts that all the experts assure us will weaken the economy at exactly the time we need to strengthen economic growth, not reduce demand. Clearly, it is a step backwards from reforming how the country does business. The fixation on triggers, formulas and Super Committees will make it easier for Congress to duck the difficult policy work and harder to do it if Congress wants to try. Even as we avoid outright default, this agreement casts a long-term shadow on our nation's reasonableness and our reliability for the next two years and beyond. We all remember the drama over the continuing resolution earlier this year. There are two potential government shutdowns over the next 14 months that will invite more legislative blackmail over an extreme agenda, since it's clear that recklessness now works. This is all the more frustrating because the path forward is clear. The public strongly supports a balanced approach, which would include tax reform that would raise money while making the tax code more fair and simple. Everyone knows we must deal with health care costs and until recently there was bipartisan agreement as to how to do that. We should accelerate the health care reforms which are already enacted into law but do it faster to improve care and lower costs. Do we need to require a commission to implement bipartisan suggestions to right-size the military, both its mission and its budget? Absolutely not. There are many good ideas circulating around and support on both sides of the aisle to move on them now. Most important, we should revitalize the economy by rebuilding and renewing America, financed by modest increases in user fees. Finally, one of the simplest steps would be to implement bipartisan suggestions to reform agriculture. We could save money while helping people who farm and people who eat while reducing massive, unnecessary subsidies to large agribusiness.
07.26.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), a senior member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, released the following statement regarding the ongoing debt ceiling debate: “There is an air of unreality here on Capitol Hill. There are some people with no experience in government, little knowledge about the process and less regard about the outcomes who are lecturing and threatening like they are still on the campaign trail. The disconnect between this ideological rhetoric and the reality of governing is largely responsible for the hostage situation we face today with the debt ceiling, something that has been routinely increased many times under both Republican and Democratic presidents. “This budgeting process has been reduced to sheer political theater. Some of the Republican budget proposals are so reckless and disconnected from reality that when the Republican Study Group offered a budget that went even further in cuts than Paul Ryan’s, we saw Republicans on the House floor twisting arms to get their colleagues to vote against it. While Republicans thought this proposal was great political theater, as it moved closer to passage they realized that it would hurt them if the American public understood their real agenda. “We are now reaching this same tipping point with the debt ceiling where political theater is in danger of becoming reality. Too many of my colleagues are still acting like they are at a Tea Party rally or on a FOX News shout show. There have already been negative consequences from the reckless attempts we have seen to hold the debt ceiling hostage. American businesses are paying more and hiring less as a direct result of this showdown, and we are going to pay in the international bond market. “We have seen this movie reel of rhetoric and gimmicks before. When Republicans took control in 1995, there was a debate on imposing a balanced budget amendment. It failed by one vote in the Senate, and it failed with a single Republican NO vote, Mark Hatfield from Oregon, who was then chairman of the Appropriations Committee. In a profile in courage, Senator Hatfield stood up and made clear to all of his colleagues that he was all in favor of balancing the budget, but not with a gimmick that would have dangerous consequences long into the future. He invited his colleagues to take action by reducing the budget, not by playing games. “And that’s what we should do today. It’s past time that we stop this dangerous posturing. Now is the time to stop playing games on the budget deficit.”
07.19.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) released the following statement regarding H.R. 2560, the so-called Cut, Cap and Balance Act of 2011: “The nation’s financial future should be serious business. Unfortunately, House Republicans are not treating it that way. It’s bad enough that too many of them are willing to court financial disaster by hijacking the process of raising the debt ceiling. Today’s vote is perhaps the clearest illustration of their cavalier approach. “The vote on the so called Cut, Cap and Balance bill comes without legislative work in any substantive committee. As a member of both the Budget and Ways and Means Committees, I would have welcomed hearings and work sessions which would have shown this bill to be a travesty. Not a single president in 50 years proposed any budget that would have met their requirements that spending be limited to 18 percent of GDP. Ronald Reagan never proposed a budget under 21 percent. “House Republicans would mandate a balanced budget every year, whether we were at war or dealing with the fallout of a tragic natural disaster or an economic meltdown. Cuts to Medicare, the social safety net and student loans would still be possible with a single majority vote, and yet eliminating tax breaks for the favored and the wealthiest individuals or corporations would require a two-thirds supermajority. Since House Republicans want to continue to protect some areas of spending and give more tax breaks to people who don’t need them, this means even more draconian cuts to the programs that people depend on the most. “The House Republican approach is not about controlling the national debt. The Republican budget still increases the debt ceiling almost $9 trillion. Yet their proposal would require three-fifths supermajority to raise the debt ceiling in the future. This bizarre legislation would freeze into federal law and the Constitution the same dysfunctional mechanics which made the State of California the fiscal basket case that it is today. “Fortunately, this wacky and irresponsible measure will not be enacted by this Congress and the President would veto it anyway. It does put the spotlight on the risks to the country’s financial future if voters reward this behavior. The only good that may come of the charade is that it might provide cover for a deal averting the damage from the debt ceiling gamesmanship. “Everyone knows we must honor our debts. Perhaps this foolishness will permit Republican leadership to walk themselves and their members off the ledge and not punish American families. I strongly oppose this cynical, ill-advised proposal.”
07.14.2011	Congressman Blumenauer, a member of the House Budget Committee, questioned Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius during a hearing discussing the programs enacted in the Affordable Care Act. In addition to by helping more children get health coverage, ending lifetime and most annual limits on care, allowing young adults under 26 to stay on their parent’s health insurance, and giving patients access to recommended preventive services without cost, the Affordable Care Act also saves taxpayer money by slowing the growth in healthcare costs. One of the innovations created in the law is the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which is designed to help Congress find policies that will continue to reduce the cost of healthcare, without affecting the value of care received by beneficiaries. In response to questioning from Congressman Blumenauer, Secretary Sebelius clarified several important points about the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which the Secretary termed, “a backstop mechanism to ensure Medicare remains solvent for years to come.” The Board is made up 15 health experts, including health care providers, patient advocates, employers, and experts in health economics who will evaluate policies that save cost without reducing care for beneficiaries. The Board cannot make recommendations that ration care, raise beneficiary premiums or cost-sharing, reduce benefits, or change eligibility for Medicare. It also cannot eliminate benefits or decide what care Medicare beneficiaries can receive. Members of the Board have strict conflict of interest rules and cannot have any other job while they serve on the Board. At the hearing, several Republican Congressmen expressed concerns about the Board, and offered instead the plan offered in the Republican budget. The Republican plan, as has been repeatedly demonstrated, would result in Medicare denying treatment for some services, people losing coverage, and in costs going up. Under the Republican plan, most Medicare beneficiaries would be forced to buy private insurance, helped only by a modest government subsidy insufficient to cover the costs of healthcare. In response, Blumenauer noted that denials of coverage are common in the private healthcare sector. “I’m concerned that [Republicans] are talking about a fantasy world where insurance companies don’t make decisions denying benefits, don’t ration care, don’t cut people off.”
07.07.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) released the following statement regarding the Interior-Environment Appropriations bill that is being marked up in Subcommittee: “The Interior-Environment Appropriations bill being marked up in Subcommittee today represents an abdication of responsibility on the part of the federal government. Not only does the bill cut funding for clean air, clean water and protection of public lands, but in numerous areas it actually undermines the role of the federal government in protecting our nation’s environment and public health. “The devastating cuts to the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds (SRFs), the Land and Water Conservation Fund, the National Park Service, EPA’s operating budget, the Interior Department’s oversight budget for offshore oil drilling and more will leave communities around the country struggling to provide services to their citizens and even to comply with federal laws. “In Oregon, the cuts to public lands funding in this bill could mean missed opportunities to protect special places in the Columbia River Gorge and elsewhere in the state. In many cases, these cuts will also cripple local economies – studies have shown that every $1 billion invested in water infrastructure creates between 20,000-26,000 jobs. This bill cuts almost $1 billion from the SRFs, which help states finance federally mandated upgrades and repairs to water and sewer systems. It will put additional pressure on already tight local budgets as well as potentially increasing water and sewer rates, which would be an extreme hardship in cities like Portland that have already seen water rates skyrocket in recent years. “The policy riders in this spending bill can only be described as fulfilling special interest wish list. From blocking clean air regulations and oversight of mining to preventing Federal action to clarify the jurisdiction of the Clean Water Act to a new moratorium on listing wildlife under the Endangered Species Act, this bill implements what polluting industries have been asking for. The bill would even allow new hard rock mining around the Grand Canyon. “If this bill comes to the Floor, I will strongly oppose it and urge my colleagues to do the same.”
07.01.2011	PORTLAND, OR – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in advance of the July 1, 2011 40th anniversary of the ratification of the 26th amendment to the Constitution, which gave 18-year-olds the right to vote: “Today is the 40th anniversary of the ratification of the 26th Amendment, giving 18-year-olds the right to vote. It is very meaningful for me as someone who led the state and national effort to make this possible, and it is what led me to a political career and an appreciation of the power that our democracy affords. “It culminated with two years of work – including an unsuccessful election in Oregon to lower the voting age the year before, and involved people around America of all ages and walks of life. The fact that it was the fastest ratification in history enabled those of us working on the initiative to be able to witness the process from start to finish in an unprecedented fashion. “As part of that Constitutional ratification process, I was privileged as a college student to testify before the United States Senate Judiciary Committee. As I concluded my testimony before Chairman Birch Bayh, I said, ‘Working together in support of this common goal, we are giving a preview to this type of coalition that is going to have to be established to deal with the tremendous environmental and social problems that confront us.’ I believed that then and I believe it now.” “I hope people will reflect on extending this franchise to our young people 40 years ago as testimony to our belief in democracy and the power of our political system. Given that our problems have only become harder and more urgent, I hope some will be inspired by a commitment to the process of making our democracy work. We need every citizen.”
07.01.2011	At the groundbreaking for the Portland-Milwaukie Light Rail project on June 30, Congressman Blumenauer acknowledged the efforts of regional leaders who have worked more than 20 years to make this project possible. He congratulated regional partners -- TriMet, the City of Portland, Metro, Clackamas and Multnomah Counties, and the City of Milwaukie – as well as civic and community leaders on their perseverance. The project represents the region’s ability to create a range of transportation options that will not only connect educational opportunities, housing, and community services, but create 14,000 local jobs in the process. The Portland-Milwaukie Light Rail Bridge, the only light rail-bus-streetcar-bicycle-pedestrian bridge in the country, will be the first new bridge over the Willamette River in more than 40 years.
06.30.2011	Communities all over the world are using eco-roofs to manage environmental issues. This week, Congressman Blumenauer visited Columbia Green Technologies Inc., an American eco-technology company based in Portland, Oregon. Columbia Green’s focus is on eco-roofs, specially designed vegetative roofs that that help manage the quality and quantity of storm water, energy use, and air and water pollution. Columbia Green currently manufactures these products in Oregon and delivers them to customers both in the United States and internationally.
06.30.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva, the co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC), was joined by 29 other Members of Congress today in hailing Congress’ first ever hearing on the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act. The hearing was convened June 28 by Senator Dick Durbin (IL) before the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees and Border Security. The DREAM Act – which passed the House of Representatives last year and got 55 Senate votes but was filibustered by Senate Republicans – provides a path to conditional legal residency for an undocumented immigrant child if he or she: · Was 15 years old or younger when brought into America · Has lived in the United States for at least five years before enactment of the law · Is of good moral character · Has earned a high school degree or a graduate equivalent diploma Eligible people would have six years to earn lawful permanent resident status if they: · Successfully complete two years of higher education, or · Complete two years of military service and received an honorable discharge if he or she is discharged Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-07), CPC Co-Chair: “I applaud the Senate for hosting this timely hearing. No one who believes in fairness and opportunity believes these students deserve to be deported. The DREAM Act presents us an opportunity to extend the American dream to a new generation of deserving individuals. The failure of the DREAM Act in the last Congress was not a matter of bad policy, but failed politics. The DREAM Act is important to our military readiness, our law enforcement efforts and our economic competitiveness. As the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has reported, the DREAM Act would cut the deficit by $2.2 billion over the next 10 years. It’s time to put the politics aside and do what is best for our country.” Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-05), CPC Co-Chair: “I applaud Senator Durbin for holding the Senate’s first hearing on the DREAM Act today. I have been a proud cosponsor of this legislation since I was elected to Congress in 2006. It’s high time that we give hardworking young people a fair shot at the American Dream.” Rep. Jared Polis (CO-02), CPC Immigration Taskforce Chair: “The DREAM Act will offer smart and patriotic young Americans an opportunity to realize their dreams through hard work, effort, and study. I applaud the Senate Judiciary Committee and Senator Leahy for moving forward with hearings on this critical legislation. While a minority of lawmakers were able to block the DREAM Act’s passage last year, this hearing is a new beginning that we all hope will end with the bill reaching the president’s desk, where I know President Obama will enthusiastically sign it into law.” Rep. Charles Gonzalez (TX-20), Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Chair: “Yesterday’s hearing in the Senate Judiciary Committee on this critical issue was an important step in keeping DREAM alive. The House passed the historic legislation last year, yet the fight continues in the Senate. I urge our colleagues in the Senate, especially those who have supported the bill in the past, to heed the call of our promising and hardworking students who have only known the United States as home, to not give way to partisan games but to stand up for what they already know is the right thing.” Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04), CHC Immigration Taskforce Chair: “Our policy on immigration is organized around the fantasy that we can or should deport all 11 million undocumented immigrants and their families, which will never happen, nor should it. The DREAM Act says we will take those with deep roots in the U.S. and who have contributed and will contribute hugely to our country out of the deportation pool so we can concentrate on serious criminals and threats. That makes our nation safer and rewards those who have stayed in school, achieved great things, and will benefit the American people.” Rep. Judy Chu (CA-32), Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) Chair: “Yesterday’s Senate hearing on the DREAM Act was an important and historic step in that body. Last year, the House made history when it successfully passed the DREAM Act for the first time as a standalone bill. And now, thousands of students who have grown up in the United States and worked hard to succeed have hope that the Senate will move this legislation forward. I know how important this bill is because I taught in the Los Angeles Community College District for 20 years. I taught hundreds and hundreds of students, many of them immigrants, whose only hope for a better life was through higher education, and whose lives changed dramatically when they got a degree. The Senate should bring this bill to a vote as soon as possible.” Rep. Mike Honda (CA-15), CAPAC Immigration Task Force Chair: “I commend Senator Durbin for being a champion of the DREAM Act and holding this important hearing. I continue to be an ardent supporter of the DREAM Act and urge my colleagues to finally pass this bill. We should not continue to punish these students who were brought to this country at a young age. The fact that these students cannot work, receive federal funding or loans or obtain scholarships is unfair. We need to honor the work they have done in school. America has educated these youth and we need to ensure that they have the opportunity to achieve higher education or serve in the military in order to use their talent to give back to our nation. The fact that these students cannot pursue their full educational and professional potential is detrimental to America’s competitiveness.” Rep. Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15): “In my Congressional District 15 of Deep South Texas, I have had the opportunity to hear from many of our undocumented students who were brought to the U.S. by their parents when they were very young. In many cases these children are excelling in school and have dreams, like many other children, of earning a college degree or entering military service so that they can become productive citizens of the United States of America. They know no other home but the U.S.A. and they should and must stay. These children are caught in a legal and political situation that they knew nothing about, all the while living here and making life-long friends, and making good grades in school, while pledging their allegiance to the United States of America every day. They are already a good part of this great country. Turning our backs on them now, would be simply un-American.” Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03): “Providing children who were brought to the U.S. before their 16th birthday, and who demonstrate achievement and good moral character, the opportunity to become permanent residents will not only strengthen our economy, it comports with established American notions of basic fairness. I am proud to co-sponsor the DREAM Act and I hope this Senate hearing will help move this issue forward. Providing a path to citizenship, with benchmarks and accountability, for the best and brightest children is an area where my colleagues on both sides of the aisle can come together for the economic and educational benefit of our country.” Rep. Pedro R. Pierluisi (PR): “I commend the Senate Judiciary Committee for holding yesterday’s hearing on the DREAM Act. This legislation reflects our nation’s core values and highest aspirations. It is consistent with the principle that young men and women who have worked hard and shown strong moral fiber should be given the chance to succeed. Those who would benefit from the DREAM Act have done nothing wrong and, if given the opportunity, will be of great service to our nation. Because these youth deserve to be commended, not kept in the shadows, I am a proud supporter of this bill and intend to do all I can to achieve its enactment.” Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09): “The Dream Act would enable young people to contribute to our economy, our military, and our country. These children, involuntarily brought here years earlier, see themselves as Americans. They should be embraced as the asset they are. To its credit Illinois has passed a limited version of the Dream Act, but now we need a national plan to address this issue comprehensively. I commend Senator Durbin’s tireless efforts to make the dream of so many young immigrants a reality.” Rep. Hank Johnson (GA-04): “This is common-sense, bipartisan legislation. This is not amnesty – it’s humane and decent reform that encourages all the qualities that make this country great – dedication to education, self-improvement, love of family and the honor in military service. Immigrants are fueling this country, and we should allow those who have demonstrated a commitment to hard work and a strong desire to be contributing members of our society an opportunity to obtain an education.” Rep. Doris O. Matsui (CA-05): “I am encouraged that the Senate is finally taking steps to expand both educational and employment opportunities for America’s youth by holding a hearing on the DREAM Act. Congress, the Democratic House passed the DREAM Act with bipartisan support because we understand we must do all that we can to see that young people who have worked to benefit our society and contribute to our nation’s wellbeing are given the opportunity to continue to give back by becoming American citizens.” Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38): “The students considered by the DREAM Act have excelled through hard work, have been educated in America, and should be allowed to contribute to our country. For most of them, America is their only home. It would not be fair to punish them for the actions of their parents after years of working hard and playing by the rules. These youth are the boldest and the brightest, and our nation will be stronger, safer, and more prosperous if we allow them to fully contribute to our society." Rep. Bob Filner (CA-51): “I was delighted to see that Senator Durbin reintroduced the DREAM Act. We are a nation of immigrants and our laws should reflect this diversity by establishing a humane and compassionate immigration system. By giving young people the opportunity to excel, achieve and contribute to a society that they have lived in all their lives, we would be investing in the future of America. In today’s Senate hearing, we heard countless reasons why this legislation would help our country. This bill significantly addresses the deficit by increasing revenue and reducing costs, helps fill the ranks of military, creates a more skilled workforce and more importantly allows future generations the possibility of prosperity and success. The time has come to put aside the politics and pass this critical legislation!” Rep. Mazie K. Hirono (HI-2): “I applaud the Senate for holding a hearing on the DREAM Act and hope it will bring the measure to the floor for a vote. As a cosponsor of the DREAM Act in the House, I know this legislation will make a difference in the lives of young adults throughout the nation, including in Hawaii. I know of young people in Hawaii who came to this country as youngsters, didn’t know they were undocumented, now facing deportation. The DREAM Act would give these young people a chance at a better future in the only country they know, America. It is time to address these special circumstances in a fair and responsible manner.” Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18): “Under current law, upstanding families are unfairly broken apart, and potential contributing citizens to our society are unfairly prevented from doing so. It is my hope that together we will be able to raise awareness and help educate Americans about the dangerous effects resulting from our Nation’s broken immigration policies. Until that time, our country will continue to punish educated, responsible students and families that have helped to shape our communities and protect our country. Lawmakers need to quit playing politics and do what is right: Pass the DREAM Act.” Rep. Laura Richardson (CA-37): “The DREAM Act will allow a limited number hard working young men and women to dedicate themselves to our country and communities, and in the process make our nation better, stronger, and safer. That is why this legislation is strongly supported by the military services, the faith community, the business community, leading higher education organizations, and thoughtful commentators on both sides of the aisle, including the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times.” Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35): “Yesterday’s hearing was an important step in the process to reach our shared goal, passage of the DREAM Act. We must continue to use every tool and resource available to make the opportunity for citizenship available for those who meet the common sense educational or service criteria in the Act.” Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34): “As an original co-author of the House-version of the DREAM Act, I join my colleagues in commending the Senate Judiciary Committee. Yesterday’s hearing marks an important milestone on the path to making the American dream obtainable for all of our youth. Crossing our borders as children with their parents, the kids the DREAM Act would benefit aren’t criminals and ours is the only country they have ever known. We can turn our backs on these hopeful young people and consign them to an uncertain future. Or we can pass the DREAM Act and empower them to join our children and grandchildren in building a stronger America.” Rep. David Wu (OR-01): “Yesterday’s Senate hearing is a welcome sign that long-overdue passage of the DREAM Act may yet be possible in this Congress. I am committed to advancing the DREAM Act to give thousands of talented young people, irrespective of the acts of their parents, the chance to enrich our society and grow our economy. This nation was founded on the dream of new opportunity, and it is imperative that we continue to provide for it.” Rep. James P. Moran (VA-08): “Nearly a decade after introduction, the DREAM Act has yet to pass through Congress. This failure to act is a disservice to these talented young people and a detriment to our nation's economy by forcing educated potential employees out of the country. It is in our nation's best interest to ensure the best and brightest of the next generation put their skills to work here in the U.S. – by passing the DREAM Act.” Rep. José E. Serrano (NY-16): “As we wait for true comprehensive immigration reform, we must protect the children of our community from unjust treatment. We must protect and support them by passing the DREAM Act as soon as possible. These children are our nation’s future.” Rep. Sam Farr (CA-17): "I am encouraged that our colleagues in the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Immigration have taken up the DREAM Act. It is time we do the right thing for the millions of youth that have worked hard to enrich their lives, and in turn enrich our country. We can choose to move forward, or we can move backward to the same broken policies that continue to fail our economy and security. I hope that this hearing will help build momentum, and finally deliver this much overdue bill." Rep. Linda T. Sanchez (CA-39): “I applaud the Senate for holding its first hearing on the DREAM Act and looking at this crucial piece of the overall immigration reform puzzle. I would encourage the House Republican leadership to also address this important issue. We can’t continue to ignore our broken immigration system. I proudly voted to support this common sense immigration reform in the last Congress. These hard-working students only want to give back to the country they call home. We should allow them the ability to contribute to our economic recovery or defend our nation. We are endangering our economic future by sending intelligent, hard-working young to countries they barely know with the knowledge and skills to economically compete with American businesses.” Rep. Yvette D. Clarke (NY-11): “I am extremely grateful to the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee, especially Senator Richard Durbin for hosting the first hearing on the DREAM Act. We cannot continue to punish a community of young people that came to this country at no fault of their own. Many communities across this nation have nurtured these young people as their own, investing in their academic and social futures. Therefore, it is time for us to fully integrate the beneficiaries of the DREAM Act to utilize their talents and expertise and enhance this country’s state of greatness.” Rep. Dennis Cardoza (CA-18): “Innocent young people who grew up in this country should be able to serve in our military or earn a college degree without fear of being deported. We need to stop punishing undocumented children and pass the DREAM Act so these young people have a pathway to citizenship.” Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-09): “Last Congress, it was incredibly disappointing when Senate Republicans did not see it fit to stand up for the more than 800,000 children and young people looking to make better lives for themselves through the passage of the DREAM Act. I am pleased, however, to know that my colleagues in the Senate have decided to take on this pressing issue, once again, by hosting the first ever hearing on the DREAM Act. The DREAM Act is not only morally right and just, but is also in our national interest and reflects the best of our American values. I commend their efforts and will join them by continuing to fight for the rights of these young people.” Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04): “It is a shame that our great country effectively shuts the doors to higher education to children who were born elsewhere and had no say in coming to this country. I thank Senator Durbin for continuing this important fight so that all of our children – no matter where they were born – can achieve their dreams.” Rep. Al Green (TX-09): “I support providing a path to citizenship for law-abiding persons who are willing to die in service to our great country; who have lived in, and called this country ‘home,’ since they were children, and for whom we as a nation are willing to allow to make such a supreme sacrifice. I thank Senator Durbin for holding a hearing to make the DREAM Act a reality.”
06.28.2011	This weekend, Congressman Blumenauer was on hand at the ribbon cutting of the Village Market in Home Forward’s New Columbia neighborhood. In Portland, like communities across the country, many low-income neighborhoods have 30% fewer full service grocery stores that are easily accessible. What tends to be available is an abundant supply of convenience stores selling highly processed, high-calorie foods, alcohol, tobacco products and lottery tickets - but no, or few, fresh fruits, vegetables and quality meats. The opening of Village Market in New Columbia will change this picture for thousands of low-income North Portland residents. The Market’s opening is a culmination of a 14-month community planning process to create access to a local, full service grocery store selling healthy, affordable, culturally appropriate, fresh foods in a neighborhood of 3,000+ residents where 33% of the population does not own a car and faces a 45 minute bus ride each way just to reach a full-service grocery store. “I was here in 2006 when the community gardens, just two blocks away, were planted,” commented Blumenauer. “To come back five years later and not only see the gardens thriving, but to see the Food Works Farm on Sauvie Island providing local, fresh food and job training is a ringing endorsement of community spirit in Portland. This is the model we can take to Washington D.C. for other cities all across America.” Congressman Blumenauer joins Multnomah County Chair Jeff Cogen in a discussion with Janus Youth Services Executive Director Dennis Morrow about how the fresh, local, healthy produce selection was selected with New Columbia community input for the Village Market. Congressman Blumenauer, Chair Cogen and Portland City Commissioner Nick Fish after the ribbon cutting of Village Market. Congressman Blumenauer joined by some New Columbia residents who enjoyed a beautiful Saturday afternoon to celebrate their achievement of opening the Village Market with support from Janus Youth Services, the City of Portland, Multnomah County, Kaiser Permanente, Meyer Memorial Trust and numerous other grant-making organizations.
06.27.2011	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Co-Chairs of the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus, hosted the inaugural Neuroscience Caucus event. The briefing was organized by the Society of Neuroscience and the American Brain Coalition and highlighted how brain research is unlocking the mysteries behind Autism, Down syndrome, Alzheimer’s, PTSD, Parkinson’s and Epilepsy. Currently, one in three individuals is afflicted with a neurological or psychiatric disorder. There are now more people with brain disorders than all cancer and heart problems combined. From autism to Alzheimer’s disease, from Parkinson’s to mental illness, neuroscience research is the only way to stem this growing epidemic. Advances in neuroscience research are reshaping the landscapes of other fields, from psychology to economics, to education and the law, to how we make public policy. The mission of the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus is to build awareness of the intrinsic role brain research plays in understanding ourselves and our society. As a Co-Chair, the Congressman is committed to working on these important issues.
06.22.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a senior member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, released the following statement regarding the President’s planned announcement regarding U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan: “In 2009, while making the case for a troop surge in Afghanistan, President Obama suggested that much of the surge would begin to come home in July of this year. Today’s announcement is a start, but not enough. Retaining most of our 100,000 troops in Afghanistan is simply delaying the inevitable. “Since the 9/11 attacks, the United States has spent $1.3 trillion directly on war operations, almost $500 billion in Afghanistan, with $113 billion in the current fiscal year alone and another $107 billion authorized for next year. This doesn’t include the additional $530 billion we’ll spend on the Pentagon’s base-budget this year. “Today we find ourselves with an ill-defined objective that includes the continued risk of American lives in support of the unreliable Hamid Karzai regime. The $480 million per month we’re spending on development aid is falling victim to waste and corruption, and too little is reaching the Afghan people who desperately need it. At this point, only the Afghan people can bring about the greater security and government accountability that is needed at the local and national levels. “Given the recent death of Osama bin Laden, our budgetary constraints and the questionable effectiveness of our nation-building efforts in Afghanistan, now is the time to begin a significant withdrawal of U.S. troops, and negotiate a truce with the least objectionable of the bad actors. Ultimately the future of that country is in the hands of its own people.”
06.15.2011	With Painful, Job-Killing Cuts Expected Elsewhere in Budget, Big Oil Must Pay Fair Share Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, was joined by 45 House colleagues in sending a letter to Vice President Joe Biden urging him to include cuts to subsidies for Big Oil companies in any bipartisan agreement to reduce the deficit. The letter comes as critical programs that improve the lives of everyday Americans are cut while some in Congress continue to defend billions in wasteful subsidies for oil giants that are among the most profitable corporations in the world. “It is simply inexcusable that we are cutting programs American families rely on while at the same time giving away billions in taxpayer handouts to giant oil companies,” said Blumenauer. “The vast majority of Americans support ending these subsidies, and even the oil companies are telling us that they do not need taxpayer support in order to bring affordable gas to consumers. Any rationale used to extend these handouts to oil companies is purely political.” Blumenauer has introduced a bill in this session of Congress, H.R. 601, which would end nearly $8 billion a year in taxpayer subsidies to the largest oil companies.
06.14.2011	Amendment Caps Title I Payments at $125,000, Cutting Wasteful Government Spending on Giant Agribusinesses Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer announced plans to offer an amendment (#3) to H.R. 2112, the Fiscal 2012 Agriculture Appropriations Bill capping Title I payments at $125,000 per entity. The amendment – supported by Taxpayers for Common Sense as well as national environmental leaders – would cut wasteful government spending by more than $650 million a year. “In an era of tight budgets, it is difficult to justify paying an individual or corporation more than $125,000 per year in taxpayer dollars simply because of the crops they choose to produce,” said Blumenauer. “This common sense amendment preserves assistance at a level that will support our family farmers and ranchers, but ends the wasteful giveaways to giant agribusinesses.” Currently, the amount of Title I payments an entity can receive is unlimited. While the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 (also known as the 2008 Farm Bill) limited the amount of direct payments an agricultural entity can receive to $40,000 annually, and limited counter cyclical payments to $65,000 annually, there are no limits on market loan payments, loan deficiency payments and commodity certificates. In addition, the payment limits that do exist can be doubled when the proprietor has a spouse. This amendment would limit the total amount that an entity can receive to $125,000 per year. These Title I payments are not applied equally to all states or all farmers: 62 percent of farmers receive no subsidy payments at all and ten states receive more than 50 percent of the subsidy payments. In addition, 74 percent of payments go to 10 percent of farmers – comprised almost exclusively of enormous agribusinesses.
06.09.2011	At a meeting with the Oregon Association of Nurserymen (OAN) members on Tuesday, Congressman Blumenauer listened as members raised questions and concerns about the economy, immigration reform, and the importance of continued federal funding for plant disease research. Blumenauer has strongly supported research funding for Sudden Oak Death Disease, and made this his top request in the Fiscal Year 2012 Agriculture appropriations letter sent out last month. He also discussed how “performance based regulations,” could be applied to help Oregon nurseries maintain a level playing field in other states’ markets, and encouraged OAN members to help with efforts to reform federal agriculture policy by cutting commodity subsidy programs and redirecting funding for research, marketing, conservation and specialty crop programs.
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, released the following statement after voting NO on both H.Res. 292 and H.Con.Res. 51: “Too often the greatest powers, including the United States, have failed to act when they could have intervened in a responsible way to stop the slaughter of innocents. In Libya, it was clear that there was a crisis developing and America, with our NATO allies, the Arab League and the UN Security Council, appropriately provided limited support to rebel forces. That assistance included a no-fly zone that has undoubtedly saved thousands of lives. “It would have been an unfortunate precedent and undermined key global institutions if we failed to act with such a clear, unified call for intervention. Inaction would have endangered the recent display of democratic aspirations by so many in the region. Our failure to act would have emboldened the despots of Syria, Iran, Yemen and others, suggesting there were no consequences for murdering peaceful protesters. “The Kucinich resolution was ill-advised, requiring U.S. forces to cease all operational support for the NATO mission in Libya within 15 days. I believe that we must not turn our backs on our allies and more importantly, the innocent civilians in Libya who want the right to choose their own government. Speaker Boehner’s resolution, while not calling for an end to U.S. involvement in Libya, was factually inaccurate and attempted to rewrite history. “I do not support an open-ended commitment in Libya, nor do I support a ground mission there. I will welcome thoughtful legislation acknowledging that the U.S. has chosen to answer the cries of the innocent Libyan people, but which also makes clear that our commitment to their aspirations of self governance is not open-ended, and which clearly defines our goals and limits.
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, released the following statement in response to May job creation numbers: “Today’s jobs report is clear evidence that our work here in Congress to enable an economic recovery is not finished. People across the country are still struggling to find family-wage jobs that will provide financial security and the foundation for our prosperity as a nation. “Yet the Republican majority seems to have moved on completely from the task of job creation. We have yet to see a single jobs bill from the House majority, which has instead chosen an ideological agenda that ends Medicare while giving more tax cuts to the rich. The majority has also proposed job-killing cuts of 31 percent to transportation and $1 billion from clean water revolving funds. These proposals have nothing to do with job creation or economic recovery, and the overall Republican budget actually makes our deficits worse. “There are common sense steps we can take right now that will create jobs and save our country trillions of dollars in the long run. Once you get outside the Beltway, almost everyone agrees that we should be rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure and investing in clean American energy that reduces our dependence on oil. We can also stop playing games with our debt limit, which rattles markets and creates uncertainty that impedes economic growth. It is time to stop simply promising to have an adult conversation, but rather start taking responsible action.”
06.02.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) yesterday introduced the bipartisan U.S. Optimal Use of Trade to Develop Outerwear and Outdoor Recreation (OUTDOOR) Act (H.R. 2071) to reduce tariffs on recreational performance apparel. The legislation would make products like jackets and pants more affordable for American consumers, encourage participation in outdoor activities, and help designers and retailers of performance apparel better compete in the global economy. “More than 75 percent of Americans participate in active outdoor recreation each year, experiencing America’s wild lands in ways large and small, expanding rural economies, and supporting the great companies that create innovative gear,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “I’m proud that this legislation will reduce the high tariffs on performance outerwear and expand consumer choice.” “The enjoyment and exploration of the outdoors is not just a cornerstone of American recreation, but it is also the basis of a major job-creating industry,” said Rep. Reichert. “Many local businesses cater to this adventurous spirit, and I am happy to have found yet another instance in which smart trade policy can help these employers spur growth, remove a hidden tax on consumers, and foster greater interest in outdoor recreation. This bill is a needed update to the antiquated, unreasonably high tariffs set on recreational performance apparel that will both boost sales and enable families to more affordably outfit themselves for weekend camping trips and summer vacations. I will continue to work with my colleagues on the House Ways and Means Committee to advance this bipartisan bill and identify other ways to help Americans benefit from effective trade policies.” "The sale of performance outwear for hiking, biking, skiing, snowboarding, paddling and other outdoor activities is a major driver of business for outdoor companies. The U.S. OUTDOOR Act helps encourage the development of innovative and affordable performance outwear, which in turn supports the enjoyment of the outdoors by consumers," said Matt Hyde, Executive Vice President of REI. "We appreciate the leadership of Congressman Reichert and the other sponsors in supporting a vibrant and growing industry that benefits both the economy and the promotion of healthy, active outdoor activities." “Columbia Sportswear thanks Congressman Blumenauer for introducing the U.S. OUTDOOR Act,” said Tim Boyle, President and Chief Executive Office of Oregon-based Columbia Sportswear Company. “We support passage of this important legislation because it will help spur product innovation, make performance outerwear more affordable, promote healthy outdoor-focused lifestyles and stimulate job growth.” BACKGROUND The outdoor industry contributes $730 billion to the U.S. economy each year. Current duties on these goods are at rates far exceeding any state sales tax despite the fact that, in recent years, both the United States International Trade Commission and the Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements have concluded that imports of recreational performance apparel do not disrupt domestic markets or adversely affect domestic producers. H.R. 2071 creates new Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) breakouts for both knit and woven recreational performance outerwear and changes tariff rates for these clothing items to duty-free, thereby eliminating the “hidden tax” on these goods.
06.02.2011	Heading into Summer Driving Season, Report Offers Policy Solutions For High Gas Prices and Oil Dependence WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Jim Moran, Lois Capps and Peter Welch were joined by representatives from the Center for American Progress, the American Public Transportation Association and the Association for Commuter Transportation to kick off the summer driving season by unveiling “Freedom from Oil,” a publication of the Livable Communities Task Force that focuses on short- and long-term solutions to high gas prices and oil dependence. “America deserves better than the endless cycle between denial of our vulnerability to oil prices when they are low, and sticker shock when they spike upwards,” said Blumenauer. “It’s time to revamp our transportation policies at the federal, state and local level to give Americans options, so that when gas prices are high they have safe, convenient and affordable ways to avoid falling victim to these high prices. This report illustrates how we can move in that direction.” The high cost of gasoline, which is likely to continue to increase in the long run, presents our families and communities with unsustainable transportation costs. The most viable solution to this problem is mitigating the cost of gasoline by helping communities provide transportation choices. The Task Force Report focuses on steps that government, businesses and individuals can take to provide American families with more transportation choices and reduce their reliance on expensive gas. The report is available for download in PDF format here . Learn more about the Livable Communities Task Force here.
06.02.2011	Today, Congressman Blumenauer, Chair of the Livable Communities Task Force, released a report entitled "Freedom From Oil. "
06.02.2011	Today, Congressman Blumenauer, Chair of the Livable Communities Task Force, released a report entitled "Freedom_from_Oil.pdf ."
05.27.2011	Congressman Blumenauer's Statement for the Congressional Record on the reauthorization of the Patriot Act: Today I voted against an extension of the Patriot Act because Congress should be refining and narrowing the scope of the Act, not extending it as-is, until 2015. There are real concerns on both sides of the aisle about granting the federal government too much power with little to no mechanisms for oversight by Congress. We are missing an opportunity in the House for bipartisan reform by rushing this extension to the floor. It’s time for a more accountable approach that balances individual privacy with our national defense. Our intelligence community has the tools necessary to keep us safe without compromising our privacy. This hasty four-year extension is disappointing because the Act could be more effective if it included the auditing requirements for which many in Congress have advocated.
05.26.2011	Congressman Blumenauer's Statement for the Congressional Record on H.R. 1540, FY12 Defense Authorization: Today I voted against the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA). While nothing is more important than providing the resources needed to keep America and our men and women in uniform safe, this authorization spends too much while falling short in important areas. The bill authorizes $690.1 billion for defense programs in FY12. This level of defense spending is almost as much as the rest of the world combined – most of which is done by friendly allies such as NATO (approximately $350 billion). It also includes an additional $118.9 billion in specific funds for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan without a plan for a full redeployment from the region. I am disappointed that amendments to require a rapid and thoughtful withdrawal from Afghanistan were not approved. For me, this is reason enough not to support this legislation. The bill continues the misguided affront on civil liberties by further stalling the implementation of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” and requires that “marriage” for any regulation or benefit program at DoD means only a legal union between one man and one woman. This is a step backwards and unacceptable. It reverses the House victory from earlier this year that finally eliminated the unnecessary alternate engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Similarly, the bill continues to fund the Marine Corps’ Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV) which has also been cited as uneconomical and unwanted by the Secretary of Defense. Embarrassingly, this authorization contains two key provisions that continue to tie the President’s hands by restricting his ability to transfer detainees to the United States for trial in Federal Court and to release detainees to countries willing to take them. It is absurd to think that the United States, which currently has thousands of dangerous criminals locked safely behind bars, is incapable of doing the same for terrorists. These provisions continue the Guantanamo quagmire which is ill-advised and a sign of failure at home and to those observing abroad. There are many positive elements in the bill, such as new rights and protections for victims of sexual assault in the military and increased access to mental health providers for our Reserves. I am pleased three of my amendments were included in the legislation. One amendment lifts the veil on classified immunity for defense contractors, a practice that exposed 36 of our Oregon National Guardsmen to toxic chemicals in Iraq. The other two will help protect our troops on the battlefield and save billions of dollars through energy efficiency initiatives. Their inclusion, however, does not offset the overall authorization which fails to reflect America’s priorities or our national security realities. At a time when Americans are calling for reform, this bill – despite some positives – continues our operations in Afghanistan with no plan for withdrawal, ramps up spending and discriminates against our service members. I am hopeful that my colleagues in the Senate can remove some of the provisions that do little to make America secure while we continue to spend almost as much on defense as the rest of the world combined.
05.26.2011	Amendment A Legislative Response To Classified Immunity Deal For Contractor KBR That Exposed Oregon National Guardsmen To Toxic Chemicals In Iraq WASHINGTON – Last night, Reps. Earl Blumenauer and Kurt Schrader of Oregon won passage of an amendment [PDF] to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011 to bring greater transparency to the war contracting process. The amendment requires the Secretary of Defense to notify Congress whenever the DoD enters into or modifies an indemnification agreement and explain why such a provision is necessary. “This is a victory for transparency in our military contracting process,” said Blumenauer. “It is also a victory for the 34 Oregon National Guard members whose health was endangered by a military contractor that received a classified immunity deal from the Pentagon. By forcing the Pentagon to conduct business with contractors out in the open, we can restore a sense of public accountability for companies whose operations may endanger our troops.” “Secret agreements protecting military contractors to the detriment of our brave warriors insults the sacrifices they have made to protect this nation,” said Schrader.” While this is a positive step forward for transparency, we must continue to curtail practices like this that put the health and safety of our brave warriors at risk. They fight for us and we have a responsibility to stand behind them.” Last Congress, Representatives Blumenauer and Schrader led the fight in Congress to reform how the Pentagon does business with defense contractors. Their actions were sparked by the stories of 34 members of the Oregon National Guard who are suing KBR after exposure to the lethal carcinogen hexavalant chromium during their 2003 tour in Iraq while protecting the Qarmat Ali Water Treatment Facility. The Qarmat Ali site, contracted to KBR for reconstruction, left Oregon troops with chronic medical problems. The lawsuit revealed the existence of a classified indemnification clause in the KBR contract that could absolve the company from liability and shift the cost of unlimited damages, health costs and court fees onto the Department of Defense and, by extension, U.S. taxpayers. The Oregon veterans weren’t the only ones affected by the chemical exposure. National Guard troops from Indiana, Texas, West Virginia and North Carolina – who were also assigned to protect Qarmat Ali – have been diagnosed with similar health problems.
05.25.2011	At the “Food Policy from Neighborhood to Nation” conference on Friday, Congressman Blumenauer stressed the need to redirect farm and agriculture policy to better benefit Oregon farmers and ranchers. Touching on a variety of subjects, ranging from the ineffectiveness of our subsidy dollars to the underfunding of research and conservation programs in the 2012 Farm Bill, Blumenauer criticized the current Farm support structure for not successfully serving the vibrancy of both our rural and urban areas. He said, “We need to provide more support to farmers and ranchers for the clean air and water, land preservation, and carbon sinks they provide.” Blumenauer reminded his audience that while Oregon produces more food and specialty crops than any other state in the union, it only receives about .003% of total federal payments under the Farm Bill, on average, per year. While Blumenauer praised Oregon’s participation in the federal Food Stamp (SNAP) program, he criticized Congress for being too short-sighted in its decision to reduce funding to federal health and nutrition programs for women, infants and children by $500 million. Meanwhile, taxpayers spend an estimated $2 billion annually on what Blumenauer called a “destructive and fiscally reckless sugar subsidy program.” Blumenauer commented that he was encouraged by the presence of community members from 47 states and their focus on farmland preservation, urban agriculture and access to healthy food. In conclusion, Blumenauer said, “Nowhere in public policy can we do more good, have more fun, save not just our agriculture and rural communities, but enrich the cities and save the planet.”
05.25.2011	On Saturday, Congressman Blumenauer visited the third annual Gay and Grey Expo at Friendly House in Northwest Portland. Gay and Grey is a resource fair that focuses on the needs of senior and baby boomer members of the gay, lesbian, bi-sexual, transgendered, questioning, and intersex community. Congressman Blumenauer offered introductory remarks for the panel on advocacy, which featured Governor Barbara Roberts, Maura Rosche from Basic Rights Oregon, and Joyce DeMonnin from AARP. “As a new generation enters retirement age, we need to ensure that all seniors have access to services we have promised them,” Blumenauer said. “Unfortunately, GLBT Seniors still face barriers to equitable housing, access to their loved ones in a hospital, and the tools for effective financial planning. I sincerely applaud this outreach and your advocacy in our community.” The exposition also offered health and wellness screenings, a Medicare 101 session, financial planning, and other events targeted to seniors.
05.25.2011	Monday at the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) conference in Anaheim, California, Congressman Blumenauer affirmed his support of wind power energy. Directly speaking to the wind power industry, his speech identified a broad interest group: “there is a vast coalition that is forming on your behalf: environmentalists, unions, students, campus powers, community of faith, progressive business people, all who cannot only lend their voices to your cause but also their wallets.” Blumenauer commented he was proud to represent people devoted to reducing their environmental impact and stressed the importance of affordable energy policy, intended to confront the problems of climate change while creating jobs and a sustainable industry. The most specific concern at the conference regarded the Bonneville Power Administration’s (BPA) curtailment of wind energy production. BPA's recent decision to curtail wind power in "overgeneration" situations elicited a strong backlash from the wind power industry. Blumenauer joined in the criticism, urging BPA to consider short and long term solutions. He also called for Congress to frame energy issues in the long-term and to amend the Federal regulatory process to more performance driven policies.
05.25.2011	Amendments by Blumenauer, Connolly, Hinchey, Capps and Welch require DoD to study alternatives to reduce wasteful oil convoys that leave troops vulnerable to attack WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Gerry Connolly, Maurice Hinchey, Lois Capps and Peter Welch introduced two amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act to protect our troops on the battlefield and save billions of dollars through energy efficiency. The first (#115) directs the DoD to consider energy efficiency when purchasing warzone structures like tents, which now consume massive amounts of oil that must be delivered along dangerous supply lines. The second (#150) requires the DoD to evaluate combat-zone energy efficiency programs and make recommendations on how to deploy them to further reduce risks to oil supply convoys. “Energy waste on bases in Iraq and Afghanistan is putting our troops in harm’s way and costing the Defense Department billions of dollars,” said Blumenauer. “Our men and women in uniform are driving fuel tankers hundreds of miles through hostile terrain to deliver fuel that is used inefficiently. There is no doubt that making our bases more energy efficient will save lives and dollars, and these amendments are a step forward towards that goal.” “Our amendment will save lives and tax dollars by eliminating the bureaucratic bottlenecks that have led to purchases of inefficient shelters, more fuel shipments, and loss of American lives in fuel convoys,” said Connolly. “This is about protecting our troops in the line of duty,” said Hinchey. “Ambushes and IED assaults have claimed the lives of thousands of our uniformed men and women who were placed directly in enemy crosshairs as they traveled hundreds of miles to deliver fuel to the front lines. If we can make our military more energy efficient and reduce the number of refueling convoys, we won’t just save taxpayer dollars while protecting our environment, we’ll also save lives.” “Increasing the energy efficiency of military structures is a straightforward way to improve the safety of our men and women in harm’s way and save money for the taxpayer,” said Capps. “We know that we need to thoroughly examine the Pentagon’s budget as we try to reduce the deficit, and reducing fuel costs is a simple step that we can take to streamline defense spending.” “These are common sense amendments,” said Welch. “Transporting fuel in combat zones is difficult, expensive and extremely dangerous. If we can reduce the amount of fuel consumed by our armed forces, we can protect our soldiers and save taxpayers money.” Over 3,000 troops and federal contractors have died in assaults on fuel convoys since the start of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Every extra gallon of fuel that is needed to provide climate control in inefficient tents and power other wasteful base operations endangers our war fighters and contractors who must make repeated journeys in vulnerable fuel convoys. Often these fuel convoys ship liquid fuel over 800 miles to remote bases through terrain that is vulnerable to IED attack or ambushes. Fuel convoys are deadly for our troops and a huge burden on federal taxpayers: Diesel fuel shipped to Iraq and Afghanistan costs between $17 and $400 per gallon, with higher costs in remote regions of Afghanistan. These extremely high per-gallon costs contribute to annual air conditioning fuel costs of $20 billion in Iraq and Afghanistan. Reducing the amount of fuel needed to cool tents will reduce military vulnerabilities while saving money for taxpayers. Amendments 115 and 150 to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2012 have been ruled in order and have the support of both the Chair and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee.
05.20.2011	Congressman Blumenauer celebrated National Bike to Work Day by speaking at the “Bikes Mean Business” event in downtown Portland, sponsored by the Bicycle Transportation Alliance. Bicycle-related industries in Portland employ more than a thousand people and generate almost a million dollars in revenue each year. A perfect example of this growing economic sector is Chris King Bicycle Components, which employs 88 people in the manufacture of high-end bicycle components. This Portland company rewards every employee who bikes to work every day in May or September with two additional days of paid vacation! Blumenauer is doing his part to promote bicycle commuting on the federal level by introducing the Commuter Relief Act. This legislation expands a series of tax credits for individuals and employers to make it easier for commuters who wish to commute by bike, transit or walking.
05.20.2011	Yesterday, Congressman Blumenauer visited Reynolds High School. At 3000 students, Reynolds is the largest – and most diverse – high school in Oregon; its students represent more than 50 nations and speak more than 45 different languages. Reynolds has an important turn-around story to tell. Four years ago, the school graduated only 48% of its Seniors; today that figure is more than 80%. Under the leadership of Principal Jeff Gilbert, Reynolds continues to make remarkable progress with its Career and Technical Education; Fine Arts/Performing Arts; Reading and Math Intervention; and Leadership programs. While at Reynolds, the Congressman visited the Early Childhood Center, a Culinary Arts classroom (the homemade pizza smelled delicious!), the state-of-the-art Metals Workshop, and the Woodworking Center, where teacher Eric Storm presented the Congressman with a custom made bow tie! The Congressman also spoke with teacher John Dixon’s Leadership Class, where he faced some tough questions from thoughtful and articulate freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior Reynolds students.
05.19.2011	Congressman Blumenauer today joined with Gresham City Councilor Josh Fuhrer and Metro Councilor Shirley Craddick to celebrate the recently completed section of the Gresham-Fairview Trail. Before a group of cheerful onlookers enjoying the warm and sunny weather, the three officials cut the ribbon ceremonially opening the route. A number of cyclists, clearly eager to try out the new trail, set off down the path following the event. The Gresham-Fairview Trail [map – PDF] is a local link connecting to larger regional trails such as the Springwater Corridor and the 40-Mile loop, as well as a piece in the larger vision to connect Mt. Hood with the Willamette Valley. The project was constructed with $2 million in Federal Surface Transportation funding secured by Congressman Blumenauer, with additional sources from the City of Gresham, Oregon Department of Transportation, the 2006 Greenspaces Bond measure and 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. It was completed on time and under budget.
05.13.2011	Washington – Congressman Blumenauer, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, questioned the Chief Financial Officers of several large U.S. corporations today (United Technologies, Caterpillar, Zimmer Holdings, and Kimberly-Clark) today as the committee explored policies related to the corporate tax system. In response to questioning from Congressman Blumenauer, the CFOs recognized that addressing the deficit will necessarily requires a mix of additional revenues, particularly where the U.S. business community is dependent on strong national infrastructure. The corporate officers also emphasized that a failure to increase the government’s debt limit would be “catastrophic.” Gregory Hayes, the CFO of United Technologies, testified, “I think it would be devastating to the US economy, if Congress failed to raise the debt limit. The full faith and credit of the U.S. government is the basis upon which the entire world financial system revolves around.” The four CFOs also agreed that stand-alone corporate repatriation tax proposals are terrible policy and fail to level the tax playing field for businesses. They emphasized that this policy merely treats the symptom rather than the underlying issue. While highlighting a concern about the marginal tax rates paid by corporations, all supported a corporate reform policy that would be revenue neutral in light of the national deficit, meaning that closing corporate loopholes could fund reductions in the corporate marginal rates.
05.11.2011	Washington – Congressman Earl Blumenauer, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, gave the following statement after a Committee markup on Republican legislation that would take unemployment insurance trust fund money and redirect it to states for a variety of uses: “I strongly oppose this legislation, which undermines the system of unemployment benefits that protects our most vulnerable citizens, provides a safety net to guard our families from destitution, and strengthens our economy by supporting workers as they search for work. “Congress has never discontinued federal employment benefits while the unemployment rate was over 7.4%. While the economy has begun to improve, Congress should not break that precedent now, when millions of families are still struggling to find work. “The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office finds that of the policies articulated in this legislation – the likely removal of benefits from beneficiaries and the use of those benefits to instead repay state-held loans to the federal government or to create job retraining programs – the continuation of unemployment insurance creates the biggest “bang for the buck” in terms of job creation. The $40 billion in economic activity generated by existing program of unemployment insurance creates around 322,000 jobs. “Putting cash in the hands of unemployed workers generates more economic activity than any other option: as families still must spend on necessities, it results in more consumption of goods and services produced by private-sector businesses, generating more economic activity by their suppliers and contractors. “My state has over 73,000 people out of work who are depending on these programs. Around the country, there are more than 4 million people out of work. These programs are vitally important to these citizens and to their families. I oppose the wholesale elimination of these programs and the transformation of the federal guarantee to a patchwork quilt of state programs.”
05.11.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Jim Moran and Mazie Hirono were joined by leaders from the business and transportation communities in unveiling the “Commuter Relief Act of 2011.” With high gas prices taking a toll on workers and our economy, this legislation offers incentives for businesses to provide transportation options to their employees like public transit benefits, vanpools, and other market-based solutions. This Commuter Relief Act offers commuters immediate relief and options with the intent of adding no additional cost to the federal deficit. “With workers and families getting clobbered by high gas prices, the Commuter Relief Act offers immediate, affordable alternatives to driving that will put money back in Americans’ pockets,” said Blumenauer. “Now is the time to set aside gimmicky rhetoric that promises the impossible: lower oil prices from drilling for the tiny amount of oil we have here in the United States. The only way to meaningfully protect Americans from spikes in gas prices is to make alternatives to driving more convenient and affordable.” “With the some of the worst traffic in the nation, Northern Virginians are no strangers to wasting gasoline while sitting in rush hour traffic,” said Moran. “Providing incentives for commuters to carpool, bike, or take public transportation is not only good for our environment, but for our pocketbooks. It’s one of the best ways we can address traffic congestion in the region.” “Commuters in my district pay more for a gallon of gas than any other place in the country—on average almost $5 dollars,” said Hirono. “At the same time, Big Oil just raked in $35 billion in profits this last quarter while still receiving $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies. That’s simply not right. We should give those tax benefits to the people who need them most—businesses and their employees who commute to work. This bill will do that and expand options for commuters, which is why I’m proud to cosponsor this legislation.” This legislation expands a series of tax credits for individuals and employers to make it easier for commuters who wish to commute to work by bicycle, walking, carpooling, or using public transit. Specifically, the bill contains the following provisions: Transit Equity: Sets the uniform dollar cap for all transportation fringe benefits to $200 a month. Currently, the permanent cap is $230 for the parking benefit, and there is a temporary extension that sets the transit cap at the same level, until the end of the calendar year 2011, at which point the transit cap will drop to $130 Self Employed Extension of Transportation Fringe Benefits: Allows individuals who are self-employed to receive transit fringe benefits for commuting done for work purposes Parking Cashout: Requires employers who offer a parking transportation fringe benefit to employees to also offer employees the option to take cash instead, reducing the incentive to drive instead of take alternative transportation VanPool Credit: Creates a 10% tax credit for expenditures on vanpool vehicles and services, which will provide an incentive for employers and employees to share their commutes MultiModal Transportation: Allows individuals to combine their bike benefit with other transportation fringe benefits as long as they fall under the $200 cap (for example, individuals can use the $20 bike credit and still collect up to $180 of their public transit fringe benefit). This section recognizes that people rarely use only one type of transportation to commute; they use a combination of modes depending on the weather, their needs for the day and other factors The legislation is revenue neutral. The additional credits are paid for by reducing the overall transit and parking cap from $230 to $200 a month.
05.11.2011	Washington – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, gave the following statement after a Committee markup on Republican legislation that would weaken unemployment insurance by taking trust fund money and redirecting it to states for a variety of uses: “I strongly oppose this legislation, which undermines the system of unemployment benefits that protects our most vulnerable citizens, provides a safety net to guard our families from destitution, and strengthens our economy by supporting workers as they search for work. “Congress has never discontinued federal employment benefits while the unemployment rate was over 7.4%. While the economy has begun to improve, Congress should not break that precedent now, when millions of families are still struggling to find work. “The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office finds that of the policies articulated in this legislation – the likely removal of benefits from beneficiaries and the use of those benefits to instead repay state-held loans to the federal government or to create job retraining programs – the continuation of unemployment insurance creates the biggest “bang for the buck” in terms of job creation. The $40 billion in economic activity generated by existing program of unemployment insurance creates around 322,000 jobs. “Putting cash in the hands of unemployed workers generates more economic activity than any other option: as families still must spend on necessities, it results in more consumption of goods and services produced by private-sector businesses, generating more economic activity by their suppliers and contractors. “My state has over 73,000 people out of work who are depending on these programs. Around the country, there are more than 4 million people out of work. These programs are vitally important to these citizens and to their families. I oppose the wholesale elimination of these programs and the transformation of the federal guarantee to a patchwork quilt of state programs.”
05.09.2011	Last Friday Congressman Blumenauer visited Roosevelt High School, which received $7.7 million in Department of Education school improvement funds last year. One year into this 3-year project, Roosevelt has already upgraded obsolete computers, improved teacher and counselor training, hired a specialist to strengthen essential ties to the community, and developed an innovative partnership with Portland State University for college-bound seniors. Principal Charlene Williams described how Roosevelt’s support of teachers who demonstrate a special “calling to education” has already improved the school’s attendance and academic performance, bolstered by experimental teaching programs made possible by the federal grant. Blumenauer also took questions from a college level Inquiry Class and toured the campus with two of Roosevelt’s scholarship recipients: Taylor Lane, who will be attending Willamette University next year, and Angel Guiterrez, who will attend Brown University. They are not Roosevelt’s only high achievers; this year’s Senior Class has racked up an impressive total of almost $3 million in scholarship funds. Blumenauer with Roosevelt students Taylor Lane and Angel Guiterrez Monday, Blumenauer visited the 7th and 8th graders in the Project Citizen Class at Laurelhurst School; students there have been working on a proposal to increase bicycle safety by marking the city’s most dangerous intersections with green bike lanes. Impressed by the students’ extensive research and survey work, the Congressman applauded their thorough and thoughtful approach and gave them a few tips for their upcoming testimony to the City’s Bicycle Advisory Committee. Blumenauer speaks with Laurelhurst students
05.03.2011	Congressman Blumenauer spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to H.R. 3: My friend from Michigan said it right. There are no Federal funds for abortion under the terms of the Hyde amendment, except in the case of rape and incest. What this is about is how families spend their money and small business deals with insurance. It's part of a continuing Republican assault against people with whom they disagree. It continues the sad spectacle of using the Internal Revenue Service--I would say not just the use but the abuse of the IRS--to attack people with whom they disagree. Remember the spectacle of the Ways and Means hearing where they drug AARP before them and tried to have an investigation because they disagreed with them on health insurance? Yes, this would put government between doctors and American families. But it's not just about abortion under the Hyde amendment. Remember, there are some people who are against the rape and incest exemption. There are some people who had a shocking proposal to radically change the very definition of rape. There is a continuing effort to erode basic fundamental reproductive freedom, and this shows a tactic of using the IRS that I think is very dangerous. It does, in fact, increase the complexity and raises taxes on individuals who may, in fact, need these procedures that may, in fact, be lifesaving. The proponents may not agree with what a woman and her doctor decide but that should be their decision. This raises the specter of using the Tax Code and the Congressional investigating power in ways that no one should support.
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement in response to news of the killing of Osama bin Laden by U.S. forces in Pakistan: “News of Osama bin Laden’s death at the hands of our brave men in uniform is a significant victory in our fight against al Qaeda. Stark memories of September 11, 2001 are seared in the minds of all Americans, including those of us who experienced it that day in our nation’s Capitol. Despite the years of frustration and dead ends, today we nonetheless feel a sense of grim satisfaction that justice has been served. “The most important challenge we face now is determining how best to secure America’s future by applying what we have learned from the hunt for bin Laden. The vast majority of our recent military investments ultimately made little difference in our ability to hunt down and defeat Osama bin Laden and deal with other terrorist leaders. At this moment, we are in the midst of important deliberations on our budget and strategic imperatives for this year and the critical decade to come. We must recommit ourselves to a strategic, thoughtful and precise approach to our national security. “As we face growing budgetary challenges and hard choices about what we as a nation can afford, it is in our vital national interest that these choices be made in a way that reinforces the foundation of our strength and prosperity.”
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) released the following statement in response to news of the killing of Osama bin Laden by U.S. forces in Pakistan: “News of Osama bin Laden’s death at the hands of our brave men in uniform is a significant victory in our fight against al Qaeda. Stark memories of September 11, 2001 are seared in the minds of all Americans, including those of us who experienced it that day in our nation’s Capitol. Despite the years of frustration and dead ends, today we nonetheless feel a sense of grim satisfaction that justice has been served. “The most important challenge we face now is determining how best to secure America’s future by applying what we have learned from the hunt for bin Laden. The vast majority of our recent military investments ultimately made little difference in our ability to hunt down and defeat Osama bin Laden and deal with other terrorist leaders. At this moment, we are in the midst of important deliberations on our budget and strategic imperatives for this year and the critical decade to come. We must recommit ourselves to a strategic, thoughtful and precise approach to our national security. “As we face growing budgetary challenges and hard choices about what we as a nation can afford, it is in our vital national interest that these choices be made in a way that reinforces the foundation of our strength and prosperity.”
04.27.2011	With abundant sunlight streaming through the century-old structure, Congressman Blumenauer hosted a reception honoring local high school students for the annual Congressional Art Competition at the YU Contemporary Gallery. Thirty nine students from ten high schools in the Third Congressional District participated in this year’s competition; more than twice the number of submissions received from last year. First launched in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition is an annual event in every congressional district involving hundreds of thousands of high school students. The first place winner from each Congressional District receives two round trip tickets courtesy of Southwest Airlines to Washington D.C. to attend a June reception where their submission will be hung in the United States Capitol. Judging the Competition this year were Professor Paul Missal, Patrick Forster, and Sara Kaltwasser from the Pacific Northwest College of Art (PNCA). Participating schools included David Douglas High School, Grant High School, De La Salle North Catholic School, Estacada High School, Pacific Crest Community School, Portland Adventist School, Portland Waldorf School, Rex Putnam High School, Reynolds High School, and St. Mary's Academy. Now conducting his 15th Competition in the 3rd District, the Congressman honored each participant by featuring the submissions in a local gallery. Sandra Percival from YU opened the reception with a detailed journey of her career leading up the restoration of the gallery, which previously served as an abandoned laundry factory from the early 20th century. Sandra then introduced Congressman Blumenauer, who thanked the students for lending their creative talent to the competition. “Looking out across this room, it is absolutely clear that we are witnessing the next generation of artists,” Blumenauer said. "Although only one student will be going to Washington DC, it is obvious that each of you is a winner.” First place winner Natashia Duncan from David Douglas High School with Rep. Blumenauer and Brendan Korsgren of SW Airlines Earning first place this year was Natashia Duncan from David Douglas High School with her piece “January Tenth.” Judges from the competition noted that the piece was “sophisticated,” that it “created a conversation with the viewer,” and that they were “shocked that this was produced by a high school student.” She will receive two roundtrip tickets to Washington DC and will have her piece hung in the Capitol. Second place winner Raya Lieberman from the Portland Waldorf School Third place winner Ana Sanz Gonzalez from the Pacific Crest Community School Earning second place was Raya Lieberman from the Portland Waldorf School with her piece “Waiting.” Ana Sanz Gonzalez from the Pacific Crest Community School earned third place with her piece “Al-Andalus.” Congratulations to all participants. Keep an eye out for next year’s Competition!
04.27.2011	Letter Delivered As ExxonMobil Reports Skyrocketing Profits Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, was joined by 28 House Democratic colleagues in sending a letter to Speaker John Boehner [PDF] urging him to allow an up-or-down vote on the repeal of nearly $8 billion a year in wasteful subsidies for the nation's largest oil companies. The letter comes as oil majors report skyrocketing quarterly profits, including a spike of nearly 70 percent for ExxonMobil today. "Today we learned that ExxonMobil saw its profits soar nearly 70 percent while Americans are getting clobbered at the pump," said Blumenauer. "It is unconscionable that we are cutting government services left and right while continuing billions in giveaways to giant oil companies. Now is the time for Republicans to respect the will of the people and hold an up-or-down vote on repealing these wasteful subsidies." Blumenauer has introduced a bill, H.R. 601, to end nearly $8 billion a year in taxpayer subsidies to the largest oil companies. All members signed onto the letter are cosponsors of this legislation. ### April 28, 2011 John A. Boehner Speaker of the House H-232 Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, We write to acknowledge your statement earlier this week that you were open to eliminating unnecessary tax subsidies for the oil and gas industry. We agree with you that, especially in an era of high gas prices and high profits, the big oil companies don't need all of the generous subsidies that taxpayers currently provide. Enclosed is a copy of legislation that we have introduced, H.R. 601, which would eliminate the depletion allowance tax subsidy along with a number of other tax breaks enjoyed by the big oil companies. Importantly, our legislation reserves these subsidies for small independent producers. It would save roughly $40 billion over the next 5 years. President Obama has written to Congress urging us to pass legislation to eliminate unwarranted tax breaks for the oil companies. This position is shared by a majority of the Democratic Caucus, as evidenced by the vote on the Motion to Recommit on H.J. Res. 44 (Roll Call 153), and by 74 percent of the American public according to recent opinion polls. You may hear concern from some in your caucus that closing tax loopholes for the oil companies will raise gas prices. As you know, this is not the case. The Joint Economic Committee and other experts have determined that closing tax loopholes for the big oil companies will not increase consumer energy prices. Since the price of oil is set on the world market, the subsidies we provide in this country only do one thing: increase oil company profits. Oil prices are sufficiently high for companies to explore and drill without incentives. In the words of former President George W. Bush, "I will tell you with $55 oil we don't need incentives to oil and gas companies to explore." Today prices are double that amount, making tax incentives even less necessary. As Exxon Mobil, BP and other big oil companies announce record profits in the coming days, we urge you to schedule an up-or-down vote on the House Floor providing members with the opportunity to vote to repeal some of the most egregious tax subsidies. With gas prices on the rise, we would welcome the opportunity to show our constituents that Congress is ready to stop wastefully subsidizing some of the most profitable businesses in the world and instead use that money to reduce the deficit and invest in real relief from high gas prices. Sincerely, Earl Blumenauer Ed Markey Lois Capps Barney Frank Pete Stark John Conyers Louise Slaughter Barbara Lee Keith Ellison Chris Van Hollen Rush Holt Betty McCollum David Cicilline Jan Schakowsky Betty Sutton Peter Welch John Tierney Eleanor Holmes Norton Maurice Hinchey Steve Cohen Anna Eshoo Lynn Woolsey John Olver Jim Moran George Miller Jared Polis Gerry Connolly Jim McDermott David Price
04.26.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, welcomed news that House Speaker John Boehner has publicly recognized the folly in continuing nearly $8 billion a year in taxpayer subsidies to the world’s richest oil companies. “Speaker Boehner’s recent willingness to consider repealing federal subsidies for big oil companies suggests recognition among Republican leadership that they have no place in an era of tight budgets,” said Blumenauer. “Giant oil companies are seeing their profits soar while American families struggle to fill their gas tanks. It could not be more obvious that taxpayer subsidies for these companies are wasteful and unnecessary. With the vast majority of Americans opposed to these subsidies in an era of tight budgets, I urge the Speaker to allow an up-or-down vote in the House on legislation to repeal them.” With 34 cosponsors, Blumenauer has introduced a bill to end nearly $8 billion a year in taxpayer subsidies to the largest oil companies.
04.22.2011	
04.21.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Frank Pallone and Tim Bishop announced the introduction of H.R. 1596, the Superfund Reinvestment Act, to restore polluter-pays provisions for cleaning up America’s most toxic and polluted sites. “This Earth Day, we are reaffirming the commonsense idea that companies should pay to clean up their own toxic waste,” said Blumenauer. “It is unfair to pass the burden on to taxpayers who bear no responsibility for the polluted industrial sites that threaten communities across this country. Without reauthorization, millions of Americans will be needlessly exposed to toxic waste while industries dodge billions of dollars in pollution taxes. It’s time to put the burden for cleanup back where it belongs: on polluters.” “Reauthorizing the Superfund tax is important to everyone living and working in New Jersey because we have more Superfund sites than any other state in the country,” said Pallone. “These toxic sites are a threat to public health as well as a danger to the environment. Reauthorization will provide Superfund with the resources it needs to clean-up sites fully, without unnecessary delay, and make the polluters pay the costs.” “There are three options to deal with toxic sites—nobody pays, everybody pays or the polluter pays,” said Bishop. “Nobody pays is not an acceptable option because we cannot allow pollution to fester and endanger public health. Right now, everybody pays, which is unfair because every taxpayer and business is on the hook for the behavior of a handful of industries. The fair, commonsense solution is that polluters should pay. Let’s remind polluters what we as parents tell our children—clean up your own mess.” Superfund sites are some of the most contaminated in the nation. 70 million Americans—including 10 million children, live within four miles of a Superfund site. They are exposed to toxic waste such as arsenic, benzene, PCBs, mercury and a range of solvents, leading to health problems such as infertility, low birth weight, birth defects, leukemia and respiratory difficulties. Communities that are home to these sites can face restrictions on water use and recreational activities as well as economic losses as property values decline due to contaminated land. Before 1995, the Superfund trust fund was subsidized by taxes on the chemical and petroleum industry. When a large pollution problem occurred, and the responsible party could not be found, could not pay, or refused to pay, the Superfund was tapped to pay for the cleanup. This program has resulted in the cleanup of more than 1000 toxic waste sites in communities all over the U.S., freeing residents from health risks and fears that come with living next to toxic waste. Because Congress has not reauthorized the taxes, the cleanup of Superfund sites is paid for out of the general treasury. Without the contributing taxes, the Superfund has had less money available for cleanup work. This is happening as costs for work to restore Superfund sites are on the rise. In some cases, the EPA no longer has enough money to launch cleanups and can lose leverage to make companies clean up polluted sites. The Superfund Reinvestment Act would reinstate the Superfund taxes on polluters to their previous levels. This includes taxes on the petrochemical industry and a corporate income tax of 0.12 percent on the amount of a corporation’s modified alternative minimum taxable income that exceeds $2 million. The President’s FY 2012 budget, which calls for reauthorization of these taxes, estimates that they would raise about $2 billion per year and $20.8 billion over 10 years.
04.20.2011	Before a crowd of almost 4,000, Pollan noted that Blumenauer as has been a Congressional leader at the forefront of food issues. He further stated that if Blumenauer’s priorities were shared by more members on the Committee on Agriculture, US policies would be far better for it. Pollan did not dwell on some of the mainstream issues of the food movement like local and organic products but rather challenged the audience to look at food problems in the United States from a health perspective. He warned people against eating foods with health claims, and encouraged Americans to examine the way food is thought of, talking about how it can be dangerous to listen to scientific claims made about food, when food and nutrition sciences are still very basic. He reminded the audience that beyond being just fuel, food can be both enjoyable and a driver of community. Connecting the country’s health problems to the economy, he also reminded the audience how expensive it is to treat what he called “Western illnesses” that are a result of the Western diet, and how much better off the country would be financially if these health problems were addressed. Pollan concluded with the simple line from his book In Defense of Food: “Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants.” Blumenauer and Pollan at the PSU Food for Thought Forum
04.15.2011	"The Republican party has shepherded through the House a budget that reflects the most profoundly negative view of America's future that I have seen in my time in Congress. "The America envisioned by the Republican budget is one that cannot afford to improve its fraying infrastructure, instead envisioning a massive $100 billion cut in these investments. The America they envision fails to protect clean air and clean water, makes college education more expensive, and cuts food stamps for needy families. Rather than protecting Medicare, the Republican vision of America dismantles it, transforming it into a voucher program for private insurance. "According to independent analyses, the Republican budget increases overall healthcare costs, limiting the federal government’s exposure to these costs, and instead shifting them onto American families. Their budget doesn't even try to reform military spending. By preserving tax breaks for our nation’s wealthiest, it turns an opportunity for tax reform into more tax benefits for those who need it the least. "The alternatives I supported—from the Democratic Caucus, the Progressive Caucus, and the Congressional Black Caucus—each provide progress with some hard decisions and shared sacrifice, by not giving up on health reform but rather by accelerating its benefits, by investing in America’s infrastructure and communities, and by supporting America’s students and educators. These alternatives put us on a path forward to strengthen our economy and to rebuild and renew America. They are not perfect, but they do far more good than harm; something that cannot be said for the Republican budget. "Budgets are statements of values. The hard work of making specific spending decisions still awaits Congress. The budget debate and upcoming appropriations process provides an important opportunity for all Americans to evaluate the different visions of America policy makers present. I believe the progress of America’s past will continue in the future. That’s what I will work to support and improve." {loadposition related}
04.14.2011	Today Congressman Blumenauer attended the Ethanol Policy Forum, a conference discussing subsidies for the ethanol industry. He addressed their impact on the US economy, the budget, and world food prices. Blumenauer emphasized the harmful nature of these subsidies which include tax credits, a mandated use of ethanol fuel, and tariffs on foreign supplies of ethanol. Policies like the Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit (VEETC) are misguided and counterproductive, increase government spending, decrease national food production, and amplify the global effect of commodity price shocks. Speaking at the Ethanol Policy Forum Blumenauer also stressed the conflicting nature of spending 17 billion dollars of taxpayer money on subsidies that only reduce oil expenditures by 1.1 billion dollars, an idea that both Republican and Democratic panelists presented as undermining efforts to address the budget deficit. Panelists also confirmed the global impact of ethanol subsidies which increase food prices worldwide, leading to higher poverty rates in already impoverished nations. Instead of continuing these policies, Blumenauer proposed cutting subsidies for ethanol and other biofuels as a way to responsibly reduce the deficit while leveling the playing field for more sustainable forms of alternative energy.
04.14.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, issued the following statement after voting against a continuing resolution funding the government through the end of the fiscal year: “I voted against the continuing resolution because it reflects seriously misplaced priorities. What we are having right now is not just a budget battle; it is a fundamental debate about the direction and values of this country. Cutting nutrition aid for women and children during an economic recession is heartless. Cutting programs that not only benefit farmers but help protect the environment, wildlife, water quality and erosion control is stupid. Reducing funding the state revolving fund that helps rebuild local sewer and water systems around the country is folly. These programs create jobs and improve the health of communities. “I also voted against the CR because it endorses Republican brinkmanship that encourages political hostage taking with disastrous results far in excess of any potential advantage gained. Simply because a minority of Congress feels empowered to do things to government operations that are truly irrational destroys the credibility of this legislative body. It must stop. The only way it will stop is if the attention and resulting fury of the American public is focused on it. “This legislation represents a failure to deal with entrenched political interests at a time of heightened awareness, attention, and controversy around our budgets. We should be doing better not worse. “The next act in this sad drama – dealing with the increase of the debt ceiling, which will absolutely be approved – is already underway. The United States has no choice. Even pretending that we won’t raise the debt ceiling risks consequences far more serious than the added interest costs that the U.S. would face, which would total approximately two thirds of a billion dollars a day for every percentage increase in our national debt interest rate. “We should call the question as soon as possible to attempt to rein in an ongoing political strategy that will simply move us from one crisis to the next, whether it is a future increase in the debt ceiling, expiring tax provisions, or the next budget cliff. We must stop now. The best step is to draw the line before it goes any further to increase the likelihood that people will begin to act responsibly.”
04.13.2011	Today Congressman Blumenauer testified before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs to ask that Congress continue to provide the resources necessary to ensure that people in developing countries have access to clean drinking water and sanitation facilities. His written testimony is available for download [PDF]. The lack of access to clean water and sanitation remains the world’s largest health problem, resulting in the deaths of 1.8 million children under the age of five every year – that is almost 5,000 deaths a day. Nearly 900 million people lack access clean drinking water and 2.6 billion people do not have access to sanitation facilities. More than 80 percent of the global health burden is water related, and at any given time, people suffering from water illnesses occupy more than half of the world’s hospital beds. Congressman Blumenauer has worked tirelessly on this issue for over a decade. He introduced in the House the Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act, which passed in 2005 and made, for the first time in U.S. history, access to water and sanitation a priority of U.S. foreign policy. Because of this legislation, millions of life-threatening illnesses have been prevented. Congressman Blumenauer knows that investing a small amount of money in water and sanitation can save thousands of lives, break the cycle of poverty for women and children by freeing them from the all-consuming task of gathering water, and promote economic development. That’s why he will continue push for this funding. Water has a profound impact on the most important issues of our time. It is impossible to discus climate change, public health, education, food security, women’s issues, or economic development without addressing water. Clean water can bring stability and prosperity, lack of it can lead to crisis. The scope of the problem is truly global. There are over 260 river basins that cross at least one international border. Sharing this finite resource between countries and providing equity in access will require greater leadership from the U.S. Already 40 percent of the world’s population lives in areas of water scarcity. With the Earth’s population growing by 83 million people every year, the demand – and the consequences of inaction – will only increase. This spring, Congressman Blumenauer will introduce legislation that will strengthen the Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act by creating permanent senior water advisor positions with the State Department and the US Agency for International Development so that we have a comprehensive water and sanitation strategy.
04.13.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) issued the following statement regarding the looming vote to raise the debt ceiling: “Right now, America is an island of stability in the global debt market. This stability is an essential pillar of our economic recovery and our ability to borrow at historically low interest rates. Investors continue to pour tens of billions of dollars a week into the United States because we have a history of always paying our debts on time. “The simple fact is that we must – and we will – raise the debt ceiling. Failure to do so would have catastrophic effects on America’s economy and our economic reputation. Economic leaders are also telling us that a messy fight over the debt ceiling where the vote is held hostage to an ideological or political agenda would severely rattle the markets, leading to higher interest rates for businesses and for families purchasing homes and cars. Voting to ensure that America pays its debts has never been a controversial issue, and choosing this vote to impose an extreme agenda would be the definition of recklessness. “I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting a clean vote to raise the debt ceiling and send a message that America always pays its bills.”
04.08.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, announced that Oregon will receive $5.81 million to turn around its persistently lowest achieving schools through the School Improvement Grants (SIG) program. The funds are part of $546 million available to states for the School Improvement Grant program in fiscal year 2010. “Every Oregon student deserves the opportunity to attend an excellent school,” said Blumenauer. “That is why I am pleased that our chronically underperforming schools will be getting some help. This grant is a great start to turn around some of Oregon’s most challenged schools and provide students with the best possible learning environment.” The $5.81 million made available to Oregon is being distributed by formula to the state and will then be competed out by the state to school districts.
04.08.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) issued the following statement today regarding the prospect of a government shutdown: “Democrats have been negotiating in good faith to prevent a damaging government shutdown. As negotiations have gone forward, it is clear that the difference between the two parties over government spending is now very small. Democrats have already agreed to more spending cuts than Republicans initially demanded. Yet it seems no offer from Democrats is too reasonable to refuse. “It is clear that my Republican colleagues are not as interested in reducing spending as they are in advancing an extreme agenda. Indeed, Republicans appear willing to shut down the government because they want to dictate their ideology regarding women’s health issues and environmental protections. “Economists are watching this process with horror, warning of 800,000 furloughed workers, the strangling of essential services and the risk of throwing away our hard-earned progress on the economy. I was contacted this week by a local company that has a $20 million contract with the U.S. Navy that is in jeopardy because of the shutdown and the uncertainty regarding federal funding. If it were not for the uncertainty coming out of Washington, this contract would be putting Oregonians to work and providing critical family wage jobs. Yet it seems that painful consequences like this are not enough to stop the Tea Party push for a government shutdown. “It is time for members of both parties to come together like adults and keep our country open for business. Should a shutdown occur, my offices will remain open to serve the constituents of the Third Congressional District, and I will donate any salary that I earn to charity.”
04.08.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) issued the following statement in response to passage of H.J. Res. 37, which disapproves the FCC’s network neutrality rules with limited debate and no opportunity for amendments: “The Internet was designed to be an open medium, and today it is one of the most powerful tools that regular Americans have in our economy and our democracy. Yet my Republican colleagues have rammed through a resolution that would allow huge corporations to set up a discriminatory system that undermines fair access for the sake of profit. “This attack throws into question whether innovation will be allowed to flourish on the Internet. It would slow economic growth by allowing established companies to shut out new competition, and it would put the power to choose which content Americans can access more firmly in the grasp of corporate interests. “Maintaining a free and open Internet is critical to a vibrant democracy and economic development. I hope that my colleagues will join me in protecting the free and open Internet to strengthen our economy and create jobs.”
04.06.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, introduced an amendment to restore $1 billion in clean transportation funding that was cut by H.R. 1 and the Republican budget. The restored funding is offset by reducing wasteful tax subsidies for ethanol fuels. Rep. Blumenauer offered the following statement: “This amendment rejects the short-sighted cuts to transportation funding in the Republican budget. As our families are struggling with rising gas prices, the Republican budget would impose further costs by constraining their ability to get to work, participate in our economy and maintain control over their daily lives. The Republican budget punts on the question of how we renew and rebuild America, and reduces our ability to build and maintain our vital infrastructure.” “Already, transportation costs are some of the highest fixed costs that our families face. In certain auto-dependent areas, transportation costs account for 27 percent of a family’s income, leaving less money for housing, food, healthcare and other important expenses. But where communities have invested in their infrastructure, families face fewer costs and economic barriers are reduced. For example, residents of Portland, Oregon drive 20 percent less than residents of other major metropolitan areas and save $2,500 annually. “I am pleased to offset the cost of this amendment by repealing truly wasteful subsidies for ethanol production. In the hierarchy of wasteful tax subsides, it’s hard to find one more wasteful than those provided to ethanol, which even major ethanol groups admit are not necessary.”
04.05.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, offered an amendment to H.R. 910, the “Energy Tax Prevention Act,” that would ensure that the Act actually does what its title suggests. The Blumenauer amendment would strike everything after the short title and replace it with an amendment to the Clean Air Act preventing the Administrator of the EPA from imposing an energy tax. As written, the bill would undermine EPA’s ability to implement the Clean Air Act, including its authority to limit carbon pollution. “This amendment will help us find out whether Republicans are truly concerned about the Environmental Protection Agency imposing an energy tax on America,” said Blumenauer. “I too am opposed to any attempts by the EPA to impose taxes, which is why I hope my Republican colleagues will join me in supporting this common-sense amendment. "My suspicion, however, is that Republicans do not believe the EPA is going to impose an energy tax, but instead are simply taking the Frank Luntz approach to environmental policymaking. They have perfected the use of poll-tested but wildly inaccurate language to attack sound science and undermine confidence in the laws that keep us safe. During its 40 year history, the Clean Air Act has prevented millions of hospital visits, asthma attacks and cases of lung cancer while strengthening our economy. A record like that deserves support, not partisan attacks.”
04.05.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) issued the following statement in response to the Republican 2012 budget resolution: “For years, Republican budgets have featured under-investing in America’s future, while shifting more cost and uncertainty onto average Americans, in order to benefit people who are already well off. The Republican 2012 budget marks the high point of this 30 year battle by eliminating critical middle-class protections while giving more help to those who don’t need it. “The Republican budget would keep draconian reductions to key government services and environmental and safety protections. It starves our ability to deliver basic services like immigration and border security, hurts veterans and ignores our fraying infrastructure. Medical inefficiencies and unfairness are locked in for 60 million Americans for 50 years while subjecting everyone under 55 to healthcare cuts that make a mockery of Republican campaign charges during the last elections. And in the areas of military spending and sky rocketing tax expenditures, Republicans merely nibble around the edges. If Ron Paul and Barney Frank can find $100 billion in military savings, then a government-wide budget can do better. The House of Representatives has shown this with a bipartisan vote to eliminate the F-35 alternate engine. There is a bipartisan appetite to reduce military spending. “A responsible budget would not give up on health security for Americans, but instead accelerate the reforms in our healthcare law. These provisions, after all – like Accountable Care Organizations, bundling of services, and preventing unnecessary hospital readmissions – used to be bipartisan sources of taxpayer savings. Abandoning health reforms for Medicare vouchers and Medicaid block grants will give us the worst of both, with less care at a higher cost for the children, families and seniors who depend on these programs. Also buried in the language of this budget is a trigger that will cause painful, across-the-board cuts in Social Security benefits once Chairman Ryan’s irresponsible and arbitrary cap on government spending is inevitably reached. “A responsible budget would also admit that we do have a revenue problem, since tax collections are at their lowest rate in 60 years. At a time when you would expect to pay more to deal with the Baby Boom generation for 30 years and rebuild American infrastructure that is literally falling apart, Republicans are committed to making expiring tax cuts permanent and, shockingly, bigger still. Democrats, meanwhile, are seeking to make responsible investments in America. An example is the Senate version of the FAA reauthorization passed by an 8 to 1 margin that would adopt fee increases supported by the industry to provide billions for vital airport construction and modernization. “True tax reform should pay for what Americans need, in simpler and more equitable fashion. The administration, the Senate Finance Committee, and the House Ways and Means Committee are starting down this path. The Republican Budget would undercut this effort, locking in unfairness and inefficiency. The budget battles we face this year will show whether Congress is serious about a sustainable, equitable path forward and will demonstrate whether Americans can expect to get what they need from their federal partner. This budget is a poor start.”
04.01.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), a member of the House Budget and Ways and Means Committees, issued the following statement in response to reports that employers added 216,000 net jobs in March: “Far too many Americans remain out of work. Yet today’s strong jobs numbers, coupled with the upward revision of previous reports, are a welcome sign that our economic recovery is picking up steam. Today’s recovery is being built in no small part on the foundation laid by job creation measures passed during the last Congress. Yet the future of this recovery is largely dependent on whether or not Congress can make responsible choices about our budget. “Tea Party Republicans are offering a false choice between draconian budget cuts and government shutdown, both of which will destroy jobs and threaten our recovery. On the one hand, Republican demands for deep cuts to programs that support families and job creation will destroy up to 700,000 jobs if enacted, wiping out much of the progress our recovery has made. On the other hand, the government shutdown that is being threatened as an alternative would bring hiring, consumer spending and business lending to a grinding halt as confidence in our government and our economy falters. “It does not have to be this hard. Responsible cuts to wasteful programs that do not create jobs, like subsidies for big oil and agribusiness, can bring down our budget deficit in a way that does not undermine our recovery. Once the recovery has become robust and self-sustaining, only then is it economically sound to consider reducing government support for programs that support hiring and those who are out of work. “I look forward to working with responsible Republicans who share our common goal of getting our economy back on track and hardworking Americans back on the job.”
03.31.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to passage in the House Ways and Means Committee of H.R. 1232, a bill that bars lower income families and small businesses from using premium assistance and tax credits provided in the Affordable Care Act from purchasing healthcare that includes coverage of reproductive health. The legislation, however, does allow larger businesses and wealthier families to continue purchasing such health coverage: “This legislation represents an unfortunate extension of the ideological assault on freedom for American families. It is sad that some people continue to aggressively work to restrict access to constitutionally protected reproductive health rights. “This legislation is particularly hypocritical and unfair. It says that we will use tax increases as a club against middle and lower-middle class individuals and small businesses. In effect, what Republicans say in this legislation is that, as long as the overall tax collection level is affected only minimally, it doesn’t matter that there will be significant tax increases for particular individuals and for small businesses. This is rank hypocrisy, since they do not have the courage to raise taxes on upper income Americans or interfere with the health plans of big business. “The hearing clearly established that small businesses will face compliance problems, because there are grey areas about what could, in fact, be subject to these tax provisions. It also sets an unfortunate precedent that will potentially bog down the Ways and Means Committee for years, with rifle-shot efforts applied within various tax deductions to wage ideological wars against types of medical research or facilities or other legitimate individual and business tax expenses “This is a bad precedent for the committee. It will lead to many unfortunate results and further removes us from the important work of strengthening America’s economy and renewing and rebuilding our communities.”
03.30.2011	One of the most challenging issues for the Department of Defense is the legacy of waste that litters communities across the United State. As a result of military training, more than 3,500 sites cover over ten million acres with live bombs, leftover shells, and leaking chemicals. Current cleanup efforts are underfunded, time-consuming, and scheduled for completion over five decades from today. This week, Congressman Blumenauer met with members of the National Association of Ordnance & Explosive Waste Contractors (NAOC), a non-profit association that represents people who work in the field of ordnance, explosive waste and unexploded ordnance (UXO) cleanup and remediation. This talented group of individuals and companies are extremely important to the safety of Americans and for the clean up of local communities. The continued deterioration of these sites – many located right in our backyards – only increases the ultimate cost of remediation, harms human health and the environment, and prevents redevelopment of the land. As Chair of the UXO Caucus, Blumenauer has worked hard to focus attention on this problem and continues to push for adequate resources to speed cleanup to keep local communities safe.
03.30.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to the energy priorities outlined in the President’s speech at Georgetown University: “President Obama’s plan for a secure energy future points our country in the right direction on energy use and gives an honest treatment of the hard decisions ahead for our nation. The sudden upswing in gas prices this year has reminded all of us how sensitive oil prices are to political insecurity in the Mideast, and how vulnerable our country is to oil price fluctuations. “The goal outlined in President Obama’s speech would cut American oil imports to one third of 2008 levels by 2025—a reduction equal to 3.6 million barrels per day. This is the right direction for our energy security and for our trade deficit, 40 percent of which results from petroleum imports. However, we must go further if we are serious about protecting our country from dependence on foreign oil. Our oil imports have been falling due in part to energy efficiency measures promoted by the Obama Administration –already since 2008 our oil imports are down by 1 million barrels per day. We should set more ambitious goals not only for oil imports but also for oil conservation. “President Obama’s speech outlined four areas of focus to curb U.S. foreign oil dependence -- domestic energy production, more natural gas in vehicles, car and truck efficiency, and use of biofuels. I would suggest that we add a fifth element to this plan, which is support for livable communities that combine smart transportation alternatives, land use and design to keep communities resilient and reduce the impact of high gas prices. The Obama administration’s very own Sustainable Communities Partnership between the Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Transportation, and Department of Housing and Urban Development has provided key leadership in this area and has helped communities across the country make investments to provide transportation and housing choices that conserve oil without sacrificing economic growth. Livable, walkable communities benefit local economies, increase quality of life and enable healthy lifestyles. “The Republican plan is to drill more and to undermine the regulations in place to protect our health and environment. This was their practice for 8 years and we only saw gas prices continue to rise. With only 2 percent of the world’s oil reserves, we will never drill our way to energy independence as long as we continue to use over 20 percent of the world’s oil. Oil is priced on a global market, meaning that additional drilling here will not bring down prices. The only real way to gain independence from oil price shocks is to gain independence from oil.”
03.24.2011	Congressman Blumenauer joined Health and Human Services Regional Director Susan Johnson and the Main Street Alliance of Oregon to celebrate the one year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act. At an event hosted by business owner Jim Houser of the Hawthorne Auto Clinic, Congressman Blumenauer discussed the benefits of the Affordable Care Act already in place – from reforms preventing insurance companies cutting off their patients when they get sick to new protections for children with pre-existing conditions – and looked forward to the implementation of the state health care exchanges that would help individuals and businesses purchase higher quality health insurance packages in a competitive and transparent marketplace. “If I had my way, we’d stop talking about putting sand in the gears and trying to delay it,” said Blumenauer. “We ought to accelerate this program.” Regional Director Johnson arrived at the event from an AARP gathering where seniors were celebrating Medicare reforms like closing of the prescription drug ‘donut hole’ and the free annual wellness visit. Jim Houser explained how the new business tax credits helped him keep providing health insurance coverage to his employees.
03.23.2011	Congressman Blumenauer joined US Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, Congressman Peter DeFazio, several senior US DOT staff, and local elected officials and transportation advocates at a reception sponsored by the Bicycle Transportation Alliance and the Women in Transportation Seminar. The Secretary lauded the Congressman’s work on promoting livability in Congress and helping the Obama Administration’s Federal Partnership for Sustainable Communities – and told the assembled guests that Portland’s reputation for livability is helping communities throughout the country understand the economic, health, community, and environmental benefits of providing a range of transportation options. He also stressed the US DOT’s efforts to eliminate Distracted Driving in order to increase safety for all roadway users. www.distracteddriving.gov.
03.23.2011	Congressman Blumenauer joined US Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, Congressman Peter DeFazio, and Congressman Kurt Schrader to applaud the manufacturing of American-made streetcars at an event with United Streetcar. United Streetcar, based in Oregon’s Third Congressional District, produced the first American manufactured streetcar in 60 years. Sec. LaHood said that the success of the company was evidence of the Oregon's Congressional Delegation championing the kinds of transportation projects that create jobs, expand transportation options, and build more vibrant communities. The Obama Administration and the U.S. Department of Transportation have been strong partners in the expansion of streetcar lines in Oregon and nationally. The federal government made a $75 million federal investment in Portland's Eastside Loop, which is getting closer to completion. Congressman Blumenauer’s “Small Starts” legislation, signed into law in 2005, has allowed for greater flexibility for cities being able to leverage federal funding. This has opened up opportunities for communities across the country interested in street car lines that would otherwise be restricted from applying for federal matching funds. While the City of Portland was the first to purchase from United Streetcar, the company has recently inked a contract with the City of Tucson and has several pending proposals with cities around the country.
03.23.2011	On Tuesday, Congressman Blumenauer joined US Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood to celebrate the groundbreaking of the SW Moody Ave. Project along the South Waterfront District Area in Portland. The SW Moody Ave Project is a vital piece in the future economic success of the South Waterfront Area District. The project was funded in part by Recovery Act funds distributed through the U.S. DOT TIGER grant program and will include three traffic lanes, dual streetcar tracks and cycle tracks separated from auto traffic. Additionally, the project will assist the redevelopment of adjacent brownfields in anticipation of the Portland Milwaukie light rail line that is scheduled to open in 2015. "I am honored that Sec. LaHood has joined us today to kick-off the construction of the SW Moody Ave. Project. The federal government's investment in this project is creating hundreds of jobs now and will lead to long-term employment as the South Waterfront District Area continues to grow. Joining Congressman Blumenauer and Secretary LaHood were Senator Jeff Merkley, Congressmen Schrader and Wu, Portland Mayor Sam Adams, Oregon Transportation Commission Chair Gail Achterman, and Oregon Health Sciences University President Joe Robertson. The SW Moody Project is funded through state, local, and federal sources and is essential for construction of OHSU's Schnitzer campus, which will be located just north of the Ross Island Bridge upon the project’s completion. Representatives Schrader and Blumenauer chat with Sec. of Transportation Ray LaHood.
03.18.2011	I continue to have profound reservations about our troop commitments in Afghanistan. History suggests that we will not be successful in stabilizing Afghanistan with military force. No one has and I don’t think anyone will. I opposed the tripling of forces in the region and think that a rapid drawdown starting in July is absolutely essential. We should not, however, tie the hands of the administration and put the civilians in Afghanistan at risk by forcing a complete withdrawal of troops in 30 days. The forthcoming reduction in U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan must be significant and sizeable, but must be executed in an orderly fashion. The reasons for a timely departure are many. Afghanistan today is one of the most corrupt countries in the world, ranked next to last out of 180 by Transparency International. If you have a culture of corruption, it’s hard to plant seeds of positive growth. Economic development through roads and water make the difference between people being thug and doing whatever they necessary to feed their families. The United States and international donors simply cannot afford to bankroll 70% of Afghanistan’s budget and to keep spending $8 billion a month in taxpayer money. We spend in one day 20 times what the average Afghani will earn in an entire year. Yet for all that spending there is a dire need for the most basic of services. In the rural areas, 80% drink polluted water, only 10% have adequate sanitation. It grows clearer by the day that the more heavy-handed we are and the stronger our military presence in Afghanistan, the more we unify the threats against our troops, the United States, and our allies. Military efforts do little to address the Afghan people’s grievances over their exclusion from the political process and do little for long-term stability throughout the region. We should focus on civilian efforts, working with Afghans to strengthen their ability to govern, support civil society, fight corruption, and help to rebuild their country. We cannot do this responsibly in 30 days. That’s why I oppose this resolution and instead support a significant – but thoughtful – drawdown in July.
03.17.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), member of the bipartisan House National Guard and Reserve Components Caucus, announced he and his colleagues in the House and Senate have sent a letter to Secretary of the Army John McHugh and National Guard Bureau Chief Craig McKinley, calling on them to continue funding the National Guard Reintegration programs in Oregon, Vermont, New Hampshire, New Jersey, North Carolina, and Minnesota. These life-saving programs offer outreach and information to Guard members and their families to help them transition successfully from their war service. In Oregon, this funding fills the gap in services provided by military bases operating in other states. In addition, they further requested that McHugh and McKinley work to explore the expansion of this successful program nationwide to benefit all returning National Guard members. “This program is essential for the wellbeing of the men and women who bravely serve this nation in uniform. They and their families deserve continued and complete support before, during, and after their active duty service. We have asked so much from our Guard in recent years, and they have answered with courage and commitment every time by serving in these wars. It is only right that we give them the support they need and deserve once they come home.”
03.17.2011	Blumenauer: Defunding public broadcasting will destroy jobs, hurt communities across America Secret videotape cited by NPR critics as basis for vote a “dishonest hatchet job” Washington – Today Rep. Earl Blumenauer, founder and chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Public Broadcasting Caucus, condemned H.R. 1076, a bill to prohibit federal funding for National Public Radio and block local public broadcasting stations from buying any radio programming with federal funds. “The majority is breaking its own rules on transparency to rush this bill to the floor before the American people have time to make their voices heard,” said Blumenauer. “Polls show that a vast majority of Americans, including two-thirds of Republicans, want funding for public broadcasting to remain in place or even increase. This bill clearly goes against their wishes. “What is particularly disappointing is the role being played by a dishonest, doctored video that is very clearly edited to trick viewers into thinking NPR is a partisan news outlet. James O’Keefe’s dishonest hatchet job has no place in this discussion over the future of one of America’s most important national treasures. “The bill does not save a penny from the deficit, but it does hurt every single small, locally-owned public broadcasting station in America. Public broadcasting reaches over 30 million listeners a week, and now is the worst possible time to attack a successful enterprise that is growing and supports 21,000 jobs at local stations across this country. The notion that these small local stations can create their own content to replace what this bill takes away betrays a shocking lack of knowledge about the media business. No local outlet has the capacity to replicate the high-quality programming that is supported by federal funding.”
03.16.2011	The earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan on Friday, March 11 is a tragedy that has affected the lives of countless numbers of Japanese citizens. Many constituents are concerned about the disaster and may have questions or want to help. If you are looking for ways to help tsunami victims, find information about U.S. citizens in Japan, or would like to see White House updates on the tragedy, the White House’s page on the Japan Earthquake and Tsunami is updated frequently: https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/foreign-policy/japan-earthquake-tsunami. In addition, due to the earthquake and aftermath in Japan, the Department of State has a Task force operating 24/7 in Washington, DC. Constituents in need of assistance with locating a U.S. citizen in Japan may call or send their emails to: Calls from within the US 1-888-407-4747 Outside the US 1-202-501-4444 JapanEmergencyUSC@state.gov The following is a link to the Department of State’s website: https://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/pa/pa_5378.html Congressman Blumenauer is also concerned about how this tragedy might affect the lives of Oregonians. In a letter sent today to the Administrator of the EPA Lisa Jackson, as well as the Chairman of the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Gregory Jaczko, Blumenauer inquired into how the government plans to measure and deal with possible radiation risks in the Pacific as a result of damage to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear facility. People with questions about radiation resulting from the Japan disaster to visit the Public Health preparedness website at https://public.health.oregon.gov/preparedness/currenthazards/pages/index.aspx or call the Radiation Information Hotline at 1-877-290-6767 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.
03.16.2011	Congressman Blumenauer joined his Republican colleague Steven LaTourette (R-OH) in addressing the American Public Transportation Association’s legislative conference. Although from different political parties, the two Congressmen agreed about the importance of investing in public transportation and the need to rebuild and renew America. As gas prices rise, providing American families with transportation choices like transit will help reduce the pain at the pump. Blumenauer urged transit advocates to let members of Congress know about the positive impacts that transportation projects have in their districts. He highlighted successful projects in Oregon that have helped revitalize neighborhoods and create family-wage jobs in Portland and around the state. Congressman Blumenauer presenting with Steven LaTourette (R-OH) and Bill Millar, President of APTA. Bill Millar, President of APTA
03.15.2011	At the Committee on the Budget’s hearing regarding U.S. debt burdens last week, Congressman Blumenauer emphasized the continued need to prepare the U.S. economy for the future. In an exchange with Douglas Holtz-Eakin, director of the Congressional Budget Office from 2003 to 2005, Blumenauer focused on his priority to rebuild and renew America by reforming the way transportation projects are paid for. “For over fifty years, there has been an agreement in this country, going back to President Eisenhower, about a self supporting trust fund for infrastructure investment,” Mr. Blumenauer stated. “Ronald Reagan, in 1982 when economic times were tough, supported a 5 cent increase in the gas tax - a user fee - that helped us move forward.” Blumenauer noted that the Highway Trust Fund was no longer able to finance even routine maintenance, and that a broad consensus of interests from the Chamber of Commerce to AAA to construction unions had previously testified in favor of reforming the system. “Is that part of a solution that might get us moving in this direction, put people to work, protect the budget deficit, and maybe even reduce dependence on foreign oil?” Mr. Holtz-Eakin agreed that a renewed focus on infrastructure investment, coupled with reform of our current system, would move America forward. He called for effectively financing our transportation investments, and finding a way to move beyond the “obsolete” gas tax to an alternative system.
03.14.2011	Letter Highlights Negative Impact of Styrofoam on Public Health, Environment Washington – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer and 114 other members of the House of Representatives delivered a letter to Speaker John Boehner registering serious concerns with the use of polystyrene (“Styrofoam”) serveware in the House cafeterias. The use of Styrofoam comes as Republican leadership abandons the overall Green the Capitol programs at a ten-year cost to taxpayers of $50 million in lost savings. “Over 20 years ago, McDonalds and other fast food restaurants replaced polystyrene foam with recyclable and paperboard containers,” the letter reads. “More than 100 cities have also chosen to ban polystyrene foam for health and environmental reasons. Adopting the same standard is the least we can do. Over time, exposure to the styrene that leaches into food and liquids can cause extensive health effects, including fatigue, headaches, hearing loss, central nervous system disfunction, difficulty sleeping, as well as low platelet and hemoglobin values and chromosomal abnormalities. The International Agency for Research on Cancer classified styrene as a potential human carcinogen.” The full text of the letter can be viewed here.
03.11.2011	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer met with Brigadier General Mike Caldwell of the Oregon National Guard (ONG) to discuss how proposed 2011 budget cuts will impact Oregonian troops and how we can better help our men and women in uniform when they return home. Among programs to be eliminated under the proposed budget is the ONG Reintegration Team assigned with helping returning veterans transition to civilian life with their families and find employment. The Oregon Partnership Suicide Hotline and programs to prevent veteran homelessness are also zeroed out in the proposed budget. Blumenauer also recently visited with the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of Oregon (EANGOR). Under current law, National Guard members are not recognized as veterans in the same way other returning service members are. Congressman Blumenauer is working with the group to allow National Guard members who have served alongside other service men and women are treated equitably under the law.
03.11.2011	The Congressman met with a number of faculty from the University’s Sustainable Cities Initiative (SCI) to learn more about SCI’s successes in working with Oregon communities over the past two years. In its inaugural year of 2009, SCI’s partnership with the City of Gresham contributed more than 50,000 student, staff and faculty hours of labor to the City. Thirteen SCI-sponsored courses covered everything from data analysis and community engagement to landscape design and the use of natural light within city buildings. The completed work contributed to plans for the Rockwood Town Center, a new light rail station, and Gresham Crossings. SCI’s partnership with the City of Salem in 2010 continued a winning trend, garnering the 2011 Prize for the Creative Integration of Practice and Education, awarded by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards, for its design of the City of Salem’s Police Station. Congressman Blumenauer then addressed the 16th annual Public Interest Environmental Law Conference, a gathering of more than 1000 students and faculty from across the US. Speaking on “Saving the World – One Bicycle at a Time,” the Congressman talked about the impact of a simple machine to transform transportation policies, personal and public health, economic vitality, and the livability of our communities. He also urged attendees to focus on performance-based standards, rather than a regulatory process, to address climate change and improve our efforts to achieve true sustainability.
03.09.2011	Congressman Blumenauer addressed the Council on Foundations and the Forum of Regional Associations of Grantmakers’ annual “Foundations on the Hill” day yesterday. Much of the address focused on the challenges facing the foundation community as Congress inches toward tax reform. Mr. Blumenauer’s speech also highlighted the incredible opportunity for the foundation community to start a public dialogue on the major issues facing America. He cited, for instance, the incredible work done by the Rockefeller and Surdna foundations on transportation policy – an issue with wide-ranging effects on our communities and our health – and he highlighted a similar opportunity to broaden the discussion on farm policy. In a later meeting with the MJ Murdock Charitable Trust and Philanthropy Northwest, organizations based in and serving the Pacific Northwest, Mr. Blumenauer emphasized the role that foundations have in shaping public discourse, and noted that, with politics as polarized today as they ever have been, the foundation community can create a safe space in which to craft thoughtful policy.
03.09.2011	Washington – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), founder and co-chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Public Broadcasting Caucus, released the following statement on NPR and funding for public broadcasting: “The comments made by Ron Schiller, a fundraiser at NPR, were foolish and indefensible. They don’t reflect in any way the opinions of the many dedicated journalists who work at NPR. Yet with 89 percent of federal public broadcasting dollars going directly to local stations, the fact of the matter is that NPR is not the most important part of the public broadcasting debate. “Every month, more than 170 million Americans turn to their local public broadcasting stations for free, high-quality programs that focus on the issues most important to them – what’s happening in their community. Not only do our local public broadcasting stations provide us with valuable information, but they also directly support 21,000 jobs in hundreds of communities across America. These jobs would be at risk if small stations that rely on federal funding were forced to close their doors. “As traditional news outlets lay off reporters and offer less coverage of important topics, public broadcasting is filling the gap, bringing critical news and information to communities across the country. What’s more, public broadcasting stations are the only source of free programming that educates our children rather than the many commercial stations simply trying to sell them products. Our communities, our workers and our children would be the true victims of any cuts to funding for public broadcasting. “According to a poll that came out just last week, Americans rank investment in public broadcasting second only to funding for our troops as the second best use of taxpayer dollars. Public broadcasting also remains the most trusted institution in the media. Now is not the time to threaten this American treasure with elimination.”
03.08.2011	On Friday, Congressman Blumenauer visited the new Port of Portland building near Portland International Airport. In addition to meeting with Port officials and touring the new building, Blumenauer visited the Air Traffic Control Tower for the airport. Blumenauer discussed several topics with Port of Portland staff including possible expanded air service, the continued growth of Port facilities, and the on-going attempts to clean up the Willamette River. In the Control Tower, the Congressman also observed how air traffic will be handled during upcoming construction on the airport’s north runway. Portland International Airport is consistently ranked as one of the nation’s best airports and the new Port office building was recently named one of ten greenest buildings in the world by Forbes Magazine. On Friday, Congressman Blumenauer visited the new Port of Portland building near Portland International Airport. In addition to meeting with Port officials and touring the new building, Blumenauer visited the Air Traffic Control Tower for the airport. Blumenauer discussed several topics with Port of Portland staff including possible expanded air service to Washington D.C., the continued growth of Port facilities, and the on-going attempts to cleanup the Willamette River. In the Control Tower, the Congressman also observed how air traffic will be handled during upcoming construction on the airport’s north runway. Portland International Airport is consistently ranked as one of the nation’s best airports and the new Port office building was recently named one of ten greenest buildings in the world by Forbes Magazine.
03.03.2011	Blumenauer: “Republicans are throwing away a small fortune so we can go backwards.” Washington – Taxpayers will be forced to spend $50 million more over 10 years under Republican plans to “ungreen” the Capitol, according to recently released figures from the House of Representatives. While recent media attention has focused on the symbolism of returning toxic, non-biodegradable Styrofoam to the House cafeteria, the true impact of eliminating the energy-saving measures administered by the Green the Capitol office – as the Republican Continuing Resolution does – is much broader. “The return of Styrofoam to the House cafeteria is just the beginning,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. “It turns out that Republicans are wasting a small fortune that taxpayers would otherwise save in order to ‘ungreen’ the Capitol. By shutting down this money-saving program before it has been fully implemented, Republicans are imposing a ten-year cost of around $50 million on taxpayers. This is the definition of government waste, yet it is coming from a Republican majority that cannot stop talking about cutting deficits. It makes no sense, and what it truly reflects is a petty political attack on Leader Pelosi’s environmental programs rather than a true concern about budget deficits. If Republicans really cared about reducing deficits, they would be accelerating – not ending – the Green the Capitol initiatives.” The cost of eliminating Green the Capitol comes from unrealized savings that result from ending the program before it has been fully implemented, as well as ending Green the Capitol’s engagement with Congressional offices to reduce energy consumption patterns. Money-saving programs threatened by the shutdown of Green the Capitol include: · Member Office Engagement Program · Paper recycling and double-sided printing · Single-stream recycling · Computer power management · Water use reduction
03.01.2011	Washington – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer released the following statement in response to the failure of a Democratic bill to end wasteful tax subsidies for the largest, most profitable oil companies: “Today was a very telling day in Congress when it comes to America’s backwards energy policies. On the same day that Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress that our dependence on oil threatens our economy, every single House Republican voted to continue billions of dollars in subsidies for the largest oil companies. The idea that taxpayers should be subsidizing an addiction that threatens our economic wellbeing is madness.” The rising gas prices that Americans are seeing at the pump today are a direct result of our addiction to oil – oil purchased from countries like Libya, where a dictator is attacking his own citizens with airplanes. Any neutral observer who knows the oil industry will tell you that America does not have the reserves to offset our enormous imports from these Middle Eastern countries. There is not enough oil in the Gulf of Mexico, the Arctic Wildlife Refuge or anywhere else in this country to make America energy independent. In fact, between 2000 and 2008, drilling increased by 66 percent while gas prices tripled. Arguments for more drilling and more subsidies are based on politics, not sound economics. “The only solution to our dangerous addiction to foreign oil is clean energy and energy efficiency. Clean, American power sources like wind and solar create many more new jobs than oil drilling and can dramatically slash our need for imported Middle Eastern oil. We can also reduce the impact of high gas prices by making investments in alternative transportation options so Americans don’t need to drive everywhere. From subways and streetcar systems to buses and bike paths, cities and small towns across America are already showing us the way forward. It’s time to truly end our foreign oil addiction by investing in rebuilding and renewing our country.”
02.28.2011	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer spoke before the Portland Investors Conference on the topic of the recent financial reform law. While the legislation, sometimes referred to as “Dodd-Frank,” passed last year, details on the enforcement and rules of the law are still being worked out by the various agencies, like the Securities and Exchange Commission. “There are proposals right now to defund the reform legislation, to actually cut off the ability to move forward,” Blumenauer noted in his presentation. Many pieces of the law do not take effect until this summer. Cutting off funding would leave the agencies in charge of implementing the law unable to finish their work or communicate changes to investors. The result would be an unstable investment market. Blumenauer stated, “You could be left with the certainty of the law, but uncertainty of the enforcement and the application.”
02.24.2011	Congressman Blumenauer recently met the Montavilla Business Leaders Roundtable. This group meets every month, working together to support small businesses in the community. In addition to members of the Montavilla Business Leaders Roundtable, community leaders and representatives from the Montavilla Farmers Markets also participated in the discussion with Blumenauer. Topics that came up included concerns about the cost of health care and questions about the health care legislation that Congress passed. Many business owners at the meeting talked about the difficultly for very small businesses to get lines of credit. Montavilla is one of the most diverse and exciting neighborhoods in the City of Portland. Home to many small businesses like cafes, restaurants, bicycle shops and The Academy Theater, the Montavilla neighborhood has 33 acres of parks and recreation space with easy access to transit and bike paths.
02.17.2011	Republicans Won’t Touch Sacred Cow of $5 Billion a Year in Big Oil Subsidies Shell Oil CEO: Big Oil Doesn’t Need Subsidies Treasury Sec. Geithner: Ending Big Oil Subsidies Won’t Raise Gas Prices Something is missing from all the Republican sound and fury over our budget deficits: a serious discussion of big oil tax giveaways. As the new House majority asks Americans to make big sacrifices as social programs are cut, Republicans refuse to touch the more than $5 billion a year that taxpayers spend subsidizing Big Oil. Yet Big Oil says it doesn’t need taxpayer subsidies: “In the face of sustained high oil prices it was not an issue—for large companies—of needing the subsidies to entice us into looking for and producing more oil.” – John Hofmeister, former CEO, Shell Oil, National Journal, 2/11/11 And cutting subsidies won’t raise oil prices: “It would have no effect on prices.” – Treasury Sec. Timothy Geithner, testimony before House Budget Committee, 2/16/11 Rep. Blumenauer and fellow House Democrats have legislation, the Ending Big Oil Tax Subsidies Act (H.R. 601), that would eliminate the tax loopholes that allow such an egregious waste of taxpayer dollars. So what is the new majority waiting for? For comparison’s sake, Republicans would rather do ALL of the following instead of simply eliminating $5 billion a year in subsidies for Big Oil: - Choose Big Oil over Big Bird by eliminating $460 million in funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting - Threaten food safety by cutting $241 million from the Food and Drug Administration, cutting $88 million from the Food Safety and Inspection Service and eliminating the National Integrated Food Safety Initiative - Cripple economic growth and job creation in rural agricultural areas by slashing rural development funding by $482 million - Put troops in harm’s way by cutting $115 million from the military’s alternative energy programs, keeping our armed forces dependent on vulnerable oil supply chains - Endanger public health and the environment by cutting $1.6 billion from the Environmental Protection Agency - Cut off medical and scientific innovation by eliminating $1.6 billion from the National Institute of Health, including firing 20,000 National Science Foundation researchers - Leave our nation’s heroes stranded by cutting $75 million in Veteran’s Assistance programs
02.16.2011	Washington – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer was joined by Reps. Ed Markey, Betty McCollum, Nita Lowey, Sam Farr, Paul Tonko and Bill Owens, as well as popular PBS children’s character Arthur, in announcing efforts to oppose House Republican attempts to cut funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting in the Continuing Resolution. The efforts include an amendment to the Continuing Resolution to restore funding. Over 170 million Americans use public media every month. That is an extraordinary reach for a modest federal investment that supports 21,000 jobs in hundreds of communities, large and small. “Public broadcasting informs, educates, and entertains millions of Americans every day at a cost that is far exceeded by the benefits provided and local dollars leveraged,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. “Not only do our local public broadcasting stations provide us with valuable information, but they also directly support 21,000 jobs in hundreds of communities across America. It would be shameful to deny these communities their voice and their jobs because of political games here in Washington. Rather than having a serious conversation about reducing our budget deficits, some in Congress are using this opportunity to act on their long-standing grudge against public broadcasting. The simple fact is that these attacks on public media are a dangerous political gimmick that achieves no meaningful deficit reduction.” "Public broadcasting is an electronic oasis in what has been called the vast wasteland of commercial television,” said Rep. Ed Markey. “That is why I am joining with other House Democrats to offer an amendment to fight the Republican's misguided elimination of funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB). CPB doesn’t just stand for Corporation for Public Broadcasting. It also stands for: Children and Parents Benefit. We cannot allow Republicans to lavish hundreds of millions of dollars a year in tax breaks on Big Oil while leaving Arthur and his pals in the lurch. I will fight to protect one of our most precious landmarks on the entire media landscape." “An estimated 170 million Americans utilize public broadcasting everyday – including my family and me – because it provides unbiased, valuable information,” said Rep. Betty McCollum. “Tea Party Republicans want to completely wipe out this critical resource and weaken our communities. I will fight to protect federal funding for it because I know Minnesotans care deeply for public broadcasting.” “Instead of focusing on political attacks against public broadcasting, the Republican leadership should get to work on the issues that are important to the American people – creating jobs and getting our economy back on track,” said Rep. Nita Lowey. “Bert & Ernie, Big Bird, Clifford, and other mainstays of public broadcasting have helped educate millions of American children. It is unacceptable that one of Republicans’ first acts in the majority is handing them a pink slip.” “Generations of Americans have been enriched through public broadcasting programming,” said Rep. Sam Farr. “Just like parents and grandparents across the country, my daughter and granddaughter have grown up with educational programming like Sesame Street. Public radio has been a constant stream of information and source of morning conversation, from coffee houses to the halls of Congress. It is irresponsible for Republicans to now place a price tag on public broadcasting, without clearly having an idea of its real value. ” “These proposed cuts for Public Broadcasting threaten to silence stations all over the country that provide alternative, community-based programming and a strong, independent journalistic voice,” said Rep. Paul Tonko. “In addition, these cuts threaten jobs – 1,400 in New York State alone, along with $100 million dollars that is returned to our local communities. We can’t afford this kind of reckless decision making, and I will stand with my colleagues and my local communities to fight these extreme and irresponsible measures.” "Public broadcasting is extraordinarily important to many of my constituents,” said Rep. Bill Owens. “It represents the best in family values and quality programming that you're going to see. If our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are concerned about the development of morals, integrity and education, then public education is a place they should support, not kill."
02.16.2011	As a founding member of the Public Broadcasting Caucus, Congressman Blumenauer has been a leading voice in the effort to ensure that all communities, large and small, have universal access to public broadcasting. As Congress looks to pass another Continuing Resolution, the new majority wants to eliminate funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB). Congressman Blumenauer has authored a letter (PDF) urging House leaders to restore funding to CPB, and is working hard to ensure our local public broadcasting stations will still be able to bring us high-quality, free programming such as Morning Edition, All Things Considered, and Sesame Street. If cut, many in small towns and rural America would be denied the opportunity to hear or see public broadcasting at all. Congressman Blumenauer introduced an amendment to H.R. 1 , the Continuing Budget Resolution, to restorefunding to Public Broadcasting. Every month, more than 170 million Americans choose to have their lives enriched by tuning in to their local public radio or TV stations. These stations give our communities a voice by covering local news and events in ways that newspapers cannot and commercial TV and radio stations do not. Together, thanks to federal support, public broadcasting reaches every major city and most small towns in America. More importantly, public broadcasters employ more than 17,000 people, providing family-wage jobs in every state. This successful public-private partnership only represents .0001% of the federal budget and costs the average American less than half a cent a day. In many rural areas, however, this funding is absolutely essential for the survival of local stations since it can amount to as much as 40-50% of their budgets. Congressman Blumenauer also led a Special Order on the House Floor defending Public Broadcasting.
02.15.2011	Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer submitted an amendment to the Continuing Resolution to realign agriculture funding and released the following statement: “The Agriculture title in the Republican Continuing Resolution offers a set of backwards spending priorities that hurt middle and lower income Americans,” said Blumenauer. “Only 10 percent of Farm Bill spending goes towards safety, conservation and renewable energy, yet this is the only part of the Farm Bill being targeted by the Republicans. These programs support food safety, economic development and family and minority farmers. The idea that the hardworking Americans who depend on these programs ought to suffer while big corporations and agribusiness enjoy billions in government largesse is shameful. “My amendment, which will cap wasteful taxpayer giveaways to agribusiness, is an important step towards real agricultural reform in this country,” Blumenauer continued. “There is no reason to continue excessive subsidies to corporate farming operations for growing commodities instead of real, healthy food.” As part of reforming America's agricultural policy and rewarding farmers who grow food instead of commodities, Blumenauer, working closely with Representatives Jeff Flake and Ron Kind, supports amendment language that limit subsidy payments to entities who make more than $250,000 a year, strike conservation payments to farmers who lease their land to oil and gas companies, and restrict funding for the Brazil cotton program in which US taxpayers are paying Brazilian cotton farmers as a result of the distorted subsidies paid to US cotton farmers. Instead of cutting wasteful subsidies to agricultural conglomerates that don’t need them, the new majority would rather: Threaten food safety by cutting $241 million from the Food and Drug Administration, cutting $88 million from the Food Safety and Inspection Service and eliminating the National Integrated Food Safety Initiative Reduce food assistance to families struggling to make ends meet by eliminating the Hunger Free Communities program Cripple economic growth and job creation in rural agricultural areas by slashing rural development funding by $482 million Slash conservation programs and technical assistance to farmers by cutting $173 million from the Natural Resources Conservation Service and eliminating Farm Service Agency Conservation Loans and the Resource Conservation and Development Program Target minority farmers by eliminating the USDA Office of Advocacy and Outreach Stymie agricultural innovation by eliminating the National Sustainable Agriculture Information Service and the Organic Transitions Research Program
02.15.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to the transportation and infrastructure priorities outlined as part of the transportation reauthorization proposal in the President’s budget: “I am pleased to see the President recognize that long-term savings require certain investments in our infrastructure now. To get our economy moving again, we must invest in our roads, bridges and railways to rebuild and renew our country and put Americans back to work. In particular, I am pleased that the six-year transportation reauthorization represents a significant increase in transportation funding. Our infrastructure needs have been ignored for far too long, but the President’s budget is an initial but important recognition that we need to fundamentally change and improve the way we fund these much-needed projects. The budget also takes a step in the right direction by creating new livability grant and incentive programs. These measures will encourage states and communities to give people choices about how they get to work, to school and around town; choices which often help them save money and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. It is also heartening to hear the President commit to working with Congress to ensure that funding increases for surface transportation do not increase the deficit. This was a recommendation made by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, and it is a common sense acknowledgement that we must find revenue sources to fund our urgent transportation priorities. I look forward to working with the President to find bipartisan solutions to our infrastructure funding needs. I hope this will be the start of a rational conversation that focuses on renewing the foundation of our economic prosperity rather than blindly cutting the budget at every turn. Investing now in rebuilding our infrastructure will create jobs and save money over the long term."
02.15.2011	Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to the energy and environment priorities outlined in the President’s budget: “The President’s budget offers a clear path towards improving our energy security and independence. In particular, it highlights the incredible savings that we can bring taxpayers by eliminating billions in wasteful subsidies to prop up big oil companies that are already raking in sky-high profits. With Congress already considering deep budget cuts that will require American families to make sacrifices, it is only fair that we also stop the handouts to our richest oil companies. We have already introduced legislation in the House, the Ending Big Oil Tax Subsidies Act (H.R. 601), to make this happen. It is far better that we direct these savings towards Department of Energy programs for research, development and deployment of clean energy technologies. “I also applaud the President’s focus on the Better Buildings Initiative, which will make our offices, stores, schools, hospitals and other commercial buildings more efficient. This is a concrete step we can take right now to save money and reduce pollution 20% by 2020. I am also happy to see continued sustainable communities funding at HUD, EPA and DOT to help communities coordinate investments in transportation, housing and land use in a way that improves livability and makes expenditures more efficient. “Importantly, this budget also reinstates much-needed revenue provisions to fund cleanup at Superfund sites. Since 1995, when these provisions expired, American taxpayers have been left to foot the bill for cleaning up some of our country’s most toxic polluted sites. More than 70 million Americans live within four miles of a Superfund site, and are exposed to toxic waste linked to problems like infertility, birth defects and breathing difficulties. Reinstating the Superfund tax is critical to cleaning up these polluted sites and protecting public health.” “The President’s budget also fully funds the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which is vital to protecting the environment and a healthy economy by protecting land across Oregon and around the country. Many treasured places in my state, from the Columbia River Gorge to the Sandy River to Hells Canyon have been protected with funding from the LWCF. The budget keeps our commitment to offset some of the destructive effects of oil and gas production by preserving places with high quality recreation opportunities and vital wildlife habitat. “I am disappointed by proposed cuts to clean water and drinking water infrastructure. The American Society of Civil Engineers has given our nation’s drinking water and wastewater infrastructure a grade of “D-minus” in its most recent report card. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates a $632 billion shortfall in water infrastructure funding over the next 20 years. At a time when governments at all levels are faced with budget constraints, communities are burdened by financing the upgrade and replacement of aging infrastructure, much of which was built over 100 years ago. Funding for water infrastructure not only helps protect public health, but also supports jobs: the U.S. Conference of Mayors has found that each public dollar invested in water infrastructure increases private long-term GDP output by more than $6.”
02.15.2011	Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to the President’s budget for fiscal year 2012: “The President’s budget is far better than the draconian, ideologically driven Republican fiscal proposals. The President clearly supports critical investments to rebuild and renew America, which would put millions to work revitalizing the economy and protecting the environment. “Protecting, and indeed accelerating, the healthcare reform law is the single most important step to curb the deficit, since spiraling Medicare costs present the biggest long-term source of deficits. “Given the intensely partisan and unrealistic budget debate, this budget is a reasonable first step in what will be a long, intense and difficult process. I will fight for long-term budget and tax reform, but will fight against massive, destructive, short-term cuts that will not deal with the long term deficit but will weaken the economy and harm our families.”
02.11.2011	Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to the resignation of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak: “Today’s announcement that Hosni Mubarak is stepping down is long overdue. Since the widespread protests began in Egypt more than two weeks ago, it has been clear that the Egyptian people demanded better of their government than the repressive Mubarak regime. “The United States’ bargain with Mubarak has been tenuous and inconsistent with our nation’s values. Now, an appropriate role for the U.S. will be backing a balanced caretaker government that sets the stage for free and fair elections once political parties have had time to form after decades of oppression. We must also support Egypt’s strong and continued adherence to its peace agreement with Israel. “Now is also the time to rebalance our aid to Egypt by focusing on its people and their economic development, rather than the military. We owe it to the brave men and women of Egypt and to our own history to fully embrace peaceful and democratic reforms. Since I have been in Congress, I have had deep reservations about our military aid to Egypt. We have treated this aid like an entitlement of $1.3 billion a year, and over $30 billion during the 29-year span of the Mubarak regime. This has not only fomented the ire of many towards the US, but has delayed the reforms that I now hope will begin. Let this be one of many steps towards developing a more consistent and effective foreign policy. “This may be a turning point in the Arab world. This is true for the Egyptian government and I hope it will be true for US policy. We should support democratic institutions in words and actions by establishing a consistent and defensible position in our dealing with other nations. President Obama took a step in the right direction by urging Mubarak to step down, but he must also be clear about how we move forward and continue to emphasize our strong support for true democratic reforms.”
02.10.2011	Last week Congressman Blumenauer visited the Portland Hub for the United Parcel Service (UPS). The UPS Portland Hub is the largest distribution center for a region that includes Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Wyoming, Montana, and Alaska. It is also the transit point for all volume between Washington, California (via rail), and all points east. The Hub expanded in 2010 and was the 2nd largest capital expenditure for UPS throughout the United States. The Portland Hub added 119,081 square feet, including a 69,050 square foot counting mezzanine. Also, 45 new outbound trailer areas were added. This expansion enabled the Portland Hub to hire or promote nearly 500 employees. Additionally, the Portland Hub handled over 290,000 packages in January 2011, representing the largest single Hub capacity on the west coast.
02.10.2011	Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to media reports about an incident at Portland Adventist Hospital: “I am deeply disturbed by media reports that a critically ill man was denied timely care as he died of a heart attack in the Portland Adventist Hospital’s parking lot. If these reports are true, it is not just heartbreaking, but incomprehensible that a hospital fully capable of treating this medical emergency left police officers with no medical equipment to tend to a patient. If the police statements are correct, this incident defies common sense and it may well defy federal law. The Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA), passed in 1986, requires all Medicare participating hospitals with emergency departments treat any critically ill patients on their premises, including parking lots. I am calling for the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to conduct an independent investigation of this matter to ensure that federal laws are enforced and Oregonians are protected. In the meantime, it is important that every hospital in Oregon understand its moral and legal obligations. I will be sending information to all Oregon hospitals to ensure our health care leaders are complying with federal law and I stand ready to assist in any areas of ambiguity that might require further clarification.” Background: The Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA) is the 1986 law that ensures universal access to emergency medical care at all Medicare participating hospitals with emergency departments. Under EMTALA, any person who seeks emergency medical care at a covered facility is guaranteed an appropriate screening exam and stabilization treatment before transfer or discharge. Failure to abide by these requirements can subject hospitals or physicians to civil monetary sanctions or exclusion from Medicare. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services publishes a State Operations Manual, outlining the responsibilities of Medicare participating hospitals in meeting the requirements of the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA). Page 34 of their manual clearly states: If an individual who is not a hospital patient comes elsewhere on hospital property (that is, the individual comes to the hospital but not to the dedicated emergency department), an EMTALA obligation on the part of the hospital may be triggered if either the individual requests examination or treatment for an emergency medical condition or if a prudent layperson observer would believe that the individual is suffering from an emergency medical condition. The term “hospital property” means the entire main hospital campus as defined in §413.65(a), including the parking lot, sidewalk and driveway or hospital departments, including any building owned by the hospital that are within 250 yards of the hospital).
02.10.2011	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer met with Martin Daum, CEO of Daimler Trucks North America, to discuss ways to improve the tax structure for domestic heavy-duty truck manufacturing. Oregon is home to Daimler, the largest heavy-duty truck manufacturer in North America. The North Portland factory and office employs approximately 3000 people who build trucks for long-haul transport, regional distribution and construction, and school busses. While Daimler has recovered from the economic downturn and continues to expand, there is currently a tax structure for truck manufacturing that discourages innovation in both fuel efficiency and truck design. Congressman Blumenauer plans to reintroduce legislation to replace the excise tax currently imposed on the sale of new trucks, trailers, and tractors, and replace it with a modest increase in the diesel fuel excise tax. This change would encourage innovation in the industry, promote job growth, bring greater stability to the Highway Trust Fund, and ensure that the U.S. can continue investing in our transportation system.
02.10.2011	Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Ed Markey, John Conyers, Jim Moran, Lois Capps, Peter Welch and David Price and others introduced legislation to cut the budget by ending roughly $40 billion over five years in wasteful subsidies to the oil industry. The “Ending Big Oil Tax Subsidies Act” (H.R. 601) eliminates subsidies that have worsened the deficit, weakened our energy security, undermined our ability to drive investment in sources of renewable energy, and damaged the environment. Download the one page fact sheet. “The oil industry is one of the most profitable industries in the world and does not need help from the government,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. “With Congress already discussing painful budget cuts that will require American families to make sacrifices, it is only fair that we also stop the handouts to our richest oil companies. “It makes no sense that we are borrowing money from China to subsidize the most profitable industry in the world and corporations like ExxonMobil that earn billions every year. It’s time for us to have a serious, rational discussion about cutting the budget.” “The biggest companies no longer need 100 year-old subsidies to sell $100 dollar per barrel oil to make nearly $100 billion a year,” said Rep. Ed Markey. “We shouldn’t be trying to balance the budget on the backs of our seniors and struggling middle-class families while oil company executives continue to line their pockets with tax breaks.” “If my colleagues across the aisle are serious about seeking out and cutting wasteful government spending, they should leave the American people alone and focus on the nearly $40 billion in wasteful subsidies that will go to Big Oil over the next five years,” said Rep. John Conyers. “An injustice is perpetrated every day the government subsidizes the operation of a wildly profitable industry, while, at the same time, it tells American families that they must do more with less. Each day these tax breaks exist, our system of representative government fails because we place the needs of profitable corporations over the health and security of our constituents.” “To move forward on a path to clean energy, we need to stop propping up the dirty energy industries of the past. This legislation will end the tax breaks to big oil companies and save nearly $40 billion over the next five years,” said Rep. Jim Moran. “Most of these subsidies and tax benefits were granted during a time when oil was selling for less than $30 per barrel and our domestic producers needed assistance to compete with foreign industries. With oil now selling for three times as much, these subsidies are no longer justified.” “I can think of few better ways to ‘Win the Future’ than by eliminating these wasteful subsidies to Big Oil and investing the savings in the energy of the 21st century—solar, wave, and wind energy,” said Rep. Lois Capps. “Eliminating subsidies for some of the world’s wealthiest companies should be a “No-Brainer”. We know Big Oil and their friends in Congress will stand in the way of this important legislation, and we’ll hear some of the same false arguments we always hear. But the American people know better. They know it’s time for a 21st century energy policy that creates jobs, gets our economy growing again, and protects our health.” “In a week when House Republicans are slashing programs ranging from low-income heating assistance to COPS to high-speed rail, it should be a no-brainer to end unnecessary subsidies to the oil industry,” said Rep. Peter Welch. “Taxpayer support for mature, profitable industries makes no sense, particularly when we should be investing in the energy efficiency and clean energy sectors.” “If the Republican leadership is serious about reducing the deficit, eliminating subsidies for oil companies should be a no-brainer,” said Rep. David Price. “This legislation would barely make a dent in oil company profits, which hit $77 billion last year alone, but it would have a significant impact on the federal bottom line - saving roughly $40 billion over 5 years. Instead of building wealth for shareholders of Exxon, BP, and Chevron, we need to invest in programs that create jobs for the American people and lay the foundation for our long-term global competitiveness.”
02.09.2011	It has long been clear that the United States bargain with the repressive Egyptian regime of Hosni Mubarak was both tenuous and inconsistent with our nation’s values. That is why I have worked to reduce massive US military aid and invest more in civil society. The demonstrations throughout the region have illustrated that a policy of backing other repressive regimes in the name of stability must be reexamined. I have made clear through my work in Congress that we must not treat military aid to Egypt like an entitlement of $1.3 billion a year, and over $30 billion during the 29-year span of the Mubarak regime. This has not only fomented the ire of many towards the US, but has delayed the reforms to which those in Tahrir Square are entitled to. We may well have turned a corner in the Arab world. This is true for the Egyptian government and I hope it will be true for US policy. We ought to support democratic institutions in words and actions by establishing a consistent and defensible position in our dealing with other nations. The president has taken a step in the right direction by urging Mubarak to step down, but he must also be clear about how we move forward and our strong support for true democratic reforms. Change will not happen overnight. A government whose security forces have killed or jailed dozens, detained and beaten journalists and halted the free flow of information cannot be expected to reverse course and in seven months time hold free and fair elections. Just last November, Egypt’s parliamentary elections revealed massive voter intimidation and ballot manipulation by the same people who are attacking peaceful protestors today. The Egyptian people deserve reform and leaning on longtime Mubarak confident Omar Suleiman in the name if “stability” is a continuation of flawed policies from the past. The burden for positive, responsible change lies not with the American government, but with the Egyptian people. It should be our policy to ensure that they are given the chance to succeed. The peaceful resistance and courage the demonstrators have shown makes clear that they are acting with the long-term wellbeing and prosperity of their country at heart and gives me hope. An appropriate role for the US will be backing a balanced caretaker government that will set the stage for free and fair elections once political parties have had time to form after decades of oppression; supporting a strong and continued adherence to their peace agreement with Israel; and, finally right-sizing our aid to Egypt by focusing on the people and economic – not military – development. If we are going to err, we should err on the side of democracy. We owe it to the brave men and women of Egypt and to our history to fully embrace peaceful and democratic reforms. Let this be one of many steps towards developing a more consistent and effective foreign policy.
02.09.2011	Congressman Blumenauer sumbitted the following statement to the Congressional Record regarding the vote to extend provisions of the Patriot Act: Today I voted against HR 514, another one-year extension of three overreaching provisions in the Patriot Act, which are set to expire on February 28, 2011. I have opposed the Patriot Act since the original, bipartisan version of the bill was hijacked by the Bush administration and significantly expanded without safeguards for the rights of ordinary Americans. This is why it has been consistently opposed by thoughtful members of Congress from both parties. In a country that prides itself on civil rights and freedom of speech, we must maintain a system with checks and balances to ensure that our government works for our citizens in a transparent way. I have no doubt that we can keep America safe without compromising our liberties. By simply extending this policy for another year, we are we are forfeiting the opportunity and neglecting the responsibility to have a meaningful review that can bring us closer to a more accountable approach that balances individual privacy with our national defense. One of the many provisions in need of reform and left unaddressed in this bill is section 215. This provision fails to provide meaningful protection for library patrons, and library and business records. The burden should be on the government to show reasonable suspicion or probable cause before undertaking an investigation. After a decade it is past time to review and refine this legislation. The intelligence community already has the tools necessary to keep us safe without compromising our privacy. Another one-year extension is a lost opportunity to make sure we protect the liberties of American citizens.
02.08.2011	Congressman Blumenauer spoke last Friday to the Water Rights Conference at Willamette University. This gathering included leading natural resource thinkers from across the country who focused on the critical importance of access to safe drinking water as a human right. Blumenauer discussed both domestic and international water issues, pointing out the limitations of U.S. water resources as well as the international importance of clean drinking water and sanitation. “I’ve spent a lot of time on a variety of issues,” said Blumenauer, “But nothing more powerfully illustrates the principles, the threats, the opportunities, and our successes than how we deal with water. It is water that is ultimately going to set the stage for the success of the US and countries around the world.” In 2005, Congress enacted Congressman Blumenauer’s bipartisan “Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act” which provided millions of people in developing nations with safe, clean drinking water. In 2009, Congressman Blumenauer developed H.R. 2030, the “Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act” to redouble U.S. efforts to help provide an additional 100 million of the world’s poorest with first-time access to safe and sustainable drinking water and sanitation by 2015. Blumenauer concluded, “If we do this right, we will end up saving money, improving quality-of-life, and minimizing conflicts in politics, in the courtroom, and potentially on the battlefield.”
02.02.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to the announcement of legislation to undermine the Clean Air Act: “I am outraged that House Republicans are launching this attack on the most basic law that keeps our air safe to breathe. This effort, undertaken primarily for the benefit of corporate polluters, will effectively turn the Clean Air Act into the Dirty Air Act by gutting one of our nation’s most successful public health laws. Since 1970, the Clean Air Act has saved hundreds of thousands of lives and improved the health of Americans in every state. What’s more, the economic benefits of the Clean Air Act during this period – including fewer sick days and hospital visits – have outweighed its costs by more than 30 to 1. Undermining the Clean Air Act will threaten public health and our economy. “In compliance with a 2007 Supreme Court decision, the Environmental Protection Agency is moving forward in a responsible way to update the Clean Air Act to limit global warming pollution. These limits – which apply only to the biggest and dirtiest sources – will help protect our economy and our people from the worst effects of global warming. It saddens me that some of my Republican colleagues continue to deny the science of global warming; they do so with reckless disregard for the devastation it will cause to our economy and our environment.” Attempts to undermine the Clean Air Act will harm: Public Health: Over the last 20 years the Clean Air Act prevented an estimated 843,000 asthma attacks, 18 million cases of respiratory illness among children, 672,000 cases of chronic bronchitis, 21,000 cases of heart disease and 200,000 premature deaths. (Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), EPA’s Clean Air Act Turns 40; Agency achieved significant health and environmental benefits, Sept 14, 2010) The Economy: Since 1970, the economic benefits of the Clean Air Act – including fewer sick days and hospital visits – have exceeded costs by more than 30 to 1. (EPA, The Benefits and Costs of the Clean Air Act, 1990-2020, August 2010) Energy Independence: The Clean Air Act tailpipe standards for model years 2012-2016 (which are part of the greenhouse gas regulations) will save Americans 77 billion gallons of fuel over the life of the vehicles sold in those years; this represents over $240 billion in economic benefits including over $182 billion in fuel savings. (Federal Register, Table I.C.2-2, C.2-3, C.2-4 in EPA/NHTSA MY2012-2016 Final Rule, May 7, 2010)
02.02.2011	Yesterday, Congressman Blumenauer spoke at the General Services Administration (GSA)’s Listening Session on their new “Greening the Supply Chain” effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in federal agencies. This program was mandated by President Obama’s Executive Order on Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy and Economic Performance Sustainability in the Federal Government. More than 50 local businesses and organizations provided valuable feedback to officials from GSA and the White House Council on Environmental Quality. As the nation’s largest landowner, building manager, employer, and consumer of energy, the federal government can play a key role in reducing our nation’s greenhouse gas emissions. Blumenauer pointed to the GSA’s GreenGov Supply Chain Partnership as a perfect example of the federal government’s ability to spur innovation and create jobs in the private sector by providing a huge market for efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable products and processes.
02.02.2011	Yesterday, Congressman Blumenauer met with members of the Oregon Business Council (OBC). OBC is an association of over 40 of Oregon's most influential businesses, hospitals, and utilities, employing thousands of people throughout Oregon. The roundtable meeting included discussion about taxation, health care reform, meeting Oregon’s energy needs and ideas for improving the regulatory functions of the federal government. There was considerable discussion on how important it is for Oregon to have federal policy focus on infrastructure projects that spur immediate job creation while also recognizing longer-term needs.
02.01.2011	This morning, Congressman Blumenauer attended two events that celebrate job opportunities in North Portland. The first event marked the completion of three vital transportation projects (Ramsey Rail Yard, Leadbetter Overcrossing and North Lombard Widening) and the commencement of a fourth (South Rivergate Rail Yard Expansion). Thanks to $50 million in rail upgrades to the Rivergate industrial district in North Portland, goods can now be moved more quickly and safely. A more efficient rail system that eliminates delays and bottlenecks is creating expanded opportunities for exports, greater resources for manufacturing, and, of course, new jobs for the region. These upgrades were helped in part by funding from the last Transportation Reauthorization Bill. Tom Imeson, Port of Portland; Scott Moore, Union Pacific Railroad; Congressman Earl Blumenauer; Gail Achterman, Oregon Transportation Commission; State Representative Tina Kotek; Portland Mayor Sam Adams; Greg Guthrie, BNSF Railway Next, Congressman Blumenauer toured the MEMC manufacturing facility. This company, which manufactures parts for solar technology, moved to Portland in 2007 and has created approximately 120 new jobs at various skill levels thanks in part to the renewable energy manufacturing tax credits in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
01.29.2011	A new report released today from the Department of Health and Human Services shows that the Affordable Care Act will end up saving low-income and middle income families thousands of dollars as well as helping small businesses pay for family policies and premiums. The report finds that, compared to what they would have paid without the law: Middle-class families purchasing private insurance in the new State-based Health Insurance Exchanges could save as much as $2,300 per year in 2014. Tax credits provided by the Affordable Care Act will lead to even greater savings. For example, in 2014, a family of four with an income of $33,525 could save as much as $14,900 per year since they will also qualify for tax credits and reduced cost sharing. In 2014, small businesses, on average, could save up to $350 per family policy and many may be eligible for tax credits of up to 50 percent of their premiums. The tax credits are already available to small businesses, and cover 35 percent of their premiums. For example, a firm with 10 workers who earn an average of $20,000 annually could currently receive credits of $35,000 annually. These tax credits could save small businesses $6 billion in 2010 and 2011. All businesses will likely see lower premiums of $2,000 per family by 2019, which could generate millions of dollars in savings. You can download a copy of the report here.
01.28.2011	Attorney General Eric Holder and Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced this week that they have recovered over $4 billion taxpayer dollars related to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. This money will be returned to the Medicare Health Insurance Trust Fund, the Treasury, and other government programs. Thanks to new resources funded by the Affordable Care Act, the Department of Health and Human Services has also announced new rules that will stop fraud before it takes place. These rules will: Create a rigorous screening process for providers and suppliers enrolling new Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries to keep fraudulent providers out of those programs. Under the Affordable Care Act, States will have to screen providers who order and refer to Medicaid beneficiaries to determine if they have a history of defrauding government. Allow Medicare and State agencies to temporarily stop enrollment of new providers and suppliers. Medicare and State agencies will be on the lookout for trends that may indicate health care fraud using advanced modeling software, similar to what is used by credit card companies to detect credit card fraud. If a trend is identified in a specific category of providers or geographic area, the program can temporarily stop enrollment as long as it will not impact access to care for patients. Allow Medicare and State agencies to temporarily stop payments to providers and suppliers in cases of suspected fraud. Visit the post on HealthCare.Gov for more information.
01.27.2011	At a hearing of the Ways and Means Committee on pending trade agreements this week, Congressman Blumenauer asked whether American farmers require lavish taxpayer subsidies to compete in a global marketplace. “I would like to focus on the role that agriculture will play in the future. If my Republican friends are serious about addressing spending and the deficit, and I think they are, we’re going to have to deal with the rather expensive support we provide to agriculture in this country,” Blumenauer began, pointing out several instances where subsidies on products such as sugar have hamstrung trade agreements at taxpayer expense. “More recently, the American taxpayers are paying Brazilian cotton farmers $143.3 million a year because of our lavish domestic cotton subsidies have been found illegal which are illegal under our agreements in order to forestall retaliatory actions against our for intellectual property and other goods that would have been close to a billion dollars.” Read more about Congressman Blumenauer’s Agriculture policy.
01.19.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to the passage of H.R. 2, a bill to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: “Today’s vote to take away patients’ rights and repeal the healthcare reform law was a disappointing political stunt. We enacted these reforms because our healthcare system was in a dangerous downward spiral. Skyrocketing healthcare costs were hurting businesses, taking a big bite out of family paychecks, and causing half of all bankruptcies. “Under the Republican plan, children with pre-existing conditions would again be denied coverage and families would again suffer devastating annual and lifetime caps. Middle class Americans would lose the tax breaks that help millions of families and small businesses pay for coverage, and seniors would see their prescription drug costs rise again when the donut hole is reinstated. Moreover, the Republican plan would increase deficits by $230 billion over the next ten years and more than $1.2 trillion in the following decade. “The healthcare reform law is not perfect, but it is absolutely a step in the right direction that is already saving lives and bringing much-needed care to people across our country. Now is the time to commit ourselves to the hard work of implementing and accelerating these important reforms, using the strides we have made here in Oregon as an example. As we look forward, I hope for a rational, thoughtful debate about how to improve the quality and affordability of health care for all Americans.”
01.08.2011	I was stunned to arrive in Arizona for the Oregon football game only to be greeted by the news of the shooting of my friend and colleague, Congresswoman Gabby Giffords, as well as members of her staff and other victims. Having worked with her in Tucson, I have seen firsthand the bond between Gabby and her community. She is a moderate, thoughtful leader committed to bringing people together to make progress in challenging times and in a tough political climate. It is in Gabby's nature that the attack occurred as she was meeting with constituents she has served so well. Gabby is a new, fresh and innovative force both in Arizona and in Washington, DC who represents the best of the next generation of American leadership. We are keeping Gabby and the other victims of this terrible attack in our thoughts and prayers, and are hopeful that Gabby will recover and be able to resume her important work in Congress.
12.30.2010	ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND CREATING JOBS AMERICAN RECOVERY & REINVESTMENT ACT, enacted in the first month of President Obama’s term, to jumpstart our economy, create and save 3.5 million jobs, give a tax cut to small business and 95% of American workers, begin to rebuild America’s road, rail, and water infrastructure, and make a historic commitment to education, clean energy, and science and technology, with unprecedented accountability. (Signed into Law) DEMOCRATIC PRIORITIES IN TAX RELIEF & UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT, a controversial Obama-GOP agreement that includes the following Democratic priorities to create jobs and promote recovery: cutting taxes for the middle class and small businesses for the next 2 years; providing a $120 billion payroll tax reduction for workers; extending unemployment insurance for 13 months; extending the Obama college tuition tax credit, Child Tax Credit, and Earned Income Tax Credit for two years; and providing incentives to create clean energy jobs. (Signed into Law) SMALL BUSINESS JOBS ACT, landmark legislation providing $12 billion in tax relief for small businesses by enacting 8 more small business tax cuts on top of the 8 already enacted by this Congress; creating up to 500,000 jobs, by leveraging up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses through a $30 billion lending fund for community banks; fully paid for – doesn’t add a dime to the deficit. (Signed into Law) TEACHER JOBS/STATE AID/CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES, creating and saving nearly 320,000 jobs; providing $10 billion to save 161,000 teacher jobs and $16 billion in Medicaid aid, with the effect of creating/saving 158,000 jobs, including police officers, firefighters, nurses & private sector workers; fully paid for by closing loopholes that encourage companies to ship American jobs overseas; cutting deficit by $1.4 billion. (Signed into Law) STUDENT AID & FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY ACT, making the largest investment in college aid in history – increasing Pell Grants, making college loans more affordable, and strengthening community colleges – while reducing the federal deficit by ending wasteful student loan subsidies to banks. (Signed into Law) HIRE ACT, creating up to 300,000 jobs, by providing a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers and a tax credit for businesses that retain these workers. (Signed into Law) CASH FOR CLUNKERS, jump-starting the U.S. auto industry, providing consumers with up to $4,500 to trade in an old vehicle for one with higher fuel efficiency—spurring the sale of 700,000 vehicles. (Signed into Law) WORKER, HOMEOWNERSHIP & BUSINESS ASSISTANCE ACT, boosting the economy and creating jobs with more unemployment benefits for Americans hit by the recession, an expanded 1st-time homebuyer tax credit, and enhanced small business tax relief—expanded to all struggling U.S. businesses. (Signed into Law) AMERICA COMPETES REAUTHORIZATION, keeping America number one by investing in modernizing manufacturing, spurring American innovation through basic R&D and high risk/high reward clean energy research, and strengthening math and science education. (On Way to President’s Desk) U.S. MANUFACTURING ENHANCEMENT ACT, to help U.S. manufacturers compete at home and abroad by temporarily suspending or reducing duties on intermediate products or materials these companies use that are not made domestically. (Signed into Law) KEEPING UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE IN PLACE, extending unemployment insurance for millions of American families through November 30, 2010 (Signed into Law), and through December 31, 2011 (Signed into Law). Every dollar of unemployment benefits creates about $2.00 in economic activity. DREAM ACT, boosting our economy and military readiness with limited, targeted legislation – giving the best and brightest of immigrant children who came to the U.S. undocumented and grew up here a chance to contribute to our country by pursuing higher education or serving in the U.S. Armed Forces, with the ability to earn legal status after a rigorous and lengthy process of at least 10 years. (Passed by House) CURRENCY REFORM/FAIR TRADE, to promote U.S. manufacturing jobs, by giving our government effective tools to address the unfair trade practice of currency manipulation by foreign countries, including China; their undervalued currency makes Chinese exports cheaper and America’s exports to China more expensive, putting U.S. manufacturers at an unfair disadvantage; bill is WTO-compliant. (Passed by House) AMERICAN JOBS AND CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES ACT, to promote American jobs by restoring credit to small businesses, extending tax incentives for American R&D and tax relief for middle class American families, rebuilding American infrastructure, and expanding jobs for young people; and to close tax loopholes to make Wall Street billionaires pay their fair share of taxes. (Passed by House) HOME STAR JOBS, to create 168,000 American jobs making energy efficiency products, by providing incentives for consumers to make their homes energy-efficient -- cutting energy bills for 3 million families and reducing our dangerous dependence on foreign oil and dirty fuels. (Passed by House) RURAL STAR/HOME STAR LOANS, to create tens of thousands more U.S. jobs, by creating Rural Star loans for people in rural America to make their homes and farms more energy-efficient; and a Home Star Loan Program for no-interest loans for energy efficiency home upgrades in other areas. (Passed by House) SMALL BUSINESS & INFRASTRUCTURE JOBS ACT, to extend Build America Bonds to help finance the rebuilding of schools, hospitals, roads and bridges; and target tax incentives to spur investment in small businesses and help entrepreneurs looking to start a new business. (Passed by House) EDWARD M. KENNEDY SERVE AMERICA ACT, tripling volunteerism opportunities to 250,000 for national service for students to retirees; increased college financial awards. (Signed into Law) PROTECTING CONSUMERS WALL STREET REFORM, historic reforms to end taxpayer-funded bailouts and the idea of ‘too big to fail’, and protect and empower consumers to make the best decisions on mortgages, credit cards, and their own financial future. Lack of accountability for Wall Street and big banks cost 8 million jobs. (Signed into Law) CREDIT CARDHOLDERS’ BILL OF RIGHTS, providing tough new protections already saving consumers money—like banning unfair rate hikes, abusive fees, and penalties—and strengthening enforcement. (Signed into Law) FOOD SAFETY, a sweeping, landmark overhaul of the nation’s food safety system in the wake of tainted food scandals; giving FDA new authorities and putting a new focus on prevention. (On Way to President’s Desk) FRAUD ENFORCEMENT & RECOVERY ACT, providing tools to prosecute mortgage scams and corporate fraud that contributed to financial crisis; creating an outside commission to examine its causes. (Signed into Law) LILLY LEDBETTER FAIR PAY ACT, restoring the rights of women and other workers to challenge unfair pay—to help close the wage gap where women earn 78 cents for every $1 a man earns in America. (Signed into Law) AIRLINE PASSENGER SAFETY, to improve airline passenger safety, by several steps including strengthening commercial pilot training requirements, requiring a minimum of 1,500 flight hours required for an airline pilot certificate. (Signed into Law) HELPING HOMEOWNERS HELPING FAMILIES SAVE THEIR HOMES ACT, building on the President’s initiative to stem the foreclosure crisis, with significant incentives to lenders, servicers, and homeowners to modify loans. (Signed into Law) FHA REFORM, to shore up federal mortgage insurance in order to expand homeownership opportunities by making essential reforms to strengthen the financial footing of the Federal Housing Administration, saving taxpayers $2.5 billion over 5 years. (Passed by House) FLOOD INSURANCE REAUTHORIZATION & REFORM, reauthorizing the National Flood Insurance Program, upon which millions of American families and businesses rely, for five years and making key reforms to put the program on a stronger financial footing. (Passed by House) AFFORDABLE QUALITY HEALTH CARE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, landmark legislation prohibiting insurance companies from discriminating against Americans with pre-existing conditions and dropping coverage when you get sick and need it most; lowering costs for privately-insured middle class families and small businesses; strengthening Medicare and lowering seniors’ prescription drug costs; creating up to 4 million jobs; and reducing the deficit by the largest amount in almost two decades, while ensuring affordable coverage for 32 million more Americans. (Signed into Law) CHILD NUTRITION, landmark legislation to fight both childhood obesity and childhood hunger; improving the nutritional quality of school lunches, expanding access for needy children to nutrition programs, and providing schools with first boost in reimbursement rate for school lunches in more than 30 years. (Signed into Law) HEALTH CARE FOR 11 MILLION CHILDREN, to finally provide cost-effective health coverage for 4 million more children and preserve coverage for 7 million children already enrolled. (Signed into Law) FDA REGULATION OF TOBACCO, granting the Food and Drug Administration authority to regulate advertising, marketing, and manufacturing of tobacco products, the #1 cause of preventable U.S. deaths, and to stop tobacco companies from targeting our children. (Signed into Law) ENSURING SENIORS’ ACCESS TO THEIR DOCTORS, by blocking a scheduled 25% cut in Medicare physician payments and extending current Medicare payment rates through December 31, 2011. (Signed into Law) 9/11 HEALTH AND COMPENSATION ACT, providing health care and compensation for first responders and others exposed to the toxins of Ground Zero. (Expected to Be On Way to President’s Desk on 12/22) RYAN WHITE HIV/AIDS TREATMENT EXTENSION ACT, guaranteeing access to lifesaving medical services, primary care, and medications for low-income patients with AIDS and HIV. (Signed into Law) CLEAN ENERGY JOBS & ENVIRONMENT OMNIBUS PUBLIC LAND MANAGEMENT ACT, a bill that included 127,000 acres of wilderness and 79 miles of Wild and Scenic Rivers on Mt. Hood, which were part of Blumenauer’s Mt. Hood Stewardship Legacy Act that passed the House in 2006. The Omnibus Public Lands bill also included 13,700 acres in Copper Salmon; 30,000 acres in Oregon’s Badlands; 23,000 acres in Soda Mountain; and 8,600 acres at Spring Basin. This was the first new Oregon wilderness expansion to pass Congress in over 20 years. AMERICAN CLEAN ENERGY AND SECURITY ACT, historic legislation to create 1.7 million jobs (with the Recovery Act); help free us from funding terrorism with our dependence on foreign oil; reduce the carbon pollution causing climate change; keep costs low for Americans; will not increase the deficit. (Passed by House) INCENTIVES FOR CLEAN ENERGY JOBS, to extend for one year the Section 1603 renewable energy grant program, which provides grants in lieu of existing tax credits, that could create up to 100,000 jobs in the solar and wind industries. (Signed into Law) RESPONSE TO BP OIL SPILL, a bill providing a comprehensive response to BP oil spill – eliminating the $75 million cap on the liability of oil companies, restoring the Gulf Coast and protecting local residents, imposing new safety requirements and strengthening oversight of offshore drilling, and protecting whistleblowers in offshore drilling industry who report safety violations. (Passed by House) SPILL ACT, to reform maritime liability laws to ensure that the families of those killed or injured in the BP Oil Spill and other such tragedies are justly compensated for their losses. (Passed by House) FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY & GOVERNMENT REFORM STATUTORY PAY-AS-YOU-GO, to restore 1990s law that turned record deficits into surpluses, by forcing tough choices; Congress must offset new policies that reduce revenues or expand entitlements. (Signed into Law) BUDGET BLUEPRINT, creating jobs with investments in health care, clean energy and education; cutting taxes for most Americans by $1.5 trillion; cutting Bush deficit by more than half by 2013. (Action Completed) BUDGET ENFORCEMENT RESOLUTION, setting a limit on discretionary spending for FY 2011 that requires spending cuts of $7 billion below the President’s budget and $3 billion below Senate. (Action Completed) JUSTICE FOR BLACK FARMERS AND NATIVE AMERICANS, funding lawsuit settlements regarding discrimination against black farmers and Native American trust account holders by the government. (Signed into Law) WEAPON SYSTEMS ACQUISITION REFORM, cracking down on DOD waste and cost overruns in the acquisition of weapon systems, increasing oversight and competition. (Signed into Law) IMPROVE ACQUISITION ACT, overhauling DOD acquisition for the 80 percent of spending that is for services and other non-weapons items, saving taxpayers an estimated $135 billion. (On Way to President’s Desk) DISCLOSE ACT, to fight a corporate takeover of our elections, requires them to disclose they are behind political ads; bans foreign-controlled corporations from putting money in U.S. elections. (Passed by House) NATIONAL SECURITY/TROOPS AND VETERANS FY 2010 DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION, authorizing 3.4% troop pay raise, strengthening military readiness and military families support, focusing our strategy in Afghanistan and redeployment from Iraq. (Signed into Law) REPEAL OF DON’T ASK, DON’T TELL, to provide for the repeal of this outdated policy, contingent on the certification that military review completed and repeal will not impact readiness. (Signed into Law) VETERANS HEALTH CARE BUDGET REFORM ACT, authorizing Congress to approve VA appropriations one year in advance to ensure reliable and timely funding of VA health care funding. (Signed into Law) FY 2010 MILITARY CONSTRUCTION-VA APPROPRIATIONS, strengthening quality health care for 5 million veterans by investing 11% more for medical care and benefits. (Signed into Law) CAREGIVERS AND VETERANS OMNIBUS HEALTH SERVICES, landmark legislation providing help to caregivers of disabled, ill or injured veterans, and improving VA health services for women veterans. (Signed into Law) AGENT ORANGE BENEFITS, providing long overdue disability benefits to more than 150,000 Vietnam veterans and survivors for exposure to Agent Orange. (Signed into Law) STRENGTHENING NEW GI BILL, making these veterans’ education benefits for college easier to use; covering vocational, technical and on-the-job training, as well as more National Guardsmen. (Signed into Law) SECURITY FOR AMERICA’S COMMUNITIES FY 2010 HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS, strengthening security at our ports and borders and on commercial airlines, giving first responders tools to respond to terrorism. (Signed into Law) HATE CRIMES PREVENTION ACT, giving law enforcement resources to prevent and prosecute hate crimes against Americans based on gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. (Signed into Law) BORDER SECURITY EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS, providing $600 million to enhance security at the Southwest Border, including funding 1,200 additional Border Patrol agents, 500 additional CBP officers, and additional FBI, DEA, and ATF agents for the border region; paid for by visa fees. (Signed into Law) COPS ON THE BEAT, putting an additional 50,000 cops on the street over the next 5 years. (Passed by House) CHEMICAL & WATER SECURITY ACT, to increase security and safety of the nation’s chemical plants and water facilities vulnerable to terrorist attacks and the millions of Americans that live nearby. (Passed by House)
12.17.2010	I will be the first to admit that it contains items I support, including some I have worked hard to enact. They are not worth this price no matter how much I have invested in them. The most serious problem with this deal is that it represents a continued failure of leadership and imagination, the passing up of a truly once in a lifetime opportunity. This should have been the time when we stopped adding to the deficit with nothing to show for it but almost a trillion more borrowed dollars, a temporary boost to pocketbooks with minimal economic benefit to the economy, and a continuing controversy over tax matters. Like a prudent family, we should not borrow for current operations, but for long-term investment. It will cost money to repair the broken tax code, but that is an investment well worth the cost. We should lower the rates and broaden the base, make the tax code simpler, fairer, and less costly. The ‘infrastructure deficit’ must be addressed with tax reform and, if necessary, some borrowed capital. This will pay for itself and last decades, while putting hundreds of thousands to work in family-wage jobs. If this passes, yes, people will have slightly lower taxes—with most of the benefit going to the people who need it the least—but Americans will pay far more in higher debt and interest, will face a slower economic recovery, and will live under an unfair and costly tax system. It is a bad bargain for the future of American families.
12.15.2010	Today, we have moved one step closer to ending the irresponsible and immoral practice of discriminating against brave Americans who want to serve their country. I am proud to have voted once again for repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell because I know – and the military has told us – that ending this policy will strengthen our armed forces. It will also move our country towards the promise of equality that is enshrined in our Constitution. I call on the Senate to move quickly during this lame duck session to accept the recommendation of the Secretary of Defense and the desire among a majority of Americans to finally repeal this damaging policy.
12.09.2010	Since it was passed as a part of the February 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the TGP has sparked significant growth in American clean energy industries. The program is set to expire on December 31, 2010, but lawmakers and renewable energy advocates say that its expiration will cost America jobs and leadership in these promising renewable energy industries, and are calling for the Congress to pass an extension before the end of the year. At a press conference, the lawmakers announced a letter to House Leadership from 81 members of Congress – many of them members of the Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition – in support of extending this program. “We are asking you to include a two year extension of the convertible Treasury Grant Program (TGP) provided under Section 1603 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in any upcoming tax legislation,” the letter to House leadership reads. “This program has proven that it will increase jobs, increase the market share for U.S. renewable energy companies, and reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy.” “If the White House and Congress are serious about breathing life into our economy with this tax package, it will include critical clean energy provisions,” said Sean Garren, Clean Energy Advocate for Environment America. “Wind, solar and geothermal, among other renewable energy industries, have been a bright light in an otherwise dim economy these past few years. It would be unconscionable for the 111th Congress to leave without extending these critical investments, thus dimming the lights for clean energy and our economy.” “Moving America to the clean energy economy means job creation,” said Michael Williams, Legislative Representative for Blue Green Alliance. “Congress has an opportunity to make a dent in the jobs crisis and the global race for clean energy leadership by including two highly successful programs in the pending tax package: additional funding for the Advanced Manufacturing Tax Credit (48C) and an extension of the Section 1603 Treasury Grant Program. Failure to pass these two credits will show a lack of leadership regarding the future of U.S. Manufacturing and the clean energy economy.” “This tax credit has helped create a $20 billion American wind energy industry with 85,000 jobs and 400 manufacturing facilities,” said Denise Bode, CEO of the American Wind Energy Association. “Wind now generates 20 percent of the electricity in Iowa, and has generated as much as 25 percent of the electricity in Texas. That is only a fraction of what’s possible if this tax credit is extended. In a nation still recovering from a ruinous recession, letting this very successful policy lapse would be a mistake of historic proportions.” “Section 1603 is a job-creating machine that has allowed over 1,100 projects to move forward in 42 states,” said Dan Adamson, Vice President for Government Affairs for the Solar Energy Industries Association. “Extending it will help the solar industry put tens of thousands of Americans back to work.”
12.08.2010	“By refusing to stare down Republicans on issues that are supported by the American people like assistance for the unemployed and not extending tax cuts for the most well off, the President loses his leverage. Obama would be supported by Congress if he vetoes proposals that are economically unsound and stands firm. There will never be a better time to shine a spotlight and make these two issues crystal clear. If the President blinks, how can he be expected to stand firm on health care reform’s death by a thousand cuts? How can he have the credibility and leverage to usher in the necessary changes to how America does business? “This agreement means two years of dithering, delay, and dissembling on the big issues: defense modernization, health reform implementation, energy security, and tax overhaul. These and more must be addressed in this decade of decision. Decisive action now by the President makes real progress possible during the remaining two years and probably a second term. Sliding past this moment with a one-sided compromise, which leaves all the problems in place and America another trillion dollars in debt, sets up the same confrontation down the road. “The problems will still be addressed this decade, only solutions will be later, harder, and less effective while the politics get worse. I urge my colleagues to help the President and our country by rejecting this expensive and ill-advised proposal.”
12.02.2010	“If the message of the election was that we shouldn’t add to our nation’s debt, then we shouldn’t extend tax cuts that will add trillions of dollars to that debt. If the issue is jobs, then we can have a much greater effect on employment by using a small portion of the money in question to fund a substantial transportation bill and beginning to address our nation’s infrastructure deficit. If the election was about tax fairness, then we can do more for fairness by permanently eliminating the Alternative Minimum Tax, which no billionaire pays, but which now threatens 29 million middle income families. While we are at it, we could permanently fix the physician payment issue. “These are perennial challenges. Addressing them now will require far less debt, save money in the long run, and will avoid needless heartburn for millions of people right now. Instead, the political process is failing the American people as we face a choice between a sub-optimal bill and a bad bill. I voted for today’s sub-optimal bill because the alternative was worse, but we can and should do better.”
12.02.2010	“This is a victory for transparency in the military’s contracting process,” said Blumenauer. “By uncovering more than 120 military contracts that include taxpayer liability provisions, this inquiry has given taxpayers a broad picture of where their money is – and could be – going.” The documents cover a range of military contracts for work conducted in the U.S. and in Iraq. They show taxpayer liability clauses in contracts granted to (among others) the makers of the anthrax and smallpox vaccines, firms operating hazardous materials facilities in the United States and a company tasked with recovering potential radioactive materials during the Iraq invasion. The full DoD response can be viewed here. Summaries of the contracts provided by the DoD appear to show a diligent, responsible process for work carried out in the United States that protects taxpayers from liability in cases of contractor negligence, but far looser standards for work in Iraq. In addition, the DoD continues to refuse declassification for the taxpayer liability section of its “Restore Iraqi Oil” contract with KBR in Iraq – a contract that is the subject of a lawsuit in Oregon in the wake of news that KBR exposed dozens of Oregon Guardsmen to cancer-causing chemicals at its Qarmat Ali facility. “These documents suggest that contracts associated with our Iraq war efforts may not contain sufficient taxpayer protections in cases of contractor negligence,” said Blumenauer. “I remain concerned that KBR’s contract may be much more loosely drawn, removing incentives for the contractor to behave responsibly and exposing taxpayers to enormous liability and our troops to harm. Why is the Pentagon shielding this contract and protecting KBR? I will continue demanding answers on behalf of our Oregon Guardsmen and will ask once again for this portion of KBR’s contract to be declassified.” In September, after meeting over the summer with Oregon Guard members affected by hexavalent chromium exposure at KBR’s facility in Iraq, Blumenauer organized a bipartisan group in the House and Senate in introducing legislation to require regular reporting to Congress of contracts with taxpayer liability clauses. The legislation would also require taxpayer protection against liability in cases of contractor negligence. Complete information on the legislation can also be viewed here.
12.01.2010	“I am deeply disappointed that Congress has yet to extend long-term unemployment insurance in time for the holidays,” said Blumenauer. “For nearly two million workers, these monthly checks – just a couple hundred dollars to help make ends meet – have been a lifeline as they look for new jobs during this awful recession. I find it especially shameful that we are threatening to leave these families out in the cold at the same time that some members of Congress want us to spend $700 billion we don’t have on tax cuts for millionaires who don’t need them. Cutting off unemployment benefits won’t help us end this recession, it will only make it worse. I call on members of both parties to set aside politics and vote to extend these benefits for unemployed Americans.” More than 5,600 Oregonians stand to lose their long-term unemployment benefits if Congress does not act. In November, Blumenauer voted for H.R. 6419, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Continuation Act, which would have extended benefits through February 2011.
11.18.2010	“For more than a thousand Oregon taxpayers, the check is in the mail – but it cannot be delivered,” said Blumenauer. “Families still waiting for their refund checks must ensure that the IRS has their current address information or risk losing out on nearly $1,000. I urge anyone concerned about the status of a refund check to go to www.IRS.gov and use the ‘Where’s my Refund’ tool to track it down. Don’t let a mailing error deprive you of your refund.” Taxpayers without internet access can also call 1-800-829-1954 to check on a missing refund. In order to receive his or her undeliverable refund, all a taxpayer has to do is update his or her address. The IRS will then send out any check that is due.
11.12.2010	Blumenauer spoke of the importance of the Recovery Act in making investments like the Federal Building which will save money in the long run and at the same time creating green jobs. The congressman pointed out that the Recovery Act had helped create 5500 jobs in Oregon in the last 3 months.
11.12.2010	Congressman Blumenauer has spent much of his career working on the contaminated Portland Harbor, which was designated a Superfund site in 2000. He has been working with stakeholders at the local and national level, including EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson and Regional Administrator Dennis McLerran to move process forward. In addition, the Congressman has introduced legislation to reinstate the Superfund Tax. Monies collected from this tax on the petrochemical industry were used to clean up “orphan” sites, or contaminated areas where the liable party could not be determined or no longer existed. The tax expired in 1995.
11.10.2010	“In Congress, I work every day to honor the commitments we have made to our veterans. From reducing the claims backlog caused by years of underfunding the VA system to fighting for the rights of Oregon Guardsmen injured by negligent contractors, we are finally turning the corner and making progress. We have increased veterans funding by nearly $23 billion, passed a Post-9/11 GI Bill, made major improvements in veterans’ mental health coverage, and so much more. “It is my hope that every Oregonian will join me in taking the opportunity this Veterans’ Day to reflect on everything our service members have done for this country.”
11.08.2010	Malcolm Freund, Sharon Parker, Mike Parker, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, Ron Cleys, Terry Brown, Jill Erickson, Jan Suverly, Zane Suverly, John Keith.Photo courtesy of Mike Parker
11.01.2010	Blumenauer began his speech recounting what he considers the worst vote of his career - when he was in the Oregon legislature in the 1970s. His support of that legislation was designed to move the state away from institutionalizing the mentally ill in facilities that were being managed by the state and toward a system that encouraged treating these patients in the community. Unfortunately, Blumenauer recounted, the support that had been offered at the state level did not move into the community. Blumenauer offered up the recent health care reform bill and mental health parity legislation authored by his colleagues Rep. Patrick Kennedy and Rep. Jim Ramstad as examples of mental health being worked with on the federal level.
10.22.2010	Started in 1991 as the area's Regional Rail Summit, Rail~Volution is regarded as the nation's premier livable communities conference has traveled to more than a dozen cities throughout the country, routinely attracting participants from more than 200 cities in 42 states and 6 nations. This year's conference showcased Portland through a series of 21 mobile workshops, 3 planning charrettes, and 65 stimulating workshops. One of the highlights of the conference was the energizing discussion of the Federal Partnership for Livable Communities with Deputy Secretary John Porcari of US DOT; Deputy Secretary Ron Sims of HUD; Senator Jeff Merkley, and Congressman Blumenauer. Since Rail~Volution was last held in Portland in 1998 to help celebrate the opening of MAX' Blue Line, the Portland region has benefitted from the opening or extension of 8 rail lines: the original Portland Streetcar and 3 extensions; Airport MAX (Red Line); Interstate MAX (Yellow Line); WES Commuter Rail in Washington County; and Clackamas County MAX (Green Line). Congressman Blumenauer gives the keynote address for the 2010 Rail~Volution Conference in Portland, OR Congressman Blumenauer at a Streetcar roudtable with Rail~Voluntion conference attendees from around the country. Congressman Blumenauer at a discussion of the Federal Partnership for Livable Communities with Deputy Secretary John Porcari of US DOT; Deputy Secretary Ron Sims of HUD; and Senator Jeff Merkley moderated by David Goldberg, Communications Director for Transportation For America
10.22.2010	The Ribbon Cutting Ceremony included LTC Robert Schneider (ret.), son of Clifford G. Schneider, and his wife Claire, MG Raymond F. Rees, Congressman Blumenauer, State Senator Laurie Monnes Anderson, State Representative Greg Matthews, Gresham City Council Member David Widmark, and the family of the late National Guard Member, SSG Nathaniel B. Lindsay.
10.21.2010	The 110th and 111th Congresses have been incredible ones for Veterans. Major improvements have been made in everything from claims processing to health care to services for all veterans no matter what era. Attached [PDF] is a short synopsis of the work accomplished on behalf of veterans from 2007 until the present. Of particular interest is the work these two Congresses have accomplished in addressing the significant shortfalls in all veterans benefits. $53 billion in FY 2010 alone is going to improve medical care, increase funding for claims processing to help eliminate the backlog of claims, and improve the VA infrastructure.
10.21.2010	The Children's Hospital at Legacy Emanuel receives nearly 100,000 patient visits every year and over the last 100 years has become Oregon's largest provider of pediatric inpatient and truama services.
10.15.2010	More than a dozen of the school’s top students in the field came to learn about Congressman Blumenauer’s work to strengthen environmental protections and to discuss Oregon’s role as a leader in land use and environmental laws. The broad conversation ranged from questions on what more could be done to alleviate urban air quality problems, to a discussion on how to better frame the environmental law discussion in the public sphere and provide a legal framework for the uniform integration of household-sized clean energy devices in urban areas. Students were thrilled to meet Congressman Blumenauer and learn more about the legislative side of environmental regulation, and came away with a new and practical perspective on their own day to day legal studies.
10.07.2010	PORTLAND – Yesterday, Congressman Earl Blumenauer called for three major banks with significant foreclosure cases in Oregon to institute a 60-day moratorium on new foreclosures while they review their foreclosure processes. He also asked Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to review banks’ foreclosure practices [PDF]. Blumenauer’s action comes in the wake of widespread reports that Bank of America , JP Morgan Chase and Wells Fargo used signed affidavits to initiate foreclosure proceedings against borrowers without verifying the information alleged in those documents. “With our economy facing a painful recession, thousands of families across Oregon have had to endure the painful process of home foreclosure,” said Blumenauer. “It is absolutely appalling to consider the likelihood that some may have faced that process based on inaccurate information. I am calling on banks that are suspending or considering suspending foreclosures in 23 states to do so in Oregon as well, as a matter of basic fairness.” Bank of America and JP Morgan Chase have already suspended foreclosure judgments and evictions in 23 states following acknowledgments by employees that they signed affidavits necessary to move thousands of foreclosure cases a month toward judgment without reviewing the documents. As one Bank of America official admitted, “I typically don’t read them because of the volume we sign.” Wells Fargo has yet to announce its own suspension of foreclosure activities, despite similar admissions by one of its own employees. “The sloppy nature of the foreclosure process initiated in some cases has been simply shocking,” said Blumenauer. “It would be reckless for banks to continue their foreclosure proceedings in Oregon without ensuring that borrowers here are treated in accordance with the same standards as borrowers in other states.” While the suspensions so far apply only to the 23 states with laws requiring judicial review of the foreclosure process, reports indicate that foreclosure documents all across the country – including in Oregon – were subjected to the same flawed, sloppy process. As a result of practices such as these, families may have been wrongly evicted from properties based on inaccurate or incomplete information. Foreclosed properties may have even been sold to new owners following such proceedings.
10.04.2010	“This is a great investment in our bus system at a time when public transportation is more important than ever,” said Blumenauer. “This funding will allow Tri-Met and the Oregon Department of Transportation to ensure that public transportation in our state remains a model for the nation to follow. Not only are we improving our fleet of buses in downtown Portland, but we are also bringing a high level of bus service to rural areas whose residents need more transportation options.” Tri-Met and the Oregon DOT were selected for funding on a competitive basis through a new U.S. Department of Transportation transit initiative announced in May 2010 called the State of Good Repair Program.
10.01.2010	“We must empower the U.S. Trade Representative to hold our trading partners accountable to their own environmental regulations,” said Blumenauer. “Otherwise, their companies may gain an unfair advantage by undercutting American businesses that are acting responsibly. With our economy heavily dependent on trade, we must empower the USTR to protect jobs and businesses by ensuring that our trading partners play by a set of fair rules. I am proud to stand up for American jobs and for our planet by introducing this legislation.” Specifically, the Blumenauer legislation would provide USTR with discretionary authority under section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 to take action if it finds a persistent pattern of conduct that indicates a trading partner: Fails to effectively enforce its environmental laws; Waives its environmental laws or weakens the protections afforded by such laws; Fails to provide for judicial or administrative proceedings giving access to remedies for violations of its environmental laws; or Fails to provide appropriate and effective sanctions or remedies for violations of its environmental laws.
09.29.2010	“Our war contracting process does too little to ensure that contractors act with the best interests of our troops and taxpayers in mind, and we’re going to change that,” said Blumenauer. “Companies that engage in the kind of appalling negligence that has been alleged in the KBR case should not receive a bailout in exchange for their mistakes. If you endanger our troops, you must pay the price, period. That is why we are introducing this important legislation to restore oversight and accountability to war contracting.” “We have a lifelong responsibility to ensure the health and safety of our brave men and women overseas and here at home,” said Schrader. “That KBR has been able to drag out the lawsuit Oregon Guardsmen filed for exposure to hexavalent chromium in Iraq while protecting KBR contracts has added insult to grave injuries. I am proud the Oregon delegation has been able to work together and introduce legislation to increase accountability for military contracts in warzones by requiring reports on the presence of unusually hazardous or nuclear risks and explicitly excluding indemnification for government claims against a military contractor, gross negligence, willful misconduct, or lack of good faith on the part of the contractor.” “Our government shouldn’t shield contractors when they recklessly put our service members’ lives at risk,” said Wyden. “As we saw happen to Oregon troops at Qarmat Ali, Iraq, not holding contractors accountable for gross negligence sends the message that it’s okay to fail our troops. This bill will ensure that contractors, and not taxpayers, will pay for any negligence, and give those who put their lives on the line for our country some much-needed legal protection.” “Private contractors need to be held accountable when their actions harm American troops,” said Merkley. “Oregon National Guardsmen and women were exposed to toxic chemicals on KBR’s watch. No government contract should put taxpayers on the hook for the misdeeds of war contractors.” The legislation comes in response to a lawsuit against KBR by 26 Oregon veterans over their exposure to cancer-causing hexavalent chromium at Qarmat Ali, a KBR facility in Iraq. During the course of the lawsuit, it became apparent that KBR had secured a clause in its contract that could put taxpayers – and not the company – on the hook for potentially massive damages, health and court costs. A federal judge in Portland ruled against KBR earlier this month, denying the attempts to have the case dismissed and finding the allegations are grounded in substantial evidence. Similar cases against KBR have been filed by current and former National Guard members from Indiana and West Virginia. The Accountability for Defense Contractors Act will: Require Congressional notification in all cases where the government accepts liability on behalf of a contractor in excess of $1,000,000. Close the “negligence loophole,” by revoking indemnification for harm caused by a defense contractor’s own gross negligence or misconduct. Prevent “indemnification-creep” by clarifying that a defense contractor is only indemnified for the hazards named in the contract, and must report additional hazards immediately.
09.29.2010	Blumenauer Has Sponsored Legislation to Award Block Grants to Local Governments That Face Significant Sex Trafficking Problem PORTLAND, OR – Today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer announced that the Department of Justice has awarded $479,000 to the Portland Police Department to partner with the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the U.S. Marshals Service to fight sex trafficking, child sex crimes, and to investigate and prosecute sex offenders. Blumenauer, who sponsored the Domestic Minor Sex Trafficking Deterrence and Victims Support Act of 2010, applauded the grant. “Sex crimes perpetrated against minors are a heinous crime that has become all too prevalent in the Portland area,” said Blumenauer. “We are in the process of making Portland a model livable city for the rest of the country, and we must do everything in our power to stop sex trafficking and other similar crimes here and across the country. I am proud that the Portland Police Department will be receiving nearly the maximum grant allowed under this program, and I will continue to do everything in my power to bring resources to bear on this urgent problem.” Following a Dan Rather report entitled “Pornland, Oregon” in May, 2010, Blumenauer sponsored H.R. 5575, the Domestic Minor Sex Trafficking Deterrence and Victims Support Act of 2010, which would award block grants to state or local governments that have significant sex trafficking to combat such trafficking. It also requires grant funds to be used to provide shelter and services to minors who are victims of sex trafficking and for service provider training. Congressman Blumenauer also joined the Congressional Caucus on Human Trafficking to help ensure the challenges that Portland faces are strongly represented in Congress. Download a fact sheet on the Child Sexual Predator Prosecution Program. [PDF]
09.29.2010	In the letter, the Members express their strong concern regarding these trade practices, and urge the Administration to mobilize its resources to bring China’s predatory green technology policies to an end. Recognizing the President’s commitment to trade enforcement to date, the letter underscores the need for the Administration to redouble its efforts by taking action on the basis of the Steelworkers’ Section 301 petition and by ensuring that USTR has the resources and personnel it needs to target these practices aggressively and comprehensively. “I have long championed the development of clean energy technology in this country for environmental and economic reasons,” said Blumenauer. “Investments in this technology have the ability to generate tremendous economic, environmental, and scientific benefits. Failure to protect the development of an industry that American scientists developed, our engineers perfected, and which has the potential to supply thousands of high-wage manufacturing and installation jobs would be a devastating blow to our ability to harness this industry’s future potential and creates a dangerous precedent for our economy. Our trade agreements stipulate a level playing field. It is imperative that we enforce these agreements to give force to that rule. Text of the letter to President Obama follows: September 28, 2010 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our strong concern regarding China’s use of unfair trade practices to promote the global competitiveness of its industries. Such practices are widespread, and should be addressed in every sector in which they occur. We write today, however, with urgency about China’s use of such unfair trade practices to bolster and, in fact, globally dominate the green technology sector, and to ask that you swiftly mobilize Administration resources to address these practices. In this regard, we support the petition filed by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Services Workers International Union, AFL-CIO CLC (“Steelworkers”) under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 (“Section 301”) on September 9, 2010, and urge your Administration to take prompt action to address the practices underlying this petition. China’s proliferation of unfair trade practices continues unabated with dire consequences for U.S. workers, business and innovators. Upon entry into the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) in 2001, China agreed to remove its existing barriers to trade and to not adopt new barriers. Nearly a decade later, however, China has not followed through on many commitments, and has developed a new generation of discriminatory and unfair trade practices designed to protect and promote its domestic industries at the expense of U.S. jobs, commerce and know-how. China’s approach to green technology policy exemplifies this grim trend. Through a variety of predatory trade practices, China’s industrial policy seeks to give its manufacturers an unfair advantage in the green technology revolution and to capture this emerging sector. These practices, combined with Chinese currency policy, are already taking a heavy toll on the U.S. green economy and U.S. trade balances. The United States cannot stand on the side lines. It must take urgent and decisive enforcement action to secure a level playing field for fair competition for green technology manufacturers. The Office of the United States Trade Representative (“USTR”) has a strong enforcement record with respect to China and your Administration has taken significant action in this regard, including the China tires 421 safeguard action, as well as WTO disputes against China regarding raw materials, financial services and steel products. It is now time to redouble these efforts in two respects – to take action on the basis of the Steelworkers’ Section 301 petition and to ensure that USTR has the resources and personnel it needs to target these practices aggressively and comprehensively. As you know, the Steelworkers’ Section 301 petition describes over 80 Chinese laws, regulations and practices that cover a broad spectrum of green technologies, including – solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, hydropower, nuclear, and advanced batteries – which seek to benefit Chinese manufacturers to the detriment of their American competitors. If left unchecked, these practices will achieve their intended effect, which is to drive American manufacturers from this critical emerging sector. While USTR will need to evaluate each aspect of the petition on its merits, we call on USTR to do so with a view to examining all appropriate responses that will quickly end these unfair trade practices. In addition, we urge you to redirect existing resources and dedicate significant new resources to the China trade enforcement mission of the United States government. USTR should build on existing capacities and expand to include additional personnel with linguistic, legal, investigative, trade and country expertise to target China’s increasingly sophisticated unfair trade practices. Specifically, a dedicated China trade enforcement team should be tasked with translating relevant laws and regulations, investigating possible unfair trade practices, going to China to assist in case development, evaluating possible legal claims, and responding expeditiously with targeted action, including WTO dispute settlement where appropriate. This team should be led by USTR’s Office of the General Counsel, and work closely with USTR’s Chief Counsel for China Trade Enforcement and USTR’s China Affairs Office, as well as other relevant offices within USTR and other agencies. We look forward to working with you and to doing our part to address these concerns in order to ensure that the United States is not denied the ability to fully compete in the green technology revolution.
09.23.2010	You may have received an e-mail with the following: UNDER THE NEW HEALTH CARE BILL - DID YOU KNOW THAT ALL REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS ARE SUBJECT TO A 3.8% “SALES TAX”? YOU CAN THANK NANCY, HARRY & BARACK (AND YOUR LOCAL CONGRESSMAN) FOR THIS ONE. IF YOU SELL YOUR $400,000 HOME, THIS WILL BE A $15,200 TAX. This is a myth. Part of the healthcare reform bill was paid for through a 3.8 percent Medicare contribution on unearned income for households with more than $250,000 in income. The contribution applies in very limited circumstances and it is not effective until 2013. Approximately two percent of U.S. households have $250,000 or more in income. Under existing law, up to $500,000 in gain from the sale of a principle residence is already tax-free for married taxpayers. The Affordable Health Care Act did not change this law. It does, however, apply a 3.8% tax only on capital gains of more than $500,000, for individuals with more than $250,000 in household income. In other words, if a married person had household income of $250,000 and receives $500,001 in capital gains on the sale of their home, he/she would have to pay 3.8% of $1.00, or $0.038. This provision applies to very few households. Read the Factcheck.org article.
09.23.2010	Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement: “I applaud the House’s passage today of a bill to increase small business lending and create new jobs across the country. I have heard from many of my constituents about the urgent shortage of credit for their businesses, and there has been a dramatic decrease in the amount of bank lending over the past several quarters. The $30 billion in small business lending in this bill will help reverse that trend, and will put the necessary capital back into the hands of our businesses and entrepreneurs to expand their businesses and add employees. This bill also provides many targeted tax breaks to spur robust small business growth and creation. “There has been a lot of talk about deficits and the long-term fiscal health of our country, which is why I am proud that this bill is revenue neutral over 10 years. Congress must take into account our country’s increasingly grim fiscal reality, and that’s exactly what we do in this bill.”
09.23.2010	“KBR’s repeated negligence has endangered our troops and cost lives,” said Blumenauer. “Such a long record of alleged misconduct indicates to me that KBR did not fear being held responsible by anyone. Our war contracting process does too little to ensure that contractors act with the best interests of our troops and taxpayers in mind, and we’re going to change that.” Blumenauer’s actions come in response to a lawsuit against KBR by 26 Oregon veterans over their exposure to cancer-causing hexavalent chromium at a KBR facility in Iraq. During the course of the lawsuit, it became apparent that KBR had secured a clause in its contract that would put taxpayers – and not the company – on the hook for potentially massive damages, health and court costs. A federal judge in Portland ruled against KBR earlier this month, denying the attempts to have the case dismissed and finding the allegations are grounded in substantial evidence. Similar cases against KBR have been filed by current and former National Guard members from Indiana and West Virginia. Blumenauer also released a report [available upon request] detailing KBR’s history of alleged misconduct in Iraq, including exposing troops to faulty shower wiring that caused fatal electrocutions, burning toxic chemicals in open pits on U.S. bases, and disturbing allegations of fraud, rape and human trafficking. Given the company’s numerous alleged transgressions, Blumenauer called on Secretary Gates to review the Department of Defense’s business relationship with KBR and delay entering into future contracts until the Department can be assured its contractors meet all legal and ethical standards. Blumenauer also announced legislation reigning in the secretive war contracting process that has shielded companies like KBR. The Blumenauer legislation will: Require Congressional notification in all cases where the government accepts liability on behalf of a contractor in excess of $500,000. Close the “negligence loophole,” preventing future contracts that provide financial immunity – and potential taxpayer bailouts – to companies who are found guilty or plead guilty to gross negligence.
09.21.2010	A two minute video featuring a few of the people and events Congressman Blumenauer has visited, met with, and presented to in the last few weeks.
09.20.2010	“The Senate’s passage of Water for the World Act is a major bipartisan achievement,” said Blumenauer. “Senator Durbin, Representative Payne and I have championed this legislation for over two years, and will now work with our colleagues for swift passage in the House. With the opening today of the United Nations anti-poverty summit in New York, now is the very best time for the United States to signal our commitment to meeting the Millennium Development Goals by passing the crucial legislation.” In 2005, the U.S. enacted Congressman Blumenauer’s bipartisan “Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act,” establishing the Millennium Development Goal’s water and sanitation target as a major goal of US foreign assistance. This landmark legislation now reaches millions. With funding at $315 million in 2010, this legislation is providing millions of people in developing nations with safe, clean drinking water. Although progress is being made through partnerships between the U.S. Government, NGOs, businesses, and local partners, more than one billion people lack access to safe drinking water, and more than two billion people live without improved sanitation. By 2025, climate change, drought, and rapid population growth will further stress water resources, leaving 2.8 billion people in more than 48 countries facing severe and chronic water shortages. The world’s greatest health problem may become the most serious threat to global security. “The Water for the World Act helps refocus America’s foreign assistance on one of the most dangerous problems facing developing countries: lack of access to clean drinking water,” said Blumenauer. “By working to provide clean water for the first time to 100 million people, we can bring safety and stability to regions where access to water has been a major cause of conflict. In 2005, Congress passed my bipartisan Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act, and I look forward to building on the successes of that program.” The Water for the World Act sets a benchmark of providing 100 million of the world’s poorest with first-time access to safe and sustainable drinking water and sanitation by 2015. To achieve this, the Act builds upon the success of the 2005 Water for the Poor Act by: Establishing an Senior Advisor for Water within USAID to implement country-specific water strategies; Creating a Special Coordinator for International Water within the State Department to coordinate the diplomatic policy of the U.S. with respect to global freshwater issues; Establishing programs in countries of greatest need that invest in local capacity, education, and coordination with US efforts; and Emphasizing cross-border and cross-discipline collaboration, as well as the utilization of low-cost technologies, such as hand washing stations and latrines. The Water for the World Act, S. 624/H.R. 2030, is endorsed by a number of global health and environmental advocates, including Water Advocates, the Natural Resources Defense Council, ONE, Mercy Corps, International Housing Coalition, CARE, and Population Services International.
09.15.2010	Even more troubling, if KBR is found to be at fault the company may never have to pay for its actions. A still-classified clause in KBR’s contract may result in the US Army – and US taxpayers – paying for the harm done by contractors. This is just one instance of past contractor actions having continued repercussions today. I continue to work for swift congressional action that will hold contractors accountable, strengthen oversight and protect both our troops and the taxpayers. In the coming days I will ask for more answers from the Department of Defense and develop legislation to ensure Congress is never again left in the dark – and on the hook – for harm committed by contractor negligence. I strongly support Mr. Welch’s efforts here today, and those who help tackle this problem on behalf of our brave men and women in uniform.
09.15.2010	We are becoming increasingly aware of contamination in our rivers, creeks and streams that occurs when we "flush" unwanted or unused pharmaceuticals. On Saturday, Septemeber 25th, the Drug Enforcement Adminsitration, in partnership with local law enforcement agencies, are sponsoring a national drug take back event from 10:00 am -2:00 pm. Events are planned throughout Oregon and all around the US. You can find the drug take back event being planned in your local area by using the search engine at the link below. Please dispose of your unwanted drugs in this environmentally sound manner. https://www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/takeback/
09.13.2010	“This new funding is absolutely critical to keeping teachers on the job and ensuring we are able to offer our children a quality education,” said Blumenauer. “Now more than ever, America must invest in our education system to ensure that we remain competitive in the global economy. Moreover, funds that keep our teachers working will provide a shot in the arm to the Oregon economy as we struggle out of the biggest recession of our lifetime. I am proud to continue to support the significant investments the Obama administration is making in our education system and in our local economy.” Since early 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act has supported more than 300,000 education jobs through stimulus funding. According to the Center on Education Policy, 75 percent of school districts would have had to cut jobs in the upcoming school year without the additional funding provided by Congress this summer.
09.13.2010	On September 13, Congressman Blumenauer addressed the Denver Chamber of Commerce’s annual Leadership Exchange, a delegation of 150 of Denver’s leading business and civic leaders, as they visited Portland to learn more about the region’s transportation, land use, and economic successes and challenges. Colorado Governor Bill Ritter introduced the Congressman and moderated a thoughtful discussion of his remarks with audience members.
09.13.2010	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer attended the grand opening of the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. He helped cut the ribbon along with Multnomah County Chair Jeff Cogen, Senator Ron Wyden, Advisory Council Member Teri Doyle, Director Martha Strawn Morris, and Portland City Commissioner Dan Saltzman. A main feature of the center is the remote courtroom, where victims of domestic violence can have a hearing for a restraining order with a judge using live video feed. The Gateway Center is a "one stop" service center, providing multiple resources to victims, and is the first domestic violence facility in Portland to have a publicly listed address. Congressman Blumenauer speaks at the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services Cutting the ribbon with Multnomah County Chair Jeff Cogen, Senator Ron Wyden, Advisory Council Member Teri Doyle, Director Martha Strawn Morris, and Portland City Commissioner Dan Saltzman. Reviewing the Gateway Center's remote courtroom
09.10.2010	Rebuilding and Renewing America Summit Panelists Harbor Panel: Moderator: Steve NovickPanelist: Michael Karnosh, Grand RondePanelist: Bob Wyatt, Chair of Lower Willamette GroupPanelist: Dan Opalski, EPAPanelist: Alan Sprott, Vigor IndustrialPanelist: Dean Marriot, Portland EBSPanelist: Travis Williams, Willamette RiverkeeperPanelist: Warren Rosenfeld, Calbag Metals Energy Transmission Panel: Moderator: Rep. Tobias ReadPanelist: Brent Fenty, Oregon Natural Desert AssocPanelist: Michael Jung, Silver Spring NetworkPanelist: Jim Piro, PGEPanelist: Don Furman, IberdrolaPanelist: Elliot Mainzer, BPAPanelist: Patrick Reiten, PacifiCorpPanelist: Jason Miner, 1000 Friends CRC Panel: Moderator: Steve Clark, Pamplin Media and Trimet BoardPanelist: Portland Mayor Sam AdamsPanelist: Vancouver Mayor Tim LeavittPanelist: Gail Achterman, Oregon Transportation CommissionPanelist: Chair Lynn Peterson, Clackamas CountyPanelist: Mara Gross, Coalition for a Livable FuturePanelist: John Mohlis, Columbia Pacific Building TradesPanelist: John Carter, Schnitzer SteelPanelist: Joe Cortright, Impresa Consulting Response Panel: Panelist: Duncan WysePanelist: Tom WalshPanelist: Rep. Bob JensonPanelist: Roberta MannPanelist: Angus DuncanPanelist: Tom Chamberlain
09.08.2010	Congressman Blumenauer meets with Jobs Corp program attendees Congressman Blumenauer and and Springdale Jobs Corp director Donna Patrick in front of the "Greentruck" electric vehicle.
09.07.2010	As students throughout the Portland region returned to schools today, Congressman Earl Blumenauer joined a festive First Day of School event at Jason Lee Elementary School in NE Portland. Also on hand were Portland Public Schools Superintendent Carole Smith and Portland Public School Board Member Dilafruz Williams. The visiting dignitaries congratulated Sascha Perrins and Jason Lee’s stellar Kindergarten teachers on their school’s remarkable achievement: 100% of last year kindergarten students entering 1st Grade today have met the “Ready to Learn” criteria that are essential for academic achievement as they grow. Congressman Blumenauer with Carole Smith, Portland Public Schools Superintendent and Dilafruz Williams, Portland Public School Board Member
09.07.2010	Following is a statement from Rep. Earl Blumenauer “I am very pleased to see the Obama administration moving forward with a plan to rebuild and renew America. Investing in infrastructure is the best way to get our workers back on the job and fuel our economic recovery. Dealing with our long list of urgent priorities, including rebuilding our crumbling roads and making America a leader in rail, is the only way to ensure that we remain competitive in the global economy. “I have long championed these priorities as part of a push for sustainable development and livable communities across the country. From increasing funding for the ‘New Starts’ program that supports local public transit projects to ending billions of dollars in wasteful subsidies for big oil companies, it is high time that we rebalance our infrastructure spending to improve efficiency and economic competitiveness. “I urge my colleagues in Congress on both sides of the aisle to work with the administration to address our critical infrastructure needs.”
09.01.2010	The response comes on the heels of a decision by a federal judge in Portland that a suit by 26 members of the Oregon National Guard against KBR over their exposure to cancer-causing hexavalent chromium at a KBR facility in Iraq is supported by facts and may proceed. Given the likelihood that KBR’s actions endangered U.S. service members, and given the extensive use of contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan, Blumenauer announced he will work to increase Congressional oversight of war contracts and get the terms of KBR’s contract declassified. “Our men and women in uniform already take enormous risks on behalf of our country,” said Blumenauer. “It is wrong that contractors whose negligence harms American troops may be held blameless as part of a classified contract. The only way to ensure contractors are doing everything they can to protect our soldiers is to increase the transparency and accountability of war contracts.” Specifically, Blumenauer plans to: · Work with the Obama administration to declassify the remaining portions of the KBR contract related to indemnification · Introduce legislation requiring that Congress be notified if indemnification payments occur · Fight to end special legal carve-outs for contractors whose negligence endangers U.S. troops Blumenauer’s announcement comes in the wake of a finding by U.S. District Magistrate Paul Papak that KBR brought a chemical compound containing hexavalent chromium to a facility protected by the Oregon Guard at Qarmat Ali and failed – in violation of its contract – to notify the Guard of the potential hazards (KBR did, however, see fit to warn one of its subcontractors). KBR has repeatedly claimed that the dangerous chemicals were left by Iraqi soldiers. “We owe it to these brave men and women to make this right by shedding light on the contracting process and eliminating any special protections received by companies that endanger their welfare,” said Blumenauer. “Moreover, we need to ensure that taxpayers will never find ourselves on the hook for a contractor’s negligence.” Blumenauer met July 17 with members of the Oregon Guard affected by chemical exposure in Iraq. Troops exposed to hexavalent chromium while serving in Iraq will be assisted through the new Qarmat Ali Medical Surveillance Program, which will provide exams with medical specialists.
09.01.2010	This Tuesday, Congressman Blumenauer visited North Portland to meet with local small business leaders. He toured Moonstruck Chocolates and Weir’s Cyclery, and then had a discussion with local small business owners at Proper Eats Restaurant. Among the attendees were Moonstruck Chocolate Co. CEO Dan Hossley, attorney Roy Schmidt, owner of Anna Bananas Sarah Anderson, the Co-owner of St John’s Booksellers Nena Rawdah and President of the North Portland Business Association Tracy Menasco. Congressman Blumenauer at Moonstruck Chocolates
08.31.2010	Congressman Blumenauer last week met with several SE Portland small distillery business owners to discuss the unique challenges facing the industry (notably an excise tax that can force artisan distilleries like these to pay five to seven times more than small breweries) and took a tour of the New Deal Distillery. Distillery Row is a collection of four distilleries in inner, industrial SE Portland that house multiple labels and distillers. They also operate a “one stop shop” website for culinary type tourists interested in tasting liquor as an alternative for folks who enjoy wine tasting. Participants in the roundtable included Artisan Spirits, House Spirits, Stone Barn Brandyworks, Integrity Spirits, Deco Distilling, New Deal Distillery, and Highball Distillery.
08.26.2010	Congressman Blumenauer spoke to a crowd of wind energy enthusiasts at the Oregon Museuem of Science and Industry (OMSI) at a free educational event celebrating wind energy development in the Pacific Northwest. It featured a high-tech wind farm control center; wind tunnel tests and wild birds from the Gorge. Joining the Congressman was Senator Ron Wyden and Kevin Lynch from Iberdrola Renewables. The Congressman talked about the many ways that Oregon is becoming North America's wind energy capitol.
08.26.2010	Congressman Blumenauer welcomed Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius to Portland on Tuesday, August 24th to discuss Oregon’s innovation and progress in implementing health care reform. Health advocates and industry leaders from local health systems, hospitals, small and large businesses, health plans, nurses and physicians gathered to discuss programs in Oregon that have improved the quality of health services, while controlling costs. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and Congressman Earl Blumenauer Panelists Eileen Brady, co-owner, New Seasons MarketDr. Joe Robertson, President, Oregon Health and Science UniversityBill Thorndike, CEO, Medford FabricationMark Ganz, President, Regence BlueCross BlueShield (Not pictured: Dr. George Brown, President and CEO, Legacy Health System, Lillian Shirley, Director, Multnomah County Health Department, Dr. Doug Koekkoek, Regional Chief Medical Officer, Providence Health and Services) Congressman Blumenauer and Sec. Sebelius at a children's health care insurance event.
08.23.2010	Congressman Blumenauer believes that Oregon is dramatically shortchanged by the current composition of the Farm Bill, particularly because we tend to have smaller scale operations and our farmers and ranchers largely produce food rather than heavily subsidized commodities. Here in the United States, the benefits directed to cotton, corn, and sugar are concentrated in the top percentages of farming interests and flow largely to a handful of states. The environmental titles which would benefit Oregon agricultural interests as well as the environment and the rest of the population are profoundly lacking. Congressman Blumenauer believes the next Farm Bill should maximize value to the taxpayer, the environment, and especially our Oregon farmers and ranchers. This meeting was the start of a conversation to learn specifically what policy refinements in the Farm Bill will make the most difference for Oregonians.
08.17.2010	The influx of new businesses along this previously forlorn street demonstrates the impact that new businesses can have in supporting existing merchants, spurring new residential development, and providing opportunities for the surrounding neighborhood to flourish. Blumenauer stopped at several locations along the street, including The ReBuilding Center, Mississippi Studios, North Portland Bike Works, and the Albina Youth Opportunity School. He then met with several small business owners at Prost to discuss how current issues in Congress are affecting small business owners. Congressman Blumenauer with Jim Brunberg – Co-Owner, Mississippi Studios Congressman Blumenauer speaks with Mississippi Ave small businesses at ProstJanine Benner, staff for the CongressmanShane Endicott, Executive Director of Our United Villages (The Rebuilding Center)Congressman BlumenauerSarah Shaoul – Owner, Black Wagon Children’s StoreBryan Steelman – Owner, Por Que No TacosCorey Kastor – Farmer’s Insurance AgentMeeky Blizzard, staff for Congressman Blumenauer
08.12.2010	Congressman Blumenauer visited the Portland VA Medical Center to meet with the newly appointed Director, John Patrick. Director Patrick will oversee the Medical Center’s 2,845 employees, who serve the medical needs of veterans from all over the state of Oregon as well as some from Washington, Idaho, and even California. The Medical Center is both a teaching and research hospital and has developed many innovative programs in response to the wide range of needs of the regions’ veterans. One of the newest programs is the Women Veteran’s Health Clinic, scheduled to open formally in September. Congressman Blumenauer spoke with Director Patrick about the needs and challenges of his new position and how they can work together to make the Medical Center as successful it can possibly be. He also made a quick tour and met with staff in charge of significant programs at the hospital. Photos Courtesy of Kimberly Wilkie Congressman Blumenauer and Nancy Sloan, Veterans Program Manager Congressman Blumenauer and Stephen Weinberg, Clinical Manager, Ward 6D Congressman Blumenauer with Floss Mambourg, Deputy Director of Patient Care Services and Chief Nursing Officer Director John Patrick, Congressman Blumenauer, Nancy Sloan, Women Veterans Program Manager
08.10.2010	Last week, Congressman Blumenauer invited over 75,000 housholds in the third congressional district to participate in a question and answer session by phone. Audio recordings of these telephone town halls are now available to download onto your computer or mobile MP3 player: Download the 1st August 2nd callDownload the 2nd August 2nd call Download the August 4th call
08.05.2010	The Congressman and Speaker gathered a group of local stakeholders including Portland Mayor Sam Adams, Tom Kelly of Neil Kelly Co, Connie Ashbrook, Executive Director of Oregon Tradeswomen, and Gregg Kantor , CEO of NW Natural to discuss Clean Energy Works Portland. Tom Kelly and Connie Ashbrook spoke about how the Clean Energy Works Program, now expanded to all of Oregon, helped hire and provide job training to workers. Gregg Kantor described how the program partnered with local utilities. Later, Congressman Blumenauer, Speaker Pelosi, Mayor Adams, and others toured a NE Portland home whose owners were participants in the Clean Energy Works program and had recently made major energy efficiency upgrades to their home. Learn more about the Clean Energy Works Program.
08.03.2010	
07.30.2010	The bill would have eliminated a reporting requirement burdensome to small businesses, which the independent Taxpayer Advocate recently indicated could pose potential “administrative challenges to taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).” The reporting requirement is scheduled to take effect in 2012. This bill would have permanently eliminated this requirement and potential burden from small businesses. “It is sad that Republicans are more interested in protecting international tax loopholes for large corporations rather than small businesses,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I have been working to protect Oregon business owners from this difficult reporting requirement. I will continue my work to enact this common sense fix and ensure we protect the interests of America’s small business owners.” The Small Business Tax Relief Act received the support of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB).
07.30.2010	Following is a statement from Rep. Blumenauer: “It’s more than unfortunate that it has taken this and several other tragedies for us to finally make these common sense and overdue changes to the laws regulating oil and gas drilling. “For too long, we’ve allowed the biggest oil companies to act like our nation’s public land and waters belong to them. Lax regulations, minimal environmental oversight, and a prioritization of dirty fuels over clean, renewable energy have led us to this point. “While the legislation we passed does not address our grave addiction to oil, which is the reason we are drilling further and deeper than ever before, it takes real steps to prevent future oil spills and improve worker safety. “I am pleased with the steps we took today, particularly closing royalty loopholes so that oil and gas companies can no longer exploit public lands without paying. Yet this must be only the beginning. Many more advances will be necessary to not just hold companies accountable, but fundamentally change the equation to protect the environment, workers, and taxpayers.” Facts on the CLEAR Act The CLEAR Act will increase safety, help restore the Gulf Coast, crack down on ethical lapses, require businesses to be responsible for their actions, and close royalty loopholes to ensure the American people receive their fair share for drilling and other extraction of public resources. (This incorporates provisions from the “Blowout Prevention Act of 2010” (H.R. 5626) by Chairman Waxman, which was reported unanimously by the House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman on July 15, 2010 by a vote of 48 to 0, and provisions from the “Oil Spill Accountability and Environmental Protection Act of 2010” (H.R. 5629) by Chairman Oberstar, which was reported by voice vote by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on July 1, 2010.) New Oil Drilling Safety Standards: Directly responds to the Deepwater Horizon disaster while also looking forward and attempting to prevent the next catastrophe. The bill would require strong new safety standards for offshore drilling, including independent certifications of critical equipment, demonstrations of the ability to respond to future blowouts or major spills, increased inspections, stiffer penalties for safety violations, and an end to the practice of issuing environmental waivers for drilling plans. It would require all vessels and rigs off U.S. coasts – even foreign owned ones -- to fully adhere to U.S. safety standards. The legislation provides for training to help ensure that only fully qualified individuals serve as federal oil and gas inspectors under strict ethical standards. Holding BP Accountable, Eliminating Outdated Liability Limits: Ensures that American taxpayers are not left on the hook to bail out oil companies by increasing liability limits and financial responsibility requirements on offshore facilities; responsible parties will cover 100 percent of the oil pollution cleanup costs and damages caused by spills they create. Specifically, the bill removes the current $75 million cap on economic damages to be paid to residents and small businesses by oil companies after oil spills and increases to $300,000 the financial responsibility offshore operators must demonstrate in most cases. Reforming Federal Oversight of Oil Drilling/MMS: Abolishes the scandal-ridden Minerals Management Service (MMS) and divides it into three separate entities to eliminate conflicts-of-interest: one to manage leasing & permitting; another to do the policing of health, safety, and environmental regulations; and a third to collect the American people’s energy revenues. Mineral Management Service Ethics Reform: Takes aggressive steps to crack down on the extreme misconduct at the Mineral Management Service – the agency charged with collecting royalties from oil and gas companies. The CLEAR Act contains a strong “revolving door” provision that would add a 2-year ban on accepting employment with certain companies. That provision would also add new recusal requirements and provide stricter penalties for violations. Recently the Interior Inspector General raised serious concerns about the “ease with which [safety inspectors] move between industry and government,” while press reports have shown that three out of four oil and gas industry lobbyists had previously worked in the federal government. Strengthening Oil Spill Commission: Adds teeth to the President’s Commission on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill by giving the Commission subpoena power so they can get the answers they need to get to the bottom of what actually happened. The House passed similar legislation (H.R. 5481) on June 23, 2010. It also requires the commission to: consult regularly with the experts looking into the oil spill at the National Association of Engineers and National Research Council; hire staff with technical expertise in petroleum engineering, rig safety, or drilling; and report to Congress on recommendations to ensure effective oversight, inspection, monitoring, and response capabilities. Restoring the Gulf & Coastal Communities: Establishes a Gulf of Mexico Restoration Program to coordinate the efforts to return the Gulf to health following the oil rig explosion. It also works to ensure that fees from offshore drilling go toward protecting and improving our oceans, as they are critical to the health and economic livelihoods of our coastal communities. Royalty Reform, Making Oil Companies Pay Their Fair Share for Drilling on Public Lands: Closes royalty loopholes that allow oil companies to drill for free on public lands during times of high oil prices due to a flawed Republican energy bill in 1995. Consumers paying high gas prices that fuel record profits should not be shortchanged by receiving no royalty on the sale of the public’s oil. Taxpayers for Common Sense has urged Congress to pass the CLEAR Act and stop the $50 billion giveaway to the oil and gas industry. Cleanup Safety: Establishes new procedures for the use of chemical dispersants to ensure their safety to water quality and the environment. Land and Water Conservation Fund: Makes good on the promise made over 45 years ago that money obtained from the sale of the public’s resources be used to protect and conserve our natural, historical, and recreational resources by providing mandatory full funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) and the Historic Preservation Fund (HPF). This is about a commitment to offset some of the destructive effects of oil and gas production by preserving places with high quality recreation opportunities and vital wildlife habitat. At last, we will be able to ensure that the entire American public sees a return from the private use of our nation’s Outer Continental Shelf resources. OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS WORKER WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION ACT Workers on the Deepwater Horizon rig had serious safety concerns prior to the explosion, but were reluctant to come forward with those concerns, which resulted in the death of 11 Americans. Workers on oil rigs, like the Deepwater Horizon, risk losing their jobs if they report dangerous workplace conditions. The workers performing clean-up activities on the Outer Continental Shelf similarly have no protections against employer retaliation for raising health and safety concerns. This bill extends whistleblower protections to workers regarding Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas exploration, drilling, production, or cleanup, whose employers are engaged in those activities – as they are best position to discover safety hazards. Modeled after other modern whistleblower statutes, this bill would: Prohibit an employer from discharging or otherwise discriminating against an employee who reports to the employer or government official that he or she reasonably believes the employer is violating the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA). Protect employees who prepare and/or testify about the alleged violation, report injuries or unsafe conditions related to the offshore work, refuse to work based on a good faith belief that the offshore work could cause injury or impairment or a spill, or refuse to perform in a manner that they believe violates the OCSLA. Establish a process for an employee to appeal an employer’s retaliation by filing a complaint with the Secretary of Labor. Make an aggrieved employee eligible for reinstatement, back pay and compensatory and consequential damages, and, where appropriate, exemplary damages. Require employers post a notice that explains employee rights and remedies under this Act and provide training to the employees of these rights.
07.27.2010	Two weeks ago, Blumenauer voted against the war funding and for domestic priority provisions in the 2010 Supplemental Appropriations Act. Among other things, this funding would have included $117 million to preserve about 1,600 jobs for Oregon educators. Unfortunately, the Senate voted to strip this and other key provisions from the bill, including: $10 billion for an Education Jobs Fund for states to retain or hire teachers $4.95 billion for the Pell Grant Program $1 billion for a Labor Department summer jobs program $4.5 billion for the settlement of two class-action suits against the federal government by Native Americans and African American farmers Following is a statement from Rep. Blumenauer on today’s vote: “As a nation, we face challenges ranging from education shortfalls and growing energy needs to a slowly recovering job market. We cannot afford to escalate the Afghan war with a credit card. The mounting loss of life and widespread corruption gives no indication that more money and more boots on the ground will achieve success in Afghanistan. “We need success at home. I cannot support a bill that spends $37 billion in Afghanistan while denying $10 billion for teacher jobs, $1 billion for summer youth employment, $5 billion for Pell grants, and $701 million for border security. “Across Oregon, our priorities are helping small businesses, creating jobs, and supporting our schools. “We need to start making the right choices. This means drawing down from a costly war that Americans and Afghans want to end, and investing in a better, more productive future for our country.”
07.22.2010	Congressman Blumenauer in a July 17th meeting with members of the Oregon National Guard The announcement comes on the heels of a letter Congressman Blumenauer sent to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, requesting the classified terms of KBR’s contract with the Army that may have transferred KBR liability to the federal government and taxpayers. “It is critical that we care for every veteran wounded in Iraq, and I am glad the VA is taking action to monitor, test, and treat the members of the Oregon National Guard who suffered chemical exposure,” said Blumenauer. “We must also address the bigger issue of preventing this sort of catastrophe from ever happening again. Negligently exposing people to toxic chemicals will not be tolerated, and whoever is responsible must be held fully accountable.” “Last year, I introduced a bill to ensure military personnel are informed if they have been subjected to potentially harmful materials or contaminants,” said Schrader. “I am pleased to hear that the Veterans Administration is establishing a program for soldiers who may have experienced the harmful effects of materials such as Hexavalent Chromium so that they are able to receive necessary testing. We have a responsibility to ensure the health and safety of our brave men and women overseas and here at home. That responsibility does not end when they leave the combat zone – our responsibility is a lifelong commitment.” The VA will be contacting the veterans by letter and phone call to enroll those exposed into the program. They will provide the following services: Provide ear, nose, throat exam Provide lung exam Take chest x-ray (which they will continue to do every 5 years) Skin exam
07.22.2010	While housing affordability traditionally has been measured by the extent to which a household can cover the purchase price of a home, Blumenauer has introduced the Transportation and Housing Affordability Transparency Act, or “THAT Act,” to create a transportation affordability index to provide information about the costs associated with the location of a home. “When going through the experience of looking to buy or rent a home, at first the price seems pretty straight forward. Yet there is a hidden cost that can sneak up on us: how much it costs to get from the driveway to work, school, the store and back,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Commuting costs can be much less in areas where you can take a bus, hop on a metro, or walk. People should be able to choose where they live and how they get around, and more information about these costs will help families budget and plan for the future. This information will also make it easier for policy-makers to provide the housing and transportation choices that people want and need. Background The THAT Act requires the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to work with the Department of Transportation and other stakeholders to develop a transportation affordability index that measures the transportation costs associated with the location of a home. The bill requires HUD to take into consideration a number of factors that determine transportation costs, including the location and frequency of transit service, the average vehicle miles travelled in the area, and the availability of services such as grocery stores, bike lanes, community centers, and schools. HUD will be required to share this information with the general public, realtors, regional and local housing and planning agencies, states, and entities that engage in transportation demand management programs. The bill also requires HUD, where feasible, to incorporate transportation costs into its housing programs and work with other federal agencies, states, and local governments to incorporate transportation costs into their housing programs. The information made available by this legislation will ensure transparency in housing and transportation costs for consumers, housing providers, local and regional planning agencies, and other stakeholders. It will also enable HUD, where appropriate, to incorporate transportation costs into its affordability measures and standards. The bill is supported by a number of organizations, including the National Association of Realtors, Smart Growth America, the Low Income Housing Coalition, The American Planning Association, the Center for Neighborhood Technology, the American Institute of Architects, the Association for Commuter Transport, U.S. Green Building Council, and Reconnecting America.
07.22.2010	Green Scissors 2010 targets four major areas for budget cuts: energy, agriculture and biofuels, infrastructure, and public lands. Blumenauer, an environmental leader and member of the tax-writing Committee on Ways and Means, has introduced legislation to repeal a number of unnecessary oil tax subsidies, a recommendation made in Green Scissors 2010. His End Big Oil Tax Subsidies Act would save taxpayers more than $30 billion over the next five years. Following is a statement from Congressman Blumenauer: “The environment is our most precious asset, and we cannot afford to squander it in land-giveaways or open it to some of the largest corporations on the planet for tax free drilling, mining, and logging. “Green Scissors 2010 provides a path forward for eliminating government programs and subsidies that are wasteful to taxpayers, harmful to the environment and bad for consumers. “I recently introduced legislation to end the billions of dollars in subsidies that go to the oil and gas industry, which Green Scissors highlights. In all, this legislation would repeal more than $30 billion over the next five years. If given the option, I am certain Americans would not choose to subsidize oil companies that made record profits in the last few years over investing in other priorities – like educating our children, creating jobs, and rebuilding our communities. “With this report, we now have many opportunities to cut federal spending while charting a responsible, sustainable course for the economy, our planet, and our stronger collective future.”
07.19.2010	Dear Veteran, I want to make sure you were aware that the VA has just made a significant change to its rules on the proof required for PTSD claims that will benefit thousands of veterans. As you know, many combat veterans from all wars have sought and failed to get the veterans benefits to receive treatment for their PTSD. First the existence of PTSD was denied, then strict requirements for proof kept many veterans from receiving the benefits and care they needed and deserved. The Obama Administration has changed this process. As of July 12, 2010, it will be simpler to prove a PTSD claim. There is still a process in place to prove that a veteran has combat-related PTSD, but he or she will no longer have to provide proof of a specific stressor. According to the VA’s fact sheet: Under the new rule, VA will not require corroboration of a PTSD stressor related to fear of hostile military or terrorist activity if a VA psychiatrist or psychologist confirms that the stressful experience recalled by a Veteran adequately supports a diagnosis of PTSD and the Veteran's symptoms are related to the claimed stressor. There is much more information available about this change, download a copy of the Fact Sheet or contact my office at 503-231-2300 for a copy. The rule change applies to all claims begun on or after July 12, 2010, as well claims that have yet to be decided by the VA Regional Office or the Board of Veteran’s Appeals. Contact a veterans service organization representative for more information and assistance if you are interested in filing a claim for PTSD or reapplying under this new rule. Sincerely, Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress
07.14.2010	The letter requests that Secretary Gates address this particular case, as well as general concerns about how defense contractors are being held accountable for their operations. “The Department of Defense must immediately address the disturbing accounts of war contractor KBR getting special legal protections, even if they are found to have knowingly jeopardized the lives of Oregon soldiers,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “There should be no special carveout for war contractors who risk the lives of soldiers or civilians, and U.S taxpayers should not be on the hook for their negligence. Americans deserve to know the truth about which and how many contractors have been given special legal reprieve. I expect the Department of Defense to explain how we are holding contractors accountable despite contracts that seem to free them of any legal consequences.” The letter Congressman Blumenauer sent to Secretary Gates follows: July 14, 2010 Dear Secretary Gates, I am writing with serious concerns about the accountability for defense contractors operating abroad. A recent article in The Oregonian brings new attention to the legal safe haven in which some, if not all, defense contractors in contingency operations appear to operate. In my state, Oregon Army National Guard veterans have filed suit against KBR for knowingly exposing servicemen and women to hexavalent chromium, a highly toxic and cancer-causing compound. KBR’s claims of indemnification via the classified terms of its contract could leave the Army – and by extension the U.S. taxpayer – responsible for all lawsuits, healthcare costs, and court fees resulting from the contractor’s own alleged negligence. Contractors that put our servicemen and women, as well as innocent civilians, at risk should be held accountable. I am deeply concerned that the Department’s contracts appear to leave the U.S. service members doubly exposed: first to the unsafe environment created by these contractors, and second as taxpayers potentially paying for the legal defense of the very contractors causing harm. I respectfully request an immediate response to the following: In the case of KBR’s involvement with Oregon National Guard exposure to hexavalent chromium in Iraq, please clarify if KBR is asserting indemnification through the terms of its contract with the Department. If so, within 5 days please provide my office with the terms of indemnification granted in this contract and any other contract with KBR in a contingency operation. Within 5 days, please provide my office with a copy of the Department’s original contract with KBR and any modifications thereto under which the work related to the hexavalent chromium exposure, highlighting the provisions obligating the government to indemnify KBR actions. Also within 5 days please provide my office with the terms of any other indemnification agreements with KBR in contingency operations. Within 10 days, please provide my office with a list of contractors that have been granted similar indemnification for services provided in a contingency operation since 2001, the list of lawsuits filed as a result of contractor actions, and the amount of taxpayer money the Federal government has paid out as a result of indemnity agreements with contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan or otherwise. Within 10 days, please provide an answer as to whether Congress was notified when the Department entered into contracts that burdened U.S. taxpayers with the risk and legal responsibility for the actions of private contractors. Specifically, did the Department provide any notice to Congress of these indemnification agreements? If so, when, and to what Committees? And perhaps most importantly, within 10 days please provide an explanation of what steps the Department is taking to minimize government and taxpayer liability in future instances of contractors acting outside the scope of their contracts or putting U.S. personnel or civilians at risk. Further, what steps is the Department taking to ensure that Congress is aware of current and future obligations under similar indemnity agreements? I look forward to a thorough and prompt response to my inquiry. Sincerely, EARL BLUMENAUER Member of Congress
07.07.2010	Congressman Earl Blumenauer announced the introduction of bipartisan legislation that would provide a Medicare and Medicaid benefit for voluntary patient-physician consultations regarding advance care planning. These consultations will ensure that individuals’ values and goals for care are identified, understood, and respected. Blumenauer introduced similar legislation in 2009 with broad bi-partisan support and was passed by the House of Representatives as part of the health care reform bill, though it was not included in the Senate version due to the reconciliation rules. The legislation also provides grants to states to create Physician Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (POLST) programs, allows portability of advance directives across states, and requires standards to include completed advance care planning documents within a patient’s electronic health record, increasing the likelihood these documents are kept up-to-date and available. The Personalize Your Care Act will be introduced when Congress returns from recess. Blumenauer was joined by physicians, representatives from health care and senior groups, and a spokeswoman from a family who shared their personal experience with end of life counseling and care.
07.02.2010	Domestic Funding Blumenauer voted in favor of an amendment that adds additional funding to a bill the Senate passed for emergency spending, including $10 billion for an Education Jobs Fund, $4.95 billion for Pell Grants, $701 million for border security, $180 million for innovative technology energy loans, $163 million for schools on military installations, $142 million in additional Gulf Coast oil spill funding, $50 million in emergency food assistance, and $16.5 million to build a new solider processing center at Fort Hood. This funding is on top of the Senate-passed $5.1 billion for FEMA disaster relief, $2.9 billion for Haiti, $162 million for the Gulf Coast oil spill, and over $600 million for other domestic needs in discretionary appropriations. Additionally, the bill includes $13 billion in mandatory funding for Vietnam veterans exposed to Agent Orange as requested by the President. Votes on War FundingBlumenauer voted in favor of a series of amendments to withdraw troops from Afghanistan, and prohibit funding an escalation of the war. He voted to fund only continued protection of current personnel in Afghanistan, and for the beginning of a safe and orderly withdrawal of all military personnel. Blumenauer also voted on a plan for withdrawal that would include quarterly reports, and requires another vote by Congress by July 2011 – the date President Obama proposed to end the surge – if his actions do not comply with the required strategy. Blumenauer Statement on Afghanistan Continued: “We cannot afford the loss of American and Afghan lives nor the money to pay for it. “Had I known that for the past nine years we would see only a series of missteps, I would have voted to cut off of all funding for the war in Afghanistan. “We halted the critical effort against the Taliban and started the disastrous war in Iraq, which cost thousands of deaths and serious injuries while wasting over a trillion dollars, with more of the bill coming due in years to come. With the U.S. distracted and under-invested in Afghanistan, the situation festered and deteriorated. “Today, the widespread corruption, drug-trafficking, war lord rule, and civilian deaths have undercut our efforts, leaving Americans and the corrupt Karzai regime increasingly unpopular. “For the cost of one month of this operation we could hire every member of the Afghan workforce and pay them more than the average annual income of $400. This illustrates not just the magnitude of the effort, but the possibilities of other approaches. We must deal with this reality at a time the Afghan people and their Pakistani neighbors are exploring some sort of accord with elements of the Taliban. “With the entanglements of 94,000 U.S. troops on the ground, over 100,000 contractors, and countless civilian employees and humanitarian workers, it is impossible to pull the plug overnight. “Yet the American public and the Afghan people are tired of the war and want the American troops to leave. Six months or six years are not likely to make any difference in the outcome, only the cost in human lives and scarce dollars. My votes signal in the strongest possible terms that this war must be wound down not escalated.”
07.01.2010	“This federal funding will help address the unique needs of Oregon’s homeless female veterans” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Women who have served in combat face myriad challenges when they return to Oregon. This funding will make a needed difference for these brave women and their families.” It is estimated that there are 25,226 women veterans in the state of Oregon. “This will add a specific focus for female veterans into our existing Homeless Veterans Reintegration Project and expand that program,” said EV Armitage, Central City Concern’s Executive Coordinator.
06.30.2010	“Today we took a critical step to advance consumer protections, prevent predatory lending, and end the era of ‘too big to fail’ banks,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Wall Street games and the resulting financial crisis cost us 8 million jobs, $17 trillion in retirement savings and needless tragedy for families across the country. I’ve heard from Oregonians across the state who have lost their homes and their jobs. Their stories are a testament to the need for the Wall Street reform bill we proudly passed tonight.” The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will help prevent the risky financial practices that led to the financial meltdown and stop large financial firms from gambling with Americans’ retirement and college savings and home values. The bill will create the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a new consumer watchdog devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices. This independent bureau will provide clear and accurate information to families and small businesses to ensure that bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair and affordable. Just like the FDA does for medical safety, the CFPB will set safety standards to prevent practices such as hidden credit card fees, deceptive “fine print,” and other financial abuses that have escaped oversight so far. The bill has been called the “strongest set of Wall Street reforms in three generations” by Elizabeth Warren, Chair of the nonpartisan Congressional Oversight Panel, and has been endorsed by the AARP, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Council of Institutional Investors, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Restaurant Association, Public Citizen, SEIU, and US PIRG, among other organizations. The bill was publicly debated for more than 50 hours, and includes over 70 Republican and bipartisan amendments.
06.30.2010	“It is unfair that ordinary Americans pay into a system that largely exempts the biggest, most polluting industries,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Billions of dollars in unnecessary carve-outs for huge oil companies have exacerbated the deficit and undermined our ability to invest in other priorities, like educating our children, creating jobs, and rebuilding our communities. While these tax breaks might have made sense decades ago for a fledgling oil industry, American taxpayers no longer need to subsidize this trillion-dollar enterprise.” In 2008, the top five oil companies made a combined profit of $100 billion. In 2009, ExxonMobil hit an all-time record $45.2 billion in profits, yet paid no U.S. federal income taxes. In fact, they got a $156 million tax refund. The End Big Oil Tax Subsidies Act (EBOTS) would remove unnecessary subsidies for the biggest oil companies, including a number of the tax credits, deductions, special depreciation rules, exclusions, and exemptions for various activities associated with exploring, drilling and refining activities. These subsidies were put into place to provide incentives for oil exploration and to lower the price of oil, and they are failing on both accounts. The price of oil has fluctuated from $35 to $82 to $145 a barrel in the last two years. Since oil is a global commodity, impacted more by world events than domestic subsidies, oil prices have continued to rise despite billions of dollars in tax breaks. The billions of dollars in American taxpayer subsidies amount to pennies saved at the pump, with the per barrel benefit flowing mostly to China, Japan and Europe. Unlike the growing clean energy industries, oil companies have been drilling, exploring, and researching for decades and no longer need help from the American taxpayer. A full summary of the provisions in the bill follows: End the section 45I credit for wells that are nearing the end of their useful lives and that are producing limited quantities of higher cost oil and gas. End the section 43 credit, which provides oil companies a 15% credit for the cost of extracting oil using costly technologies after the readily accessible oil has been exhausted. This credit allows companies to off-set the cost of chemicals and injectants to access oil and the cost of constructing pipelines and related facilities. End the section 263(c) provision allowing the expensing of “intangible drilling costs.” This means the oil company can deduct the full amount of those costs in the first year they occur, rather than—as other businesses would—amortizing them over time. These intangible costs include the cost of wages, planning costs, and the supplies relating to drilling wells. End the section 613 depletion for oil and gas wells, which allows oil and gas companies to deduct 15% of the income produced by the well each year. This deduction often ends up deducting more than the value of the investment in the well, according to a report by Friends of the Earth. End the section 193 deduction for tertiary injectants, or chemicals and other solvents injected into the ground to retrieve oil, during the taxable year. The deduction would remain for processes using anthropogenic carbon dioxide as an injectant. End the section 469 exception for passive loss limitations for oil and gas properties, which allows oil and gas companies to shelter active income. Typically, active income must be offset with active losses or deductions, if at all. But that’s not true if you own an oil and gas well -- there you can off-set your income with losses, even though you don’t materially participate in the business that lost income. It is a classic tax shelter that has been eliminated in much of the rest of the tax code. End the section 199 domestic manufacturing deduction for oil and gas production, so that oil and gas companies don’t get a unique benefit simply for generating income from domestic oil and gas activities. This deduction allows for the deduction of a percentage of the gross receipts of domestic production minus the costs associated with that production. Modify § 179C, Election to Expense Certain Refineries. This provision was added to the tax code in 2008 to allow the write-off of the costs associated with the construction of refineries to process tar sands or shale oil – among the dirtiest and most wasteful of energy to generate. The bill would bar oil companies that exploit shale and tar sands from taking advantage of the expensing provision. Repeal Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) accounting for the major integrated oil companies. LIFO is being phased out as the United States moves to an international accounting standard. While it persists, it allows the large oil companies to hugely understate their income. Match the section 167 amortization periods for oil and gas companies at 7 years. Certain companies may write off the costs associated with exploratory work in two years, while other companies must amortize those same costs over seven years; this will level the playing field by requiring seven years for all large oil companies.
06.29.2010	“Portland Community College is the largest educational institution in Oregon, and a leader in health care training,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “With a tough job market and recovering economy, this funding will help prepare hundreds of Oregonians for health care positions and pay dividends for years to come. This grant is a win for the economy that will benefit Oregon health care and spark job growth.” “The $125 million awarded today will create opportunities for working Americans to train for high-demand occupations with the help of our nationwide community college system,” said U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis. “Our goal is to help workers across the country prepare for and secure good jobs, and with support from these colleges and other critical stakeholders, we’ll ensure we reach a broad base of individuals in need.”
06.29.2010	“We are literally standing on one of the best solutions to the energy equation, which is the natural heat of the earth,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The United States has more geothermal capacity than any other country, and by harnessing this heat we can generate clean, homegrown energy that won’t spill into the oceans or exacerbate global warming. With new technology, like that being employed by the Oregon Institute of Technology, geothermal power can be generated and used on-site. Through this tax credit, we are providing an opportunity to further develop geothermal, improve on the available technology and expand our renewable energy options.” Geothermal energy facilities supply environmentally-friendly, baseload power while producing very low emissions. Once installed, geothermal power is incredibly reliable, with average availabilities of 90% or higher, compared to about 75% for coal plants. Geothermal energy resources are present in all 50 U.S. states today, and in California more than 40 geothermal plants provide nearly five percent of the state’s electricity. To access this capacity, however, developers of this power source need assistance ameliorating the risks associated with geothermal energy investment. While the costs for electricity from geothermal facilities are declining, these installations are complex, long-term projects. Offering a tax credit will help offset these costs and spur the growth of this burgeoning technology. Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) introduced legislation to provide a 30% investment tax credit for geothermal energy – energy generated by the natural heat of the earth – through December 31, 2016. The Geothermal Energy Investment Act, H.R. 5612, would provide a longer-term incentive to support substantial growth in utility scale geothermal power, distributed on-site power generation, and heating for buildings and commercial processes. “We are literally standing on one of the best solutions to the energy equation, which is the natural heat of the earth,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The United States has more geothermal capacity than any other country, and by harnessing this heat we can generate clean, homegrown energy that won’t spill into the oceans or exacerbate global warming. With new technology, like that being employed by the Oregon Institute of Technology, geothermal power can be generated and used on-site. Through this tax credit, we are providing an opportunity to further develop geothermal, improve on the available technology and expand our renewable energy options.” Geothermal energy facilities supply environmentally-friendly, baseload power while producing very low emissions. Once installed, geothermal power is incredibly reliable, with average availabilities of 90% or higher, compared to about 75% for coal plants. Geothermal energy resources are present in all 50 U.S. states today, and in California more than 40 geothermal plants provide nearly five percent of the state’s electricity. To access this capacity, however, developers of this power source need assistance ameliorating the risks associated with geothermal energy investment. While the costs for electricity from geothermal facilities are declining, these installations are complex, long-term projects. Offering a tax credit will help offset these costs and spur the growth of this burgeoning technology.
06.25.2010	Dear Madam Speaker, "If Americans pulled back and started paying attention to this war, it would become even less popular." This is how a Senior Advisor to General Stanley McChrystal characterized the war in Afghanistan to Rolling Stone reporter Michael Hastings in his controversial article, "The Runaway General". News coverage of the Hastings story has focused almost exclusively on the intemperate and inappropriate remarks of General McChrystal and his aides, which has led to the resignation of General McChrystal. What we find particularly disturbing, however, are the characterizations of the war by key military leaders that contradict what Congress and the American people have been told by the administration. Until a full and complete explanation of these comments and views are presented to Congress, we believe that a vote by the House of Representatives on the Administration's request for a supplemental appropriation for the war in Afghanistan would be inappropriate. According to the article, "Instead of beginning to withdraw troops next year, as Obama promised, the military hopes to ramp up its counterinsurgency campaign even further." A senior military official stationed in Afghanistan is quoted: "There's a possibility we could ask for another surge of U.S. forces next summer if we see success here." General McChrystal's Chief of Operations, Major General Bill Mayville, described the war in Afghanistan as unwinnable: "It's not going to look like a win, smell like a win or taste like a win. This is going to end in an argument." These comments raise serious questions about the war, those responsible for prosecuting the war, and the prospect that a withdrawal of US forces will begin next July as the president has assured us. We therefore respectfully request that action on the FY 2010 Supplemental Appropriation Act for the war in Afghanistan not be brought before the House of Representatives unless and until these serious questions and concerns are fully addressed.
06.22.2010	“This federal funding will make a local difference for Oregon’s veterans” said Rep. Blumenauer. “With the sacrifices they have made abroad, they deserve assistance securing a living when they come home. It is unthinkable that more than half of the soldiers from the 41st Brigade, who returned in April, are not employed. Funding for this program will help retrain veterans so they can enter the workforce.” As of April, statewide estimates form the Oregon National Guard Reintegration Team showed that 157 of the 2,700 soldiers returning from the 41st Brigade were homeless, and 51 percent did not have jobs. 20 percent of the 650 homeless individuals surveyed for the Common Ground Vulnerability Index in Portland were veterans. Through the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program (HVRP), 97 grants – totaling over $24 million – were awarded to provide approximately 14,000 veterans with job training to help them succeed in civilian careers. The Oregon recipients have proven records of working to help homeless veterans transition back into the civilian workforce. Oregon grantees include: State Award Year Grantee Name City OR $200,000 New St. Vincent de Paul Society Eugene OR $300,000 New Central City Concern Portland OR $200,000 2nd Easter Seals, Oregon Portland
06.21.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), author of legislation to reinstate a “polluter fee” to clean up the nation’s most hazardous and complex – or Superfund – sites, issued the following statement on EPA’s letter to Congress in support of reinstating the lapsed taxes: “Since the Superfund tax expired 15 years ago, federal funding has slowed to a trickle and the more than 1600 Superfund sites across America are not getting cleaned up,” said Blumenauer. “By renewing the tax, the industries that had a hand in creating the problem – not taxpayers - will once again be held accountable for cleaning it up. More importantly, we can put tens of thousands of people to work by investing in the restoration of these polluted sites. “This is a win for the environment, a win for local communities, and a win for the economy." Background The Superfund was designed in 1980 to provide money to cleanup sites where the responsible party was out of business or could not be identified. The Superfund was financed by taxes on polluters, which expired on December 31, 1995. Since the expiration of these taxes, the Superfund program has been largely financed through the Congressional appropriations process, which comes from taxpayer contributions. Congressman Blumenauer introduced H.R. 564, the Superfund Reinvestment Act, in 2007 to reinstate these polluter fees. Superfund sites are some of the most contaminated in the nation. 70 million Americans—10 million of which are children – live within four miles of a Superfund site. They are exposed to toxic waste such as arsenic, benzene, PCBs, mercury and a range of solvents. Groundwater is often contaminated. Because of this, many health problems have been related to Superfund sites, including infertility, low birth weight, birth defects and breathing difficulties. In a majority of cases, the parties responsible for the contamination pay for the cleanup. However, in some cases, a responsible party cannot be found, cannot pay, or refuses to pay. In these cases, the Superfund is tapped to pay for the cleanup. Before 1995, the Superfund was financed by excise taxes of 9.7 cents per barrel on crude oil or refined oil products, excise taxes of $0.22 to $4.87 per ton on certain chemicals, and a corporate income tax of 0.12 percent on the amount of a corporation’s modified alternative minimum taxable income that exceeds $2 million. The Superfund Reinvestment Act would reinstate the Superfund taxes on polluters to their previous levels. The revenue garnered from these taxes would be about $1.7 billion per year and $18.9 billion over 10 years Reinstating the Superfund will protect communities while helping to create jobs in the engineering, construction, and development sectors while also improving the environment and improving community health.
06.16.2010	“The gruesome images of the nation’s greatest environmental catastrophe make clear what is at stake when we drill, baby, drill. Congress must act to ensure that BP pays, that the liability limits are lifted, that safer standards are put in place, and that a disaster like the Deepwater Horizon never happens again. “Whether from the Gulf of Mexico or Persian Gulf, we cannot meet our nation’s energy needs by drilling. We are at a precipice, and Congress must pass legislation that arms the nation with energy that won’t spill, won’t run out, and won’t destroy economies. “Instead of drilling miles below the earth, we must improve the way we use our energy and provide people with more transportation options that require less fuel. We must also harness energy that comes from the power of the sun, wind, heat of the earth, and strength of the coastal tides. “I hope that those who have stood for too long on the side of Big Oil heed President Obama’s call and finally put America on the path to a future powered by clean, renewable, and homegrown energy.”
06.14.2010	“This federal funding will make a difference for Oregon veterans, who I am proud to represent. They have served our country abroad, and now, they can serve again at home by changing the way our community uses and burns energy,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Training veterans for jobs in the green sector is an effective way to deal with the most serious challenges we face, from creating job opportunities to protecting our health and the environment.” The Labor Department’s Veterans’ Employment and Training Service (VETS) rewarded $9 million in grants to 22 communities, which will provide training for more than 4000 Veterans. Community Solutions for Clackamas County was awarded $500,000. Their program serves Multnomah, Clackamas, Washington, Marion, Polk and Yamhill counties. Funds were awarded on a competitive basis to state and local workforce investment boards, local public agencies and nonprofit organizations, including faith-based and community organizations. More information regarding VWIP can be found at www.dol.gov/vets.
06.09.2010	By offering a 25% tax credit for replacing or rebuilding old, inefficient railcars, this legislation will help save a critical domestic industry, create 32,000 to 50,000 family-wage jobs in Oregon and across the nation, and enhance the fuel efficiency of freight cars. The tax credit will be limited to cars built in 2010 and 2011 and would require a minimum of 8% increase in capacity or fuel efficiency.
05.28.2010	"As oil continues to spew into the Gulf, and we as a nation face an unprecedented environmental catastrophe, U.S. taxpayers should not shoulder the burden. The companies that caused this oil spill are responsible, which is why we are raising the per-barrel tax on oil companies from 8 cents to 32 cents to finance the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund." Background Jobs: Building America and Extending Unemployment Insurance This legislation extends the successful Build America Bonds (BABs) for two years. Already this program has supported more than 1.7 million jobs nationwide and has been used by State and local governments to make $97 billion of infrastructure investments. Oregon has already received $770 million in BABs, which has gone towards school, transit, highway, and sewer improvements - rebuilding the state and creating jobs at the local level. The bill also extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program, which provides (depending on a State's unemployment rate) up to fifty-three (53) weeks of extended benefits. Should Congress fail to act, 5 million Americans could lose Unemployment Insurance Benefits. The Oil Spill Liability Trust fund The Oil Spill Liability Trust fund is financed by an 8-cent-per-barrel tax on the oil industry. There is approximately $1.5 billion available in this trust fund, which won't be enough to meet our needs given the magnitude of the spill. To ensure the continued solvency of the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, the bill would increase the amount that oil companies are required to pay into the fund to 34 cents - a per barrel increase of 24 cents. This proposal is estimated to raise $10.785 billion over 10 years. Investments in Clean, Renewable Energy Blumenauer worked to strip coal-to-liquids funding from the legislation (which was in the Senate version) and sought to provide needed incentives for America's energy independence. This legislation would extend a tax credit for the manufacture of energy efficient homes, clarify important standards with respect to the installation of energy efficient windows, and ensure that tax-incentives for manufacturers of energy-efficient appliances continue to work during this economic recession, by allowing manufacturers to exchange their tax credits for a direct payment equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the tax credit that would otherwise have been allowed.
05.28.2010	"The last thing we need is two engines for one plane, and eliminating this unnecessary program would have saved taxpayers $485 million this year alone," said Congressman Blumenauer. "This program is a perfect example of wasteful spending that Congress must begin to address, and I am disappointed that our amendment failed. I hope we can work in conference with the Senate to eliminate this program once and for all." Rep. Blumenauer has sought to cut funding for the F-35 Extra Engine Program in previous years, and Secretary Gates and President Obama have repeatedly called for the elimination of this wasteful program.
05.28.2010	Background The negotiations led by Rep. Blumenauer and other members of the Oregon delegation were over regional differences in Medicare spending. Medicare beneficiaries living in high cost health care regions, such as Miami, Las Vegas, New York and Houston receive approximately 60% more services than those living in low-spending regions. Despite the extra services, they do not have higher quality of care or better healthcare outcomes. For too long, the federal government has rewarded health care inefficiencies, which is wasteful and requires taxpayers in more efficient, low-cost regions - such as Oregon, Washington, Wisconsin, and Minnesota - to subsidize expensive and unnecessary costs in high cost regions. As a direct result of the delegation's efforts, these low-cost regions are now being rewarded through the health care reform bill. Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) recently released their proposed rule outlining how the $400 million of additional payments will be distributed to hospitals in counties that rank in the lowest quartile of Medicare spending. Here is a summary: Hospital Name County Congressional District FY2011 ($150 mil) Potential FY2012 ($250 mil) Potential Total Legacy Good Samaritan Hospital MULTNOMAH 1st $675,000 $1,125,000 $1,800,000 OHSU Hospital MULTNOMAH 1st $1,815,000 $3,025,000 $4,840,000 Providence St. Vincent Medical Center WASHINGTON 1st $1,005,000 $1,675,000 $2,680,000 Tuality Community Hospital WASHINGTON 1st $195,000 $325,000 $520,000 Central Oregon Community DESCHUTES 2nd $150,000 $250,000 $400,000 Holy Rosary Medical Center MALHEUR 2nd $150,000 $250,000 $400,000 Sky Lakes Medical Center KLAMATH 2nd $345,000 $575,000 $920,000 Mid-Columbia Medical Center WASCO 2nd $120,000 $200,000 $320,000 St. Charles Medical Center DESCHUTES 2nd $825,000 $1,375,000 $2,200,000 Adventist Medical Center MULTNOMAH 3rd $315,000 $525,000 $840,000 Kaiser Sunnyside Medical Center CLACKAMAS 3rd $15,000 $25,000 $40,000 Legacy Emanuel Hospital MULTNOMAH 3rd $510,000 $850,000 $1,360,000 Legacy Mt. Hood Medical Center MULTNOMAH 3rd $165,000 $275,000 $440,000 Providence Milwaukie Hospital CLACKAMAS 3rd $90,000 $150,000 $240,000 Providence Portland Medical Center MULTNOMAH 3rd $825,000 $1,375,000 $2,200,000 Good Samaritan Medical Center BENTON 5th $450,000 $750,000 $1,200,000 Legacy Meridian Park Hospital CLACKAMAS 5th $315,000 $525,000 $840,000 Salem Hospital MARION 5th $840,000 $1,400,000 $2,240,000 Santiam Memorial Hospital MARION 5th $30,000 $50,000 $80,000 Silverton Hospital MARION 5th $60,000 $100,000 $160,000 Willamette Falls Hospital CLACKAMAS 5th $90,000 $150,000 $240,000 TOTALS $8,985,000 $14,975,000 $23,960,000
05.20.2010	“The fact that he has the largest drug market in the world on his border – one that the United States cannot control – and a broken immigration system, is daunting. While acknowledging the challenges of our right to establish and protect our own borders and immigration policy, Calderon called out the destructive and inherently discriminatory practice imbedded in the Arizona law. “The flow of high powered weapons into his country arming the drug lords was presented in a stark, unvarnished fashion. When he called for re-imposition of the assault weapons ban, it was interesting to see the vast majority of people rise to their feet, but we were not joined by any Republicans as I surveyed the 45 or so who were in attendance. “President Calderon had other messages for American lawmakers. The strong regulations they had in place in Mexico meant that despite the worst economic downturn in their history, there were no government funds bailing out Mexican banks last year. And his policies are clearly ones that are a challenge at home, for which the drug cartels are extracting a horrible price on government, law enforcement, and innocent civilians alike. “There is probably no more important relationship in the world than the one between the United States and Mexico. For all our talk of how the U.S. and China are linked, having a nation of over 100 million immediately on our southern border, our second largest recipient of American goods and the place of origin of the fastest growing segment of our population, all testify to this fact. “Unless we are able to get these policies and practices right, both countries are doomed to serious future problems, and more failure than we would like. The partnership, the policies and the practices aligned can result in opportunities in Mexico that will keep Mexicans in their cities and villages with their families, while the corrosive impact of the drug trade will be minimized and hopefully someday eliminated. “All in all, it was an impressive and thought provoking speech. Watching the reactions of the members of Congress told me a great deal more about the United States than it did about Mexico.”
05.20.2010	Washington, DC - On the eve of National Ride Your Bike to Work Day, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), Chair of the Congressional Bike Caucus, and 22 bipartisan members of Congress sent a letter to Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood commending him for recognizing biking and walking as important components of our transportation system that deserve dedicated funding. Here is a link to the full letter "You know things are different when Pennsylvania Avenue, the most famous street in America, gets its own bike lanes," said Congressman Blumenauer. "Secretary LaHood's commitment to including biking and walking in transportation planning marks a positive change that will make communities from Oregon to Virginia healthier, friendlier, and more livable" "People are enthusiastic about a return to a healthier, greener way to get where they need to go," Secretary Ray LaHood said. "Bicycles help reduce congestion, improve our environment and are a smart investment for our country's transportation system. I look forward to working with Congress to provide people with more opportunities to get on a bike when they need to travel." Read more on Rep. Blumenauer's Plans for Ride Your Bike to Work Day on his blog.
05.19.2010	I was pleased to participate in a hearing today on proposals to legalize and tax internet gambling.In 2006, I was one of 317 members who voted to restrict internet gambling. In the four years since, I have come to the conclusion that I was wrong.Not only are we missing out on a major revenue source, at a time when we’re working to rein in the deficit and spend money on important job and health care initiatives, but we’re also missing out on a vital job creation opportunity. Estimates show that nearly $106 billion a year is wagered illegally offshore by U.S. gamblers. Analysts suggest that capturing the revenue from all forms of internet gambling could create just under 32,000 jobs. More fundamentally, I have come to the conclusion that prohibiting online gambling is hypocritical. After all, certain types of online gambling were exempted from the prohibition, such as fantasy football leagues, horse and harness racing, and lotteries. It does not make sense to single out internet gambling for enforcement, which for all practical purposes is indistinguishable from other types of gambling that evade regulation.Last, but by no means least, there is the opportunity to redirect $40 billion from profits of offshore gambling operations to the federal government, where it could be used to reduce the deficit, support foster children as Mr. McDermott’s bill calls for, or revitalize a range of needed federal programs. Beginning June 1, 2010, current law will require banks to prohibit transfers between personal accounts and online gambling sites. It is doubtful that financial institutions will be able to appropriately police these transactions. The best solution is to end the prohibition on online poker and proceed with reasonable regulations. This will move this hidden economy into the open, improve consumer protections and safety, and allow revenue to flow to U.S. taxpayers, rather than to illegal foreign operations. I look forward to seeing both the legislation that establishes this system of regulation, as well as legislation that raises revenue from online gambling, enacted into law. I am proud to cosponsor both bills and look forward to early action by Congress.
05.13.2010	The explosion and sinking of BP’s Deepwater Horizon is leading to one of the single greatest environmental catastrophes in our nation’s history. As the oil continues to leak from the ground at a rate of 210,000 gallons per day, this spill may be the costliest in our history as well. The immediate priority now is to stop the leaking oil and clean up the mess. Numerous Congressional Committees are investigating the situation to determine what happened and are holding hearings to make sure that those responsible are held accountable. Yet Congress also has the responsibility to reduce our dependence on oil and minimize the possibility of this type of event from happening again. We can do this by enacting comprehensive energy and climate legislation that will invest in clean, renewable energy sources that won’t spill and destroy livelihoods. Harnessing energy from the sun, heat of the earth, and the wind and waves will create jobs and protect the planet from catastrophic oil spills. While I will continue to push for comprehensive energy and climate legislation, I have also joined my colleagues in working to prevent future oil spills and make sure that that those responsible, like BP, pay for this mess. Here is some of the work I am doing right now to address the spill: Stop All New Offshore Drilling I have co-sponsored legislation (H.R. 5222) to stop all new offshore drilling until the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Interior complete their investigation of the Deepwater Horizon.Delay New Exploratory Drilling in the Arctic The Deepwater Horizon explosion has demonstrated how catastrophic an oil drilling accident can be. A spill of this magnitude in Alaska could leave oil in the waters off Alaska for decades, killing endangered whales, seals, fish, and birds, and destroying feeding grounds. Shell Oil has said they are still moving forward with plans to have drill bits in place in Alaska in less than 60 days – a reality that remains possible. To be sure lessons learned from the report on Deepwater Horizon are applied across the board in the Arctic and elsewhere, I have joined colleagues in sending a letter to the administration calling on them to delay new exploratory drilling until the report can be analyzed and safety and environmental concerns can be addressed. No Offshore Drilling in Oregon I have joined my Oregon colleagues Reps. Wu, DeFazio, and Schrader in co-sponsoring the West Coast Ocean Protection Act (H.R. 5213), which will permanently prohibit offshore drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) in federal waters off the coast of Oregon, California and Washington. Along with the prohibition on drilling in Oregon’s state waters, this bill will ensure that Oregon never faces the environmental disaster currently happening in the Gulf Coast.The Big Oil Bailout Prevention Act I have signed onto legislation, the Big Oil Bailout Prevention Act (H.R. 5214), which would raise the liability cap from $75 million to $10 billion. While BP has said it will cover all "all necessary and appropriate clean-up costs,” the impact of the spill goes beyond clean up. The spill will cause great economic damage to the fishing industry, the tourism industry, small businesses, and taxpayers. Companies like BP should pay not just for clean-up costs, but the economic damages resulting from the mess they caused. The bill would also:• Eliminate the $1 billion per incident cap on claims against the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund and allow community responders to access the fund for preparation and mitigation up front, rather than waiting for reimbursement later. • Allow claimants to collect from future revenues of the fund, with interest, if damages claims exceed the amount in the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund (currently $1.6 billion). • Eliminate the $500 million cap on natural resources damages Deep Horizon Oil Spill as of May 10th. Image captured by the NASA Earth Observatory. Related Articles {loadposition related}
05.11.2010	Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) issued the following statement on the nomination of Solicitor General Elena Kagan to the Supreme Court: “This is a terrific appointment of a path breaking, principled and talented lawyer. Elena Kagan will make a significant contribution intellectually and with her proven ability to work with and listen to her colleagues. She will have a significant impact from the day she is sworn in, which I hope will be very soon.”
05.06.2010	Blumenauer issued the following statement: “Today’s victory for health care reform, with coverage for 32 million Americans, is not just the culmination of 15 months of hard work in this Congress. It represents the historic accomplishment sought by presidents and members of Congress dating back to Teddy Roosevelt. “That this accomplishment was achieved in the midst of difficult economic times and a toxic political environment, without any bipartisan support, makes it all the more remarkable. “I am proud to have helped craft provisions that will improve medical quality, save money, and correct unfair treatment of high quality, low cost states like Oregon. “Passage tonight will start making a difference for our families this year. Small businesses will get subsidies to help cover their employees’ health care. Children will not be denied coverage for preexisting conditions, and they will be able to stay on their family’s insurance policy until they are 26 years old. And this is just the beginning. “The expansion of coverage is fully paid for, and most important, we reform a Medicare system heading for collapse and improve the quality of health care while reducing the federal deficit by over a trillion dollars by 2030. “Tonight’s victory starts America on the road to better health and economy security.”
05.05.2010	"This spill could be the most catastrophic environmental disaster in U.S. history, and it should be a vivid reminder that we must act now to enact clean energy legislation – so that we can reduce our addiction to fossil fuels that spill and will eventually run out. "BP has a responsibility to clean up its mess in the Gulf Coast, but we in Congress also have a responsibility to invest in making our country run better and cleaner. There is no silver bullet to our growing energy needs, and each energy source comes with its own challenges, but we must invest in proven sources of clean, renewable energy to ensure our future independence from oil. The bottom line is that America only has 2% of global oil supplies, despite consuming 20% of the world’s energy. This means we must do what we should have done 20 years ago: harness energy from the heat of the earth, sun, waves, and wind. It means making our buildings and vehicles more efficient, so we aren’t wasting our precious resources. It means investing more in public transit and bike lanes so that people have the option of getting around without consuming fossil fuels. "Last summer, the House passed an energy and climate bill that would reduce our dependence on oil, invest in clean, renewable energy, and put a cap on dangerous carbon emissions. The Senate absolutely must follow suit, and they must do this without exacerbating our dependence on fuels that spill into the ocean, put workers at risk, or release more carbon into our already overheated atmosphere. "President Obama has committed national resources to stop the leaking oil (read more about these efforts at here) and I am committed to making sure we finally pass an energy and climate bill. Neither our planet nor our economy can afford another oil disaster."
04.28.2010	Blumenauer brought together FTA’s innovation division and Oregon-based manufacturer Oregon Iron Works to spur this project. At present, there is no domestic manufacturer of streetcar propulsion systems, which represents about 20 percent of the total cost of a streetcar. “This is a huge vote of confidence in Oregon Iron Works and our streetcar agenda by the Obama administration,” said Blumenauer. “This funding creates Oregon based jobs now and unlocks a variety of new markets and new applications for the modern streetcar, which may lead to hundreds of more jobs in the future.” The FTA will fund 80 percent of the $3-million project, with a local match of $600,000. Last year, the company unveiled the first domestically built streetcar in 58 years. The company currently uses propulsion systems made in Eastern Europe. “FTA is proud to be a leading partner in this innovative project,” said FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff. “We think ‘Made in America’ should mean more than assembling foreign-made parts in America. Funds for this project will help create streetcar manufacturing jobs right here at home, as well as a new domestic technology base that capitalizes on American ingenuity.” TriMet will also use the funds to support the development of a streetcar that can operate for short distances without power from overhead wires, allowing the potential for streetcar service to be introduced where historic, environmental, or other concerns limit the installation of overhead wires. Also Announced Today: Oregon will receive $74 million in funding for the final installment on the green line for light rail. Also released today was $30.45 million for the East Side streetcar expansion, which was announced last year . “This is a great day for Portland and for American made streetcars,” said Blumenauer.
04.28.2010	Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today testified before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on legislation he introduced to restore the Columbia River, which serves about 8 million people and – with its tributaries – powers 14 dams, generating over 75 percent of the Northwest’s energy. The hearing focused on protecting and restoring America's great waters, particularly the Columbia River and San Francisco Bay. The Columbia River is contaminated with dangerous pollutants, such as PCBs, and other chemicals that imperil the ecosystem, salmon, other fish, and the health of millions of people who rely on this resource. Blumenauer’s legislation, H.R. 4652 , and Senate companion legislation introduced by Senator Merkley, would fund the cleanup and restoration of this important river. Paul Lumley of the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission, Debrah Marriott of the Lower Columbia River Estuary Partnership and OR State Senator Jackie Dingfelder testify on behalf of the HR. 4652 The following are Congressman Blumenauer’s remarks as prepared for delivery: Chairwoman Johnson, Ranking Member Boozman, and members of the Committee, thank you for the opportunity to join you today to discuss legislation that will help restore the Columbia River, an important landmark for my state of Oregon and for the entire Pacific Northwest. The Columbia River is the largest river in the Pacific Northwest and the fourth largest river in the county by volume. Its huge drainage basin includes 259,000 square miles and extends into 7 states and Canada. The basin includes all or part of 5 national parks, the Hells Canyon National Recreation Area, and the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area. The Columbia River and its tributaries provide ecological and economic benefits to the entire country. It was traditionally the largest salmon producing river system in the world, and salmon are still an important part of the culture and livelihood for many people in the region. The Columbia River drainage basin also includes more than 6 million acres of irrigated agricultural land and its 14 hydroelectric dams, combined with additional dams on its tributaries, produce more power than any other North American River. There are approximately 8 million people who live in the Basin and depend on its resources. The Environmental Protection Agency recognized the importance of the River to the nation when it named the Lower Columbia River Estuary an “Estuary of National Significance” in 1995 and the Columbia River Basin a “Large Aquatic Ecosystem” in 2006. Unfortunately and for too long, we have treated this great river like a machine. As a result, much of the Columbia River is degraded. Habitat loss has been severe - in the last 100 years, for example, wetland habitat within the lower Columbia River corridor has decreased by as much as 75% from historic levels. Many of the once plentiful salmon runs are now listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act. The Federal government, as well as state, local and Tribal governments, has spent millions of dollars on habitat restoration and environmental improvements at the dams. In addition to habitat loss, the Columbia River is plagued by toxic contamination. Scientific analysis is showing significant levels of dioxins, PCB’s, heavy metals, and other toxic chemicals. These “legacy pollutants,” some of which were banned in the 1970’s, are largely thought to have been the result of human industrial activities occurring on or near the River over the last 150 years. Yet the problem persists today as a result of continued industrial uses, stormwater runoff and sewer overflows, which discharge water contaminated with new chemicals - including flame retardants such as PBDEs, pharmaceuticals, and personal care products. According to the EPA, the four main contaminants in the River include mercury, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE). Some of the additional pollutants that have been found at levels causing impairment include arsenic, dioxin, chlordane, metals, and bacteria. Scientific research has indicated that these contaminants can impair the growth, health, and reproduction of salmon, eagles, and other animals that are an important part of our ecosystem. They present a threat not only to the fish and wildlife in the Basin, but the humans who depend on them. The EPA’s recent Columbia River Basin Fish Contaminant Survey detected the presence of 92 priority pollutants, including PCBs, dioxins, furans, arsenic, DDE (a breakdown product of DDT), in fish that are consumed by humans – especially the Native American tribes in the region. A fish consumption survey by the Columbia River Intertribal Fish Commission showed that tribal members eat 6-11 times more fish than EPA’s estimated national average. While the Federal government has invested millions of dollars in the River on habitat restoration and environmental improvements at the dams, the level of investment is not at the scale necessary to implement sustained monitoring or make significant progress on reducing toxics. In many areas, there has been no monitoring at all. The EPA has indicated that it doesn’t even have enough information in the majority of the Basin to know whether contaminant levels are increasing or decreasing. This is why I, along with Committee member Brian Baird and other members of the Oregon and Washington delegation, have introduced the Columbia River Restoration Act. If enacted, this legislation would provide EPA and stakeholders in the region with the funding they need to develop a comprehensive strategy for identifying, understanding and reducing contaminant sources, expanding toxics reduction activities, and coordinating contaminant reduction efforts with habitat restoration in the region. Senator Merkley has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Much restoration work is already being done by the EPA, other Federal agencies, the Lower Columbia River Estuary Partnership, States, Tribal governments, and other stakeholders in the region. The EPA has established a Columbia River Program as part of the River’s designation as a Large Aquatic Ecosystem, with a goal to “protect public health and the environment by reducing toxics in fish, water, and sediment of the Columbia River Basin and by increasing toxic reduction actions and implementing a collaborative monitoring and research strategy to understand toxic loads, emerging contaminants, and overall ecosystem health.” However, existing efforts are at too small a scale and current funding levels are insufficient to meet these goals. Additional resources are necessary to support the comprehensive effort it will take to reduce impairments in the River. The Columbia River Restoration Act establishes a Columbia River Program Team within the Oregon Operations Office for Region 10 of the EPA. This Team will assist, support and coordinate implementation of existing toxic reduction and habitat restoration efforts on the River. The bill envisions providing resources to successful structures that are already in place, including the Lower Columbia River Estuary Partnership, without duplicating efforts. EPA’s 2006-2011 Strategic Plan, which named the Columbia River Basin a Large Aquatic Ecosystem, included a goal “to protect, sustain, or restore the health of people, communities, and ecosystems using integrated and comprehensive approaches and partnerships.” I think this legislation exemplifies that goal. This legislation will ensure that all of the investments we’re currently making in protecting endangered salmon on the River are being used efficiently. U.S. taxpayers and Northwest electricity ratepayers have already spent more than $7 billion on salmon restoration efforts since the early 1980s, and are gearing up to spend even more when the Federal Columbia River Power System Biological Opinion goes into effect. Right now, however, we’re spending money to restore habitat and improve survival over the dams just to swim in a toxic river. Efforts to clean up the Columbia River and its tributaries are complicated by a Superfund site, important industries along the river, navigation traffic, an economically important fishery, and ESA listed species. But the EPA set up the Large Aquatic Ecosystem Program to make progress on exactly these types of complex water resource management challenges. With the resources provided by this legislation, along with the efforts already being undertaken in the region, I think we can restore the River and make it safer for fish, wildlife, and the humans that depend on them. The Assistant Administrator for Water at EPA has stated that the success of the LAE programs rests in their collaborative nature. This legislation would help the federal government be a better partner to local communities by supporting model non-regulatory community-based programs that achieve real results. It would focus on on-the-ground activities driven by local communities with coordination, technical support and base funding coming from the Federal government. By embracing this legislation, this Committee has an opportunity to contribute to the restoration and preservation of a nationally significant River. This is not just about conserving the environment: this a public health issue, an economic issue, and an environmental justice issue. I hope that the Committee will work with me to move this legislation through the process quickly, so that we can get resources on the ground in the Northwest and begin this important work a soon as possible.
04.16.2010	Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today heralded a series of streetcar announcements that are helping to solidify Portland as the streetcar capital of America. Federal Transit Administrator (FTA) Peter Rogoff announced that Tri-County Metropolitan Transportation District of Oregon (TriMet) of Portland, Oregon will receive $2.4 million in federal research funds to support the development of streetcar components – namely a domestically produced streetcar propulsion system – that will be made in the U.S.A. Blumenauer brought together FTA’s innovation division and Oregon-based manufacturer Oregon Iron Works to spur this project. At present, there is no domestic manufacturer of streetcar propulsion systems, which represents about 20 percent of the total cost of a streetcar. “This is a huge vote of confidence in Oregon Iron Works and our streetcar agenda by the Obama administration,” said Blumenauer. “This funding creates Oregon based jobs now and unlocks a variety of new markets and new applications for the modern streetcar, which may lead to hundreds of more jobs in the future.” The FTA will fund 80 percent of the $3-million project, with a local match of $600,000. Last year, the company unveiled the first domestically built streetcar in 58 years. The company currently uses propulsion systems made in Eastern Europe. “FTA is proud to be a leading partner in this innovative project,” said FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff. “We think ‘Made in America’ should mean more than assembling foreign-made parts in America. Funds for this project will help create streetcar manufacturing jobs right here at home, as well as a new domestic technology base that capitalizes on American ingenuity.” TriMet will also use the funds to support the development of a streetcar that can operate for short distances without power from overhead wires, allowing the potential for streetcar service to be introduced where historic, environmental, or other concerns limit the installation of overhead wires. Also Announced Today: Oregon will receive $74 million in funding for the final installment on the green line for light rail. Also released today was $30.45 million for the East Side streetcar expansion, which was announced last year . “This is a great day for Portland and for American made streetcars,” said Blumenauer.
03.30.2010	Decorated War Hero to Receive Long Deserved Honor for Service in Germany Portland, OR—Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) presented the Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service to Mr. Gene Thoming, an 84 year old WWII veteran who served in the United States Army in Germany and was an observer for the 78th Division, Cannon Company. In Germany, Mr. Thoming was stationed at the front lines and guided the fire of cannons behind him. He also fought in the decisive Battle for the Bridge of Remagen. Mr. Thoming attended Benson High School and now resides in Gresham. After his discharge from the Army in 1946, Mr. Thoming served for 35 years in the Portland Police Force, attaining the rank of Sergeant. Mr. Thoming’s medal was not previously awarded because his paperwork was lost when he returned from Germany. His family initiated the medal request and worked with Congressman Blumenauer to obtain the award. The Bronze Star for meritorious service in WWII is given to soldiers who experienced extreme discomfort, close personal combat with the enemy, suffered the heaviest losses, and endured the greatest hardship. Visit the Photo Gallery to view pictures from the ceremony.
03.22.2010	Secretary of State Clinton and Congressman Blumenauer delivering remarks at World Water Day 2010. Photos Courtesy of Thomas Brown The following are remarks as delivered by Rep. Blumenauer: I am honored to join the hardest working and most committed water advocates on World Water Day 2010. We all know the magnitude of this problem – one-sixth of the world’s population, almost a billion people, do not have access to safe drinking water. Many of us have witnessed firsthand the impacts of this ongoing tragedy – from the United States, to Mozambique where my daughter served in the Peaces Corps, to Haiti, which I recently visited with Speaker Pelosi after that devastating earthquake. We also know that every dollar we invest in clean water yields a return of $8 to $36, and also puts us further down the path to eradicating extreme poverty and preventable illnesses. Despite the occasional partisan difference we have here in Washington, this critical issue should remain above the fray. In 2005, I worked to pass the “Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act” with the Republican Foreign Affairs Chairman and the Minority and Majority Leaders in the Senate. Today this law provides millions of people every year with access to clean, safe water for the very first time. Secretary Clinton and Under Secretary Otero, who I am honored to be here with today, are overseeing this important program. I am working to make sure Water for the Poor gets the funding it needs to be successful. Last year we secured more than $300 million, and with the support of many of the NGOs here, I am working to increase that number to $500 million for next year. After the failures of the previous administration, I am dedicated to empowering the State Department and USAID to meet this global crisis head-on. In 2009 I introduced the “Water for the World Act” with Senator Durbin as its champion in the Senate. This bill would give government the necessary tools to provide 100 million people with first-time access to clean water and sanitation by 2015. It appears the Senate is preparing to act first by passing this bill out of Committee. With your support, we can make sure the House acts just as decisively. With today’s announcements by Secretary Clinton and Under Secretary Otero, and the renewed commitment of the Executive Branch, this is a very exciting time for those of us dedicated to clean water. I look forward to a partnership that unites Congress, the administration, and the thousands of individuals who work every day to help provide safe water and sanitation to those who need it most.
03.10.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) met with musicians and actors who climbed Mt. Kilimanjaro to raise awareness about the global water crisis. Actor Emile Hirsch and musicians Kenna, Santigold, and Lupe Fiasco met with Blumenauer, author of the Water for the Poor Act, which was enacted in 2005 and has provided millions with access to clean water for the first time. Left to right: Alex Mundt, Emile Hirsch, Lupe Fiasco, Santigold, Wold Zemedkun, Elizabeth Gore, Dr. Greg Allgood, Rep. Earl Blumenauer and Kenna pose on the Capitol steps on Tuesday. Blumenauer and the artists discussed his Water for the World Act , H.R. 2030, legislation he introduced last year to provide 100 million of the world’s poorest with first-time access to drinking water and sanitation by 2015. “Lack of access to clean water is a matter of life or death for one-sixth of the world’s population,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Global warming will exacerbate droughts and the availability of drinking water, making what is currently the greatest health challenge even worse. The work of Kenna, Emile Hirsch, Lupe Fiasco, Jessica Biel and Santigold, among others, will bring needed attention to this crisis. The Summit on the Summit documentary will engage young people and, I hope, galvanize Americans and Washington to take action.” “Summit On The Summit: Kilimanjaro was 3 years in the ideation and creation, but the Global Clean Water Crisis is a lifelong commitment for me,” said Kenna. “I am honored to be here with Representative Blumenauer, a long standing water advocate, and my climb team to discuss the serious need for focused appropriations for clean water.” “When I was asked to climb a mountain to raise awareness for global water issues, I could not say no. With every step I took toward the summit of Mt. Kilimanjaro, all I could think of was the girl who walks up to six hours a day to carry 80 pounds of water,” said Elizabeth McKee Gore, United Nations Foundation’s Executive Director of Global Partnerships. “Access to clean water is the essential lifeblood of growing sustainable, healthy and educated communities worldwide. We’re grateful for the opportunity to talk about this critical issue that affects over a billion people around the world every day, and I hope that the Summit on the Summit will inspire people like it inspired me to make global clean water a priority.”
03.04.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) voted to pass the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act, H.R. 2847. The bill passed by a vote of 217-201. This legislation will help jumpstart the economy, rebuild America’s infrastructure, and create jobs. It will now be sent back to the Senate for final passage.“This jobs bill gives a needed boost to Oregon’s economy, putting hundreds of thousands of people to work rebuilding the nation’s crumbling infrastructure. With Oregon’s unemployment hovering around 11 percent, we’re making a critical down payment that will help small businesses hire more workers. Investing today in infrastructure and transportation will create sustainable jobs while reducing the energy and oil we consume down the road.” The HIRE Act extends the transportation reauthorization through December 31, allowing $77.15 billion to be invested in renewing and rebuilding America—an investment that will support 2.4 million jobs. It also includes a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers, to create some 300,000 jobs, and an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain these employees. These jobs will be added to the more than 2 million jobs created across the nation by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
03.02.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), Chair of the Livable Communities Task Force , today introduced legislation that will help communities improve active forms of transportation such as walking and biking. Through the Active Community Transportation (ACT) Act of 2010, communities can access funding for transportation options that improve community vitality, reduce global warming pollution, boost public health, and create jobs in the process. “Too often we take for granted the value of being able to bike and walk to work,” said Blumenauer. “It’s unfortunate that many communities don’t have the infrastructure in place to make active and healthy forms of transportation more accessible. The ACT transportation grants will make it easier for people to get out of their vehicles and onto sidewalks or bikes, boosting heart rates and community vitality.” The ACT Act provides funding to communities that are prepared to provide healthier, cost-effective, more environmentally friendly transportation options by establishing a $2 billion competitive grant program within the Department of Transportation. The grants will provide funding for communities to create active transportation networks that provide safe and convenient access for pedestrians and bicyclists “Bicycling and walking have real potential to replace short car trips in communities across the country - and increasing active transportation has got to be good for individuals, communities and the nation,” said Andy Clarke, President of the League of American Bicyclists. “This visionary bill will help us realize that potential, economically, efficiently and effectively and we thank Congressman Blumenauer and his colleagues for their leadership in bringing it forward.” “Communities are eager to pull the pieces of their active transportation systems together so that the public can safely walk and bike,” said Kevin Mills, Vice President of Policy for Rails to Trails. “It is essential that we give Americans the means to achieve their dreams of livable communities by offering healthy, clean, affordable and enjoyable ways to get around. The ACT Act provides the missing piece of our transportation puzzle.” “Forty percent of all trips in the US are two miles or less,” said Randy Neufeld, President of America Bikes. “Giving people the option to bike and walk can alleviate traffic, encourage healthy lifestyles, and create safe and inexpensive travel options. The even better news is cities across the country are showing us that if you give people that option, they really do walk and bike more.” The ACT Act will have two grant application rounds. The first round will take place 180 days after the passage of the bill. Qualified communities will receive annual grants ranging from $5 million to $15 million for five years. The second application round will take place two years after the passage of the bill. Qualified communities will receive annual grants ranging from $5 million to $15 million for three years. If a community fails to meet its obligations under the program, the Secretary is authorized to discontinue funds.Learn more about the ACT Act of 2010. The legislation is supported by a coalition of 26 national organizations, over two dozen mayors and city councils. Read the full letter of support. Organizations include: Transportation for America, America Bikes, Rails to Trails Conservancy, the Outdoor Industry Association, the League of American Bicyclists, Environment America, Bikes Belong, Trek, the Alliance for Biking and Walking, Complete Streets, Smart Growth America, the American Planning Association, Safe Routes to School National Partnership, the American Public Transportation Association, the American Institute of Architects, the Outdoor Alliance, the National Coalition for Promoting Physical Activity, the Trust for America’s Health, the YMCA, the National Association of Realtors.
02.25.2010	Washington, DC – As our country tries to rebuild and rebound from a slow economy, local governments need to continue promoting the economic development benefits of sustainable development and community planning.Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Perlmutter lead a group of Congressional members in introducing the Livable Communities Act of 2010 (HR 4690). This legislation establishes a grant program administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to assist local governments plan for and create better more affordable places to live and work. Reps. Waters, Halvorson, Larson, Blumenauer, Hodes, Himes, Sarbanes, Sires, Carson, Christensen, Carnahan, Holt, Cohen, Courtney, Ellison, Quigley, Schwartz, Tonko and McDermott are co-sponsors of the legislation.Perlmutter stated, “This bill revitalizes Main Street and promotes economic development and job growth in our neighborhoods by helping communities cut traffic congestion, promote energy efficiency, create more affordable housing, and protect open spaces. This kind of planning will create better and more affordable places to live, work, and raise families.”“As Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, I am pleased to join Rep. Perlmutter and others in introducing this important legislation that will invest in neighborhoods and encourage communities to bring transportation and employment opportunities to affordable housing. I have long supported quality neighborhoods – through the creation of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program, to my support of Community Development Block Grants and Section 108 loan guarantees. I look forward to continuing that work with the Livable Communities Act,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA).Halvorson stated, “Right now our main focus is putting our economy back on track and putting people back to work, and one way to do that is to build smarter, sustainable communities. Investing in smart infrastructure doesn’t only create jobs, it provides the economic development that grows businesses and improves our hometowns.”Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus said, “This legislation will spur economic development, put individuals back to work, and improve the quality of lives of millions of Americans. By supporting coordinated planning in our communities, the Livable Communities Act will allow us to redevelop Main Street to be a sustainable network of housing, transit and public spaces that is energy efficient and saves money. I am proud to join Senator Chris Dodd and Representative Ed Perlmutter in advancing this initiative.”Blumenauer stated, “Around the country, rural and urban communities are struggling to provide people with transportation choices, affordable housing options, and a clean environment. The Livable Communities Act provides an important resource for improving transportation, housing, and water infrastructure while also reducing dependence on expensive oil. Empowering communities to determine the investments they need, with the Federal government as a supportive partner, will help jumpstart local economies and create sustainable jobs.”“Capitalizing on the economic opportunities of the future—in the near-term and generations from now—requires smart planning and decisive action,” said Congressman Himes. “This legislation will help make the smart investments necessary to bring real progress to our towns and cities.”Sires stated, “I am proud to join my colleagues. Legislation like this will assist our communities by creating jobs, improving public transportation, creating affordable housing, and protecting our green spaces. With a coordinated strategy, our regions and townships can create long-term sustainable plans that will result in the revival of Main Street.”“One of my priorities in Congress is to renew urban cores in order to better plan and anticipate growth,” said Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-21). “The Livable Communities bill accomplishes that by emphasizing the importance of planning, which ultimately will reduce costs to local governments, drive down our energy usage and enhance our environment.” “Creating livable communities means creating places where families want to put down roots, raise children, and develop community pride. In order to create these communities, we must ensure that Americans have access to quality and affordable transportation options, sustainable and efficient homes, and green and open space. This legislation will help ensure that many Americans will get to share in this rich prosperity,” Rep. Allyson Y. Schwartz said. “The benefits of smart sustainable planning holds enormous potential for economic development and healthier, more livable communities,” said Congressman Russ Carnahan (MO-3). “By creating more affordable places to live and work families will benefit with stronger neighborhoods.”“In these difficult economic times, we have to resist the urge for short-term fixes that simply kick the proverbial can down the road,” said Congressman Mike Quigley (D-IL). “Instead, we have to invest smartly in our future, and remember that building sustainable communities isn’t only the environmentally just thing to do, but that it has a multi-faceted impact. Creating 21st century infrastructure for public transit, for example, creates jobs, while providing for cleaner air, which in turn reduces health care costs and our dependence on foreign oil.”This legislation is the companion bill to S. 1619, introduced by Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT). Key provisions of the bill include:• Create competitive planning grants that towns and regions can use to create comprehensive long-term plans that integrate transportation, housing, land use, and economic development.• Create challenge grants that towns and regions can use to implement these long-term plans through investments in public transportation, affordable housing, complete streets, transit-oriented development, and brownfield redevelopment.• Establish a federal Office of Sustainable Housing and Communities at the Department of Housing and Urban Development to administer and oversee the Livable Communities grant programs;• Establish a federal Interagency Council on Sustainable Communities that will include representatives from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, and other federal agencies to coordinate federal sustainable development policies.### The Livable Communities Act of 2010 is endorsed by the following national, state and local organizations: National Organizations America 2050American Institute of ArchitectsAmerican Planning AssociationAmerican Society of Landscape ArchitectsApollo AllianceCenter for Neighborhood Technology CEOS for Cities Congress for the New Urbanism Conservation Law FoundationEnterprise Community PartnersEnvironmental and Energy Study InstituteLeague of American BicyclistsLocal Initiatives Support CorporationLocal Government CommissionNational Association of CountiesNational Association of RealtorsNational Association of Regional CouncilsNational Complete Streets CoalitionNational Housing ConferenceNational Housing TrustNational League of CitiesNational Resources Defense CouncilNational Trust for Historic PreservationNortheast-Midwest InstitutePolicyLinkProject for Public SpacesReconnecting AmericaSmart Growth AmericaTransportation for AmericaUS Green Building CouncilState and Local Organizations 1,000 Friends of Connecticut (CT)1,000 Friends of Minnesota (MN)1,000 Friends of Oregon (OR)10,000 Friends of Pennsylvania (PA)Action Committee for Transit (MD)Active Transportation Alliance (IL)Alliance for Metropolitan Stability (MN)American Planning Association – New Jersey Chapter (NJ)Anchorage Citizens Coalition (AK)Bicycle Commuters of Anchorage (AK)Bike Delaware (DE)Bloomington Transportation Options for People (IN)Bozeman Sustainability Group (MT)California WALKS (CA)Cascade Land Conservancy (WA)City of Duluth Mayor Don Ness (MN)Cleveland Restoration Society (OH)Colorado Environmental Coalition (CO)Conservation Alabama Foundation (AL)Conservation Minnesota (MN)Denver Regional Council of Governments (CO)Empire State Future (NY)Fit City Duluth (MN)Fresh Energy (MN)Futurewise (WA)Greater Albuquerque Housing Partnership (NM)Greater Ohio Policy Center (OH)Greenbelt Alliance (CA)Grow Smart Rhode Island (RI)Growth and Justice (MN)Hennepin County, MN Commissioner Peter McLaughlin (MN)Housing Preservation Project (MN)Houston Tomorrow (TX)ISAIAH (MN)Lewis & Clark City-County Health Department (MT)LOCUS Minnesota (MN)MA Smart Growth Alliance (MA)Madison Area Bus Advocates (WI)Metropolitan Planning Council (IL)Minnesota State Senator Scott Dibble (MN)Minnesota Center for Environmental Advocacy (MN)Missoula City-County Parks and Recreation Department (MT)Missoula Health Department (MT)New Jersey Audubon Society (NJ)New Jersey County Planners Association (NJ)New Jersey Future (NJ)Opportunity Link, Inc. (MT)PlanGreen (OR)Ramsey County Commissioner Jan Parker (MN)Regional Plan Association (NY – NJ – CT)Renew Lehigh Valley (PA)San Luis Obispo County Bicycle Coalition (CA)Sierra Club – North Star Chapter (MN)Smart Growth Vermont (VT)Somerset County Planning Board (NJ)St. Paul Smart Trips (MN)Transit for Livable Communities (MN)Tri-State Transportation Campaign (NY/NJ/CT)Tucson Bike Alliance (AZ)Twin Cities LISC (MN)Vision Long Island (NY)WalkBoston (MA)
02.25.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today voted against a one-year extension of three provisions in the Patriot Act, which are set to expire on February 28, 2010. “This is a missed opportunity to improve legislation that can and should work better,” said Blumenauer. “We need appropriate tools to pursue terrorists, and we can do this without trampling on civil liberties. Committees in the House and Senate have offered drafts to improve the Patriot Act, and I would urge that we move forward immediately to amend this law.” This bill, H.R. 3961, reauthorizes the following three provisions without making changes to protect Americans' privacy, despite documentation of past abuses of Patriot Act authorities: 1. Section 215 authorizes the government to obtain "any tangible item," including business and library records. 2. Section 206, or the “roving John Doe wiretap,” allows law enforcement officials to pursue terrorists who use multiple devices or change cell phone numbers, without identifying either the person or the facility being tapped. 3. Section 6001, or the “Lone Wolf” provision, permits secret intelligence surveillance of non-US persons who are not affiliated with a foreign organization Congressman Blumenauer voted against the original USA PATRIOT Act in 2001 (HR 3162).
02.24.2010	Legislation Supported by Fishermen, Tribes, Environmentalists Washington, DC – Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-Ore) today introduced the “Columbia River Restoration Act,” H.R. 4652, legislation that will fund the clean-up and restoration of this important river, the largest in the Pacific Northwest, which is plagued by habitat loss and pollution. Approximately 8 million people inhabit the basin and depend on its resources, while its 14 hydropower dams provide over 75 percent of the power to the Northwest. This legislation will be the subject of a hearing on Wednesday, February 24 in the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, of which Senator Merkley is a member. “The Columbia River is a resource for millions of people, providing livelihoods for fishermen, hydropower for the Northwest, and recreational opportunities for families across the Pacific Northwest,” said Blumenauer. “The dangerous pollutants that have accumulated in the river imperil not just the ecosystem, but salmon, other fish, and the people who consume them. As we look towards the Columbia River with a hundred year vision of the future, it is imperative that we not only restore this beautiful landmark, but protect public health and ensure sustainable jobs for future generations. “The Columbia River is in many ways the lifeblood of the Northwest,” said Merkley. “It has not only provided the Oregon fishing industry and tribes with salmon and steelhead for generations, but it has become a transportation artery for businesses, a hydropower generator for our economy, and the source of irrigation for our farmers. By restoring the Columbia River and reducing toxic contamination, we will create jobs, protect public health and contribute to a healthy economic future for those who depend on the river for their livelihood.” The Columbia River is contaminated with dangerous pollutants, such as PCBs and other chemicals, that are detrimental to fish and wildlife, including thirteen species of salmon and steelhead listed under the Endangered Species Act. Other pesticides and pollutants, such as pharmaceutical and personal care products, have been found in the river. According to EPA and tribal surveys, contaminated fish are consumed in large quantities, threatening the people who depend on them. The Columbia River Restoration Act would authorize EPA to work with The Lower Columbia River Partnership (LCREP), the States of Oregon, Washington, and Idaho, Columbia Basin Tribal Governments, local governments, citizen groups, industry, and other federal agencies to develop and implement a strategy to increase monitoring and reduce pollution. This bill will create between 700 and 900 jobs a year in the region for biologists, construction workers, and others, while enabling the river to continue supporting jobs in the farming, hydropower, recreation and transportation industries. The legislation authorizes $40 million a year for this effort. "The Columbia River has long been in need of a thoughtful and comprehensive toxins reduction strategy. Our tribal members are the most vulnerable when the river's health suffers," said McCoy Oatman, chairman of the Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission. “The Columbia River Restoration Act of 2010 will have significant benefits for fish, tribal fishers exercising their treaty fishing rights, and tribal communities.” "We applaud Congressman Blumenauer and Senator Merkley for their leadership to protect clean water and public health. Introduction of this bill is an important step toward a healthier future for the all of the Columbia River and its communities,” said Brett Swift, Northwest Regional Director of American Rivers. "The Lower Columbia River Estuary Partnership is very excited about this Authorization,” said Debrah Marriott, Executive Director of the Lower Columbia River Partnership. “It recognizes the Columbia as one of the nation's great water bodies and in doing so opens the door to address long term toxics contamination. It allows us to focus on toxics reduction efforts, improve the overall ecosystem, add jobs and begin long term improvements to public health and our economic stability." Joining Rep. Blumenauer and Sen. Merkley as original co-sponsors of this legislation are Reps. Brian Baird, David Wu, Jim McDermott, and Jay Inslee.
02.24.2010	“Under this legislation, health insurers can now be held accountable for price fixing, dividing regions to their advantage, and for other practices that reduce competition and hurt Americans who need affordable care,” said Blumenauer. “Eliminating the antitrust exemption is a fair and smart way to tip the balance towards American consumers and away from insurance companies, which made record profits last year. While we still need comprehensive health care reform, I am pleased the House took an important stop to repeal this harmful practice.” About the “Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act,” H.R. 4626: The Consumer Federation of America has said that repealing this exemption will lower consumers’ premiums by 10 percent. In past Congresses, both Democrats and Republican have supported repealing antitrust exemptions across all lines of insurance, including most recently the Bush Administration’s Antitrust Modernization Committee. Key Points: • Competition is the engine that drives our economy, spurs innovation, and ensures that the American consumer receives a fair deal on goods and services. But for far too long, the health insurance industry has played by a different set of rules. • Under the bill, health insurers will no longer be shielded from legal accountability for: price fixing, dividing up territories among themselves, sabotaging their competitors in order to gain monopoly power, and other such anti-competitive practices. • Removing health insurance’s antitrust exemption will also give antitrust enforcers such as the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission the authority to investigate any evidence of possible collusion within the health insurance industry – a move that puts an end to the 65-year-old prohibition on the federal government’s ability to protect honest competition against bad actors in the health insurance industry. • Removing this antitrust exemption not only enables appropriate enforcement; it will also give all health insurance companies healthy competitive incentives that will promote better affordability, improved quality, increased innovation, and greater consumer choice – as the antitrust laws have done throughout the rest of the economy for over a century. • Removing this antitrust exemption has been a bipartisan legislative priority for law enforcement groups and consumer groups such as the Consumer Federation of America for more than two decades. Two separate bipartisan antitrust commissions, one in the 1970s and another during the Bush Administration, have also called for removing the exemption. • Some opponents of the bill argue that state insurance commissioners can effectively police health insurers’ antitrust violations under state law. But experience contradicts this. A recent study found that state insurance commissioners have not brought any actions against health insurers for anti-competitive conduct during at least the last five years. • The bill makes absolutely no change in the state-based system for regulating insurance. The part of the McCarran-Ferguson Act that reaffirms state regulatory and taxing authority for the insurance industry remains unchanged.
02.01.2010	“Our country faces serious economic challenges, and at a time when we are working to spur job growth, jumpstart the economy, and rein in the deficit, we must prioritize. We can’t do it all, and the President’s budget makes clear that job growth, education, transportation and clean energy innovation are at the top of the list. “The budget for 2011 funds key Oregon initiatives while also closing unnecessary subsidies for the oil and gas industry, chipping away at expensive defense projects, and limiting subsidies to the nation’s biggest farmers. “However, I expect a vigorous debate on funding the expanded operation in Afghanistan, particularly given our domestic energy and security needs. I continue to have deep reservations on sending more troops to Afghanistan. “There are encouraging investments that put money behind the administration's support for livable communities, which offer opportunities to advance our Oregon agenda. As a member of the Budget Committee, I am committed to looking comprehensively at President Obama’s proposal, focusing on job growth, renewable energy development, and transportation improvements that will have an immediate and enduring impact on our nation’s economic vitality.”
01.28.2010	“He has said that he cares more about America’s future than his reelection, something that Congress and Americans needed to hear. “Tonight’s speech was about getting back to the fundamentals: a strong economy, the creation of good jobs, a college education, and access to quality, affordable health care. “It was especially important that he put the spotlight on the Senate, for them to act on the priority health reform and energy and climate legislation the House has already passed. “I’ve never heard a President be as forceful with the Senate, or for that matter the Supreme Court. The Justices were sitting right in front of him when he decried their overturning 100 years of precedent, opening the flood gates to special interest political contributions, even from foreign corporations. “This was the best State of the Union I’ve heard, and it came at an important time for his Administration and the country.”
01.22.2010	“This is another step towards unraveling the modest campaign finance controls in place. Instead of another gusher of special interest funding, we should be working to decrease the influence of money in politics. “Congress should jump into action. While we work on the lengthy process of a constitutional amendment, to make clear that corporations are not individuals and don’t have free speech rights, we should at a minimum require that no corporate money can be used on political campaigns without a vote of the shareholders and approval of the board of directors. ###
12.18.2009	Copenhagen – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) from Copenhagen issued the following statement in response to President Obama and Premier Wen, Prime Minister Singh, and President Zuma reaching a meaningful agreement on climate change. "This is an important step and refreshing reminder that this administration is committed to making change a reality. Global warming is the greatest challenge of this generation, and with this announcement, the United States is now helping to lead the world to a stronger, cleaner future rather than sitting on the sidelines."
12.16.2009	“Unemployment is still high, and while the economy recovers, this bill provides continued unemployment benefits for those who need it as well as access to healthcare. “It also includes a number of important provisions that will make a difference for local universities, like Portland State, Oregon, and Oregon State. Money will be directed to local companies – helping to create good-wage jobs – while also making needed investments in programs to treat Traumatic Brain Injury, the signature injury of the conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. While I am dedicated to ending the wars in Iraq in Afghanistan, I am also dedicated to making sure our troops and their families are as safe and secure as possible.” Below are Oregon projects requested by Congressman Blumenauer that will be funded through the “Defense Appropriations Act”: Requester Project Name Description Amount Requested Final Amount Manufacturing 21 Coalition Northwest Manufacturing Initiative The Initiative is a unique regional response to the national shortage of skilled manufacturing workers. Funding will be used to support the Northwest’s manufacturing economy, including workforce training, sustainable manufacturing techniques, and sustainable manufacturing materials. $2,800,000 $2,000,000 Oregon Biomedical Engineering Institute Treatment of Battlefield Spine and Burn Injuries Funding for the development of effective and innovative treatments for spinal cord injuries and severe burns, particularly prevalent in modern conflicts and with larger, public health applications at home. $4,500,000 $360,000 Oregon State University ONAMI Miniature Tactical Energy Systems Development This project will support the development of miniaturized tactical energy systems, including power and cooling, for a wide range of military and subsequent commercial applications. These involve nanomaterial production, and two types of biodiesel production which are important energy topics for the nation as well as the military. $5,000,000 $2,500,000 Portland State University ONAMI Nanoelectronics and Nanometrology Initiative This program would address future needs in information processing and biosensing which are needed to fabricate nanodevices, biosensors, and circuits at the terascale densities. The applied research will lead to new applications in computing, information processing, and other electronic applications. $5,000,000 $3,840,000 Precision Castparts Corporation Next Generation Casting Supplier Base Initiative Requested funds would help meet the increasing demands of the Department of Defense for complex cast components used in advanced engines and airframes. $12,500,000 $4,000,000 University of Oregon ONAMI Safer Nanomaterials and Nanomanufacturing This project would develop nano-materials and nano-manufacturing methods that meet the military’s need for high performance materials while protecting human health and minimizing harm to the environment. $5,000,000 $3,250,000 University of Oregon Brain Safety Net This project seeks to develop and optimize evidence-based treatments of soldiers and civilians suffering from amputations, traumatic brain injuries (TBI), and neurological disorders such as epilepsy. $3,000,000 $2,400,000
12.11.2009	Local projects of note include: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} • Oregon Partnership Crisis Line for Oregon Military Families --$300,000—Funding will support a dedicated 24-hour crisis line in Oregon for returning soldiers and their families dealing with mental health, suicide, and alcohol and drug problems. • Clackamas County’s Methamphetamine Initiative--$550,000—This project has received national recognition as achieving significant results in combating methamphetamine. • West Coast Governor’s Agreement--$500,000-- Funding will support this proactive, regional collaboration to protect and manage ocean and coastal resources along the West Coast. • Portland Community College Sustainable Careers for Green Economic Recovery--$350,000-- Funding will help Portland Community College implement green job training programs. • Sellwood Bridge Replacement Project--$1,266,200—Project will reduce traffic and enhance safety on the 80 year old bridge. • Self Enhancement, Inc’s Youth Development Initiative--$525,000-- Funding will support an organization dedicated to helping underserved youth realize their full potential through comprehensive year-round academic, enrichment, and family involvement programs. Bill Requester Project Name Description Final Amount CJS Clackamas County Clackamas County Methamphetamine Initiative Clackamas County’s Adult Initiative and Juvenile Initiative have been nationally recognized as achieving significant results combating methamphetamine. Funding will support the centerpiece of the Adult Initiative: he Clackamas County Inter-Agency Task Force (CCITF), which seeks to identify, investigate and prosecute repeat offenders across the region, crosses traditional jurisdictional boundaries, and bridges barriers between agencies that typically hinder prosecution. $550,000 CJS Multnomah County Department of Community Justice Re-entry Services, Elder Abuse The Department of Community Justice (DCJ) is the county agency responsible for adult probation, parole supervision, and juvenile justice services for Oregon’s largest county. This funding request would support services designed to break cycles of addiction, criminality, and homeless that cost Oregon communities millions in criminal justice costs. Additionally, these transition services are geared towards getting former offenders back to work. $500,000 CJS Oregon Health & Science University The Multidisciplinary Institute for Neuropsychiatric Diagnostic (MIND) Funding would support the development of more advanced criteria for diagnosing and classifying the psychiatric disorders that may underlie or result from methamphetamine abuse. $200,000 CJS State of Oregon West Coast Governors' Agreement on Ocean Health Funding will support this proactive, regional collaboration to protect and manage ocean and coastal resources along the West Coast. Launched in 2006 by the Governors of Oregon, Washington, and California, the Agreement advances regional ocean governance. Federal funds will support the priorities of the associate Action plan, including addressing climate change, polluted run-off, marine debris, spartina eradication, integrated ecosystem assessments, sustainable ocean energy development, education, and regional sediment management. They will be distributed through a competitive grant program. Dozens of jobs are expected to be created by the implementation of this program, including research positions, habitat restoration experts, and coastal jobs supporting green ports and clean marinas. $500,000 LaborHHS Oregon Health & Science University OHSU: Oregon Translational Genomics The Oregon Center for Translational Genomics at Oregon Health & Sciences University (OHSU) will develop new, individualized avenues for diagnosing disease, finding new treatments, and analyzing responses to treatments. The Center will be a shared resource for Oregon’s scientists, focusing on finding specific genetic markers that predict disease risk and treatment response. Diseases such as cancer, type II diabetes, obesity, osteoporosis, alcohol and substance abuse and rarer diseases will be an initial focus. OHSU will soon be acquiring through private support a state-of-the-art instrument designed to sequence genes at significantly high rates of speed. Federal appropriations would be used for computer hardware to manage the additional data generated by this advanced instrumentation and additional scientists with expertise in bioinformatics, biostatistics, and molecular genetics. $200,000 LaborHHS Oregon Partnership Preventing Suicide Among Oregon Soldiers and Providing Support to Military Families This project request would create a dedicated 24-hour crisis line in Oregon for returning soldiers and their families dealing with mental health, suicide, and alcohol and drug problems. $300,000 LaborHHS Portland Community College, Sylvania Campus Sustainable Careers for Green Economic Recovery Funding will help Portland Community College implement green job training programs. Green job opportunities, such as solar heating panel installation and other hybrid engine mechanical support, continue to grow even in this economic climate. Portland Community College will work with local businesses and students to ensure that these programs prepare students for the 21st century workforce. $350,000 LaborHHS Self Enhancement, Inc. Youth Development Initiative This funding would support an organization dedicated to helping underserved youth realize their full potential through comprehensive year-round academic, enrichment, and family involvement programs. Funds would support programming and increase the number of students served. Self Enhancement Inc has a 98% high school graduation rate for their students. $525,000 MilCon/VA Oregon Military Department Camp Withycombe Infrastructure (Storm Sewer) Funds would be used to repair and replace existing storm water lines in necessary preparation for building the 41st Infantry Division Armed Forces Reserve Center at Camp Withycombe. $1,226,000 THUD Multnomah County Sellwood Bridge Replacement Project The current 80-year old Sellwood Bridge is both functionally and structurally obsolete. This project will reduce congestion at each of the bridge heads as well as enhance safety by reducing the hazard of head-on collisions between vehicles traveling on the narrow lanes. $1,266,200 THUD Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) Columbia River Crossing The Interstate 5 bridge over the Columbia River and its approaches cause the worst traffic congestion in the Portland/Vancouver metro region and are one of the key bottlenecks on the I-5 trade corridor. This funding, if secured, will be used for preliminary engineering to support any of the bridge options currently under consideration by the region. $1,000,000 THUD Tri-Met South Corridor I-205/Portland Mall Light Rail Project This project would fund the 8.3 mile TriMet light rail extension from downtown Portland to the Clackamas Regional Center. The project is authorized in SAFETEA-LU and is included in the President’s fiscal year 2009 budget. Since the decision to build light rail in the Portland region, nearly $3 billion of development has occurred within walking distance of MAX. The project supports implementation of the region’s 2040 plan, which focuses on regional and town centers, all served by TriMet’s high capacity transit system. The Final Environmental Impact Statement published in November 2004 reflects 2,760 direct jobs, 1,780 indirect jobs and 3,040 induced jobs giving a total of 7,580 jobs. $74,229,000 ###
12.02.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s remarks on the Administration strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan: I appreciate President Obama and his administration taking the necessary time to reevaluate America’s strategy in Afghanistan. It is imperative to think through the implications of sending more troops abroad, to engage our allies around the globe, and establish benchmarks as well as an exit strategy. Had this happened before the United States invaded Iraq, the world would be a different place today. I agree with everything President Obama has done to assess our role in Afghanistan, but I am unable to embrace his conclusion. It is unclear that 30,000 more troops will resolve the conflict, or at least allow us to leave in eighteen months. It may actually weaken our ability to deal with larger security and economic threats at home and abroad - from terrorist recruiting and nuclear weapons to unemployment and our budget deficit. The President argued that it will be more costly to muddle through in Afghanistan. Our experience to date in this troubled country and other flash points around the world does not suggest 30,000 more troops is going to make his other initiatives more effective.
11.16.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Bill to Go to President Obama for Final Signature Washington, DC – In an effort led by Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), the House today passed a bill that would designate the U.S. Postal Service located at 630 Northeast Killingsworth Ave. in Northeast Portland as the “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Post Office.” The bill was supported by every member of the Oregon delegation in both the House and the Senate. The bill is the result of a community effort led by local letter carriers Jamie Partridge and Isham Harris. In 2007, Mr. Partridge and Mr. Harris collected employee signatures supporting the renaming, as well as letters of support from the Piedmont and Concordia Neighborhood Associations, and the Sabin Community Association. Following is a statement from Congressman Blumenauer: “I am proud to send this bill to President Obama on behalf of Isham Harris and Jamie Partridge, two dedicated Portland carriers who spearheaded this effort. Naming the post office after Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. will serve as a daily reminder of his work and the work that continues to make America a more just nation. For me, it is an honor to finish the grassroots effort that began two years ago and send this legislation to the President.” ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
11.12.2009	Congressman Blumenauer and Jin Zidell, author and founder of the Blue Planet Run Project, visited area schools to discuss the importance of providing clean drinking water throughout the world. Congressman Blumenauer introduced the Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act , legislation that would help provide up to 100 million people with clean drinking water by 2015, earlier this year. Congressman Blumenauer and Mr. Zidell answer questions at Sunnyside Environmental Middle School
11.07.2009	Following is a statement from Rep. Blumenauer: "Tonight I voted for every Oregonian who has faced bankruptcy when they've lost their care or has been denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition. Tonight, I voted to protect every Oregonian who has health insurance but sees their costs rising every year. "Passage of the Affordable Health Care for America Act marks the most important single step in 100 years in addressing the health care needs of American families. For the first time, the US government has dealt comprehensively with the entire health care system. "I'm pleased we were successful in the incorporation of major reforms, improving care for all Americans while strengthening the position of Oregon medical care providers. "This critical milestone, while historic, signals more hard work ahead to get the bill to the President's desk. I will work to strengthen the reforms while fighting to lower costs to make health care more affordable for families and the federal treasury. "We must then be prepared to keep working to implement this sweeping change. But tonight we should all pause to celebrate this moment in history." Visit Rep. Blumenauer's website for more information on the Affordable Health Care for Americans Act.
11.07.2009	Will Vote Against Amendment to Ban Abortion Coverage in Health Care ExchangeWashington, DC – Today Rep. Blumenauer will vote against the amendment to the Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962), which would ban abortion coverage in the health care exchange. The amendment, offered by Reps. Stupak (D-MI) and Pitts (R-PA), would prohibit federal subsidies from going to any private plan in the health care exchange that covers abortion care. This goes beyond current federal policy on abortion care, which is already maintained by the current compromise that makes clear that no federal funds can be used to pay for abortion. Following is a short statement from Rep. Blumenauer on his opposition to the amendment: “I am deeply troubled by any Congressional action that restricts a woman’s right to choose. This amendment is an unfortunate shift from the status quo on federal abortion policy that will disproportionately impact low-income women. There is no room for government involvement in the personal and difficult decisions around women’s reproductive choices. To force insurance companies to deny a woman access to a legal procedure would be a very disturbing step backwards.” ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
11.06.2009	Bill Helps High Schoolers Bike and Walk Safely to School Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today introduced the Safe Routes to High Schools Act, H.R. 4021, which would expand the popular Safe Routes to Schools (SRTS) program to include high schools. SRTS works with parents, schools, community leaders and local, state, and federal governments to improve kids’ health by enabling them to walk and bike to class. Projects aim to improve safety, reduce traffic and air pollution and encourage active ways of getting to school by implementing education programs, small scale infrastructure projects – such as bike lanes, sidewalks, cross walks, and bike racks – and other programs to make biking and walking to school safer, easier and more accessible for students. “We develop our exercise habits at an early age,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Of any group, high school students suffer the highest rates of obesity. By taking simple steps to encourage biking and walking to school, we help foster lifelong healthy habits. The Safe Routes to Schools program has proven successful, and by extending it to high schools we can encourage adolescents to begin and maintain physically active habits. At a time when people are working to save where they can, improving community livability gives a boost to kids’ heart rates and parents’ budgets.” The Safe Routes to Schools program has over 4,500 programs across the country, despite not currently including high schools. High school students represent a population most likely to suffer from high rates of obesity and also most in need of flexible, independent, and low-cost transportation choices, especially in troubling economic times. Obesity rates for children between the ages of 12 and 19 have more than tripled in the past fifteen years, with 17.6% of high school age children now classified as obese. This has a profound impact on the long term health of our nation, as 80% of obese children become obese adults, putting them at a higher risk for diabetes, hypertension, cancer, and other chronic health conditions, and placing an increased long-term burden on our healthcare system. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommends that children be active for at least 60 minutes five times a week, but statistics show that activity levels drop rapidly as students head into their high school years. Increasing opportunities for adolescents to be physically active will help combat the rise in teenage obesity. ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
11.04.2009	After a coup in March, the new and weakened government of Andry Rajoelina issued sweeping decrees allowing the harvest and export of wood from protected forests and World Heritage Sites. The Obama administration has condemned the de facto government, and the Wildlife Conservation Society, the World Wild Life Fund (WWF), and Conservation International have denounced the wholesale exploitation of some of the world’s most diverse forests and decimation of the local population’s resources and livelihoods. These groups have strongly endorsed Blumenauer’s resolution. Today the House voted 409-5 to join the administration and environmental groups in speaking out against the devastation occurring in Madagascar: “The House is sending a firm signal that the devastating and illegal destruction of Madagascar’s natural resources will not be tolerated,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Illegal logging not only does irreparable harm to the environment, but it destroys livelihoods. In Oregon and across the United States, at a time when we are working to recover the economy, illegal timber imports undermine legitimate logging operations. While Madagascar’s de facto government continues to use its endangered resources to boost its regime, Congress today joined the administration in calling for an immediate end to these practices.” Author of the Legal Timber Protection Act, Blumenauer is a global leader on the issue of illegal logging. The law, signed in May 2008, bans the import of illegally harvested timber and wood products and empowers regulators to keep illegally harvested timber out of the U.S.John Calvelli, WCS Executive Vice President of Public Affairs, said, “The situation in Madagascar is nothing short of tragic -- not only for the people and wildlife of Madagascar, but for the entire planet. I applaud Congressman Blumenauer for his continued leadership in the United States Congress on the issue of illegal logging. This resolution will serve as a clear message to the current Malagasy government that the illegal harvesting of Madagascar’s natural resources is unacceptable.” The loss of Madagascar’s spectacular biodiversity would not only be a global tragedy, but it will further impoverish rural communities whose lives are inextricably tied to the health of their natural environments,” said Lisa Steel, Deputy Director for Madagascar at World Wildlife Fund. “While Madagascar is under the rule of a weakened government, it is essential that the international community work to stop the harvest and trade of illegal wood and other protected species, and we appreciate this important first step by Congressman Blumenauer.” The Resolution is co-sponsored by 49 bipartisan Members, including Congressman Donald Payne (D-NJ), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health on the Committee for Foreign Affairs, and Congressman Eni Faleomavaega (D-AS), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa and the Global Environment. "Congressman Blumenauer continues to play a leadership role in the global problem of illegal logging and the responsibility of consumer nations like the US to support the fight against it, through policies like the Lacey Act and this resolution, "said Alexander von Bismarck, Executive Director of the Environmental Investigation Agency, which conducted a mission to Madagascar in August 2009 to evaluate the illegal logging situation. ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
10.28.2009	“This is a huge victory for states like Oregon that provide high quality care at lower costs,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I have been working for years to get the federal government to stop rewarding health care inefficiencies. These perverse incentives burden people in more efficient, low-cost regions such as Oregon, where we have had to subsidize expensive and unnecessary treatments in high cost regions. At a time when we are working to recover our economy and spur job growth, subsidizing other regions that overspend on care simply isn’t an option. This agreement and the recommendations that will be made by the Institute of Medicine are a significant step in improving care across the nation and reining in costs.” The Quality Care Coalition unveiled the final legislative language, which will establish two studies to be conducted by the independent and respected Institute of Medicine, to improve geographic inequities and improve quality care. The recommendations from both studies are schedule to be implemented prior to 2013, when enrollment for the public plan begins. The first study will evaluate and make necessary corrections to the current geographic adjustments to physician payments. The second study will provide recommendations on changing the Medicare payment system to reward efficient delivery of high quality, evidence–based, patient centered care. More Detailed Info on the Studies and the House Agreement on Medicare Variation and Promotion of High Value Care Section 1157 Geographic Variation Study The Institute of Medicine will conduct a study to evaluate and make recommendations to improve the geographic adjustment factors in the Medicare reimbursement formulas which will be completed one year after enactment. Section 1158 Revision of Medicare Payment System The Secretary of HHS will implement a payment rate that takes into account this study that can be implemented immediately after the study’s completion. This bill invests $4 billion per year in 2012 and 2013 to make payment rate adjustments. No area will lose money during 2012 and 2013; after 2013 the provision will become budget neutral and payment rates will be based upon the study. Section 1159 High Value Study The Institute of Medicine will also do a study and provide recommendations on changing the Medicare payment system to reward value and quality which will be completed by April, 15 2011. This would define value as the efficient delivery of high quality, evidence–based, patient centered care and develop a phased-in value adjustment to payment rates. GME, DSH and Health IT will not be included in the analysis, so as not to adversely effect lower-income, urban areas. Section 1160 Implementation plan Not later than 240 days after the report, the Secretary of HHS will submit to Congress an implementation plan based on the IOM studies. MedPac and GAO will evaluate the report in a timely fashion. The IOM’s quality and value-based payment recommendations will automatically go into effect unless the House and Senate pass joint resolutions of disapproval by May 31, 2012. The reforms would go into effect in 2013 when the public option is scheduled to start.
10.22.2009	This is the first streetcar project to be funded through the Small Starts Program, which Congressman Blumenauer authored and established in 2003 to provide federal funding to help communities develop smaller scale and less expensive transit projects. This $800,000 million discretionary fund is for streetcar, commuter rail and bus rapid transit projects to receive federal capital funding. While the Bush Administration failed to follow the Small Starts statute, delaying projects around the nation, the Obama administration has acted quickly to fund the Portland streetcar extension – which will create nearly 1,300 high-wage construction and manufacturing jobs in Oregon, attract 2.4 million square feet of new development into the project area, and reduce regional vehicle miles traveled by an additional 28 million miles. Following is a statement from Congressman Blumenauer: “This final step in funding the Portland Streetcar expansion has great symbolism. Small Starts, a program I passed through Congress in 2003, is being put to work and funding the first-ever streetcar project right here in Portland. The $75 million released today is a down-payment on Portland’s future that will create 1,300 high-wage jobs, spur development, and jumpstart Oregon’s economy. “Streetcars not only improve quality of life, giving people more transportation options, but they have real economic and environmental benefits. While the Small Starts program languished under President Bush, the Obama administration – under the leadership of Administrator Rogoff and Secretary LaHood – acted quickly to get this project moving. “With more than 80 streetcar projects underway across the nation, Small Starts provides a federal funding source for communities working to provide more commuting options and reduce their dependence on oil. Today’s announcement should make clear that the new administration is committed to rebuilding America, investing in our infrastructure, and recovering the nation’s economy.” ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
10.20.2009	“Madagascar is a nation rich in biodiversity, and it is imperative that we act quickly to prevent the catastrophic and irreparable harm caused by illegal logging,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The de facto government is using the nation’s endangered resources to boost its regime, and the international community must engage before it is too late for these protected species. My resolution should serve as a serious international signal that Congress is alert to what’s happening in Madagascar, and I will continue to do all I can to protect our world’s precious resources.” Author of the Legal Timber Protection Act, H.R. 1497, Blumenauer is a global leader on the issue of illegal logging. The law, signed in May 2008, bans the trade in illegally harvested timber and wood products, providing the tools to keep illegally harvested timber out of the U.S. The loss of Madagascar’s spectacular biodiversity would not only be a global tragedy, but it will further impoverish rural communities whose lives are inextricably tied to the health of their natural environments,” said Lisa Steel, Senior Program Officer for Madagascar at World Wildlife Fund. “While Madagascar is under the rule of a weakened government, it is essential that the international community work to stop the harvest and trade of illegal wood and other protected species, and we appreciate this important first step by Congressman Blumenauer.” The Resolution is co-sponsored by Congressman Donald Payne (D-NJ), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health on the Committee for Foreign Affairs, as well as Congressman Eni Faleomavaega (D-AS), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa and the Global Environment.### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
10.08.2009	Blumenauer introduced a bill in September, the “Call to Service Homebuyer Credit Act of 2009,” H.R.3573, which would count duty away from home as time spent fulfilling the 36 month occupancy requirement. It also gives a second chance to those who served away from home in 2009 by extending the credit for one year. Following is a statement from Rep. Blumenauer: “Today we fixed a glitch that penalized America’s men and women for government service away from home. Like other Americans, personnel overseas deserve to benefit from the First Time Homebuyer Tax Credit, and I’m pleased that they will have another year to take advantage of this successful program. “I first learned about this issue when a constituent, whose wife works for USAID, told me that they would have to repay their homebuyer credit because she was serving abroad. Despite paying property and state taxes in Oregon, they were being punished for serving our nation. “Today I voted on their behalf, and on behalf of government workers around the nation who serve our nation.” Following is a statement from Malcolm Bixby, the constituent who first wrote to Rep. Blumenauer about the problem with the First Time Homebuyer Tax Credit: “My wife and I were excited to take advantage of the homebuyer program and purchase our first house in Portland. We certainly didn’t expect to be penalized for committing to service abroad, and I appreciate Congressman Blumenauer’s efforts to fix the problem and extend this program to people doing government service abroad.” ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office ' ); document.write( addy10195 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //-->\n Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
09.23.2009	Washington, DC – Last night Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) voted with a majority in the House to extend unemployment benefits by 13 weeks to hundreds of thousands of workers who have lost their jobs and exhausted, or will soon exhaust, their benefits. In Oregon, where unemployment is a record 12.2%, almost 5,000 workers will exhaust their benefits by the end of September and more than 11,000 will lose their benefits by the end of December. “Oregon is experiencing record unemployment, and extending unemployment benefits will help thousands of workers get back on their feet,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “This is not a handout, but an investment that will keep families secure and help people find new jobs. Extending these benefits is a cost-effective way to stimulate the economy, with every dollar spent spurring new economic demand. In combination with the jobs being created by the Recovery Act this is sound policy that will lead to economic growth.” The bill, H.R. 3548, is being brought to the floor by the Ways and Means Committee, on which Rep. Blumenauer serves. H.R. 3548 will not add to the deficit: it extends the federal unemployment tax for one year, which has been in place for more than 30 years, and will require better reporting on newly hired employees (start date) to reduce unemployment insurance overpayments. ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
09.16.2009	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today introduced a bill that would allow members of the armed services, Foreign Service, and intelligence community to take full advantage of the 2009 First Time Homebuyer Tax Credit. Currently, this successful credit cannot be claimed by those on temporary government assignment overseas, since the law requires the buyer to live in the home for 36 consecutive months.Blumenauer’s “Call to Service Homebuyer Credit Act of 2009,” H.R.3573, would count duty away from home as time spent fulfilling the 36 month occupancy requirement. It also gives a second chance to those who served away from home in 2009 by extending the credit for one year. Following is a statement from Rep. Blumenauer:“America’s men and women who are called to service deserve the same benefits as everyone else. It is absurd that thousands of Americans serving our country, away from friends and family, and often in hazardous locations, must choose between their service work and homeownership. This is why I have introduced legislation to extend the successful homebuyer tax credit and protect those who help protect our nation.”“This matter came to my attention in June when a constituent wrote to tell me that his USAID-employed wife would be sent overseas, jeopardizing their homebuyer credit even though they pay property and state taxes in Oregon. I am proud to take action on their behalf and on behalf of government workers around the nation who are being penalized for their service.” Following is a statement from Susan Johnson, President of the American Foreign Service Association:“I commend Congressman Blumenauer for introducing this important bill, which will rectify a serious inequity affecting our career members of the Foreign Service, who are serving our nation with dedication and courage in some of the most dangerous and difficult locations around the globe."###Media Contact: Erin Allweiss202-225-4813 OfficeErin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
09.11.2009	September 9, 2009Statement for the RecordResolution Commemorating 9/11Rep. Earl Blumenauer This Friday, we come together as a nation once again to commemorate those who perished on September 11, 2001, and to renew our commitment to each other and to our nation’s ideals of tolerance and freedom. Though the years have passed, the memory of that day and of the heroism displayed by rescue workers and ordinary Americans is not diminished. I hope you will join me in a day of reflection, as we contemplate how each of us can draw strength from this tragedy and help create the America we’d like to see. Our nation’s strength lies in the ability to welcome dissent, but it is my hope that this day can remind us of our common humanity: that we are more joined than divided. And although we may disagree on the means for how to deal with climate change, health care, and economic recovery, to name but a few of our challenges, these are priorities for us all. Let us remember this day, and let us pledge to work harder and more constructively to build a stronger America.
09.10.2009	“Obama’s rallying call should serve as a warning to those who have spent the last months intentionally deceiving Americans about health reform: there is no room at the table for those who play politics with American lives. There is no room at the table for those who tell lies about death panels or lies meant to drag down change that will improve the lives of millions of Americans. I welcomed both his offer to work cooperatively and his refusal to waste time with people who would rather kill health care reform than improve it. “There are seats at the table only for those who will work together, engage in honest debate, and offer real solutions for reform. This means driving down the cost of health insurance and improving the quality of care for every American. It also means giving people a choice, and by providing a government option that competes with private insurance, people can select the health care plan that works for them and their family. “I join President Obama in saying that we are done putting Americans in harm’s way through inaction. That is unacceptable. Tonight’s speech by the president made a compelling case for immediate action and strong reform.” ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss August 4, 2009 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell \n Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
08.26.2009	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today released the following statement on the passing of Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA): “We have lost one of the greatest senators of our time. Ted Kennedy is someone who not only fought injustice, but made real strides in advancing women’s rights, defending the environment, and protecting minorities. He not only believed in change, but he achieved it, improving the lives of people the world over. My personal experience working with Senator Kennedy to help Iraqi refugees who put their lives at risk assisting the United States armed forces was an inspiration. He was a fierce advocate for the most vulnerable people in the world, particularly those in the United States who lack basic health care coverage. By extending health care to every American, I am eager to help achieve one of Senator Kennedy’s most important, lifelong goals.” ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss August 4, 2009 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
08.04.2009	This bipartisan provision has support from a diverse coalition like AARP, the American College of Physicians, the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, and Catholic health systems. Following are statements from faith leaders in support of Blumenauer’s work: “NETWORK, a National Catholic Social Justice Lobby, supports provisions in H.R. 3200 that allow Medicare to pay doctors for patient visits when the patient has requested a visit to talk about advanced directives for care. This policy promotes clear communication in families and helps to ensure that everyone is aware of a patient’s wishes. The anti-healthcare reform advocates have latched onto this provision in order to spread lies and fear among vulnerable populations. This tactic is wrong and must be countered. As Pope Benedict XIV said in his recent encyclical, there is an “urgent need for reform in the face of great problems of injustice in the development of people, it calls for courageous action to be taken without delay.” In the face of the injustice for more than 45 million people in our nation who do not have access to any healthcare, there is an urgent need for reform. Lies and distortions have no place in the dialogue about the change. As the Pope notes, only truth can be the anchor of any real change. NETWORK supports the truth of families talking together about a loved one’s end of life wishes. This is a family value that should be supported, not demonized.”Sister Simone Campbell, SSSExecutive Director, NETWORK National Catholic Social Justice Lobby “Giving patients the opportunity on a regular basis to discuss with their physicians the values and choices they want to inform health care decisions is an important component of good medical care. This is good for doctors who want to provide the best care for their patients, for families when they must make difficult decisions about loved ones, and for patients who want their religious values and moral perspectives respected.”Rev. John H. ThomasGeneral Minister and President of the United Church of Christ “The fact that medical science has advanced so far as to allow more sophisticated interventions, even in terminal conditions, does not mean that each patient would choose all such interventions. While many patients have filed “living wills” to set out their wishes as they approach the end of life, it is not always possible for patients to anticipate changes in their health status or in medical treatments for their conditions. Authorizing consultations for patients with their physician about the range of options available to them at all stages of care is a sensible and respectful measure – one that preserves the dignity and individuality of the whole person. We are distressed that some detractors are mischaracterizing this simple and sensible provision. It certainly does not coerce or limit individual patient’s choices in any way. It does, on the other hand, put the patient at the center of her or his care, through all the stages of life.” Joe VolkExecutive Secretary of Friends Committee on National Legislation, a Quaker organization “Reflection about the end of life, including elements in medical care, is important for all of us. Such discernment and discussion with loved ones can be enhanced by conversations with thoughtful and caring physicians. Actual decisions are always our own informed by our values and moral perspectives.” Msgr. Charles J. Fahey “The Supportive Care Coalition is a nationwide collaborative of 20 Catholic health care organizations that assists Catholic health ministries in addressing the physical, emotional, psychosocial and spiritual needs of those suffering from life-threatening and chronic illness, as well as those approaching the end of life. We have long supported measures that improve palliative care and end-of-life services, eliminate barriers and build a more connected health care experience across the continuum of care. Central to achieving patient-centered, quality care is strong communication between patients and their health care providers and for these reasons, we strongly support the advance care planning provisions in H.R. 3200.”Sister Karin Dufault, SP, PhD, RNExecutive Director, Supportive Care Coalition: Pursuing Excellence in Palliative Care “When serious illness strikes, someone other than the patient – often the family – can be asked to make major health care decisions. Research shows that loved ones usually don’t know what kind of care the patient wants, which causes much distress. Formalizing a way for patients to have a voluntary discussion with their physician about advance care planning is an important way to improve Medicare. Patients should have the care they actually want and loved ones should have advance guidance on these choices. This is an integral part of the Catholic practice of faith. Catholic moral life teachings includes planning for and making difficult decisions about treatment, and followers are encouraged to have conversations such as those described in HR 3200.” Rev. John F. Tuohey, PhDDirector, Providence Center for Health Care Ethics ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss August 4, 2009 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
07.31.2009	Washington, DC—Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today introduced bipartisan legislation that will provide funding to restore and maintain America’s orphan highways, providing redevelopment and business opportunities for local communities. The bill, the Orphan Highway Restoration Act, is co-sponsored by Reps. Jerry Moran (R-KS), Steve Israel (D-NY), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM). “Vibrant communities across the nation sprang up around the nation’s numbered highways, but with the birth of the Interstate System, many of these Main Streets were abandoned,” said Congressman Earl Blumenauer. “Improving and repairing America’s Main Streets will revitalize communities, create local business opportunities, and make these areas more livable for residents. From rural communities to small towns and cities, restoring main thoroughfares is a smart way to improve quality of life and give local businesses a needed boost.” “Due to Interstates, rural communities that flourished from the initial growth of small American highways are now being by-passed,” said Congressman Jerry Moran. “This legislation will provide much needed assistance to towns across the nation that want to repair their main streets that otherwise would not have the resources to do so. Our Kansas communities located near orphan highways are an important piece of our country’s history, and they must be preserved.” Orphan highways are former U.S. numbered highways that, over time and as a result of the development of the Interstate System, receive fewer travelers passing through and less investment in maintenance and improvements, but which have become important main street thoroughfares. This legislation would direct money to maintain and rehabilitate America’s Main Streets by funding improvements to sidewalks, medians, bike lanes, and traffic signals. This will not only create redevelopment opportunities for local businesses, but it will improve safety and community livability. The bill would authorize $600 million each year from 2010 to 2015 - the duration of the transportation authorization. ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss July 30, 2009 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
07.30.2009	Bipartisan Legislation to Offer Incentives for Engine Systems that Save Fuel on Idling TrucksWashington, DC—Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today introduced bipartisan legislation that is supported by both truckers and environmentalists. The bill, the Idling Reduction Tax Credit Act of 2009, is co-sponsored by Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX) and provides a tax credit for the purchase of idling reduction units. These units reduce the amount of fuel used when a truck is running but not on the road. They are approved by the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) SmartWay partnership and are designed to reduce the gas consumption and environmental burden of long-duration truck idling. Some surveys suggest that trucks spend between 6-8 hours a day idling, for up to 300 days a year. The cost to truckers and the environment is great, and idling reduction units can reduce these costs by powering the truck services (a/c, heat, electricity) through the use of a small auxiliary power unit. Unfortunately, these units cost up to $8,500. The bill offers a 50% tax credit, capped at $3,000, which will help ease the burden of purchasing the equipment.“We have truckers and environmentalists on the same page,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “We can cut costs and the output of global warming pollution by making it affordable for truckers to buy the equipment needed to reduce fuel wasted when idling. It’s a win for everyone – truckers, public health, and the planet.”“I think focusing on idling reduction is a common-sense way to not only cut down on the amount of fuel trucks use, but to reduce the amount of truck pollution,” said Congresswoman Granger. “It may seem like a small step, but when you add up the amount of time an average truck idles in a year, this tax credit will benefit both the trucking community and the environment in a very big way.”“The American Trucking Associations applauds Congressman Blumenauer and Congresswoman Granger for proposing financial incentives to make the purchase of idle reduction systems more affordable and widely distributed. This is a major step that will allow the trucking industry to further reduce CO2 emissions by 67 to 133 million tons over a ten year period and a much larger impact than we could expect to see otherwise,” said American Trucking Association President and CEO Bill Graves. “Nearly 90% of the trucking industry is made up of motor carriers that have fewer than 6 trucks in their fleets,” said Todd Spencer, Executive Vice President of the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association (OOIDA). “These small business truckers literally drive our economy, but rarely have the disposable income to make large, up-front purchases for idle reduction technologies. A tax credit would go a long way to create a real incentive to purchase idle reduction technologies, and it is a win for the environment, a win for lower fuel consumption, a win for hard working truckers, and a win for safety on our highways.”### Media Contact: Erin AllweissJuly 30, 2009202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 CellErin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
07.30.2009	Washington, DC—Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) and Ginny Brown-Waite (R-Fla) today introduced bipartisan legislation that will make those vitamins, wellness and nutritional supplements eligible for FDA-approved health claims more affordable by allowing employees to purchase them using pre-tax dollars already reserved for health needs.“Fitness, preventive care, good eating, and vitamins keep us healthier longer – and often out of the doctor’s office,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “As we in Congress work to reform our broken health care system, there are small, common sense steps we can take to save money and reduce unnecessary visits to the doctor. Nutritional supplements can significantly improve health, and by making vitamins and supplements more affordable, we can help people stay healthy while reducing medical costs.”Among the examples of FDA permitted supplements are selenium and antioxidant vitamins, which have a link to fighting cancer, Omega-3 fatty acids, which are linked to fighting coronary heart disease, and folic acid, which helps prevent neural tube birth defects.“Our doctors tell us time and again that we can stay healthy by living healthy and getting the daily recommended nutrients," said Congresswoman Brown-Waite. “As we consider health care reform in Washington, we need to make sure that preventative care is also a part of the conversation. This bill encourages consumers to utilize FDA approved vitamins and supplements as a means of maintaining a healthy and productive lifestyle.” ###Media Contact: Erin AllweissJuly 30, 2009202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 CellErin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
07.23.2009	Unveils Vehicle Miles Traveled Pilot Program Washington, DC—Representative Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today introduced legislation that would fund a Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) pilot program to examine a new source of funding that would help make up for the highway trust fund deficit, which the Department of Transportation estimates will hit $5-7 billion this August. The legislation calls on the Department of the Treasury to undertake a series of studies to demonstrate the viability of a VMT revenue source in every state, and it reflects a successful pilot program undertaken in Oregon. “We cannot wait to invest in our nation’s roads, bridges, and public transit,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “America’s infrastructure needs critical investments now, and with the highway trust fund flirting with a dangerous deficit, we need innovative solutions that will create a steady source of revenue. Oregon has successfully tested a Vehicle Miles Traveled fee, and it is time to expand and test the VMT program across the country. A VMT system can better assess fees based on use of our roads and bridges, as well as during times of peak congestion, than a fee based on fuel consumption. It is time to get creative and find smart ways to rebuild and renew America’s deteriorating infrastructure.” The Oregon VMT pilot program charged drivers for the number of miles they traveled rather than the fuel they consumed. The test was convenient for drivers, protected personal privacy, and proved to be easily administrable. This concept was also endorsed by the two blue ribbon commissions established in the prior transportation authorization. The National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission noted that a VMT charge is the “the most promising alternative revenue measure” to our existing gas tax, while the National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission reported that “a charge for each mile driven . . . has emerged as the consensus choice for the future.” ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss July 23, 2009 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
07.21.2009	Offers Employer Incentives for Transit that Reduces Global Warming Washington, DC – Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) today introduced the “Green Routes to Work Act of 2009,” which would promote low-carbon transportation options to help commuters save money on gas. The bill provides tax credits for both employers and individuals to use low carbon commuting options. This will help reduce our dependence on oil and output of global warming pollution by encouraging active and environmentally friendly methods of commuting like biking, carpooling, walking, riding public transit, and telecommuting. “With global warming on the rise, and Americans’ waistlines ever expanding, it is time to level the playing field for transportation options that are clean, healthy, and save people money at the pump,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “For too long, the federal government has supported commuters who drove to work but has not helped those who use other methods of transportation. The Green Routes to Work Act addresses this disparity and extends employer incentives to options like biking, walking, and telecommuting. Expanding the use of low-carbon transit is a quick, smart, and easy way to improve air quality, cut down on time spent idling in traffic, and save billions in gas costs.” On average, transportation costs are now Americans’ second largest expense after housing. Bicycle commuters annually save an average of $1,825 in auto-related costs, conserve 145 gallons of gasoline, and avoid 50 hours of gridlock traffic. Providing incentives for low-carbon transit makes sense from an environmental and public health perspective.Background Here is information on how the bill would provide incentives for low carbon and transit alternatives: • Transit Equity: Increases the uniform dollar cap for all transportation fringe benefits to $230 a month • Clarification of Federal Employee Benefits: Encourages the federal government to lead by example by ensuring that federal transportation fringe benefits are available to federal employees • Self Employed Extension of Transportation Fringe Benefits: Allows individuals who are self-employed to receive transit fringe benefits for commuting done for work purposes • Parking Cashout: Requires employers who offer a parking transportation fringe benefit to employees to also offer employees the option to take cash instead, reducing the incentive to drive instead of take alternative transportation. • VanPool Credit: Creates a 10% tax credit for expenditures on vanpool vehicles and services, which will provide an incentive for employers and employees to share their commutes. • Employer Credit for Providing Tax-free Transit Passes to Employees: Gives employers an up to 10% tax credit for the money they provide to employees as part of the transportation fringe benefits program. • Expenditures to Provide Bicycle Access: Encourages small businesses to provide for the growing interest in bicycle commuting by providing companies with a tax credit worth up to 50% of any expenditures used to make their business bike accessible. • MultiModal Transportation: Allows individuals to combine their transportation fringe benefits as long as they fall under the $230 cap (for example, individuals can use the $40 bike credit and still collect up to $210 of their public transit fringe benefit). This section recognizes that people rarely use one type of transportation only to commute: they use a combination of modes depending on the weather, their needs for the day and other factors. It also increases the amount which individuals can receive under the bike commuter benefit to $40. • Deductions for Expenditures to Remove Barriers to Bicycle Access: Allows individuals and business owners to deduct the costs of bicycle access improvements. • Teleworking Tax Credit: Creates a tax credit for qualified teleworking expenses for employers and employees (up to $400 per individual teleworker). Four to six million workers currently telecommute at least once a week, saving an estimated 840 million gallons of fuel. ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss July 21, 2009 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
07.15.2009	Representatives Mike Simpson (R-ID), Norm Dicks (D-WA), Tom Petri (R-WI), and Steve LaTourette (R-OH) joined Rep. Blumenauer in introducing the legislation, as well as a diverse coalition of stakeholders representing rural communities, contractors, engineers, and environmental and water interests. The Water Protection and Reinvestment Act will be financed broadly by small fees on such things as bottled beverages, products disposed of in wastewater, corporate profits, and the pharmaceutical industry. This will provide a long-term, sustainable source of revenue to ensure economic prosperity and protect the health of people and the environment. The $10 billion annual fund will create more than 250,000 jobs. For more information on the water trust fund and how it will be paid for, see Rep. Blumenauer’s Water Resources Protection Act Fact Sheet and Summary. Following are statements from Rep. Blumenauer, members of Congress, and groups that joined the press conference to endorse this important legislation: “When water mains are bursting through the streets, and sewage is leaking into our lakes, rivers, and streams, we have gotten past the point of out of sight out of mind,” said Congressman Earl Blumenauer. “We know things are critical when, based on current funding levels, it would take Oregon more than 62 years to meet our current wastewater needs. Establishing a steady funding source to rebuild and renew America’s outdated water infrastructure is a concrete step that puts us on the path to a healthier, more secure future. As we look for ways to jumpstart our economy, the Water Protection and Reinvestment Act will create hundreds of thousands of jobs while protecting the health of people and the environment. After many years of work, and numerous conversations with a multitude of stakeholders, I am proud to unveil this vital piece of legislation.” “I’m pleased to be an original cosponsor of Rep. Blumenauer’s legislation, which will create a long overdue funding source for our deteriorating water infrastructure,” said Congressman Steve LaTourette. “The EPA has stated that in Ohio alone $22 billion will be needed over the next 20 years to repair drinking water and waste water infrastructure. This bill addresses these needs that exist across the country which currently leave local taxpayers with the bill.” "It is no secret to the people of Wisconsin that our aging wastewater infrastructure is increasingly being overwhelmed,” said Congressman Tom Petri. "Last month as a result of rain, nearly 1 billion gallons of untreated sewage and storm water spilled out of Milwaukee-area sanitary and storm sewers into local rivers and Lake Michigan. Milwaukee is only a local example. The problem of inadequate and crumbling wastewater facilities is urgent and nationwide. The Wastewater Protection and Reinvestment Act is greatly needed if we are to have both reliable drinking water and wastewater treatment." “Municipalities face serious challenges in meeting their clean water goals, including a growing population; aging infrastructure; increased regulatory requirements with stepped-up enforcement from EPA; and global competition driving up the cost of labor and materials,” said Tom Walsh, who spoke on behalf of the National Association of Clean Water Agencies (NACWA). “We believe a clean water trust fund, such as the one that would be created by Congressman Blumenauer’s bill, is critical to ensuring communities can continue to meet their Clean Water Act obligations.” “Every day we rely on seemingly invisible water and wastewater systems to support our quality of life and the nation’s economy, and yet they suffer from inattention and underfunding,” said American Society of Civil Engineers president D. Wayne Klotz. “A long-term, dedicated funding source, like the one proposed by Congressman Blumenauer, will go a long way in ensuring that these vital systems can continue to support the health and safety of the American people.” "A new economic study by the Clean Water Council demonstrates that water and wastewater projects generate tens of thousands of living-wage jobs, substantially increase demand for goods and services, and expand local tax bases," said Bill Hillman, CEO of the National Utility Contractors Association. "A long-term, self-sustaining and dedicated wastewater infrastructure trust fund would go a long way to reduce the structural investment gap that is creating an environmental crisis." “We are at a transformational moment. The same old 19th and 20th century approaches to water management simply aren’t fit for the challenges of this century,” said Rebecca Wodder, president of American Rivers. “It is time to embrace a 21st century approach to water that integrates green solutions, recognizes changing climatic conditions, and helps ensure community safety and security. By supporting smart water infrastructure investments, the Trust Fund will help ensure a future of clean water for generations to come.” "In recent years funding for water infrastructure has suffered from neglect and misplaced priorities,” said Mitch Jones, Senior Legislative and Policy Analyst for Food & Water Watch. “Even with the increases already approved by Congress, we will fall woefully short of our nation's need this year. We can't afford to rely on the whims of Congress and the change of administrations to guarantee the safety of our infrastructure. That's why we need a Water Protection and Reinvestment Fund." “Communities in rural America desperately need this type of comprehensive and sustainable program that not only supports vital water and wastewater infrastructure, but also serves to improve public health and the prospect for future economic development opportunities,” said Rural Community Assistance Partnership Executive Director Robert Stewart. “By providing a dedicated funding source, using existing delivery systems, and requiring a high level of responsibility and accountability from the utility recipients, the ’Water Protection and Reinvestment Act’ will help ensure that this generation and those that follow us will be guaranteed safe, affordable and dependable water and wastewater services for their families and for future economic growth.” ### Media Contact: Erin Allweiss July 15, 2009 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
07.10.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Bill a Win for Consumers, U.S. Apparel Industry, and Environment Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today introduced the U.S. OUTDOOR Act (the Optimal Use of Trade to Develop Outerwear and Outdoor Recreation Act), H.R. 3168, which will remove burdensome and unnecessary tariffs on recreational performance outerwear - jackets and pants used for outdoor activities like skiing and hunting. Blumenauer was joined by Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore) in introducing the House bill. Senators Wyden (D-Ore), Crapo (R-ID), Cantwell (D-WA) and Schumer (D-NY) introduced a companion bill today in the Senate, S. 1439. “At a time when Americans are trying to save money however they can, this bill will make outdoor apparel more affordable while creating investment and job opportunities at home,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “This bill removes unnecessary tariffs on apparel not currently made in the U.S. In addition, the companies that benefit from these reduced tariffs will be required to contribute a portion of their savings toward research programs that are developing ways to keep America’s apparel industry globally competitive and more environmentally sustainable. This is a win for consumers and a win for strong American companies like Columbia, REI, North Face and others looking to reduce costs, improve the quality of their goods and implement sustainable processes.” “Like many Oregonians, I enjoy Oregon’s diverse outdoor recreational opportunities. That’s why I’m proud to cosponsor this bipartisan bill that will remove unnecessary tariffs that penalize consumers and clothing companies in Oregon that produce and sell high-tech recreational performance outerwear,” Rep. Walden said. “Oregon is home to a variety of large and small outdoor clothing manufacturers and retailers that provide good jobs at a time when unemployment in Oregon is at a record low. This bill will remove unnecessary and burdensome costs and allow these companies to create new jobs.” “Columbia Sportswear Company is proud to offer its support to the U.S. OUTDOOR Act (HR 3168),” commented Tim Boyle, president and chief executive officer of Columbia Sportswear. “This Act will help sustain and create family-wage jobs in Oregon and around the country while making high-quality, performance outerwear more accessible for the millions of U.S. families who enjoy outdoor recreation each year. This well-designed piece of legislation goes even further by creating a market-based mechanism to generate funds that will help support critical research to keep America in the forefront of sustainable apparel manufacturing practices.” “The introduction of this bill represents a commitment from Representative Blumenauer, Senators Wyden, Crapo and Cantwell to the 6.5 million jobs in the active outdoor recreation industry, the viability of outdoor businesses across the country and Americans seeking healthy and active lifestyles through outdoor recreation,” commented OIA President and CEO Frank Hugelmeyer. “But the bill is also an investment in the United States as a global leader in the sustainable, eco-friendly business practices that are core values of the outdoor industry.” More than 75 percent of Americans participate in active outdoor recreation each year, contributing $730 billion and 6.5 million jobs to the U.S. economy, including jobs in the U.S. apparel industry. While the average duty on imports is less than 2 percent, the rates on recreational performance outerwear averages a much higher 17 percent, and sometimes up to 28 percent. These disproportionately high tariffs were originally implemented to protect U.S. manufacturers from foreign competition, but now they stifle innovation and raise costs throughout our economy. The legislation introduced today will make apparel more affordable while also establishing the Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research (STAR) Fund. The fund will make grants available to certain non-profit organizations to advance U.S. competitiveness in lean manufacturing technologies and supply chain analysis. The STAR Fund grants, made available through a competitive process administered by the Department of Commerce, will help the global textile and apparel industry minimize energy and water use, reduce waste and global warming emissions, and incorporate sustainable practices into a product's entire life cycle. Through these mechanisms, this legislation will support the outdoor industry, consumers of outdoor products, and environmental practices throughout the textile industry supply chain. July 10, 2009 Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
07.09.2009	Extra Funding Vital to Help Poor Nations, Advance U.S. Security Interests Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) today secured an extra $25 million that will be used to provide the world’s poorest people with access to clean water and sanitation, bringing the total level of this funding for Fiscal Year 2010 to $335 million. Blumenauer is the author of the “Water for the Poor Act,” which was signed into law in 2005. He has since introduced the bipartisan "Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act of 2009," which would increase the US Government’s ability to extend safe, affordable and sustainable clean water and sanitation to an additional 100 million of the world’s poorest by 2015. Following is a statement from Rep. Blumenauer and other clean water and development advocates: “Access to safe, clean drinking water is a basic right too often denied to the world’s poorest,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “The additional funding we’ve secured today will help us meet our commitment to address the world’s number one health problem: lack of access to clean water, which impacts more than one billion people. The resulting illness and death is entirely preventable, yet traps countries in poverty and diminishes our own development and security efforts. What we’ve done today will make an important difference in the lives of the poorest people in the most resource-stressed areas of the world.”David Douglas, President of Water Advocates, hailed the increase, saying, "We greatly appreciate Congressman Blumenauer's longtime leadership on this important issue, and his work to make the Water for the Poor Act even more effective at saving lives and reducing disease in the developing world." Erin Allweiss July 9, 2009 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell
07.07.2009	Also in attendance at the Blumenauer briefing was Jim McKenna, Superfund Project Manager at the Port of Portland; Kathleen Hadley, Executive Director at the National Center for Appropriate Technology; and Lois Gibbs, Executive Director at the Center for Health, Environment and Justice. Gibbs formed The Love Canal Homeowners Association after she discovered that her son’s elementary school was built on the Love Canal chemical dump. Following is a statement from Rep. Blumenauer: “It makes no sense to have the very people who deserve to be protected from toxic waste, chemicals, and other hazardous material pay for the cleanup of Superfund sites. Oil, gas, and chemical industries that benefit from the use of toxic chemicals must be held accountable for the pollution they create. By making polluters pay, we can restore a permanent source to fund the cleanup of our nation’s most toxic and dangerous sites. “When Lois Gibbs discovered that her children were playing soccer and attending school on top of a former toxic waste dump, she became the accidental activist who spurred the development of the Superfund. When the fund expired more than a decade ago, the rate of cleanup of Superfund sites declined and the burden of funding these cleanups now falls unfairly to all taxpaying Americans. Now, with more than 70 million Americans living within 4 miles of a Superfund site, Lois continues to fight to restore the Superfund program, and I am honored to support her efforts in Congress. “The expiration of the Superfund program in 1995 has resulted in the delay of cleanups around the nation, including at the Portland Harbor Superfund Site in my district. As of 2003, the balance in the Superfund trust fund dwindled to zero, delaying the cleanup of 29 sites around the country. Now the Superfund relies on general fund revenues, increasing the burden on American taxpayers at a time when cleanup costs are increasing and the nation faces other needs, like health care reform and investments in infrastructure and education. “Polluters must be held accountable for the waste they create, and the bottom line is the Superfund program works. It has led to the cleanup of over 1,000 sites around the country and improved the lives of millions of Americans. By reinstating this small but important polluter fee on oil and chemical industries, we can protect Americans from the economic and public health perils of dangerous toxic sites.” July 7, 2009 Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
07.02.2009	Local company Oregon Iron Works made the machine at a nearby factory that employs hundreds of skilled laborers. The company has a pending order from Portland for a half dozen streetcars and one worth $26 million from the city of Tuscon for seven more. OIW aims to get at least 60 percent of its parts from other US companies and to help seed an urban transit industry in Oregon. Since about 1950, building modern streetcars has been a lost art in this country. OIW decided, based on the success of Portland’s streetcar line, to try to rediscover it and claims that their product is already of a higher quality than European competitors. If our Spidey sense is right–as, well, it usually is–this company and Oregon have seized an incredibly valuable first-mover advantage in what could prove to be an important domestic industry in years to come. After American cities tore up streetcar tracks and junked their rolling stock en masse in the middle of last century, dozens of are now planning or considering a new system. With oil at $70 a barrel in the depths of brutal global recession, our guess is that number will only grow in the years ahead.
07.01.2009	Following are statements from Rep. Blumenauer, Secretary LaHood, and Governor Kulongoski: “It is a pleasure to host Secretary LaHood in Portland,” said Congressman Earl Blumenauer. “I worked closely with him while he was in Congress, and it is wonderful to have an ally at the Department of Transportation who understands the importance of investing in livable communities. Portland is recognized for its smart investments in public transportation and thoughtful city planning, which has not only reduced our city’s global warming pollution but improved people’s quality of life. As Congress and the administration take on two of our nation’s greatest challenges – health care and global warming – making sure our citizens can more easily get around by walking, biking, and taking public transit will help us meet these goals. It is symbolic that today’s streetcar unveiling comes on the heels of the historic House passage of the energy and climate bill. After much work, the bill passed with funding for low-carbon transportation. By investing in streetcars, like the one we’re seeing today, we can reduce our carbon pollution, end our dependence on oil, and finally begin the process of rebuilding and renewing America.” “Portland’s commitment to public transportation and its visionary streetcar system has made it one of the most livable, sustainable, and economically vibrant cities in America. Now, Portland has teamed up with a local manufacturer, Oregon Iron Works, Inc. to build the first American-made streetcar in nearly 60 years,” said Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. “I commend Rep. Blumenauer for all of his great work on this and the city of Portland for developing a public transportation system that can serve the needs of citizens while generating good-paying local jobs, spurring economic growth and achieving greater energy efficiency.” “This project is the result of partnerships at every level of government coming together and I am proud of the state’s contribution,” said Governor Ted Kulongoski. “In the 2007 session, the state of Oregon invested $20 million for the Eastside Streetcar project – resulting in good family wage jobs and advancing our mission to create livable communities connected by a green and sustainable transportation system.” For Immediate Release July 1, 2009 Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
06.29.2009	Americans installed about 10,500 small turbines last year—about half the world’s total—at a cost of $77 million, and the AWEA expects a 30-fold increase in the next five years. A typical home windmill is used in conjunction with electricity from local utilities. When wind is light, electricity comes from the utility company; when high winds blow, excess power may be sent back to the grid. Ron Stimmel of the AWEA estimates that about 13 million U.S. homes could sustain small windmills, which range in size from 30 to 140 feet. If you’re thinking of setting up your own, you’l l need a big down payment and some patience—the systems cost about $40,000 to install and take five to 15 years to pay for themselves. Zoning restrictions and objections from neighbors also pose obstacles. Says Stimmel: “There’s a lot of outreach going on to help cultivate public acceptance of having an unusual thing like a turbine in your backyard.”
06.26.2009	Following is a statement from Congressman Blumenauer: “Some votes just feel different, and today’s was truly historic. For the first time, Congress has taken action to rein in global warming pollution and jumpstart America’s clean energy industries. After eight years of an administration that denied the warming of our planet, we are taking action to invest in energy that can’t ever spill or run out, will create millions of jobs at home and around the country, and protect our planet for future generations. “At a time when Oregon is faced with record unemployment, this legislation will spur innovation and immediately make a difference in the electric, construction, and engineering sectors. Investments in clean energy will reduce utility costs, while developments in clean vehicle technology will save Oregon families more than $11 a month in transportation costs by 2020. “I worked with Chairman Waxman and Subcommittee Chairman Markey to invest in low carbon transportation, which includes public transit, bikes, and complete streets. These investments will create local jobs, give people more commuting options, and improve public health. “The bill also invests in the future of our nation’s security by reducing our dependence on oil and helping those in developing nations who will be disproportionately impacted by the effects of global warming. The bill helps the world’s poorest people – those least able to deal with the consequences of rising sea levels and a warming planet – by helping them adapt to these changes. This is not only the right thing to do, but it will restore America’s credibility in the world and advance our security interests. “Oregonians have long understood the value of a healthy environment, and my constituents have been pushing me for years to get Congress to take strong action on climate change. Today represents a historic first step for our economy and our planet, and I am truly proud of the direction this Congress and President Obama are taking our nation.”BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON BILL Read a comprehensive description of the legislation here.ACES Makes Significant Environmental Progress and Transitions to Clean Energy Not only will the bill cap emissions from covered sources (86% of sources) at 17% below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83% by 2020, but when the complementary requirements and regulations are taken into account, the bill will reduce greenhouse gas emissions 28% below 2005 levels by 2020. The bill requires utilities to meet 20% of their electricity demand through renewable energy and energy efficiency by 2020. It mandates new efficiency standards for buildings, appliances, and industry. For example, new buildings must be 30% more efficient in 2012 and 50% more efficient in 2016. ACES directs the EPA and State Dept. to use 5% of the allowances to secure agreements from developing nations to prevent tropical deforestation and degradation, which is responsible for 20-25% of man-made greenhouse gas emissions worldwide. This provision will reduce emissions by an additional 10% by 2020. It starts to shift our transportation system away from oil by investing in electric vehicle infrastructure and providing financial assistance to retool existing factories to manufacture electric vehicles. Provides funding for states to make further investments in efficiency and renewables, including clean transportation. Paves the way for an international agreement in Copenhagen in December where developed and developing countries will agree to cap and reduce worldwide emissions. ACES Protects Consumers from Electricity Rate Spikes To mitigate electricity and natural gas price increases, the bill provides free allowances to regulated utilities, which are then required to pass the value of the allowances to consumers in the form of rate reductions. To mitigate increases in home heating oil, free allowances are provided to states to provide rebates and invest in energy efficiency. Unlimited banking of allowances, a two-year compliance period, and a strategic reserve of allowances available for auction if allowance prices exceed 160% of their three-year average will help ensure a smooth cost curve for allowances prices and certainty for the industry. A minimum price floor for auctioned allowances will provide stability and investment certainty. From the beginning, 15% of the allowances will be auctioned and the revenue used to offset increased costs for low income Americans. The Center for Budget and Policy Priorities estimates that this provision will fully protect the bottom quintile of families and part of the next quintile from any direct or indirect energy price increases. Invests in the Public Interest A majority of the value of the allowances over the course of the program (59.4%) is used to benefit consumers and public purposes through preventing significant increases electricity, natural gas, and home heating oil prices; providing refunds to low income families; providing worker assistance and job training; investing in renewable energy, energy efficiency, and building codes; preventing international deforestation; and supporting adaptation measures at home and abroad. Only about 17% of the allowances are used to support private industry, mainly by providing assistance to energy-intensive, trade-exposed industries to prevent jobs from moving overseas and carbon leakage; incentives for carbon-capture and storage; clean vehicle technology; and transition assistance for oil refiners and merchant coal producers. Starting in 2026, all unallocated allowances will be auctioned and the proceeds will be distributed in equal payments to all legal US residents. This will be about 55% of the allowances by 2030, which means that tens of billions of dollars will be distributed as “dividends.” By 2050, over 80% of the allowances will be used for public purposes and to benefit consumers. For Immediate Release Media Contact: Erin Allweiss June 26, 2009 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
06.25.2009	“For years I have been working to ensure that the U.S. government does all it can to protect our communities from weapons and chemicals left over from military training,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “This means both requiring the military to clean up after itself and reducing the creation of hazardous weapons waste in the first place. It’s hard to imagine anything worse than a child stumbling upon a weapon that could still be active. By requiring the Secretary of Defense to issue specific recommendations for reducing the full life-cycle costs of weapons, we can save money and find ways to protect people and the environment from unintended consequences.” BACKGROUND Both amendments are part of Rep. Blumenauer’s continuing efforts to reduce the environmental impacts of military operations. The first amendment would require the Secretary of Defense to develop methods to account for the full life-cycle costs of munitions, including cost of disposal. The Defense Department would be required to report to Congress – within 180 days – recommendations for reducing these costs, unexploded ordnance, and munitions-constituent contamination. This amendment is the first time the DoD will be required to take a look at how munitions are developed and how they are used, in order to reduce the very real and very serious environmental contamination and danger to civilians. The second amendment would require the Defense Secretary, in the Defense budget submission, to include funding levels for Military Munitions Response Program. This program manages and cleans over 3,500 contaminated sites nationwide. Increasing transparency of funding levels will empower Congress and the American people to hold the Department accountable for results. For Immediate Release June 25, 2009 Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
06.24.2009	The American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACES) is coming to the House floor, and not a moment too soon. Although I constantly marvel at Congress's collective ability to dodge, weave, and stall, the discussion of how to save the planet is becoming increasingly difficult to kick down the road. We have clearly run out of time. We no longer have the luxury of avoiding the hard decisions. For several years, I have been open to different approaches when it comes to reducing our nation's carbon emissions. I have cosponsored legislation that taxes carbon and legislation that institutes a carbon cap-and-trade system. I have talked repeatedly with supporters of all numerous approaches, trying to play a constructive role that advances the debate. Now we need results, and I have concluded that putting a cap on carbon emissions and creating a market that will spur clean energy innovation is far superior to any other option. Most importantly, this is a bill we can actually pass now, which means taking immediate action to finally address global warming. Chairman Waxman and Subcommittee Chairman Markey have worked tirelessly on climate legislation that will invest in clean, renewable energy, put a cap on dangerous carbon emissions, and create millions of new jobs. The negotiating process has required a lot of work and late nights, and it lays out how we as a country will tackle the major challenges of reducing our carbon output and fighting global warming. I have worked closely with them to advance this bill and strengthen it along the way. I worked to get more funding in ACES for low-carbon transportation options. While there was not funding in the original bill, it became clear that to truly rein in global warming, we would need to consider how we get around on a day-to-day basis. This idea originated from a bill I introduced earlier this year called CLEAN-TEA (or the Clean Low-Emissions Affordable New Transportation Equity Act). While my bill would have allocated more money to transportation, ACES is a great start. As much as $537 million in the first few years - and then later up to $1 billion (as allowances become worth more) - will go toward projects that make it easier for people to walk, ride bicycles or take public transportation. Paying for these projects will also create jobs in local construction and transportation sectors. The energy and climate bill is not only a victory for environmentalists; it is a victory for all who are concerned about our crumbling infrastructure system. Revenue from the cap and trade system will allow states to invest in more carbon-neutral transportation alternatives like high-speed rail, walking, and bicycling. The energy and climate bill takes off where the recovery package left off. In fact, in combination these two bills will create millions of jobs around the nation in the energy, new technology, electrical and construction sectors. They will help to bring down my state's unemployment rate, which is at an all-time high. The bottom line is that the energy and climate bill will help us grow our economy and finally address some of the major issues we face with our nation's transportation infrastructure.
06.22.2009	Think of the Congressional health care discussions this way: The bones of health care reform are being worked out in the Senate Health Labor and Pensions Committee. Senator Ted Kennedy has submitted a reform bill that addresses how health care is delivered. After the July 4th weekend, Oregon’s Senator Jeff Merkley and others will on the committee will begin marking the bill up -- adding different amendments, and filling out a structure that was left intentionally vague. But the lifeblood of any working health care system is money. Earl Blumenauer: “We have a system right now that is driven too much by dollars and a formula.” Congressman Earl Blumenauer is a member of the powerful Ways and Means Committee in the House. That’s where the tough negotiations on how to pay for health care are playing out. Blumenauer says he’s advocating for fiscal changes that will fully fund reforms, but also nudge the system toward a different model for paying doctors. Earl Blumenauer: “People are being paid to do procedures, and not deal meaningfully to deal with the patients. It’s not resulting in better care, and in some places, it’s worse care.” Blumenauer has introduced a bill that would offer a small, five percent bonus for doctors who have a record for high-quality, low-cost care, based on regional standards. Meanwhile, the Senate Finance Committee is also working on a separate health care finance bill, with the help of a third Oregonian, Senator Ron Wyden. He’s still trying to rally support for an essential mechanism of his Healthy Americans bill. It would replace the tax break businesses get for buying health care policies, and replace it with a standard deduction. This change may sound small, but it has potential to raise a lot of cash. As the budget surgeons work on these corporeal changes, 5th district Congressman Kurt Schrader is still plugging away on a bill that might be described as a higher brain function in health care: comparative effectiveness research. It’s a plan for an institute dedicated to distinguishing what works in medicine from what doesn’t. So far, the bill has received only moderate traction.
06.17.2009	“Our nation’s health care system is in crisis, and we have a real chance to act now, reform our policies, and make sure every American has access to affordable, quality health insurance. No person confronting end-of-life realities should have to face further obstacles presented by a broken health care system. My legislation would make end-of-life care more accessible and more affordable by giving people the tools they need to make difficult decisions. “America is home to the world’s most expensive health care system and much of this is due to inefficiency. Despite run-away costs, we still struggle to provide coverage for all. The Medicare Efficiency Incentive Act will reward states like Oregon, Washington, and Minnesota that have managed to provide high quality care at lower costs. We should not be penalized by a system that indiscriminately rewards volume of services, irrespective of whether the services provided improve a person’s health. By rewarding good, efficient care, my bill offers an incentive for high spending regions to curb costs while rewarding states like Oregon for effectively using health care resources. “President Obama and Congress are working to reduce health care costs and give people more options. These pieces of legislation will reduce unnecessary spending and make it easier for Americans to make tough decisions about their health care.”Background on the Three Bills:The Medicare Efficiency Incentive Act: America has the most expensive health care system in the world, and one problem is that the federal government enables inefficiency. This is costly and unfair to those in efficient, low-spending regions such as Oregon, Washington, Wisconsin, North Dakota and Minnesota, who subsidize high-spending regions. Medicare beneficiaries living in Miami, Las Vegas, New York and Houston receive approximately 60% more services than those living in low-spending regions. This higher spending has not produced higher quality of care or superior outcomes. In fact, research shows that health care outcomes and patient satisfaction are often greater in regions that spend less. This bill would change the financial incentives in our health care system to reward low-spending Medicare regions through a 5% bonus payment. Currently, there is no financial incentive for high-spending regions to reign in spending. This would create that incentive and reward regions that have made a concerted effort to efficiently use health resources.A Bill to Better Inform Regional Medicare Policy: To ensure more efficient health care spending, this bill would lay the foundation for better research for Congress to use in analyzing Medicare policy recommendations. The bill would change MedPAC’s statutory mandate to include an annual report to examine each Medicare region, evaluating access to care, quality of care, increases or decreases in volume of services, and the potential effects of other policy recommendations under consideration. This new report will provide critical data and result in more accurate and targeted policy recommendations that consider geographic variations and recognize that distinctly different delivery systems should be treated differently. These strategic investments in Medicare will lay the groundwork for future improvements and refinements to the program as we promote efficiency and quality in all regions of the country.The Advance Care Planning and Compassionate Care Act of 2009: This companion bill to legislation introduced by Senators Rockefeller (D-WV), Collins (R-ME), Kohl (D-Wis), Carper (D-Del), and Wyden (D-Ore) would provide the tools and resources necessary to dramatically improve care at the end of life by. • Improving consumer information about advance care planning and end-of-life care. • Improving provider education and training about advance care planning and end-of-life care by establishing a National Geriatric and Palliative Care Service Corps modeled after the National Health Service Corps. • Requiring portability of advance directives from one state to another, and require any existing advance directives to be prominently placed in a patient’s medical record so they are easily visible. • Authorizing funding for new and innovative approaches to advance care planning through grants made available to states for development of electronic advance directive registries. Grants would also be made available to develop systems to identify that a person has an advance directive using driver’s licenses, similar to how organ donor status is indicated. • Providing Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP coverage for advance care planning consultations so that patients can routinely talk to their physicians about their wishes for end-of-life care. • Improving consumer access to hospice and palliative care so the public is well informed of the care options available at the end of life. • Providing concurrent care for children, meaning both curative and hospice care at the same time. This will make it possible for children to receive the palliative services they need from hospice while still pursuing potentially life-saving treatments. • Requiring the development of quality measures to assess end-of-life care. The Secretary of HHS, acting through the Director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, shall require specific end-of-life care quality measures for each relevant provider setting. The legislation would also develop and implement accreditation standards and processes for hospital-based palliative care teams. • Establishing the National Center on Palliative and End-of-Life Care at the NIH. Biomedical and health services research is vital across all phases of life. A new National Center on Palliative and End-of-Life Care at the NIH will lead biomedical research on palliative and end-of-life care. Read the myth vs facts on the Advanced Care Planning and Compassionate Care Act of 2009. For Immediate Release June 17, 2009 Media Contact: Erin Allweiss 202-225-4813 Office/202-446-8265 Cell Erin.Allweiss@mail.house.gov
06.16.2009	But Maryland also leads the country in the rate of hospital readmissions among Medicare patients. According to a study recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine, 22 percent of Medicare patients in Maryland - more than one in five - are readmitted to the hospital within 30 days of being discharged. Transitions from hospital to home can be complicated and risky, especially for individuals with multiple chronic illnesses. Faced with complex, costly treatments - and often conflicting instructions from different health care providers - people with chronic conditions and their family members often struggle to coordinate care and get appropriate help. This lack of coordination can lead to medical errors, unnecessary tests, avoidable hospital stays, and stress for patients and their families. It also drives up Medicare costs. In 2004, Medicare spent an estimated $17.4 billion on potentially avoidable re-hospitalizations nationwide. Too many people are leaving the hospital with a handful of prescriptions and little else. It's weighing on our health and driving up the cost of health care for all Americans. One way to improve outcomes while reducing costs is to establish a Medicare follow-up care benefit. This benefit would support patients as they transition from the hospital to their own home or another setting, such as a skilled nursing facility or rehabilitation center. Under a follow-up benefit, a team of professionals working with patients and their family members could provide transitional care services including: a comprehensive assessment of the individual's needs (and the primary caregiver's needs); development of a care plan; a visit in the next care setting shortly after hospital discharge; home visits; help with medication management; arranging and coordinating community resources and support services; and accompanying the individual on follow-up physician visits. Multiple clinical studies - including the Guided Care Model pioneered at the Johns Hopkins University - have shown that transitional care services not only reduce readmissions but improve patient outcomes and satisfaction. As Congress debates overdue reform of the nation's health care system, AARP has urged lawmakers to ensure that comprehensive reform includes a Medicare follow-up care benefit. We enthusiastically endorse the Medicare Transitional Care Act, introduced in the House last week by Rep. Earl Blumenauer, Democrat of Oregon, and Rep. Charles Boustany, Republican of Louisiana, which would ensure that Medicare beneficiaries leaving the hospital and their caregivers get the support they need for up to 90 days after being discharged. Transitional care services would be provided through hospitals, home health agencies and primary care practices by nurses or other health professionals. The Transitional Care Act includes provisions to phase in the benefit as well as payment incentives that will help with the issue of increased workload. As representatives of the state with the highest re-admission rate in the country, members of Maryland's congressional delegation should likewise support this legislation with enthusiasm. Keeping people healthy and out of the hospital benefits everyone. We can improve the quality of our health care and at the same time contain rising health care costs with a follow-up care benefit in Medicare. As a common-sense approach to stop avoidable hospital readmissions, ease pressure on caregivers and save money, it's a crucial piece of the health reform puzzle.
06.09.2009	Blumenauer said, “When people leave the hospital, they are overwhelmed by what is often a complicated and risky road to recovery. Patients frequently report difficulty remembering clinical instructions and confusion over medications. In cases where multiple providers are involved, they often receive conflicting instructions from different medical staff. Providing a Medicare transitional care benefit will help coordinate care, develop a care plan for patients and their caregivers, identify potential health risks, and prevent unnecessary hospitalizations. This bipartisan legislation gets to the heart of improving quality while reducing Medicare costs.” “Our seniors need the best care possible, and I saw firsthand the difficulties that arise during a transition between a hospital and home,” said Boustany, a former Cardiothoracic surgeon. “By reducing the likelihood of hospital readmissions, patients receive better quality care at a lower cost to taxpayers.” According to an April, 2009 study by the New England Journal of Medicine, nearly one third of Medicare beneficiaries studied who were discharged from the hospital were re-hospitalized within 90 days, in part due to a lack of follow up care. The legislation seeks to address continuity of care problems by providing more support to patients as they move from the hospital to their new care setting. Nancy LeaMond, Executive Vice President of AARP, said, “Millions of Americans are suffering needlessly each year because of a broken health care system that leaves them without the care and support they need after a hospital stay. We applaudRepresentatives Blumenauer and Boustany for sponsoring common sense legislation that will save money and keep people healthier and out of the hospital.” The legislation is modeled after the Transitional Care Model developed by the University of Pennsylvania, which has shown to produce significant health outcome improvements for patients, as well as reduce health care costs for chronically older ill adults. For Immediate Release June 9, 2009 Boustany Contact: Rick Curtsinger, (202) 225-2031 Blumenauer Contact: Hillary Barbour, (503) 231-2004
06.08.2009	"We visited an amazing facility doing thin-film photovoltaic systems," a form of solar power, he reported. "On the windows of buildings, they not only generate enough energy to power the building, they have power left over." The system is not only powerful but ironic; it's being developed by DuPont, an American company, but the development center is in Hong Kong and the factory is in China. "We're going to end up," Blumenauer warned, "buying our own technology back from China and Europe." Right now, Oregon preens itself on being the American center of solar technology, on the wind turbines marching across our hills, on being a contender for an electric car factory. But, Blumenauer points out, companies go to where government invests in the new technology, and now only 15 percent of the top alternative energy companies in the world are American. "We spend one-tenth of a percent of of the total cost of our energy on research," he warns. "There's no part of the economy where we spend so little, and this is our future." And it could be a somewhat limited future if we spend it going to Germany for solar technology, and to Denmark for wind technology, and to China for electric cars. Blumenauer says that the climate control bill slowly working its way through Congress would provide more resources for energy research, and more opportunities to work with countries like China on containing emissions from coal. It's a step, he says, that could move us closer to controlling both global warming and our own economic future. And maybe it would let him spend his vacations doing something more, well, vacationlike.
06.02.2009	Speaking with Blumenauer and Pelosi were Representative Ed Markey (D-MA), Representative James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), and Representative Jay Inslee (D-WA). Blumenauer issued the following statement on the recent visit: “I have trained for and completed 34 marathons, but I've never encountered such a grueling activity as Speaker Pelosi's historic trip to China to address the threat of global warming. We were reminded of the tremendous scale of the country, the huge population, the vast and varied landscape and its rich 4000 year history. Once again, I was confirmed that anything you wish to look for, you can find in this large, complex and ancient nation. I am impressed with the progress that China has made to adjust its policies to be more environmentally sensitive. It is also not lost on the Chinese that despite America’s much smaller population, we have contributed more historically to carbon pollution, and we continue to pollute about four times more than the average Chinese citizen per capita. We were nonetheless clear and focused on providing context and the need for China to adapt its role. The marvels that we witnessed in Shanghai and elsewhere made clear that Chinese development and capacity rivals that to be found anywhere in the world. The authoritarian Chinese government is able to affect quick changes in behavior, in the economy, and in public investment – perhaps more than any other country. Most important for me was the point that China and the world cannot afford to follow the path of the first industrial revolution. The global resources and atmosphere cannot tolerate 800 million Chinese and perhaps 3 billion others around the world to have their carbon footprint explode in the name of economic development. I return firmly convinced that working cooperatively with the Chinese we can leapfrog their development in ways that are not just less carbon intensive, but are less destructive for air and water quality. Indeed, by using more sustainable approaches, China can actually speed economic vitality and quality of life to hundreds of millions of Chinese faster than if they followed the model of Western Europe, the United States. Time will tell whether any minds were changed on the trip, but I'm convinced important progress was made. With the historic climate change developments by the Obama administration and the House Energy and Commerce Committee the week before, our efforts to learn the realities that China faces promoted greater understanding and credibility for the important six months leading up to Copenhagen. With the main focus on climate change, we were also true to our core values. The Speaker’s clear leadership on human rights, economic justice, and religious freedom sent not just a nuanced and more complete message to the Chinese government. An important signal was sent to millions of people in China and around the world who know that the United States leadership and values will be important in protecting everything from religious freedom to intellectual property rights. In politics we tend to reflexively view too much of what we do as having outsized historic significance. In this case I believe strongly that this exercise of leadership will have historic significance as we enter a critical phase in our battle for the future of the planet.” For Immediate Release June 2, 2009 Media Contact: Hillary Barbour 503-231-2004 Office/503-577-8874 Cell hillary.barbour@mail.house.gov
06.01.2009	On changing the American landscape Paint me a picture of the future. Where is this country going and what does it imply in terms of population, in terms of growth? Can we continue just to build out on the horizon? Well, the bubble that hasn’t been given due attention after we’ve done real estate bubbles and auto bubbles and financial bubbles, is the demographic bubble – we are having an explosion. And we’re going to [have] 430, 440, 450 million people by mid century. Earl Blumenauer And, we’re going to have a much different population distribution. The typical household is changing. We’re moving from the Leave It To Beaver era where there were two, three, four kids in a household, two parents, suburban… We’re finding now there will be more single person households than families with children. At a time when we’re going to have way more than 400 million people in this country. So, we have more people. We have more diversity. And we have much different needs and aspirations for these different groups. The only way we can accommodate it is with communities that are richer, that have more choices for movement where people live, and we strengthen the fabric of these existing communities rather than just abandon them and spreading out into the countryside. People don’t want to live that way. They can’t afford to build the infrastructure that way. And it won’t work. Just in terms of being clear, let me just ask directly – does our country need to get away from a narrow dependence on cars, highways as a means of getting around? Does that have to change? The American family needs more choices. They need more choices about how they move, where they live, the things that matter to them. One size fit all solutions are no longer applicable in today’s complex world. Well, an auto-dominated society, we find out, poses unique problems for people that don’t drive – problems with congestion, problems with space. We do need to be able to take a step back – it starts with basic structures of land use. We went on a building construction spree that detached single-family dwellings as far as the eye could see, which ended up actually compromising choices for American families – requiring too many people to burn a gallon of gas to buy a gallon of milk, trapping them in their cars, making them hostage to increasingly complex scheduling requirements for children. The whole range of things that rippled out from a decision to have suburban sprawl – that much maligned concept – but is very real. What we’ve found in today’s turmoil surrounding erratic energy prices and erratic housing prices that actually those communities that are more compact give people more choices – including many choices that are more cost-effective, actually hold their value and give more flexibility to the family.Will America change? It is changing. These policies are changing now. They’re changing, in part, because communities are in a situation where they can no longer rely on an auto only transportation system. They’re in a situation where we have far more suburban sprawl, detached single-family homes than the market can absorb. And that was before the financial meltdown. We find that our demographics are changing. There’s a Baby Boomer turning 50 every eight seconds. Baby Boomers don’t want to maintain huge acreages in the suburbs. They want communities where there’s street life, where there are sidewalks, where they can have more manageable residences. The commutes have gotten so bad in many communities that people have just had enough. They don’t want to waste the time, they can’t afford the money. So, we’re seeing trends across the country where already the adjustments are being made. And it’s a question of whether the Federal government will make the adjustments that catch up to where the American public is today.
06.01.2009	The poorer you are, the more things cost. More in money, time, hassle, exhaustion, menace. This is a fact of life that reality television and magazines don't often explain. So consider this a primer on the economics of poverty. ''The poor pay more for a gallon of milk; they pay more on a capital basis for inferior housing,'' says Rep. Earl Blumenauer, D-Ore. ``The poor and 100 million who are struggling for the middle class actually end up paying more for transportation, for housing, for health care, for mortgages. They get steered to subprime lending. . . . The poor pay more for things middle-class America takes for granted.'' Like food: You don't have a car to get to a supermarket, much less to Costco, where the middle class goes to save money. You don't have three hours to take the bus. So you buy groceries at the corner store, where a gallon of milk costs an extra dollar. A loaf of bread there costs you $2.99 for white, $3.79 for wheat. At a Safeway in suburban Bethesda, Md., the wheat bread costs $1.19, and white bread is on sale for $1. Prices in urban corner stores are almost always higher, economists say. And sometimes, prices in supermarkets in poorer neighborhoods are higher. Many of these stores charge more because the cost of doing business in some neighborhoods is higher. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, more than 37 million people live below the poverty line. The poor know these facts of life. These facts become their lives. Time is money, they say, and the poor pay more in time, too. When you are poor, you don't have the luxury of throwing a load into the washing machine and then taking your morning jog while it cycles. You wait until Monday afternoon, when the laundromat is most likely to be empty, and you load a cart with laundry from your kids and drag it to the corner. ''If I had my choice, I would have a washer and a dryer,'' says Nya Oti, 37, a food-service worker at a laundromat in Washington, D.C. The four loads will take her about two hours. She talks about other costs of poverty. ``My car broke down this weekend, and it took a lot of time getting on the bus, standing on the bus stop. It was a waste of a whole lot of time, waiting, [for] the transfer to the different bus.'' ''When you are poor, you substitute time for money,'' says Randy Albelda, an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts at Boston. ``You have to work a lot of hours and still not make a lot of money. You get squeezed, and your money is squeezed.''PAYDAY ADVANCES The rich have direct deposit for their paychecks. The poor have check-cashing and payday loan stores, which cost more time and money. Payday advance companies say they are providing an essential service to people who most need them. Their critics say they are preying on people who are the most economically vulnerable. ''The poor pay more for financial services,'' Rep. Blumenauer says. 'A lot of people who are `unbanked' pay $3 for a money order to pay their electric bill. They pay a 2 percent check-cashing fee because they don't have bank services. The reasons? Part of it is lack of education. But part of it is because people target them. There is evidence that credit-card mills have recently started trolling for the poor. They are targeting the recently bankrupt.'' Outside the ACE check-cashing office on Georgia Avenue in Washington, Harrison Blakeney, 67, explains a hard financial lesson of poverty. The check-cashing store charges 10 percent to take Blakeney's money and send his payment to the phone company. That 10 percent becomes what it costs him to get his payment to the telephone company on time. Ten percent is more than the cost of a stamp. But, Blakeney says, ``I don't have time to mail it. You come here and get it done. Then you don't get charged with the late fee.'' Blakeney is a retired auto mechanic who lives on a fixed income. ''We could send the payment ahead of time, but sometimes you don't have money ahead of time. That's why you pay extra money to get them to send it,'' Blakeney says. He has no criticism for the check-cashing place. ''That's how they make their money,'' he says. Just then, an angry Lenwood Brooks walks out of the check-cashing place. ''They charged me $15 to cash a $300 check,'' he says. You ask him why he didn't just go to a bank. But his story is as complicated as the various reasons people find themselves in poverty and in need of a check-cashing joint. He says he lost his driver's license and now his regular bank ``won't recognize me as a human. That's why I had to come here. It's a rip-off, but it's like a convenience store. You pay for the convenience.'' Then there's credit. The poor don't have it. What they had were places like First Cash Advance in Washington, where a neon sign once flashed ''PAYDAY ADVANCE.'' Through the bulletproof glass, a cashier explained what you needed to get an advance on your paycheck -- a pay stub, a legitimate ID, a checkbook. This meant you were doing well enough to have a checking account, but you were still poor.APR: 806 PERCENT And if you qualified, the fee for borrowing $300 was $46.50. That was not for a year -- it was for seven days, although the terms could vary. How much interest would this payday loan cost you? In simple terms, the company charged a $15.50 fee for every $100 that was borrowed. On your $300 payday loan -- borrowed for a term of seven days -- the effective annual percentage rate was 806 percent. But now the payday advance place has closed. After the D.C. government passed a law requiring payday lenders to abide by a 24-percent limit on the annual percentage rate charged on a loan, many such stores in the District closed. Now, advocates for the poor say other businesses are extending loans in exchange for car titles.EMOTIONAL DRAIN All these costs can lead to a collective depression. Douglas Besharov, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, says, ``There are social costs of being poor, though it is not clear where the cause and effect is. We know for a fact that on certain measures, people who are poor are often more depressed than people who are not.'' The poor pay in other ways, too. ''You pay rent that might be more than a mortgage,'' Reed says. ``But you don't have the credit or the down payment to buy a house.'' Plus, ''the cheaper housing is in more dangerous areas,'' Reed says. Then there is the particular unpleasantness when you make too much money to fall below the poverty line, but not enough to move up and away from it. At the Thrift Store on Georgia Avenue, Marie Nicholas, 35, is picking through the racks. ''People working who don't make a lot of money go to the system for help, and they deny them,'' Nicholas says. ``They say I make too much. It almost helps if you don't work.''WORKING POOR She says she makes $15 an hour as a certified nursing assistant. She pays $850 for rent for a one-bedroom that she shares with her boyfriend and child. She pays $300 a month for child care for her 11-year-old son, who is developmentally delayed. She was told she makes too much money to put him in a subsidized child-care facility. ``My son was not chosen for Head Start because I wasn't in a shelter or on welfare. People's kids who do go don't do nothing but sit at home.'' ''I ride the bus to get to work,'' Nicholas says. It takes an hour. ''If I could drive, it would take me 10 minutes. I have to catch two buses.'' She gets to the bus stop at 6:30 a.m. The bus is supposed to come every 10 or 15 minutes. Sometimes, she says, it comes every 30 minutes. That's another cost of poverty. You wait in lines. You wait at bus stops. You wait on the bus as it makes it way up Georgia Avenue, hitting every stop. No sense in trying to hurry when you are poor. When you are poor, you wait.
05.19.2009	Today, Blumenauer responded via twitter, issuing the following challenge: “In Newsweek: it’s LaHood that gets it. George Will doesn’t. It’s about “choices” not behavior modification.” “In Portland the P word is Progress. There’s one way to find out, Mr. Will, come to Portland and we’ll debate–what you write and what you see.” “And bring your bowtie, your neckwear choice may be one area we may actually agree.” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has been a supporter of providing alternative transportation choices for Americans. “In his article, Mr. Will proves that he is mired in a one-dimensional past, one that the city of Portland has successfully overcome” said Blumenauer. “He opposes policies that will provide Americans with more choices while saving them money, creating jobs and protecting the environment. In Portland we have been able to increase productivity, boost our economy, and invest in our city’s resources by taking a well-rounded approach to transportation. Secretary LaHood shares this comprehensive view on transportation options for our nation—its not about behavior modification its about giving Americans the freedom to choose more than just the highway or byway.” “Rather than pontificate about practicality from a far, I challenge Mr. Will to come experience Portland, and then debate the facts, the future and the visions we offer,” continued Blumenauer. “I am proud to defend the Portland model so painstakingly developed and implemented over the last 1/3 of a century. Maybe he will understand why young well educated people move here without jobs and older, well established business and professional people won’t leave for jobs that pay more. We will be happy to buy his plane ticket and give him a bottle of Oregon pinot to die for.” To follow Rep. Blumenauer on twitter, please visit https://twitter.com/repblumenauer. For Immediate Release May 19, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
05.07.2009	“As a small business owner I understand how important access to public transportation can be for a business,” said Schrader. “This expansion is going to be a huge boon for Clackamas Town Center and the region. It will create jobs in the short-term during the construction and create jobs in the long-term with stronger businesses in Clackamas County.” The Gateway Transit Center is a major hub of light rail transit in the region. Trains from Gresham, downtown Portland, Beaverton, Hillsboro and Portland International Airport all travel through the Gateway center. “This announcement is great news for the South Corridor Light Rail Project, for our community, and for the state of Oregon. The infusion of $32 million in Recovery funding will support a project estimated to create over 7,500 jobs, and will continue construction of a project that will provide a key transportation connection in our region,” said Rep. Blumenauer. This investment will be a shot in the arm to the local economy, and is a vital transportation corridor. I commend President Obama and his administration for their partnership with my district and for their commitment to economic recovery and to building livable communities.” The $32 million allocation does not increase the federal commitment to the projects, but expedite funds committed under the agreement between federal government and the transit agencies. For Immediate Release May 7, 2009 Blumenauer Contact: Sahar Wali, (202) 225-4813 | Schrader Contact: James Atkin, (202) 225-5711
04.30.2009	This project will create nearly 1,300 high-wage construction and manufacturing jobs in Oregon, will attract 2.4 million square feet of new development into the project area, and will reduce regional vehicle miles traveled by an additional 28 million miles. Portland’s existing streetcar line has generated an estimated $3.5 billion in private investment and 10,000 new housing units along streetcar alignment. This has cut vehicle miles traveled by 70 million miles in the Portland metro region. “For the past 25 years I have been working in Portland and across the nation not just for streetcar lines but for modern streetcar systems. In 2001, when Portland’s first line opened it become the first modern streetcar system in North America. The expansion of our downtown our streetcar will turn our streetcar line into a streetcar system, create jobs and stimulate our local economy, said Rep. Blumenauer. “From our experience in Portland, we know that streetcars provide transportation choices, attract economic development, link jobs and housing, and reduce our carbon footprint. Today’s announcement has been a long time coming. That is why I’m pleased to have worked closely with the Obama Administration to break the logjam of the last administration and advance the Portland streetcar project and a domestic streetcar industry.” In 2003, legislation introduced by Rep. Blumenauer became part of the Small Starts Program to provide federal funding to help communities develop streetcar projects. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration failed to follow the Small Starts statute. As a result, further development of the Portland Streetcar, and projects like it nationwide, languished. To repair the damage caused by this backlog and delay, Blumenauer has also introduced the “FAST Starts Act of 2009” and the “Streetcar Revitalization Act of 2009.” The “FAST Starts Act” will authorize a grant program that the Secretary of Transportation can use to expedite streetcar projects around the country. The “Streetcar Revitalization Act” would create a Streetcar Capital Investment Grants program within the Federal Transit Administration to specifically support streetcar projects. Background information on these bills is attached with this press release. “Today’s announcement expands the promise of streetcars across the nation. Streetcars are poised to take off in cities ranging from Tucson to Ft. Lauderdale to Seattle. Existing systems want to expand and dozens of more cities are designing and planning new systems. This announcement signals that the federal government is there as an active and willing partner,” continued Blumenauer. “The Portland region remains the undisputed leader in the national streetcar renaissance. Our very own Oregon Iron Works will soon be unveiling the first American-built streetcar in 58 years. With 80 cities around the county poised to make their own investments in streetcar projects, the manufacturing potential for streetcars and the economic opportunities for Oregon are tremendous. The Portland Streetcar represents a remarkable local partnership. I’m proud of its success and excited about its future. I look forward to seeing a resurgence of streetcars around the country and nowhere more so than in Portland, Oregon.” For Immediate Release April 30, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
04.29.2009	“Today I am proud to support the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act which will help prevent violence and ensure that justice is served,” Rep. Blumenauer said. “The special attention that hate crimes require can easily stretch local law enforcement beyond their capacity. Many of these crimes go unreported, allowing the perpetrators to escape punishment. This is unacceptable.” “The Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act provides the necessary resources to state and local governments for the investigation and prosecution of these crimes. This kind of commitment to justice is the only way to prevent such random acts of violence from occurring in the first place.” Under current law, the federal government can only investigate hate crimes motivated by the victim’s race, color, religion or national origin. The Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act extends federal jurisdiction to hate crimes motivated by the victim’s actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or disability, and provides assistance to state and local law enforcement to streamline the investigation and prosecution of hate crimes. A similar bill passed the House with 237 votes in the last Congress, but was held up by the threat of a veto from former President Bush. Now, with President Barack Obama in the White House, law enforcement officers will have the tools to combat hate crimes and the victims of these crimes will finally have an opportunity for justice. The current bipartisan legislation is supported by a broad coalition, including more than 300 law enforcement, religious, women’s advocacy, civil rights and disability rights organizations. This legislation was prompted in part by the brutal 1998 murder of a gay teenager named Matthew Shepard near Laramie, Wyoming. Since then, Shepard’s mother and supporters have lobbied Congress to expand the 1968 federal hate crimes law in honor of her son. “In my home state of Oregon, four hate crimes have been reported this year and in 2008, twenty-nine hate crimes were reported,” Blumenauer said. “Just last month, a man and his boyfriend were on a spring-break trip over the weekend when they were beaten unconscious on a beach in Seaside, Oregon. Last November, a 20-year-old woman was walking along a street in Aloha, Oregon, when the man asked for a cigarette. He asked if she was gay and when she said yes, he then started berating her about her sexual orientation. Eventually he pushed her and she fell to the ground. She tried to defend herself, but he knocked her back down and struck her in the head with a rock.” “These violent crimes effectively terrorize the entire community and chip away at our freedoms. We must protect all our citizens – whether they are black, disabled, Christian, or gay.” For Immediate Release April 29, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
04.29.2009	In addition, Rep. Blumenauer will introduce two key pieces of legislation today that will help move streetcar projects forward across the nation. In 2003, Rep. Blumenauer wrote legislation to create the Small Starts Program to provide federal funding to help communities develop streetcar projects. Although this program was signed into law, it was never implemented by the Bush Administration. As a result, further development of the Portland Streetcar, and projects like it nationwide, languished. To repair the damage caused by this backlog and delay, Blumenauer will introduce the “FAST Starts Act of 2009” and the “Streetcar Revitalization Act of 2009.” The “FAST Starts Act” will authorize a grant program that the Secretary of Transportation can use to expedite streetcar projects around the country. The “Streetcar Revitalization Act” would create a Streetcar Capital Investment Grants program within the Federal Transit Administration to specifically support streetcar projects. “For the past 25 years I have been working in Portland and across the nation not just for streetcar lines but for modern streetcar systems. From our experience in Portland, we know that streetcar systems can create jobs and stimulate local economies. They provide transportation choices, attract economic development, link jobs and housing, and reduce our carbon footprint,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “That’s why for the last three months, I have worked to break the logjam of the last administration by working with the Obama administration to advance a streetcar industry in the United States. Tomorrow’s announcement by Secretary LaHood is a positive step for the future of the Portland Streetcar and a signal of progress for streetcar projects across the nation.” Background information on Rep. Blumenauer’s bills is attached. DETAILS ON TOMORROW’S PRESS CONFERENCE CALL WITH SECT. LAHOOD: WHO: Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, Rep. Earl Blumenauer, and Members of the Oregon Congressional delegation WHAT: Press conference call announcement regarding the Portland Streetcar WHEN: Tomorrow, Thursday, April 30, 2009 at 2:00 PM EST / 11:00 AM PST **FOR DIAL-IN INFORMATION PLEASE contact Lori Irving at lori.irving@dot.gov or 202-366-9268. For Immediate Release April 29, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
04.29.2009	This five-year economic plan will cut the deficit nearly two-thirds by 2013 and cuts taxes for middle class families by $1.5 trillion. It will create jobs and grow our economy with targeted investments and reforms in health care, clean energy and transportation. “People across the country are hurting. In Oregon, our unemployment has topped 12%. Today, Congress has responded with a thoughtful budget that will create jobs in Oregon and across the nation. It will grow our economy with targeted investments in clean energy, health care, and infrastructure,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “President Obama inherited the largest deficit in United States history from the Bush Administration. The Obama Administration and this Congress are getting our country back on track. Our top priority is creating jobs, investing in the American people, in the American economy, and laying the groundwork for future prosperity by creating green jobs, protecting the environment and tackling our health care crisis.” As a member of the House Budget Committee, Rep. Blumenauer has worked closely with Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt (D-SC) to honor a commitment to responsible government investment. Blumenauer advocated specifically for the following strategic priorities that are included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Budget: Transportation and Infrastructure The Budget Resolution provides a solid foundation for the authorization of the Surface Transportation Act to ensure that we have sufficient resources to renew and rebuild America. The budget establishes a Reserve Fund, allowing an initial commitment of $324 billion to increase, if the additional spending can be accommodated in Highway Trust Fund. This demonstrates this Congress’s—and President Obama’s—commitment to putting people to work building more livable communities across the country. Energy Independence and Security This budget includes a significant increase in renewable energy and energy efficiency investments, which will help revive our economy with green jobs. In addition, the bill includes a deficit-neutral reserve fund for legislation to promote energy independence, spur the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and help businesses, states, communities, and households adjust to a carbon-constrained economy. Health Care This budget prepares Congress for an overhaul of the health care system, by including a deficit-neutral reserve fund and reconciliation instructions. Reform is needed to reduce the growth of health care costs, the largest single contributor to projected long-term deficits, and a growing burden on businesses’ ability to compete in the global marketplace and on American families’ prosperity. For Immediate Release April 29, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
04.24.2009	This amendment would help communities around the country undertake water reuse and recycling projects by creating a program at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to demonstrate, evaluate, and test the techniques and technologies to reuse and recycle wastewater and stormwater at the building, site, neighborhood, and watershed scales for urban, industrial, agricultural, environmental, and recreational uses as well as to augment potable water supplies. Rep. Blumenauer’s statement on passage of this amendment is below: “I am pleased that the House of Representatives passed my amendment to help the EPA promote water reuse and recycling. Right now we reuse about 5-6% of municipal wastewater for beneficial purposes, only a ‘drop in the bucket’ compared to what we could be doing. “Water reuse involves treating wastewater and storm water and using the resulting reclaimed or recycled water for a new beneficial purpose. These beneficial purposes can range from agriculture and landscape irrigation to industrial process, to flushing toilets, to replenishing groundwater. This is not a new technology - reclaimed water has been used for crop irrigation for more than 100 years. Indeed, the earth has recycled waters for many years through the natural water cycle. “Across the globe, water consumption has tripled in the last 50 years. According to the EPA at least 36 states are anticipating local, regional or statewide water shortages by 2013, even under non-drought conditions. As communities grow and water supplies decrease, they will be forced to seek alternative sources of water. In an era of climate change and water stress, water reuse and recycling has a great deal of potential to help alleviate pressures on water managers, to help communities become less dependent on ground and surface water resources. A demonstration program will reduce the cost of these technologies and help communities overcome technical and social barriers to water reuse and recycling.” For Immediate Release April 24, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
04.23.2009	As part of these next steps, Members of Congress will be encouraged to take 15 simple steps to green their offices. The House Chief Administrative Officer will soon launch a website, “How to Green My Office” which will feature Blumenauer’s office as an example of these greener initiatives in practice. Of the fifteen steps detailed, Blumenauer’s office has successfully implemented thirteen and is close to successfully implementing the remaining two. “By taking a few key steps, members of Congress can lead by example in moving our nation to a cleaner, greener world,” said Blumenauer. “From recycling to composting to providing locally grown, sustainable options in our cafeterias the Green the Capitol Initiative has already made a difference – reducing the Capitol’s carbon emissions by 72 percent and making our operations more energy efficient. Our office has been working toward building a greener workplace and I am honored to celebrate the 39th Annual Earth Day by having my office serve as an example of how other offices can go green. I encourage all Members to make this commitment to doing their part in providing a more sustainable future for our planet and for generations of Americans to come.” The 15 CORE greening actions steps Member offices are being asked to take include: 1) Light Switches -always turning off excess lights 2) Computer Power Management Settings: following ENERGY STAR recommended settings 3) Double-Sided Printing - setting this as the default 4) Recycle Paper - having a paper recycling bin at every desk 5) Composting - making sure your office has a bin and staff know what goes in it 6) Occupancy Sensors - installed where appropriate 7) Smart Power Strips - installed at all computer work stations 8) CFL Bulbs - all incandescent bulbs replaced with CFLs 9) EPEAT Computer Equipment - standard considered when buying new equipment 10) ENERGY STAR Printers and Copiers - standard considered when buying new equipment 11) Recycle Bottles, Cans, and Other Plastics - all recycled in office-supplied bin, including plastic water cooler cups 12) Designate a Green Office Representative - to be responsible for maintaining the My Green Office website data and encouraging other staff 13) Cancel Excess Publication Subscriptions - read newspapers and other House publications online 14) Recycled-Content Paper - only purchase 100% post-consumer recycled content copy paper in the Supply Store 15) Transportation Benefits - encourage staff to take public transportation For photos from Wednesday’s event please visit www.blumenauer.house.gov or e-mail Sahar.Wali@mail.house.gov. For Immediate Release April 22, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
04.22.2009	Today, one-fifth of the world’s population relies on freshwater that is either polluted or significantly overdrawn. Building upon the landmark Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act of 2005, this bill sets an ambitious, but achievable, goal of providing 100 million of the world’s poorest with sustainable drinking water and sanitation by 2015. “Right now, a lack of safe water and sanitation accounts for 2 million needless deaths a year and half the illness in the developing world. Safe water and sanitation is a security issue, a health issue, an environmental issue, and a human rights issue. It cuts to the heart of our international work and investment here yields staggering results,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Innovative partnerships between governments, NGOs, businesses, and local partners have accomplished a great deal with scarce resources, but nearly 900 million people worldwide still lack access to safe drinking water and two out of five people still lack basic sanitation services. The Water for the World Act answers the call to act and helps build a healthier, safer, and more equitable future. As we mark the 39th Annual Earth Day, I am proud to once again join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in an ambitious and critical effort to alleviate poverty and increase global health and security.” “The US must be serious about the role that sanitation and safe water plays in the development of countries around the world,” Congressman Payne exhorted. “As the US charts a new foreign policy course, it is vital to make decisions that take sanitation and safe water into consideration. In 2000, the U.S. committed to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals which would make great strides towards combating such global ills as poverty, hunger and disease. Yet, without providing access to the billions of people who live without potable water and/or basic sanitation facilities, these goals will not be actualized. The Water for the World Act strengthens the mandate outlined in the 2005 landmark Water for the Poor Act. Water for the World Act builds upon its predecessor by institutionalizing the role of safe water and sanitation in our foreign policy and by expanding its reach to an additional 100 million people. Due to the multiplier effect of investment in safe water and sanitation, the upshot of this bill will be monumental for billions of people around the world.” Specifically, The Water for the World Act would establish an Office of Water within USAID to implement country-specific water strategies. It would also create a Special Coordinator for International Water within the State Department to coordinate the diplomatic policy of the US with respect to global freshwater issues, and establish programs in countries of greatest need that build local capacity, collaboration across borders and disciplines and promotes full utilization of low-cost technologies, such as hand washing stations and latrines. The Water for the World Act is endorsed by a number of global health and environment advocates, including Water Advocates, the Natural Resources Defense Council, and CARE. Lead sponsors of the bill include Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Donald Payne (D-N.J.), Jesse Jackson Jr. (D-Ill.), George Miller (D-Calif.), John Boozman (R-Ariz.), Dan Burton (R-Ind.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), and Zach Wamp (R-Tenn.). Companion legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Durbin (D-IL), Corker (R-TN), and Murray (D-WA). FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 22, 2009 Media Contacts: Sahar Wali (Blumenauer) 202-225-4813 Nkechi O. Mbanu (Payne) 202-225-3436
04.22.2009	For more information or to schedule an interview with Rep. Blumenauer please contact Sahar Wali at 202-834-6919 or via e-mail at Sahar.Wali@mail.house.gov. WHO: Speaker Nancy Pelosi Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) Congressman Jay Inslee (D-Wash.) Congressman Steve Israel (D-NY) Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI) Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT) Congressman Martin Heinrich (D-NM) Congresswoman Mary Jo Kilroy (D-OH) Congressman Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM) Congresswoman Dina Titus (D-NV) WHAT: Green the Capitol Press Conference WHEN: Wednesday, April 22, at 1 p.m. EST PRE-SET: Noon WHERE: Rayburn Foyer The Capitol Washington, D.C. For Immediate Release April 22, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
04.02.2009	This five-year economic plan will cut the deficit nearly two-thirds by 2013 and cuts taxes for middle class families by $1.5 trillion. It will create jobs and grow our economy with targeted investments and reforms in health care, clean energy and transportation. “President Obama inherited from the Bush administration the largest deficit in United States history. The budget is the most important challenge that every Congress faces. It reflects our priorities and it shows how we deal with war and peace, the economy, healthcare and the environment, who pays and who benefits,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Nationwide, families are hurting. In Oregon, statewide unemployment has topped 10% and 1 in 5 Oregonians are on food stamps. This budget will help create jobs for Oregonians by investing in clean energy, health care, and transportation. By passing this budget, members of the House rolled up their sleeves and delivered a long term, broad economic plan that deals with challenges the American people face.” Last week, Blumenauer sent a letter to Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt (D-SC) detailing his top priorities for responsible government investment. Of these priorities Blumenauer outlined, the following passed in today’s House budget. Rep. Blumenauer’s Budget Priorities in the House Passed Budget Resolution: Transportation and Infrastructure The Budget Resolution provides a solid foundation for the authorization of the surface transportation act to ensure that we have sufficient resources to renew and rebuild America. The Budget establishes a Reserve Fund, allowing an initial commitment of $324 billion to increase, if the additional spending can be accommodated in Highway Trust Fund. This demonstrates this Congress’s—and President Obama’s—commitment to putting people to work building better communities across the country. Energy Independence and Security· Includes deficit-neutral reserve fund for legislation to promote energy independence, spur the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and help businesses, states, communities, and households adjust to an economy with reduced emission levels.· Provides job opportunities in the new energy economy. Provides tax incentives for renewable energy. Funds weatherization to help low-income families. Creates “green collar” jobs. Health Care Includes a deficit-neutral reserve fund and reconciliation instructions to prepare for an overhaul of the health care system. Reform is needed to reduce the growth of health care costs, the largest single contributor to projected long-term deficits, and a growing burden on our businesses’ ability to compete in the global marketplace and on American families’ prosperity. For Immediate Release April 2, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
04.02.2009	The Healthy Workforce Act would provide a tax credit to companies that offer effective and comprehensive wellness programs. The legislation would permit businesses to receive a credit for incorporating sound employee health management practices into their plan design, and would significantly ease barriers for both small and mid-sized employers to make a sound investment. To receive this credit, programs are required to include components such as health risk assessments, health awareness and behavior change programs, meaningful incentives for program participation and an employee committee that tailors programs to meet workforce needs. “Health reform will not be complete without prevention and wellness being a center piece for fixing this broken system, the lifesaving and cost-saving benefits have been proven in study after study,” said Harkin. “With healthcare costs quickly increasing, it is no surprise that some companies report spending more than 50 percent of their profits to cover these expenses. Employer spending on health promotion and chronic disease prevention is a good investment. Studies have reported a proven rate of return on investment within 12 to 18 months, ranging from $2 to $10 for each dollar invested. . It simply makes sense to partner with employers and leverage the place where Americans spend the majority of their waking hours – the workplace.” "This legislation helps businesses provide a range of opportunities to help their workers lead healthier lives, particularly small businesses that otherwise may not have the resources to provide wellness programs to their employees,” said Cornyn. “Public health experts unanimously agree that people who maintain active and healthy lifestyles dramatically reduce their risk of contracting chronic diseases. I’m pleased to join with my colleagues, the American Heart Association and all other organizations in this effort to help employers promote physical activity and disease prevention.” “Investing in wellness and prevention is an important part of comprehensive healthcare reform,” said Blumenauer. “Americans spend over half of their waking day at work, leaving them little time to pursue measures to promote a healthy lifestyle. With this bi-partisan, bi-cameral legislation we can help encourage companies to do the right thing. The answer doesn’t have to be complicated and with many companies struggling to cover rising health care costs, preventative health care is an easy way for companies to cut down on those costs, while increasing employee productivity and general workplace satisfaction.” “Employer spending on wellness programs and prevention is a good investment for our nation's economy and our nation's health,” said Bono Mack. “As we look to reform our health care system, it is essential that we take proactive measures that will encourage Americans to live healthier lives, which will help reduce health care costs, improve quality of life and increase productivity in the workplace. I am proud to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort and hope that this preventative approach will be incorporated as a part of broader health care reforms this year.” An estimated 145 million American adults are overweight and 74 million are obese, placing more than a third of the working-age population at risk for chronic illnesses. The estimated cost of obesity and overweight related health conditions is $117 billion per year. Health care costs in the United States doubled from 1990 to 2001 and are expected to double again by 2012. And just three chronic conditions, asthma, diabetes and hypertension, are associated with 164 million lost work days per year at a cost to employers of $30 billion. Worksite wellness programs are an important means of addressing the nation’s rising obesity rates, increasing prevalence of chronic disease and escalating health care costs, according to the American Heart Association. A comprehensive wellness program can bring value and savings to employers in different ways through reductions in direct health care costs, proper healthcare utilization, increased performance measures, lower rates of absenteeism and lower prevalence of chronic disease or illness, the Association notes. The U.S. Workplace Alliance, co-chaired by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Partnership for Prevention, is dedicated to the vision that a healthier U.S. workforce produces a stronger and fiscally healthier U.S. economy poised to compete in the global marketplace. It includes more than 75 businesses, health care advocates and nonprofit organizations, including the American Heart Association, American Hospital Association, National Business Coalition on Health and The Dow Chemical Company. “Research demonstrates that healthy employees have fewer medical claims, are less absent, have less disability and have greater on the job productivity when compared to employees who have less healthy conditions and lifestyles such as obesity, physical inactivity and tobacco use,” said Randel Johnson, an Alliance spokesperson and Vice President, Labor, Immigration & Employee Benefits, U.S. Chamber of Commerce. National Workplace Wellness Week is April 5-11, 2009. During the week, the U.S. Workplace Alliance is asking its members and private and public employers across the country to showcase how workplace wellness programs have succeeded in reducing employer health care costs and producing healthier and more productive employees. For more information, visit www.uswwa.org or www.americanheart.org/workplacewellness. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 2, 2009 Contacts: Kate Cyrul, Sen. Harkin, 202-224-3254 Tina Gray, Sen. Cornyn, 202-224-2934 Sahar Wali, Rep. Blumenauer, 202-225-4811 Jennifer May, Rep. Bono Mack, 202-225-5330 Kanika Lewis, American Heart Association, 202-785-7935
04.01.2009	For more information about the Healthy Workforce Act and “National Workplace Wellness Week,” visit www.uswwa.org or www.americanheart.org/workplacewellness. WHO: U.S. Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) U.S. Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) U.S. Rep. Mary Bono Mack (R-CA) Randel Johnson, Vice President, Labor, Immigration & Employee Benefits, U.S. Chamber of Commerce Craig Thorne, M.D., MPH, spokesperson, American Heart Association Michael Barry, CAE, Executive Director, American College of Preventive Medicine Janet Boyd, Director of Government Relations, Tax & Benefits, The Dow Chemical Company Candace DeMatteis, Policy Director, Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease Garry Lindsay, Managing Senior Fellow & Senior Program Officer, Partnership for Prevention WHAT: “Healthy Living for a Healthy Workforce" press conferenceWHERE: U.S. Capitol Visitors Center, Senate Visitors Center 215Washington, DC WHEN: Thursday, April 2, 2009 12 noon (EDT) FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 1, 2009 Contacts: Kate Cyrul, Sen. Harkin, 202-224-3254 Tina Gray, Sen. Cornyn, 202-224-2934 Sahar Wali, Rep. Blumenauer, 202-225-4811 Jennifer May, Rep. Bono Mack, 202-225-5330 Kanika Lewis, American Heart Association, 202-785-7935
03.25.2009	Other Oregon wilderness areas included in the legislation are the 13,700 acre area known as Copper Salmon; 30,000 acres for Oregon’s Badlands; 23,000 acres in Soda Mountain; and 8,600 acres at Spring Basin.Rep. Blumenauer’s statement on today’s passage is below: “Today’s passage marks the culmination of seven years of work that I’ve been involved with to preserve some of our nation’s most treasured places, including those on Mt. Hood. It is a great day for the state of Oregon. Oregonians have been waiting a long time for the passage of new wilderness and I am overjoyed that today we will finally send this measure to the President’s desk. Our state boasts some of the nations most beautiful natural wonders and Oregonians should not have to wait another 20 years to protect its natural beauty and our children’s environmental legacy.“ The trail was long and the battle hard, but today, by working together across the aisle we have preserved an important piece of Oregon’s natural history for generations to come. I am grateful to my colleagues in Oregon’s congressional delegation and the hundreds of constituents, numerous organizations and agencies, local governments and Tribal leaders who have all worked tirelessly to pass these wilderness provisions. I look forward to celebrating with all Oregonians the signing into law of new Oregon wilderness by President Obama.” For Immediate Release March 25, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-8413 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
03.24.2009	In 2003, Blumenauer convened the first of a series of Mt. Hood Summits. In 2006, he partnered with the Oregon House delegation members to pass the Mt. Hood Stewardship Legacy Act, which was the first new Oregon wilderness expansion to pass either chamber of Congress in 20 years. Other Oregon provisions included in the bill are detailed below: • The Cascade Siskiyou National Monument Voluntary and Equitable Grazing Conflict Resolution Act, which establishes a 23,000-acre wilderness area, to be known as the Soda Mountain Wilderness, in the Monument's southern backcountry; • The Oregon Badlands Wilderness Act, which designates almost 30,000 acres of wilderness 15 miles east of Bend. The wilderness designation comes over two decades after the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) recommended the area be preserved;• The Spring Basin Wilderness Act, which designates approximately 8,600 acres of BLM land as the Spring Basin Wilderness, overlooking the John Day Wild and Scenic River. The area is important habitat for populations of Mule Deer, Rocky Mountain Elk and many bird species, and offers recreational opportunities for hikers, horseback riders, hunters, botanists and other outdoor enthusiasts; • The Copper Salmon Wilderness Act, which designates 9.3 miles of rivers at the headwaters of the North Fork of the Elk River as Wild and Scenic and adds 13,700 acres of new wilderness adjacent to the existing Grassy Knob Wilderness. The Elk River is known as the most productive wild salmon and steelhead river of its size in the lower 48 states. **TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW WITH REP. BLUMENAUER, PLEASE CONTACT SAHAR WALI AT 202-834-6919 OR VIA E-MAIL AT SAHAR.WALI@MAIL.HOUSE.GOV Details on the press conference are below: Who: House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Nick J. Rahall (D-WV) Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) What: News conference on the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (H.R. 146) When: Wednesday, March 25, 2009, at approximately 3:00 p.m. EST or immediately following the House Floor vote on the bill Where: Room H-137 Capitol Building (House Ways and Means Committee room) For Immediate Release March 24, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
03.18.2009	“After what these executives have done to their companies, the economy, and the savings of everyday Americans, we can’t afford to allow them to be rewarded with taxpayer dollars for their so-called brilliance. Funds provided under the TARP Program were intended to provide stability to the financial system, to prevent further pitfall, not to pad the pockets of corporate executives with bonuses for being bad at their jobs.” “Across the nation unemployment is at an all time high, and in my home state of Oregon it’s even worse. If these firms insist on enforcing contracts that reward such reckless incompetence, then Congress should pass this tax to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayers whole. I am proud to join my colleagues in imposing stiff taxes on these bonuses." For Immediate Release March 18, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 office 202-834-6919 cell
03.17.2009	Specifically, Blumenauer’s states that any highly ranked employee of a subsidized financial institution who receives a bonus, including any amount of deferred compensation or other compensation, after the institution received funds authorized under the TARP program shall face a tax of 100% on the amount of that bonus effective as of December 1, 2008. “Across the nation unemployment is at an all time high, and in my home state of Oregon it’s even worse. Funds provided under the TARP Program were intended to provide stability to the financial system to prevent further pitfall, not to pad the pockets of corporate executives,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “I strongly support President Obama’s efforts to pursue every single legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayers whole. It’s time for Congress to take action in holding these executives accountable and to increase oversight of these programs. As a member the House committee with jurisdiction over tax, I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Ways and Means committee and in Congress to claw-back these ill-gotten bonuses; and that’s why I am filing this legislation to impose stiff taxes on these types of compensation arrangements.” A Summary of Congressman Blumenauer's Findings and Proposals to Tax Executive Bonuses for TARP Firms For Immediate Release March 17, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 office 202-834-6919 cell
03.12.2009	Transportation is responsible for about one-third of greenhouse gas emissions; passenger automobiles and light trucks alone contribute 21 percent. This legislation recognizes that the United States cannot meet its climate change goals without addressing emissions from the transportation sector. Statements from the bill’s co-sponsors are below. Sen. Tom Carper said: “Today, we fund our transportation system through a gas tax, meaning we pay for roads and transit by burning gasoline. When people drive less, our transportation budgets dry up. This means states and localities that reduce oil use, lower greenhouse emissions and save their constituents money end up getting their budgets cut. But CLEAN TEA reverses this negative funding policy by sending money to states and localities based on how much they reduce emissions. Now, we in the Congress have the great opportunity to address many national problems at once – finding additional funding for transportation infrastructure, building money-saving transportation alternatives and lowering greenhouse gas emissions from the transportation sector.” “Reducing emissions from the transportation sector will not only help us achieve our global warming goals, but will provide additional benefits to the environment, public health, the economy, and quality of life,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. This legislation will help finance our shift to a low-carbon transportation system that provides transportation choices, creates safe and healthy communities, and saves consumers money. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that any climate legislation we advance in the House recognizes the opportunities provided by the transportation sector.” “This bill represents an important step in lowering our nation’s greenhouse gas emissions, reducing our dependence on foreign oil and promoting transportation mobility,” Sen. Arlen Specter said. “Since transportation accounts for one-third of greenhouse gas emissions, it stands to reason that revenue generated from a cap-and-trade system should be devoted to creating a more sustainable transportation future.” “Transportation accounts for 30 percent of our greenhouse gas emissions. CLEAN TEA addresses the difficulty of reducing these emissions by investing in strategies that make our transportation system more efficient and in transportation alternatives, such as mass transit,” said Rep. Melissa Bean. “This bill is a great example of how pro-growth and environmentally conscious policy can come together.” “CLEAN TEA can’t come soon enough for our mass transit infrastructure,” Rep Mark Kirk said. “By investing in energy-saving projects like commuter rail, we’ll save money at the gas pump, decrease congestion and reduce greenhouse gases. Most importantly, we’ll create thousands of jobs throughout the country.” “CLEAN TEA is a good benchmark to start the debate on climate change legislation. We cannot effectively address climate change without reducing the transportation sector’s contribution to greenhouse gas emissions,” Rep. Ellen Tauscher said. “This bill follows in the wake of historic legislation in California to address climate change by linking it to land use and transportation policy.” FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 12, 2009 Media Contacts: Sahar Wali (Blumenauer) 202-225-4813 Bette Phelan (Carper) 202-228-6304 Kate Kelly (Specter) 202-224-9020 Jonathan Kaplan (Tauscher) 202-225-1880 Jonathan Lipman (Bean) 202-225-3711 Aaron Winters (Kirk) 847-940-0202
03.11.2009	Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) released the following statement on today’s vote. “Today’s vote on Public Lands, though disappointing, is not disheartening. Instead, with 282 votes in favor of the bill, we are sending a clear signal that we will continue to work to send this bill to the President for a signature.” “Oregonians have worked long and hard on the Wilderness and Wild and Scenic River designations in this bill, and S. 22 enjoyed the support of the entire Oregon delegation. I am optimistic that we can continue to work together to finally pass the first Oregon wilderness expansion in 20 years into law. We must ensure that our state’s special places are protected and preserved for generations of Oregonians to come.” For Immediate Release March 11, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 office
03.11.2009	“With this bill we have a government spending package that reflects the priorities of Oregonians,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “I am pleased that Congress and the President have taken this important step to help move pieces that matter to Oregonians forward. Funding for projects such as the Portland Streetcar Loop and the South Corridor I-205/Portland Mall Light Rail Project will renew our streetcar and light rail, create jobs, and decrease congestion. This bill will also help us better protect Oregonians in need by providing for an office to defend against the victimization and exploitation of our elderly. Our state will receive funds to provide job training and employment services to Oregon’s veterans as well as funding to preserve our state’s natural beauty to better ensure that it can be protected for generations of Oregonians to come.” Rep. Blumenauer’s Funded FY09 Appropriations for Oregon: Transportation-HUD South Corridor I-205/Portland Mall Light Rail Project TriMet $81,600,000 This project would fund the 8.3 mile TriMet light rail extension from downtown Portland to the Clackamas Regional Center. The project is authorized in SAFETEA-LU and is included in the President’s fiscal year 2009 budget. Streetcar Loop, Portland, OR City of Portland $45,000,000 This funding would create a new streetcar loop that connects the existing streetcar line to the Lloyd District, the Central Eastside, and OMSI. It would also fund the purchase of new streetcars manufactured at an Oregon-based and Oregon-owned company. Columbia River Crossing, OR ODOT $3,325,000 The Interstate 5 bridge over the Columbia River and its approaches cause the worst traffic congestion in the Portland/Vancouver metro region and are one of the key bottlenecks on the I-5 trade corridor. The Columbia River Crossing project will significantly reduce congestion and improve safety while increasing mobility, reliability, and accessibility for all users. This funding, if secured, will be used for preliminary engineering to support any of the bridge options currently under consideration by the region. Commerce, Justice & Safety COPS Meth Clackamas County $200,000 These funds would expand a nationally recognized methamphetamine prevention program by integrating resources from a variety of enforcement agencies to address both adult and juvenile initiatives to reduce drug abuse. The Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services $300,000 The Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services will provide domestic violence victims a safe place where they can gain access to support services from advocates, intervention specialists, and prosecution and law enforcement personnel, all in one location. Elder Abuse position in district attorney’s office Multnomah County $275,000 This funding would create a position for a specially trained prosecutor within the Multnomah County District Attorney’s Office to investigate and prosecute cases involving the victimization and exploitation of the elderly. Klamath River Fish Disease Research OSU $640,000 The funds would be used for research and testing to reduce an ecologically and economically devastating parasite in endangered salmon on the Klamath River. Labor, Health & Human Services, Education Gatekeeper Project Multnomah County $48,000 Funding would support a project that identifies at-risk older adults and people with disabilities – a fast growing population and provides volunteers to help them access critical social services. Oregon Electronic Health Records (EHR) Improvement Project State of Oregon $285,000 Electronic health records have been shown to decrease health care costs, improve quality, reduce medical errors, and reduce redundant care. Funding for this project would provide physicians in rural and community clinics with technical support and software to create and maintain electronic health records. Working for Independence Clackamas County $381,000 This request seeks funding to expand Clackamas County’s Working for Independence job training and employment service programs to include veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and/or traumatic brain injury. Agriculture Bioremediation of Munitions Bioremediation Research Center $111,000 This bioremediation project provides research into the use of special grasses to absorb soil contaminants produced by explosives. These grasses are then eaten by sheep, where the contaminants are digested by anaerobic bacteria into innocuous compounds. Northwest Small Fruits and Stone Fruits Research Northwest Center for Small Fruits $254,000 The Northwest Center for Small Fruits Research is a research consortium between Oregon State University, Washington State University, University of Idaho and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The funding will be used for research to enhance the sustainability and profitability of the Pacific Northwest berry and grape industry. Multi-Commodity Research, OR Oregon State University $244,000 This project enhances Oregon’s competitiveness and expands the economic value-added component in Oregon agricultural products through research and outreach in food processing, product development, business strategy, marketing, and consumer testing. Organic Cropping Research for the Northwest Oregon State University $140,000 These funds would go towards research directed at problems facing organic agriculture and will enhance Oregon agriculture’s competitiveness in the market. Steep III—Water Quality in Northwest Oregon State University $444,000 This research provides a base for an agricultural research and extension education partnership to address agricultural production and environmental issues in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. Interior Environment Land Acquisition for Sandy River/OR Natl. Historic Trail Western Rivers Conservancy $1,350,000 This request would purchase about 77 additional acres from willing sellers along the soon-to-be free-flowing Sandy River that supports four endangered salmon and steelhead runs. Environment Timberline Lodge Facilities Improvement Timberline Lodge $200,000 The funding would be used to redesign and replace the Lodge’s outdated plumbing lines that threaten to harm the historic Lodge and its ability to bring safe water and heat to visitors. Environment Columbia River Gorge Land Acquisition Friends of Columbia Gorge $2,000,000 The funding would purchase 97 acres of available land with high conservation value from willing sellers for the Forest Service and keep it preserved as part of the Gorge National Scenic Area. Energy-Water Columbia River Channel Improvements Columbia River Channel Coalition $34,451,000 This funding would substantially complete the deepening of the Columbia River navigation channel from 40 to 43 feet in order to accommodate the deeper-draft cargo ships that comprise a growing share of worldwide shipping fleets. The project would also enhance or create 2,000 acres of fish and wildlife habitat. Lower Columbia River Ecosystem Restoration LCREP $1,435,000 The funding would be used to collect and monitor water, sediment, wildlife, and fish tissue in order to reduce toxins along 146 miles of the Columbia, and to educate consumers in preventing further Columbia River pollution. Beaver Creek Culvert Replacement Multnomah County No amount Continuing authorities authorization This project would replace three culverts along Beaver Creek in east Multnomah County. By doing so, critical habitat for salmon and trout would be restored, non-native plant species would be removed, and adjacent wetlands would be enhanced. Lower Columbia River Slough City of Portland No amount; continuing authorities authorization This funding finances the final phase of a joint project between the City of Portland and the Corps of Engineers to restore the unique habitat and improve water quality in the former floodplain of the Columbia and Willamette Rivers. The Columbia Slough supports numerous wildlife species and endangered salmon. Wave Energy Research and Demonstration Ctr OSU $2,331,175 This request would establish a National Wave Energy Center at OSU to help develop renewable wave energy resources. This center would develop an in-water infrastructure and study its impacts on marine ecosystems. Department of Education Elementary and Secondary Education SEI Self Enhancement Inc. $381,000 This funding would support an organization dedicated to helping underserved youth realize their full potential through comprehensive year-round academic, enrichment, and family involvement programs. Funds would support programming and increase the number of students served. For Immediate Release March 11, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
03.05.2009	“For years I have supported policies allowing judicial modification of mortgages for individual consumers who declare bankruptcy,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “It makes absolutely no sense that Donald Trump can have the mortgage of his fourth vacation home modified to more acceptable terms if he goes bankrupt, but that John and Jane Doe living in their primary residence in Portland OR., aren’t afforded the same help.” According to the Mortgage Bankers Association, as of December 2008 there were 32,710 delinquent loans in Oregon. The foreclosure rate in Oregon continues to rise. According to the Center for Responsible Lending, more than 20,000 new foreclosures will be initiated in Oregon in 2009. This bill will give lenders the confidence to modify loans by protecting them from some lawsuits. It also spurs mortgage refinancing by improving the Federal Housing Administration’s Hope for Homeowners Program, reducing fees and offering new incentives for lenders. “This legislation takes an important step forward in solving our nation’s housing crisis and in better enabling thousands of American families to keep their homes,” continued Blumenauer. “This bill will make a big difference, and is the fastest, least expensive way to cut through the thicket of mortgage issues plaguing our nation.” For Immediate Release March 5, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
02.25.2009	Rep. Blumenauer’s Statement: “I am pleased that with this bill we have refocused on the pieces that matter. We have a government spending package that reflects the priorities of Oregonians.” “Funding for projects such as the Portland Streetcar Loop and the South Corridor I-205/Portland Mall Light Rail Project will renew our streetcar and light rail, create jobs, and decrease congestion.” “By providing for an office to defend against the victimization and exploitation of our elderly, this funding will help us better protect Oregonians in need.” “Our state will receive funds to provide job training and employment services to Oregon’s veterans. Those who have sacrificed their health in the service of our nation must not be left behind.” “Also included in this bill is funding to preserve our state’s natural beauty to better ensure that it can be protected for generations of Oregonians to come.” For Immediate Release February 25, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell sahar.wali@mail.house.gov Rep. Blumenauer’s Funded FY09 Appropriations for Oregon: T-HUD South Corridor I-205/Portland Mall Light Rail Project $81,600,000 This project would fund the 8.3 mile TriMet light rail extension from downtown Portland to the Clackamas Regional Center. The project is authorized in SAFETEA-LU and is included in the President’s fiscal year 2009 budget. T-HUD Streetcar Loop, Portland, OR $45,000,000 This funding would create a new streetcar loop that connects the existing streetcar line to the Lloyd District, the Central Eastside, and OMSI. It would also fund the purchase of new streetcars manufactured at an Oregon-based and Oregon-owned company. T-HUD Columbia River Crossing, OR $3,325,000 The Interstate 5 bridge over the Columbia River and its approaches cause the worst traffic congestion in the Portland/Vancouver metro region and are one of the key bottlenecks on the I-5 trade corridor. The Columbia River Crossing project will significantly reduce congestion and improve safety while increasing mobility, reliability, and accessibility for all users. This funding, if secured, will be used for preliminary engineering to support any of the bridge options currently under consideration by the region. CJS COPS Meth Clackamas County $200,000 These funds would expand a nationally recognized methamphetamine prevention program by integrating resources from a variety of enforcement agencies to address both adult and juvenile initiatives to reduce drug abuse. CJS Family Justice Center City of Portland $300,000 The Family Justice Center will provide domestic violence victims a safe place where they can gain access to support services from advocates, intervention specialists, and prosecution and law enforcement personnel, all in one location. CJS Elder Abuse position in district attorney’s office Multnomah County $275,000 This funding would create a position for a specially trained prosecutor within the Multnomah County District Attorney’s Office to investigate and prosecute cases involving the victimization and exploitation of the elderly. CJS Klamath River Fish Disease Research OSU $640,000 The funds would be used for research and testing to reduce an ecologically and economically devastating parasite in endangered salmon on the Klamath River. Labor – HHS –Ed Gatekeeper Project Multnomah County $48,000 Funding would support a project that identifies at-risk older adults and people with disabilities – a fast growing population and provides volunteers to help them access critical social services. Labor – HHS –Ed Oregon Electronic Health Records (EHR) Improvement Project State of Oregon $285,000 Electronic health records have been shown to decrease health care costs, improve quality, reduce medical errors, and reduce redundant care. Funding for this project would provide physicians in rural and community clinics with technical support and software to create and maintain electronic health records. Labor – HHS –Ed Working for Independence Clackamas County $381,000 This request seeks funding to expand Clackamas County’s Working for Independence job training and employment service programs to include veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and/or traumatic brain injury. Agriculture Bioremediation of Munitions Bioremediation Research Center $111,000 This bioremediation project provides research into the use of special grasses to absorb soil contaminants produced by explosives. These grasses are then eaten by sheep, where the contaminants are digested by anaerobic bacteria into innocuous compounds. Agriculture Northwest Small Fruits and Stone Fruits Research Northwest Center for Small Fruits $254,000 The Northwest Center for Small Fruits Research is a research consortium between Oregon State University, Washington State University, University of Idaho and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The funding will be used for research to enhance the sustainability and profitability of the Pacific Northwest berry and grape industry. Agriculture Multi-Commodity Research, OR Oregon State University $244,000 This project enhances Oregon’s competitiveness and expands the economic value-added component in Oregon agricultural products through research and outreach in food processing, product development, business strategy, marketing, and consumer testing. Agriculture Organic Cropping Research for the Northwest Oregon State University $140,000 These funds would go towards research directed at problems facing organic agriculture and will enhance Oregon agriculture’s competitiveness in the market. Agriculture Steep III—Water Quality in Northwest Oregon State University $444,000 This research provides a base for an agricultural research and extension education partnership to address agricultural production and environmental issues in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. Interior-Environment Land Acquisition for Sandy River/OR Natl. Historic Trail Western Rivers Conservancy $1,350,000 This request would purchase about 77 additional acres from willing sellers along the soon-to-be free-flowing Sandy River that supports four endangered salmon and steelhead runs. Interior-Environment Timberline Lodge Facilities Improvement Timberline Lodge $200,000 The funding would be used to redesign and replace the Lodge’s outdated plumbing lines that threaten to harm the historic Lodge and its ability to bring safe water and heat to visitors. Interior-Environment Columbia River Gorge Land Acquisition Friends of Columbia Gorge $2,000,000 The funding would purchase 97 acres of available land with high conservation value from willing sellers for the Forest Service and keep it preserved as part of the Gorge National Scenic Area. Energy-Water Columbia River Channel Improvements Columbia River Channel Coalition $34,451,000 This funding would substantially complete the deepening of the Columbia River navigation channel from 40 to 43 feet in order to accommodate the deeper-draft cargo ships that comprise a growing share of worldwide shipping fleets. The project would also enhance or create 2,000 acres of fish and wildlife habitat. Energy-Water Lower Columbia River Ecosystem Restoration LCREP $1,435,000 The funding would be used to collect and monitor water, sediment, wildlife, and fish tissue in order to reduce toxins along 146 miles of the Columbia, and to educate consumers in preventing further Columbia River pollution. Energy-Water Beaver Creek Culvert Replacement Multnomah County No amount; continuing authorities authorization This project would replace three culverts along Beaver Creek in east Multnomah County. By doing so, critical habitat for salmon and trout would be restored, non-native plant species would be removed, and adjacent wetlands would be enhanced. Energy-Water Lower Columbia River Slough City of Portland No amount; continuing authorities authorization This funding finances the final phase of a joint project between the City of Portland and the Corps of Engineers to restore the unique habitat and improve water quality in the former floodplain of the Columbia and Willamette Rivers. The Columbia Slough supports numerous wildlife species and endangered salmon. Energy-Water Wave Energy Research and Demonstration Ctr OSU $2,331,175 This request would establish a National Wave Energy Center at OSU to help develop renewable wave energy resources. This center would develop an in-water infrastructure and study its impacts on marine ecosystems. Department of Education Elementary and Secondary Education SEI- Self Enhancement Inc. $381,000 This funding would support an organization dedicated to helping underserved youth realize their full potential through comprehensive year-round academic, enrichment, and family involvement programs. Funds would support programming and increase the number of students served.
02.24.2009	“Make no mistake, this bill will protect our communities and ensure the welfare of these animals,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “The horrific chimpanzee attack in Connecticut last week brought a renewed urgency to this issue and I am pleased with today’s long over due passage of this bill. Primates are wild animals and should not be regularly transported around the United States and integrated into our communities or our households. Today we have taken an important step toward the welfare of humans and animals. Although the importation of primates into the United States for the pet trade has been banned by Federal regulation since 1975, these animals are bred in the United States and are readily available for purchase from exotic animal dealers and even over the Internet. Because of the importation laws, there remains an active domestic trade in these animals. Up to 400 chimpanzees are kept as pets in the United States. Primates can carry diseases such as herpes B and tuberculosis and these risks are increased by interstate transport of the animals. Currently, twenty states prohibit keeping primates as pets, and many others require a permit. Even in states where it is legal to keep primates, most people cannot provide the special care, housing, and social structure these animals require. This bill provides the appropriate federal response to complement state and local laws by amending the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981. The bill targets the pet trade and does not affect trade or transportation of animals between zoos, research facilities, or other federally licensed and regulated entities. It is similar to the Captive Wildlife Safety Act, which Congress passed unanimously in 2003 to ban interstate commerce in lions, tigers, and other big cats for the pet trade. The “Captive Primate Safety Act” received strong support from the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, The Humane Society of the United States, BornFree USA and many other organizations in the 110th Congress. Renowned primatologist Dr. Jane Goodall urged passage at a hearing, saying: “In doing so, you will be promoting public health and safety, as well as taking a reasonable and sound step toward protecting these amazing wild creatures.” For Immediate Release February 24, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
02.23.2009	“The horrific chimpanzee attack in Connecticut last week is a tragic example of just how reckless and dangerous it is to keep primates as pets,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Primates are wild animals, and when kept in the home can be a real-life threat to public safety and public health. They should not be regularly transported around the United States and integrated into communities or our households because of the great risk it poses on our families, our friends, and our neighbors. Make no mistake; this legislation will protect of our families and ensure the humane treatment of these animals.” Although the importation of primates into the United States for the pet trade has been banned by Federal regulation since 1975, these animals are bred in the United States and are readily available for purchase from exotic animal dealers and even over the Internet. Because of the importation laws, there remains an active domestic trade in these animals. Up to 400 chimpanzees are kept as pets in the United States. Primates can carry diseases such as herpes B and tuberculosis and these risks are increased by interstate transport of the animals. Currently, twenty states prohibit keeping primates as pets, and many others require a permit. Even in states where it is legal to keep primates, most people cannot provide the special care, housing, and social structure these animals require. This bill provides the appropriate federal response to complement state and local laws by amending the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981. The bill targets the pet trade and does not affect trade or transportation of animals between zoos, research facilities, or other federally licensed and regulated entities. It is similar to the Captive Wildlife Safety Act, which Congress passed unanimously in 2003 to ban interstate commerce in lions, tigers, and other big cats for the pet trade. The “Captive Primate Safety Act” received strong support from the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, The Humane Society of the United States, BornFree USA and many other organizations in the 110th Congress. Renowned primatologist Dr. Jane Goodall urged passage at a hearing, saying: “In doing so, you will be promoting public health and safety, as well as taking a reasonable and sound step toward protecting these amazing wild creatures.” For Immediate Release February 23, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-8413 Office/202-834-6919 Cell sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
02.13.2009	“Oregonians are not immune to the deepening economic crisis facing our nation. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will provide much needed relief to American families and a much needed immediate boost to our economy. Most importantly, it will provide tax relief to 95% of Oregonian households with every paycheck - the most direct ways to ensure that the Oregonians who need help the most get the benefit. “Thousands of Oregonians have been added to the ranks of the uninsured, having lost their health insurance because of circumstances at work or because they simply could no longer afford the monthly premium. This bill will make it possible for tens of thousands of Oregonians to keep their health insurance by providing Oregonians direct assistance after the loss of a job, to make insurance payments, protect their families, and better prepare for the future.“In addition to creating an estimated 44,000 jobs across Oregon, this bill will give direct aid to our states, along with the hundreds of millions of dollars for improving and maintaining transportation, roads and bridges, healthcare, and education. This recovery act will help in ways that Oregonians and our state need it the most. “While this bill won’t entirely solve the gaping budget hole in Salem, it certainly makes the task of our legislators a little easier and comes at it at a time in their planning process that will allow them to best prepare to navigate the road that lies ahead. “The assistance to education provided in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act through tax relief and increased Pell grants will make it easier for college students to pay for their education. Money for state stabilization will help Oregon’s schools to retain staff and stay open. Money for school modernization and billions of dollars in research will find its way to Oregon campuses. “Our state is known for the progress that we have made developing a new energy future, this bill will provide direct help which will increase certainty and stability for Oregon’s emerging renewable energy companies -- thereby creating jobs, helping Oregonians to save money and helping to preserve our planet. “I'm pleased that by working with President Obama and the leadership in Congress, we have been able to deliver a significant package of benefits that will pay dividends immediately for Oregonians.” Media Availability Rep. Blumenauer will be available to media to speak about the impact of this bill for Oregon and our nation’s economy on Monday, February 16, 2009. To set-up an interview with Rep. Blumenauer please call 202-834-6919 or e-mail Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov ### For Immediate Release February 13, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-8413 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
02.09.2009	“For the past six years members of Oregon’s congressional delegation, hundreds of constituents, numerous organizations and agencies, local governments and Tribal leaders have worked tirelessly to pass these wilderness provisions through the Senate,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “That’s why I am pleased to be joined by my Oregon democratic colleagues in urging members of the House to pass this bill to President Obama without delay. Oregonians should not have to wait for 20 more years to see our state’s natural beauty protected and preserved for generations to come.” In 2003, Blumenauer convened the first of a series of annual Mt. Hood Summits. In 2006, he partnered with the Oregon House delegation members to pass the Mt. Hood Stewardship Legacy Act, which was the first new Oregon wilderness expansion to pass either chamber of Congress in 20 years. The Lewis and Clark Mount Hood Wilderness Act protects almost 127,000 acres around Mount Hood with wilderness protection and adds almost 80 miles on nine free-flowing stretches of rivers to the National Wild and Scenic River System. Other Oregon provisions included in the bill are detailed below: • The Cascade Siskiyou National Monument Voluntary and Equitable Grazing Conflict Resolution Act, which establishes a 23,000-acre wilderness area, to be known as the Soda Mountain Wilderness, in the Monument's southern backcountry; • The Oregon Badlands Wilderness Act, which designates almost 30,000 acres of wilderness 15 miles east of Bend. The wilderness designation comes over two decades after the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) recommended the area be preserved; • The Spring Basin Wilderness Act, which designates approximately 8,600 acres of BLM land as the Spring Basin Wilderness, overlooking the John Day Wild and Scenic River. The area is important habitat for populations of Mule Deer, Rocky Mountain Elk and many bird species, and offers recreational opportunities for hikers, horseback riders, hunters, botanists and other outdoor enthusiasts; • The Copper Salmon Wilderness Act, which designates 9.3 miles of rivers at the headwaters of the North Fork of the Elk River as Wild and Scenic and adds 13,700 acres of new wilderness adjacent to the existing Grassy Knob Wilderness. The Elk River is known as the most productive wild salmon and steelhead river of its size in the lower 48 states. For Immediate Release February 9, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-8413 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
02.04.2009	“At a time when Oregon families are struggling with rising costs of healthcare and rising unemployment causing a loss of employee sponsored healthcare, we can provide a signal of hope and a source of relief,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “After three years of working to pass this bill, after three years of fighting for the health and future of America’s children, our new president will finally sign this bill into law today and bring our nation one step closer to providing quality, affordable healthcare for all Americans.” The State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) was created in 1997 to provide health care coverage for children in families that earn too little to afford health insurance for their children themselves but too much to qualify for Medicaid. This bill will give states the resources and incentives necessary to reach and cover millions of uninsured children who are currently eligible for, but not enrolled in, SCHIP and Medicaid. The bill is fully paid for – raising the tobacco tax by 62 cents. For Immediate Release February 4, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-4813 Office/202-834-6919 Cell Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov
02.02.2009	“The safety of our children is paramount, that is something everyone supports and why I stand behind the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act. Yet for this law to be effective, the Commission must implement it responsibly and in such manner that we can protect our children while protecting our nations’ small businesses who are already in the throes of dealing with the worst economic downturn in decades,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Friday’s vote is a step in the right direction toward responding to small businesses’ concerns that they didn’t have the guidance to comply with this new law. This delay will give both local manufacturers and the Commission the time they need to get it right.” On January 14, 2009, Rep. Blumenauer sent a letter to CPSC Chairwoman Nancy Nord requesting additional guidance for Oregon’s small businesses. The letter also voiced their concerns about the new law. When informed of the Commission’s decision, John Koenig, owner of Grasshopper Store on NE Alberta St. in Portland and a founder of the Northwest Childrens Business Alliance said, “Congressman Blumenauer responded immediately to our concerns and went straight to the Consumer Product Safety Commission on behalf of all of the small businesses in his district and across the country. We couldn’t have gotten our point across without his help, and we’re elated with these results.” To schedule an interview with Rep. Blumenauer, please e-mail Sahar Wali at Sahar.wali@mail.house.gov or call 202-225-4813.
01.28.2009	“Our economy is struggling and more vulnerable than it’s been in decades. Oregon families and business need this assistance more than ever-- and they need it now,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “This funding will help those who need it most. It will create jobs for Oregonians; help those who are trying to rebound from a recent lay-off, and make long-term investments in Oregon’s infrastructure, schools, and health care system, laying the foundation for fiscal sustainability in the future. This bill will also provide important tax provisions for emerging Oregon industries, such as wind and other renewable energy and will help Oregon to continue leading the way towards greener economy.” In response to Republicans attempt to remove vital funding for job creation and tax measures for working Americans with a substitute, Rep. Earl Blumeanauer responded,“These are the same people who told us the Bush tax cuts were going to lead to nirvana . . . I am glad they have come to the floor to present their alternative, because it shows us their priorities: take money away from 95 percent of the American public, and give it to the wealthiest Americans who need it least." Below are estimates on the amount of funding that formulas and programs within the bill would direct to Oregon: Type of Funding Amount State Fiscal Stabilization Fund $747,154,000 Title I (Education) $130,618,000 Individuals with Disabilities Act $149,451,000 Education Technology State Grants $9,121,128 Education, Modernization, Renovation, and Repair $209,934,000 Pell Grant Maximum Award $279,413,147 Head Start $7,240,010 Child Care and Development Block Grant $22,510,354 Employment & Training $33,013,081 Community Services Block Grant $7,973,094 Low-income Home Energy Assistance $12,111,452 Elderly Nutrition Services $2,743,104 Preventative Health and Health Services Block Grant $2,179,063 Highways and Bridges $349,351,566 Transit Capital Grants $68,309,581 Fixed Guideway Modernization $15,128,906 Clean Water State Revolving Fund $65,574,135 Supplemental Security Income $36,600,000 Emergency Shelter Grant Program $15,000,00 Byrne-Jag Grants $33,285,576 TOTAL $2,181,711,197 *Source: House Appropriations and Transportation and Infrastructure Committees, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities Oregonians could stand to receive $2 billion from personal tax credits contained in the American Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act, according to information released by the Center for American Progress. Type of Personal Tax Measure Amount Making Work Pay Tax Cut $1.8 Billion Earned Income Tax Credit increase $50.7 Million Child Tax Credit $153 Million Additional details on the bill are below:Health Care · Incentives to encourage the widespread adoption of Health Information Technology (HIT) and establish standards for interoperability and privacy. The investment in HIT is a critical step toward modernizing American healthcare, cutting red tape, eliminating redundant care and reducing health insurance premiums for millions. · Temporary subsidies to help families who have lost their jobs maintain their healthcare coverage through the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA). This benefit will be of tremendous assistance to families struggling to find new work and maintain economic security during the downturn. Infrastructure · Authorizes $25 billion for investment in infrastructure, job training, education, and economic development within economic recovery zones. · Strengthens the bond markets by providing either tax credits or direct subsidies to bond issuers, thus magnifying demand and fueling new infrastructure projects. · Provides $9 billion in school construction bonds to build, rehabilitate, or repair American schools.Energy · Invests $13 billion in the production of renewable energy by providing for a long-term extension for production and investment tax credits. · Provides a dramatic increase in the value of incentives for small wind power production, which Rep. Blumenauer championed. · Extends tax credits for energy-efficient improvements to existing homes through 2010. ###
01.28.2009	"Today's report by the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) is a wake-up call to our government and our nation about the threat posed by our ailing infrastructure to maintaining and improving our economy and way of life. “To provide the American people with security and sustainability our government must become better partners in renewing and rebuilding America. Our infrastructure is the backbone of our nation’s productivity and security and it must keep pace with the demands placed upon it. By investing in infrastructure improvements we can move towards a more stable and secure future for America.“I commend ASCE for their continued work in highlighting this vital issue for America and for the report card’s call to action. “For years, I have been working to draw attention to our nation’s crumbling infrastructure and the need to rebuild and renew this critical pipeline of American life. We need to invest and improve our infrastructure and we need to start doing it now. "Oregonians have led the way on infrastructure improvements and with the leadership of Gov. Ted Kulongoski and my colleagues in Congress, Rep. Peter DeFazio and Sen. Ron Wyden, Oregonians have been able to bring these needs to the forefront.” ###
01.27.2009	The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act would clarify that each discriminatory paycheck or compensation constitutes a violation of the Civil Rights Act. As long as workers file their charges within 180 days of a discriminatory paycheck, their charges would be considered timely, which was the law prior to the Supreme Court’s May 2007 decision. “In 2007, the Supreme Court made it virtually impossible for victims of pay discrimination to go to court to vindicate their rights,” stated Rep Blumenauer. “Pay disparities cause American families a loss of anywhere from $400,000 to $2 million in pay over a lifetime. Today’s approval of the Ledbetter Fair Pay Act will help to increase the financial security of America’s families at a time when they need it most by helping to close the pay gap for American women.” According to the Oregon Center for Public Policy, women comprised 46% of Oregon’s workforce in 2007. Today, the average full-time working woman earns only 78 cents for every $1 a man makes. According to the Center for American Progress, an Oregon woman with a Bachelor’s Degree or higher will earn $507,000 less over a 40 year period than a man with the same level of education. “Women have made enormous advances toward economic equality since the passage of the Equal Pay Act 46 years ago,” continued Rep. Blumenauer. “I am proud to send this meaningful piece of legislation to President Obama’s desk to be signed in to law so that as a nation we may come closer to realizing the goal of “equal pay for equal work for all Americans.” The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act would apply to workers who file claims of discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, age, or disability.
01.23.2009	“I am pleased with this legislation’s focus on tax relief for America’s struggling, working families and also that it lays the groundwork to tackle some of our nation’s most pressing domestic challenges -- rebuilding and renewing our infrastructure, fighting global warming with clean energy and energy efficiency, and reforming our healthcare system. At a time when our economy is in its most vulnerable condition in decades, American families and businesses need this assistance more than ever.“In Oregon alone this plan will save or create 52,890 jobs by the end of 2010, thereby reducing Oregon’s unemployment rate by 1.8 percent by 2010.” * Additional details on the bill are below: Health Care -Incentives to encourage the widespread adoption of Health Information Technology (HIT) and establish standards for interoperability and privacy. The investment in HIT is a critical step toward modernizing American healthcare, cutting red tape, eliminating redundant care and reducing health insurance premiums for millions. -Temporary subsidies to help families who have lost their jobs maintain their healthcare coverage through the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA). This benefit will be of tremendous assistance to families struggling to find new work and maintain economic security during the downturn. Infrastructure -Authorizes $25 billion for investment in infrastructure, job training, education, and economic development within economic recovery zones. -Strengthens the bond markets by providing either tax credits or direct subsidies to bond issuers, thus magnifying demand and fueling new infrastructure projects. -Provides $9 billion in school construction bonds to build, rehabilitate, or repair American schools. Energy -Invests $13 billion in the production of renewable energy by providing for a long-term extension for production and investment tax credits. -Provides a dramatic increase in the value of incentives for small wind power production, which Rep. Blumenauer championed. -Extends tax credits for energy-efficient improvements to existing homes through 2010. ### *According to prominent economist Mark Zandi's analysis of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Zandi is a chief economist with Moody’s Economy.com and former adviser to Sen. John McCain’s presidential campaign. He concluded that with the economic recovery plan there will be 4 million more jobs and an unemployment rate that is 2 percentage points lower by the end of 2010 than without the plan.
01.22.2009	Cites New Accountability and New Administration as the Right Mix to Fix Industry’s Financial Woes with Confidence Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 For Immediate Release: January 22, 2009 Media Contact: Sahar Wali 202-225-8413 Office/202-834-6919 CellSahar.wali@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) voted against H.J.Res. 3, a resolution that would disapprove the use of the second $350 billion made available to the Secretary of the Treasury under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA). Last Friday the Senate also voted against a resolution of disapproval. Passage of the joint resolution by both Houses, unless vetoed by the President, would have prevented the new Administration from using the second $350 billion in funds. Last Congress, Rep. Blumenauer voted against the first round of the $700 billion Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA). Rep. Blumenauer’s statement on today’s vote is below: “With the utmost confidence in our new administration I have voted to support releasing the second round of funds. Last fall there were too many unknowns about what and who our federal dollars were financing. The mismanagement of funds and complete lack of oversight and accountability that we saw under the last administration was precisely the reason I voted against it then. To date, the Treasury Department has yet to explain how the first $350 billion of taxpayer money was spent. “Today is a new day, with the House’s passage yesterday of H.R. 384, Congress is beginning the process of recovering and renewing America’s economic strength with a new administration. Yesterday’s vote was the first step in providing necessary guidance to the new administration- which has already learned many lessons from the failures of the past administration. “To punish the new administration for the failures of the past administration makes no sense for the American people. At this juncture, there is an even greater sense of economic urgency and, thanks to yesterday’s legislation, Congress and the Obama administration can provide hope to American families with stronger oversight and accountability and begin to solve the problem while protecting the taxpayer.” ###
01.21.2009	As Vice-Chairman, Blumenauer will work closely with Chairman Markey in setting the agenda for the Select Committee and stand-in for the Chairman in his absence. The Select Committee is focused on increasing Congressional and public understanding of global warming and energy independence. “Earl Blumenauer is the definition of a leader on energy and global warming issues,” said Chairman Markey. “He is thoughtful, passionate, and demands action on the most pressing issues of our time. I am fortunate that he has agreed to serve as Vice-Chair at this critical time for global warming and energy legislation.” Rep. Blumenauer is also a member of the House Ways and Means and Budget Committees, where he has been a leader on energy and environment issues. As a former member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, one of Rep. Blumenauer’s main priorities as Vice-Chair will be to further examine the relationship between transportation and climate change. “Global warming is one of the most serious challenges facing our civilization today, and I am honored that Chairman Markey has given me this opportunity to become even more deeply engaged in these issues,” stated Rep. Blumenauer. “The Select Committee will play an important role in examining the myriad of issues that touch climate change, from transportation policy to the tax code to financing a greener economy. I look forward to working with Chairman Markey to ensure that these issues remain at the forefront in the 111th Congress.” The Select Committee on Global Warming and Energy Independence was established by the U.S. House of Representatives in March of 2007 to investigate, study, make findings, and develop recommendations on policies, strategies, technologies and other innovations; intended to reduce the dependence of the United States on foreign sources of energy and achieve substantial and permanent reductions in emissions and other activities that contribute to global warming. ###
01.14.2009	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) voted to pass the reauthorization of the State Children Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) to provide healthcare coverage to 11 million American children. This bipartisan bill preserves coverage for the 7 million children currently covered by SCHIP and extending coverage to 4 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for, but not enrolled in, SCHIP and Medicaid. “This bipartisan bill saw success in the last Congress and it is crucial at a time when the economy and healthcare are fraying at the edges that we pass this signal of hope to the American people,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “This reauthorized SCHIP bill will provide a healthier future for more than 70,000 Oregon children. The time has come for both houses of Congress to pass this investment in the health of America’s future and sent it President-elect Obama’s desk.” SCHIP legislation was twice vetoed by President Bush in the 110th Congress, despite bipartisan support in the House and Senate. SCHIP was created in 1997 to provide health care coverage for children in families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance, and has proved a successful and cost-effective program for providing health care. Currently, 63,090 children in Oregon are enrolled in the SCHIP program. This reauthorization would provide for more than 70,000 children in Oregon by increasing eligibility from 200% of the federal poverty level to include those families whose incomes are under 300% of the federal poverty level. “We must no longer succumb to indulging in the finger-pointing and partisan recrimination of the past four years at the cost of the health of America’s children,” continued Rep. Blumenauer. “By passing SCHIP reauthorization we can seize this opportunity to reform our country’s health care policy for a healthier, more prosperous future for all Americans.”
10.29.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Blumenauer (D-OR) spoke at the hearing on economic recovery, job creation, and investment in America, held today before the House Ways and Means Committee. Witnesses testified to the need for increased assistance for families and local government agencies struggling in the current crisis. Congressman Blumenauer has issued the following statement: “With the economy in peril, a decaying infrastructure and a carbon-constrained environment, American families are turning to Congress for solutions. They’re asking how we can help them. They’re asking what Congress and the new administration can do to renew and rebuild America. “We’ve got to be looking at short-term specifics as well as the big picture. For instance, what should be done about local government agencies, school districts, and transit agencies that have never missed a debt service payment, yet cannot get the credit they need to stay afloat? We need specific approaches to stabilize and help not just big business and lending institutions, but American families and credit-worthy Main Street institutions as well. “American families also want answers that go beyond the short term economic crisis; they need long-term solutions that will be there for them, year in and year out. I would deeply appreciate your insights on how we can best restore economic security and stability for struggling American families, as well as state and local governments."
09.29.2008	Washington, DC – With global water situation increasingly in crisis, Congressman Blumenauer has introduced the Water for the Poor Enhancement Act of 2008, with Representatives Donald Payne, Donald Manzullo, Sheila Jackson Lee, Chris Shays, George Miller, Steve LaTourette, and Walter Jones as original cosponsors. The Water for the Poor Enhancement Act complements legislation introduced in the Senate by Senator Richard Durbin. “This legislation answers the call to act,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The Water for the Poor Enhancement Act is a bipartisan, non-ideological approach to making our government more responsive to this crisis. It increases U.S. government capacity to coordinate and streamline clean water and sanitation development activities, and fosters strategic investments in on-the-ground expertise and low cost, high impact technologies." Every 15 seconds, a child dies from lack of access to safe water and sanitation. Across the globe, 900 million people live without access to safe drinking water and 2.5 billion people are without access to improved sanitation. Millions of girls can’t go to school because they must spend hours walking to collect water for their families. As half of the people in the developing world are sick at any given time from a water-related disease, water and sanitation access is a major barrier to fighting poverty and increasing economic productivity. The bill coordinates the USAID’s water activities with an Office of Water that develops safe and sustainable drinking water and sanitation in developing countries. The bill also offers onsite training for local water and sanitation managers, and helps develop affordable technologies to ensure clean water access to countries with limited resources. Further, the bill expands the capacity of the State Department to oversee water issues as a part of U.S. diplomacy. At the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, South Africa the United States and 185 other countries agreed to the goal of cutting in half the percentage of people without access to safe water and basic sanitation by 2015. Congressman Blumenauer responded by working with Reps. Tom Lantos and Henry Hyde and Sens. Bill Frist and Harry Reid to enact the Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act of 2005, which established water and sanitation as a cornerstone of United States foreign assistance efforts. “We are now halfway to the 2015 date, and we must redouble our efforts,” said Congressman Blumenauer, adding that by 2030, 4 billion people – almost half the world’s projected population – will live in water-stressed areas. “This legislation will help the US government pull together the pieces implement a smart and efficient global water strategy,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Above all, it will help us meet our commitment to extend safe drinking water and sanitation to over a billion people in need.”
09.28.2008	
09.22.2008	Washington, DC – With the financial future of the American families in peril, Democrats have made clear that we must protect Main Street from the crisis on Wall Street. Central to this effort is ending the unfair lending practices of the credit card industry. “It is outrageous that as the financial crisis has spread, credit card companies have imposed higher delinquency fees,” said Congressman Earl Blumenauer. “I opposed the 2005 Bankruptcy Act in part because of its egregious support for abusive credit card practices. HR 5244 takes us one step closer to fixing some of the worst aspects of that bankruptcy bill, and one step closer to resolving the challenges facing America’s working families.” The bill adds protections for consumers, putting into law a number of regulations proposed by the Federal Reserve Board earlier this year that help insulate consumers from abusive lending practices. In particular, it puts a stop to some of the most egregious practices by credit card companies, including “double-cycle billing” where consumers pay interest and fees even where they have paid their obligation fully and on time. The bill also requires cards allocate consumer payments proportionally to debt carrying different interest rates, rather than allocating the payment to the debt carrying the lowest interest rate. “It is time to make sure that the market works not just for executives on Wall Street but for Americans at the kitchen table,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “That’s why I’m supporting these common-sense protections for our nation’s consumers, and I will continue to work to end abusive credit card and bankruptcy practices going forward."
09.16.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) calls the energy bill passed last night by the U.S. House of Representatives “an important point of departure” for a new administration and Congress. “We are not going to reverse years of myopia and mismanagement overnight,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Today we have taken the opportunity to tie the pieces together in a way that will move us further along toward solving the problem.” The Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act, HR 6899, was approved by a vote of 236 to 189. The bill is designed to bring down the cost of energy, allow for responsible domestic drilling, and invest in renewable energy sources to create American jobs and reduce our dependence on oil. The bill takes steps to immediately reduce the price of gasoline by releasing nearly ten percent of oil from the government’s stockpile—the Strategic Petroleum Reserve—and replacing it with cheaper, crude oil. It ensures that taxpayers get fair value for the oil from public lands and waters, and extends production tax credits for renewable energy sources such as wind and solar. Several provisions from Congressman Blumenauer’s own legislation made it into the bill, including incentives to support location-efficient housing, an investment tax credit for small wind turbines, a carbon audit of the tax code, and a national consumer awareness program to educate the public on the benefits of public transportation alternatives. The bill also extends commuter benefits for bicyclists who are currently excluded from benefits allowed for parking and transit users. When the current moratorium on offshore drilling ends September 30th, coastal waters beyond three miles offshore will be available for drilling. HR 6899 prohibits drilling up to 50 miles offshore, up to 100 miles offshore if a state “opts-in” by enacting a state law. “I am proud that the House has passed the Democrats’ wide-ranging proposal that offers opportunities for responsible drilling for gas and oil, as well as additional, more sustainable solutions,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I am also pleased that this bill recognizes that giving Americans more transportation choices will help reduce the pain at the pump by expanding public transit service and reducing fares, offering commuter tax benefits for bicycles, and investing in long term renewable energy solutions that are key to Oregon’s green economic development.”
09.11.2008	Washington, DC – In testimony today before the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) urged swift approval of HR 6290, the Lewis and Clark Mt. Hood Wilderness Act of 2008. This bill would enhance protection for the Mt. Hood National Forest through the designation of 132,000 acres of new Wilderness, 34,000 acres of National Recreation Areas, and 79 miles of Wild and Scenic Rivers. It would also address challenges related to transportation, recreation, and forest management; preserve Native American treaty rights; and provide a permanent solution for protecting Mt. Hood’s north side. Blumenauer said, “Since 2003, I have worked with local stakeholders and the other members of the Oregon delegation to develop a comprehensive approach to the problems the mountain faces, the opportunities it affords, and ways we can meet the demands of the future. I urge the Committee to move this bill forward as quickly as possible, so that the thousands of Oregonians who have put time and effort into developing this legislation will be able to see their vision for the mountain realized.” HR 6290 was introduced by Blumenauer in June, 2008. Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Congresswoman Darlene Hooley (D-OR), and Congressman David Wu (D-OR) are original cosponsors. A similar version, S. 647, has passed the Senate’s Energy and Natural Resources Committee and awaits floor passage. Today’s hearing also featured testimony on DeFazio’s HR 6291, the Oregon Treasures Act of 2008, of which Blumenauer is an original cosponsor. The bill would provide additional protection for Oregon’s Wild Rogue River and the Oregon Caves National Monument.
07.31.2008	Washington, DC – Today the House passed Congressman Earl Blumenauer’s (D-Ore) Higher Education Sustainability Act of 2007, which establishes a competitive grant program for universities and places of higher education to develop and implement sustainability curriculums, practices and academic programs. The bill, which Blumenauer introduced in September, passed as part of the Higher Education Act, HR 4137. “Today Congress passed legislation that will help train the next generation of scientists, engineers, planners and business professionals by advancing sustainability curriculums at our colleges and universities,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “As the price of energy soars, we need a workforce that is trained to be as sustainable and efficient as possible. It is no surprise that colleges, universities, and respected companies, including Nike and Intel, endorsed this bill. It will not only help them protect the planet, but it will ensure America remains competitive in a world with fewer and more costly resources.” 90 percent of surveyed Fortune 500 CEOs stated that they want sustainable development to become part of their mission. “A key component of Nike’s ongoing sustainability strategy is to find new partners, both within our supply chain and the public sector that can help advance our work,” said Brad Figel, Director of Government Affairs for Nike. “This legislation will go a long way in creating and implementing integrated environmental, economic, and social sustainability programs in higher education institutions across the country, which then will help us and other companies meet our sustainable business development goals.” “Higher education has a critical role in supporting the development of a workforce skilled in clean tech and green collar job opportunities,” said Jonathan Williams, Government Affairs Manager for Intel. “These careers include a combination of disciplines including science, technology, engineering and math, all of which are critical to the continued success of Intel, the high tech community and the emerging renewable energy sector. The Higher Education Sustainability Act promotes the development of these disciplines within the education community and supports the economic development of these industries.” The Higher Education Sustainability Act promotes multidisciplinary education, research, and outreach programs that address environmental, social, and economic dimensions of sustainability. It ensures that programs and practices developed under the name of sustainability are high caliber and directly address national needs.
07.16.2008	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) introduced the bipartisan “Transportation and Housing Choices for Gas Price Relief Act,” H.R.6495, with Reps. Ellen Tauscher (D-CA) and Christopher Shays (R-CT) as original cosponsors. With gas prices tripling over the last seven years, American families need solutions that will help them now. This bill provides immediate relief by giving people more transportation options, helping Americans reduce their commuting costs, assisting transit agencies with rising fuel costs, and increasing housing options near public transportation. “There is no magic silver bullet that will solve the energy crisis, but there are things we can do now to reduce the impact of high gas prices on American families,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “One thing we must do is give people more transportation choices, and my bill does this by offering incentives for commuters to carpool, ride public transit, bicycle, or telecommute. By diminishing the impact of gas prices on family budgets, these common sense ideas can make an immediate difference in the lives of over-stretched Americans.” “The most realistic way to bring down gas prices and put money back in our pockets is to reduce demand,” said Rep. Tauscher. “One key way to do that is by making public transit more accessible for people who want to get out of their cars and encouraging transit-oriented development. Today, highway congestion costs the average commuter about $707 each year, not to mention the damage it does to our environment and the time we are forced to spend stuck on the road commuting and away from our families. This bill will reduce congestion on our crowded highways, improve air quality, and help reduce the price of gas.” “This legislation will help address our energy crisis in the short term by incentivizing consumers to use public transportation, carpool and telecommute,” said Rep. Shays. “But the key will be a long-term energy policy to decrease U.S. dependence on foreign oil, protect the environment, increase supply, build a market for renewable energy and promote energy conservation.” The “Transportation and Housing Choices for Gas Price Relief Act” will provide immediate relief by: reducing commuting costs and increase commuter choices, helping transit agencies cope with rising fuel prices and improve service to deal with increased demand, assisting communities in providing transportation options for their residents, increasing the availability of affordable housing near public transportation, and ensuring that the Federal government leads by example on these issues. The bill is supported by a coalition of environmental, business and transit groups. "Rising prices at the pump are a painful burden for consumers and the economy, and the ‘Transportation and Housing Choices for Gas Price Relief Act’ is a terrific response,” said Deron Lovaas, Transportation Policy Director for Natural Resources Defense Council. “Representatives Blumenauer, Tauscher and Shays have written a prescription for immediate relief in the form of incentives to take transit and telework coupled with lasting solutions such as construction of new rail lines and help with housing purchases in areas near public transportation. NRDC applauds this bill and the smart, effective approach it takes to moving us beyond costly oil addiction." "On behalf of the American Public Transportation Association (APTA), I applaud your proposal to help individuals and families cope with the high price of gasoline by offering more transportation choices," said APTA president William W. Millar. "As millions of Americans have discovered, taking public transportation is the quickest way to beat high gas prices and save money." "Americans are resourceful people, and we are trying everything we can think of to reduce our exposure to expensive gasoline," said Geoff Anderson, President and CEO of Smart Growth America. "This bill is timely acknowledgment of what more and more Americans are discovering: We need better options, and we need them fast. Having fostered increasing oil dependence for decades, the least our government can do is speed relief to over-burdened transportation agencies and begin the work of building an America where our quality of life is not dependent on cheap gas." "This timely bill provides Congress with a great opportunity to show it is responding to Americans’ pain at the pump, insufficient public transit and costly housing options,” said Michael Replogle, transportation director at Environmental Defense Fund and a former consultant for the U.S. Federal Highway Administration and the World Bank on sustainable transportation strategies. "America has less than three percent of the world’s oil reserves, so we will never be able to produce what we need domestically. Our best bet is to use our limited domestic gas supply wisely and facilitate alternatives to driving where possible, as this legislation does.” “This legislation is a combination of many ideas and initiatives that if enacted will provide Americans real options and real relief no matter whether they live in a small town or in a bustling metropolis,” said Jon Martz, President of Association for Commuter Transportation. “This legislation represents the best in legislative politics by recognizing that there is not a silver bullet that will solve the high price of gas. It will take a lot of ideas from a lot of people, and this legislation does just that.” “This legislation shows that fighting global warming and saving money go hand in hand, because the cheapest, cleanest gallon of gasoline is the one you don’t have to use,” said Colin Peppard, Transportation Policy Coordinator for Friends of the Earth. “The convenient, affordable transportation alternatives that this legislation provides would let more Americans leave their cars in the driveway and skip the gas pump altogether, cutting gas costs and greenhouse gasses at the same time.” Read more about the Transportation and Housing Choices for Gas Price Relief Act.
07.11.2008	Washington, DC – Today Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), Darlene Hooley (D-Ore), Greg Walden (R-Ore), Peter DeFazio (D-Ore) and David Wu (D-Ore) introduced a resolution, H.Res.1321, honoring the Oregon National Guard Youth Leadership Challenge Program. For almost 15 years, this program has worked to promote self-confidence and fellowship among at-risk youth. It has been awarded the United Service Organizations’ award for “Best Overall Program” three times in the past six years. “I am proud to honor this outstanding organization,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Since 1994 it has impacted the lives of thousands of Oregonians who were likely to drop out of high school. Most of these kids went on to earn a high school degree or its equivalent. This is another example of Oregon leading the way with a program that truly makes a difference in the lives of our youth.” More than 3,500 Oregon teens likely to drop out of high school or engage in destructive behavior have entered the Oregon National Guard Youth Leadership Challenge Program, which is both free and voluntary. "Oregon Youth Challenge is the best in the nation, period,” said Rep. Hooley. “For the past decade, OYC has set the pace for the national programming, leading the nation each year in awards that are a tribute to the fine young men and women who participate. And no mention of Oregon Youth Challenge should go without echoing the name of Brigadier General Michael Caldwell: Oregon Youth Challenge would not be there if not for him. His tenacity helped overcome the many challenges in building a program that nobody had heard of or understood. Budgetary threats nearly closed it several times, but Mike always found ways and means to keep it alive." “I am proud that the Oregon National Guard Youth Leadership Challenge Program is being recognized for its tremendous success in helping at-risk kids,” said Rep. DeFazio. “For the last 15 years they have been proving that kids who struggle in school or act out are not a lost cause. They have a remarkable record of helping young Oregonians get back on track. I have been inspired by the stories of participants about the impact the program has had on their lives and I hope the example they have set will be emulated around the nation.” "I am truly impressed with the efforts of the Oregon Youth Challenge Program in providing our state's at-risk youth with the discipline, skills and opportunities they need to lead positive, healthy lives,” said Rep. Walden. “Since 2001, the program has received numerous national awards for the outstanding work of its cadre and staff. Although it serves all of Oregon, I'm proud to honor a program that calls the high desert of the Second District home." “This program provides new hope to young people who were struggling to complete high school,” said Rep. Wu. “I have met some of the bright kids who are turning their lives around thanks to this innovative program. I am confident that, with the skills that they learned from the National Guard, they and the other program graduates will create bright futures for themselves.”
07.11.2008	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) joined Speaker Pelosi and others in calling on President Bush to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), which would provide immediate relief to consumers. “In Oregon and across the county, people are struggling with sky-rocketing gas prices,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Presidents before Bush have responded to energy crises by releasing oil from the reserve. After years of promoting harmful energy policies that have sent gas prices soaring, the least this president can do is provide relief by opening the reserve.” In May, Blumenauer sponsored legislation that forced the president to stop filling the SPR at a rate of 70,000 barrels a day. The SPR currently holds well over 700 million barrels of oil and is almost full. The president has broad authority to deploy oil from the reserves during times of national emergencies, and withdrawals from the SPR have been made three times by other presidents.
07.02.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) issued the following statement commending the administration for meeting its June refugee acceptance target: “I am pleased that this administration has, for the first time, met its monthly target for admitting Iraqi refugees,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Last December, I worked to set a firm goal of 12,000 refugees that were to be admitted to the U.S. I urge the Bush administration to hold firm to this number as a minimum and do even more to help. With more than four million Iraqis displaced from their homes as a result of the Iraq war, we must meet our obligation to the Iraqi people and to the thousands of Iraqis who have helped us.” The State Department announced today that it 1,721 Iraqi refugees were admitted into the U.S. last month, up from 1,141 in May. This is the first time since 2003 that the administration's target of 1,000 per month mark had been surpassed. In May of 2007, Congressman Blumenauer introduced the “Responsibility to Iraqi Refugees Act,” H.R.2265, which provides assistance to Iraqi refugees, particularly those whose lives are believed to be threatened for assisting United States troops in Iraq. Amnesty International, the International Rescue Committee, Refugees International and Church World Service have all endorsed the legislation. In January of 2008, the President signed into law the Department of Defense Authorization Act, which included provisions from the “Responsibility to Iraqi Refugees Act.” The provisions provide 5,000 special immigrant visas for the next five years, require the Secretary of State to establish a refugee processing program in Iraq and other countries in the region, and direct the Secretary of State to designate a special coordinator at the Embassy in Baghdad.
06.30.2008	Portland, Ore – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) joined local citizens and community leaders to announce his proposal for immediately reducing the impact of rising gas prices. Portland and the metro region have led the way in providing innovative and cost effective methods for helping people deal with the rising costs of gas. Rep Blumenauer’s bill takes these ideas even further by having the federal government invest in communities, transportation choices, and affordable location-efficient housing. “Gas prices have shot up by more than a dollar a gallon in the last few months,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “As much as we all want a simple solution to the complex energy puzzle, there is no silver bullet. One thing we can do now is give people more choices. Portland is recognized internationally because of the transportation choices we offer our citizens. This has led to huge savings for families, and I want to improve on this model and extend it to other areas of the country. My proposal includes everything from offering a tax credit for carpooling to helping transit agencies cope with rising fuel prices and demand by funding fare subsidies, service improvements, fuel purchases, and technology assistance. These are short term actions that will immediately provide relief from rising energy costs.” “We're proud of our track record at Intel in offering numerous initiatives to spur alternative transportation, including transit subsidies, bicycle programs and employee shuttle service to light-rail stations,” said Jonathan Williams, Intel's Oregon Government Affairs Manager. "We appreciate Congressman Blumenauer's work to encourage more employers to lead the way in developing and supporting alternative commute programs for their employees." "Congressman Blumenauer’s bill is a powerful toolbox packed with low-cost, high-impact ways to help Oregonians avoid rising gas prices and fight global warming,” said Bob Stacey, Executive Director of 1000 Friends of Oregon. “As energy costs rise, we’re all looking for more choices in where we live and how we get around. This bill gives Americans a break and helps build affordable, walkable, family friendly communities at the same time." THE BLUMENAUER LEGISLATION WILL: Increase Commuter Choices Equalize the transportation fringe benefit between those who commute by public transportation and those who commute by driving. Allow employees to cash-in their parking benefits to use on other commute choices. Extend the same transportation fringe benefits to bike commuters as provided for those who commute by car or public transportation. Extend transportation fringe benefits to individuals who are self-employed. Create a tax credit for vanpool expenses and services for those who share their commutes. Create a tax credit for qualified employers and employees who telecommute. Provide commuters information on transportation choices through educational programs such as Metro’s “Drive Less, Save More” program; grants to support carpooling and vanpooling programs; informational websites and other materials. Help Transit Agencies Help transit agencies cope with rising fuel prices and increasing demand by providing federal funds for fare subsidies, service improvements, fuel purchases, and technology assistance. Require the FTA to consider a Streetcar project’s contributions to land use, density, economic development, and carbon emission reductions in considering it for federal funding. Assist Communities Expand the successful Safe Routes to Schools program to include high schools; double the authorized funding for this successful national program. Provide federal grants to improve communities’ transportation choices, such as travel demand management strategies, carpool or telecommuting projects, upgrades to streets to facilitate bicycle and pedestrian use, intelligent transportation improvements to reduce congestion, and car-sharing and bike sharing programs. Provide Housing Assistance Increase information about and availability of Location-Efficient Mortgages (LEM) for homes located near public transportation. LEMs increase the borrowing power of home buyers who choose not to drive, since they don’t have to spend household income owning and operating an automobile. Provide funds to help states acquire, construct, and preserve affordable housing close to public transit. Require the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to develop a standard that measures the transportation costs associated with a home’s location, enabling Real Estate agents to provide this information to prospective buyers. Require the Federal Government to Lead by Example Provide transportation fringe benefits to all federal employees. Encourage Federal agencies to participate in local transportation management associations that promote more efficient use of transportation and parking resources.
06.20.2008	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) voted against the FISA Amendments Act, H.R. 6304. “I have heard some say that the enemies of America take on many forms. To them I say: let us be sure one of those forms is not our own government,” said Blumenauer. “I cannot vote for a bill that expands the government’s spying power. Nor can I vote to give backdoor immunity to telecommunications firms. These firms directly assisted the Bush administration in warrantless spying tactics. I am dismayed that we could not pass legislation that does more to protect the rights of American citizens. I continue to believe that the intelligence community does not need to violate the rights of Americans in order to protect them. I demand, and Americans deserve, protection of their basic civil rights.” For the past seven years, Congressman Blumenauer has been an outspoken critic of Republican wiretapping legislation. He voted against past efforts to expand the Bush administration’s ability to intrude on the lives of innocent Americans, and he supported the expiration of the Protect America Act.
06.19.2008	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) voted against the Emergency Supplemental, which provides funding for the Iraq war but does not establish a firm deadline for withdrawal. Blumenauer did, however, vote for an amendment that funds domestic and international priorities. These include rebuilding levees in Louisiana, helping victims of the Midwest floods and providing aid to Iraqi refugees. “Thankfully, this is the last supplemental funding bill that will be considered under the Bush administration,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I have opposed the Iraq war from the start and remain committed to opposing all legislation that does not set a firm deadline for bringing our troops home. I continue to believe that the best way to honor those whose lives have been lost in this tragic war is to end it as quickly and responsibly. “Without hesitation, I voted to fund vital domestic items. These include an expansion of ‘GI Bill’ education benefits, an extension of unemployment benefits, and the protection of Medicaid from harmful cuts. The bill we passed will also helps Iraqi refugees, four million of whom have been displaced by this tragic war.” Congressman Blumenauer has been a vocal opponent of the Iraq war from the start. In January of 2007, he introduced H.R.663, the “New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” a comprehensive piece of legislation requiring the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq, aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability, and a new approach towards reconstructing Iraq.
06.18.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, four members of the Oregon delegation announced two new pieces of legislation that will provide a long-term stewardship plan for Mt. Hood, Oregon Caves and Wild Rogue. Reps. Earl Blumenauer, Peter DeFazio, Darlene Hooley, and David Wu introduced the “Oregon Treasures” package following several years of extensive negotiations and input from the public and stakeholders. The Mt Hood proposal would add approximately 132,000 acres of Wilderness to the Mt. Hood National Forest, 79.6 miles of new Wild and Scenic Rivers, and approximately 34,550 acres as National Recreation Areas. The Oregon Caves and Wild Rogue legislation will add approximately 4,070 acres to the Oregon Caves National Monument and designates 142.9 miles of 40 waterways as “wild,” “scenic,” or “recreational” under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. “For years we’ve worked to create the Oregon Treasures package,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Thousands of committed citizens, organizations, Native Americans and businesses have made clear that we must do more to protect Oregon’s treasured places. These two bills will protect Oregon’s iconic Mt. Hood, renowned Rogue River and Oregon Caves. The Mt Hood bill also creates a unique transportation plan to address the challenges of getting to and from the mountain.” “Our beautiful state has so many places that are worthy of congressional recognition. The caves alone represent some of the rarest geology in the Pacific Northwest, and hide some of its greatest mysteries, like the River Styx, which flows below ground through the caves,” said Congressman DeFazio. “I am thrilled to be able to work with my democratic Oregon colleagues to bring protection to just a few of them. From the tributaries of the Wild Rogue, to the Cave Creek watershed, to the iconic Mt. Hood, we have an historic opportunity to leave a natural legacy for the next generation. ” “Our ‘Oregon Treasures’ bill includes 60,265 acres of wilderness and about 45 miles of wild and scenic river in my district, which represents the majority of the bill,” said Congresswoman Hooley. “Together, members of the delegation have worked to protect iconic landscapes and waterways significant to current Oregonians and critical to the health and quality of life of future Oregonians. In addition to preserving beautiful places, we take steps to protect the drinking water sources for millions of Oregonians, provide fish and wildlife habitat for a broad array of species, and leave a natural legacy for our children. I’m proud of what we have accomplished together, and look forward to making it law.” “Whenever we protect any part of the natural environment, we are doing so for the benefit of every single Oregonian, and every single American,” said Congressman Wu. “Expanding Oregon’s wilderness areas, scenic waterways, and National Recreation Areas will ensure that we preserve our iconic natural features for successive generations to enjoy. In addition, today’s legislation provides economic development opportunities for Oregon communities. By designating more protected land and waterways, we are providing all outdoor-lovers with additional recreation opportunities and helping tourists continue to make substantial contributions to the Oregon economy.” Mt. Hood Legislative Outline Wilderness/Wild and Scenic Rivers/National Recreation Areas- The legislation would add approximately 132,000 acres of Wilderness to the Mt. Hood National Forest. The proposed Wilderness areas are: Badger Creek Wilderness Additions: Badger Creek Additions, Bonney Butte, Boulder Lake Bull of the Woods Wilderness Additions: Bull of the Woods Additions Clackamas Wilderness: Big Bottom, Clackamas Canyon, Memaloose Lake, Sisi Butte, South Fork Clackamas Mark O. Hatfield Wilderness Additions: Gorge Face, Larch Mountain Mount Hood Wilderness Additions: Barlow Butte, Bluegrass Ridge, Elk Cove/Mazama, Richard L. Kohnstamm Memorial Area, Sand Canyon, Sandy River Additions, Twin Lakes, Tilly Jane, White River, Cloud Cap Salmon-Huckleberry Wilderness Additions: Alder Creek, Eagle Creek, Hunchback Mountain, Inch Creek, Mirror Lake, Roaring River, Salmon River Meadows, Salmon Huckleberry Keyhole Lower White River Wilderness The legislation would add 79.6 miles of new Wild and Scenic Rivers. They are: South Fork Clackamas River Eagle Creek Middle Fork Hood River South Fork Roaring River ZigZag River Fifteenmile Creek East Fork Hood River Collawash River Fish Creek The legislation would designate approximately 34,550 acres as National Recreation Areas (NRA). They are: Mount Hood NRA Fifteen Mile Creek NRA Shellrock Mountain NRA Crystal Springs Watershed Management Unit - The bill would establish a special resources management unit for the Crystal Springs Watershed to ensure protection of water quality and quantity. The Crystal Springs Watershed serves residential citizens, communities, irrigation districts, and diverse ecosystems on the north side of Mount Hood with clean water. Land Conveyances – The legislation would direct the Forest Service to engage in three land exchanges. The first, between Mt. Hood Meadows and the U.S. Forest Service, would facilitate the exchange of 120 acres of Forest Service managed land in Government Camp for 770 acres of private land at Cooper Spur. The legislation would require a new appraisal to be conducted, and mandate compliance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition and Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. In addition, the legislation would facilitate land exchanges between the Port of Cascade Locks and the Forest Service, and between Clackamas County and the Forest Service. Construction activities on lands conveyed shall comply with nationally recognized building and property maintenance codes or nationally recognized codes for development in the wildland-urban interface. Transportation – The legislation would direct the Secretary of Agriculture to seek to participate in the development of an integrated, multi-modal transportation plan for the Mount Hood region developed by the Oregon Department of Transportation. Forest Stewardship and Watershed Health – The legislation would direct the Secretary to prepare a report on and implementation schedule for a vegetation management strategy, including biomass utilization, for the Mount Hood National Forest. Local and Tribal Relationships – The legislation would direct the Secretary to consult with Indian Tribes with treaty-reserved gathering rights on the Mount Hood forest to develop and implement a management plan that meets the cultural foods obligations of the United States under applicable treaties. This plan would be consistent with existing Memoranda of Understanding. Recreation – The legislation would permit the Secretary to establish a working group for the purpose of providing advice and recommendations to the Forest Service on planning and implementing recreation enhancements in the Mount Hood National Forest. It would further direct the Secretary to consider converting roads designated for closure or decommissioning into recreation trails. It would also encourage the Secretary to work with the public to construct a trail within the Mount Hood forest suitable for use by persons with disabilities. Oregon Caves The legislation would enhance the protection of the natural resources associated with Oregon Caves National Monument, increase public recreation opportunities, expand local economic development opportunities, and protect the drinking water source of Oregon Caves National Monument from pollution and contamination by adjusting the boundary of the Monument. · President Taft created the Monument by Proclamation 876 on July 12, 1909 · The Monument is currently 480 (three-quarters of a square mile) acres and encompasses only the mouth of the High Hopes, Monument Deep, Oregon, and Clay Caves · The Oregon Caves Chateau is located near the caves, and is one of the National Park’s Great Lodges and a National Historic Landmark. The six-story hotel located on the monument has a fine dining room, a 1930’s era coffee shop, and 23 rooms · Oregon Caves is the longest marble cave (3.5 miles) open to the public west of the Continental Divide · According to the city of Cave Junction, the economic development strategy of the Illinois Valley is tourism, and the Oregon Caves is the largest attraction that brings tourists to the area. Similarly, the Grants Pass Chamber of Commerce notes that over 25,000 visitors pass through the Grants Pass visitors center each year, with many of them headed to the Oregon Caves · Recent discoveries indicate that Oregon Caves possesses a significant collection of Pleistocene fossils, including jaguar and grizzly bear. Grizzly bones that were found in the cave in 1995 were estimated to be at least 50,000 years old, the oldest known from either North or South America · The Monument is managed by the National Park Service; the surrounding watershed is managed by the Forest Service (Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest) · Grazing in the watershed has caused water quality problems, including contamination of the Monument’s drinking water supply · The NPS has formally proposed to expand the boundary of the Monument to encompass several other caves, as well as the surrounding Cave Creek Watershed numerous times, first in 1939, again in 1949, and most recently in 2000 · The legislation: o Adds approximately 4,070 acres to the Monument by transferring the land from the Forest Service to the National Park Service; o Designates 7.6 miles of 6 waterways as “wild,” “scenic,” or “recreational” under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, including the first subterranean designated waterway in the country, the River Styx, which flows through the Caves; o Encourages ecological forest restoration; and o Permits the donation of grazing permits and leases associated with the expanded boundary. Lower Rogue Wild and Scenic River Additions Pursuant to the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, the legislation would designate 142.9 miles of tributaries to the Rogue Wild and Scenic River (est. 1968) and classify the tributaries as either “Wild,” “Scenic,” or “Recreational” in order to protect the outstandingly remarkable values of these tributaries themselves as well as the benefits that these tributaries contribute to the Lower Rogue Wild and Scenic River. · In 1968, Congress protected 84 miles of the lower Rogue River under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act due to the River’s “outstandingly remarkable values” of high water quality, excellent fishery, and recreational opportunities. The Rogue was one of the first rivers protected under the Act · The headwaters of the Rogue River are in Crater Lake National Park, and ultimately empty into the Pacific Ocean near GoldBeach on the southwestern Oregon coast, 215 miles away · The Rogue River is Oregon’s second largest producer of salmon, largely due to the clear, cold water the river’s tributaries provide to the main stem of the Rogue · The Rogue River is home to runs of coho, spring and fall chinook, winter and summer steelhead, as well as being one of only a few rivers in the country with runs of green sturgeon. Rogue River tributaries provide spawning and rearing habitat for winter and summer steelhead and coho salmon · Recreation is the largest source of economic stimulus for the communities of southern Oregon, which supports dozens of outfitters, guides, and associated businesses. The Bureau of Land Management estimates that more than 25,000 people use the Rogue River every year, which generates more than $13 million dollars annually · The famed adventure writer Zane Grey spent much of his time in the heart of Rogue River country. He owned a small cabin at Winkle Bar on the Rogue where he wrote many of his celebrated books, including Rogue River Feud and Tales of Freshwater Fishing. The cabin still stands today, and is a popular attraction for river visitors. · A large roadless area that surrounds the Rogue and its tributaries, the Zane Grey roadless area, is named after the writer. · The legislation: o Designates 142.9 miles of 40 waterways as “wild,” “scenic,” or “recreational” under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act; and o Consistent with the Act, creates a half-mile wide buffer of protection on both sides of the waterway.
06.17.2008	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) and cosponsors Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) announced the introduction of the Climate MATTERS Act (Climate Market Auction Trust and Trade Emissions Reduction System) to institute a strong cap-and-trade system designed to reduce greenhouse gas pollution. This is the first such bill to receive primary referral to the Ways and Means Committee, which is scheduling a hearing on it within a month. “Global warming is this generation’s greatest challenge, and we need everyone at the table now to develop a comprehensive solution,” said Congressman Blumenauer. We face a carbon constrained economy, and ignoring this will cost consumers and the environment dearly. A cap and trade system will allow us to create and transfer value. This means that by cutting emissions, we can generate revenue to invest in renewable energy sources, create jobs and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. I can think of no better opportunity and no better time to start.” “My bill to combat global warming gives a green light to green technology, which translates into green dollars and green jobs,” said Congressman Llyod Doggett. America can run the new green energy economy or get run over by it. We can wait and pay dearly to import this technology from abroad, or we can lead with what will become major high tech exports of American products. Let’s encourage those high-wage green-collar jobs here at home. Instead of an energy policy, which consists of little more than holding hands with Saudi princes and doing nothing as gas prices soar, jobs go overseas, and our planet overheats, we can combat global warming in a way that is right for the environment, right for our economy, right for our health, and right for our national security.” “The Climate MATTERS Act will align public policy in a way that propels American innovation, significantly enhances America’s competitiveness in the world, creates millions of new high-skilled, high-wage green collar jobs and dramatically cleans up our environment,” said Congressman Van Hollen. Joining Reps. Doggett, Blumenauer and Van Hollen were representatives of the Environmental Defense Fund, Sierra Club, Friends of the Earth, the National Venture Capital Association, the Union of Concerned Scientists, Physicians for Social Responsibility, and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Rep. Lloyd Doggett Remarks on Introduction of Climate Matters Bill June 17, 2008 We gather today in the hearing room for a committee that considers revenue, trade, and health legislation. The proposal, which we are announcing today addresses all three. Certainly, global warming represents our greatest environmental challenge. With the increased competition for limited resources already underway around the world, with the potential displacement of millions of people from both flooding and desertification, I believe that global warming also represents our greatest long-term national security challenge. But with every challenge comes an opportunity, and I am convinced that this immense challenge can offer a significant economic opportunity for our country to take the global lead in developing renewable energy technology and the more efficient use of all energy. Our country has been the world’s biggest greenhouse gas polluter, and my home state of Texas is the biggest greenhouse gas polluter in America. We have a responsibility to find a solution, and today we offer a new bill, the “Climate Matters Act.” This is the first climate change bill to have been introduced in Congress, which will receive primary referral here to the House Ways and Means Committee. We have been promised a hearing on it here in this room within a month. While perhaps true that climate change legislation cannot be approved this year, the only way to get it approved next year, is to keep pushing forward now on this urgent national priority. The Climate Market Auction, Trust, and Trade Emissions Reduction System – you can see why we call it the “Climate MATTERS Act,” creates a market-based, cap-and-trade system to put strong yet achievable limits on greenhouse gas pollution. It creates a carbon marketplace in which allowances to emit greenhouse gases will be auctioned, bought, sold and traded. The goal is essentially to charge a fair market price for pollution that is currently being dumped into the atmosphere free of charge. We applaud similar efforts by Senators Lieberman, Warner, and Boxer. Countless forces have sought to weaken and undermine their proposal. We believe that the science-based solution that we are all seeking is best advanced by strengthening the cap and trade system that they proposed, not by weakening it. Accordingly, we would both place limitations on more pollution and give away fewer allowances to pollute free-of-charge to existing polluters than was provided in their bill. The first title of our bill concerning trade is also unique. We call for the presidential leadership, which we have lacked for eight years, to engage in immediate international negotiations to encourage all major countries to participate in a comparable cap-and-trade system. We include both “carrots” and “sticks,” consistent with World Trade Organization requirements, to encourage this global participation. US manufacturers should not be disadvantaged by foreign competitors, who continue to pollute. Our bill removes the incentive either to buy goods made from “dirty” manufacturing processes abroad or to move manufacturing offshore. The auction we propose will raise substantial new revenue: revenue that the bill reinvests in clean energy technology, assistance to workers and consumers affected by the transition to a low-carbon economy, and some repair of the damage already inflicted by global warming. Unlike previous bills, Climate MATTERS would vest all responsibility for this auction and management of the funds that it generates to the Treasury Department and leave the Environmental Protection Agency to focus exclusively on the vital role that it was created to serve -- protecting the environment. Another unique feature of our legislation is its creation of a “Healthy Families Fund.” Our two most pressing domestic priorities are resolving the health care crisis, which is entangling more and more American families, and the threat of global warming. This legislation offers significant help on both. The carbon auction will raise substantial revenues that can address the plight of 72 million uninsured or underinsured Americans. This fund can assist with financing access to affordable, quality care as part of our commitment to helping families transition to a new clean energy future. I appreciate the letter of support from Families USA for this important provision in our bill. Another unique provision in our proposal expands on provisions in the Boxer substitute to Lieberman-Warner is the creation of a Transportation Alternatives Account. This is a provision developed by Congressman Blumenauer. I would ask him to expand on that and his experience as a key member of the Select Committee on Global Warming. By creating a market for the sale of emissions allowances, we will be creating another market - a market for green technologies that reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. Existing polluters will seek out green technology to improve their bottom line, and reduce the amount of allowances they must purchase. One of our Caucus leaders, who truly understands that a green light to green technology translates into green dollars and green jobs is Chris Van Hollen. Our other Committee original cosponsors include Reps. Rahm Emanuel, John Larsen, Allyson Schwartz, John Lewis, Stephanie Tubbs Jones, Mike McNulty, Kendrick Meek, Mike Thompson, Jim McDermott, Pete Stark, Bill Pascrell, Joe Crowley and Shelley Berkley. I will have a complete list of our other original cosponsors shortly. America can run the new green energy economy or get run over by it. We can wait and pay dearly to import this technology from abroad, or we can lead with what will become major high tech exports of American products. Already financing some of the most innovative developments in renewable energy technology are members of the National Venture Capital Association, whose Executive Director Mark Heesen has provided encouragement in our endeavors. Because an effective response to global warming is our most pressing environmental concern, a wide range of environmental groups have offered encouragement and advice on this legislation. You will find letters of support from—environmental groups, the health community, scientists, physicians, and faith leaders. I would particularly like to acknowledge—environmentalists present who are not speaking: Anna Aurilio with Environment America, and Sarah Wilhoite with Earth Justice. In addition, we will hear from representatives from Dave Hamilton, with the Sierra Club’s Global Warming Campaign, Colin Peppard with Friends of the Earth, Lexi Schultz with the Union of Concerned Scientists, Dr. Mike McCally with the Physicians for Social Responsibility, and Jim Marston with Environmental Defense Fund. In addition, Jim will introduce economist Dr. Matthias Ruth, the principal author of a study noting the low cost of an effective cap-and-trade program compared to doing little or nothing about the problem. Instead of an energy policy, which consists of little more than holding hands with Saudi princes and doing nothing as gas prices rise, jobs go overseas, and our planet overheats, we can combat global warming in a way that is right for the environment, right for our economy, right for our health, and right for our national security. BILL SUMMARY The Climate MATTERS Act (Climate Market, Auction, Trust & Trade Emissions Reduction System) The Climate MATTERS Act develops an innovative plan for the auction, revenue and trade aspects of a cap and trade system. Strikes a Balance: The Climate MATTERS Act is environmentally strong, but realistic about its goals and methods to accomplish them. * Domestic Auction o The Climate MATTERS Act emissions cap will reduce emissions 80% below 1990 levels by 2050. o Beginning by auctioning 85% of all emissions allowances, this bill quickly moves to a 100% auction in 2020. o While excluding agriculture, forestry and small businesses from the emissions cap, this bill also provides incentives for these sectors to reduce their emissions. * Green Investment Plan for Auction Revenue o As the comprehensive auction system raises significant new revenue, this bill recognizes that this revenue is an important aspect of a comprehensive response to global warming. The Climate MATTERS Act devotes this revenue to addressing the social, economic and environmental aspects of adapting to a clean energy economy and offsetting the inevitable impacts of climate change. o Consumer and Worker Assistance: * Consumer Assistance: Provides substantial assistance to American families in meeting their household needs and making energy efficient improvements. * Part of the revenue is used to create the “Healthy Families Fund.” The reserve fund acknowledges that climate change and lack of access to affordable healthcare are two of the largest problems America confronts. This fund will assist households with the costs of obtaining and maintaining healthcare coverage as we transition to a new clean energy future. * Affected Worker Assistance: Provides funding for adjustment assistance, employment services, income-maintenance, and needs-related payments for workers to ease the transition to a low carbon economy. Funds will also assist communities in attracting new employers, provide local government services. * Worker Training: Supplements funding for green worker training, and provides funding for the advancement of environmental education to create an environmentally-literate workforce. o Environmental Protections: * Provides funding to conserve natural resources, mitigate impacts and help wildlife and ecosystems survive global warming. Provides funding to help the developing countries begin to adapt to a changing climate. * Provides funding to achieve real, verifiable, additional, permanent, and enforceable reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from the agriculture and forestry sectors, as well as promoting forest restoration and deforestation reduction efforts internationally. o Transition to a Clean Energy Economy: * Technological Development: Provides funding for the advancement of basic renewable energy technologies. * Energy Efficiency: Provides funding for energy efficiency and conservation, advancement in mass transit and provides funding to load serving entities to implement energy efficiency programs for their customers. In addition, the bill provides funding for heating and weatherization assistance programs. * Early Action: Provides funding to operators of emitting facilities in recognition of early action to reduce greenhouse gases. * International Technology and Adaptation: Provides funding to qualified developing countries to accelerate low carbon technologies and assist the most vulnerable developing countries cope with climate change impacts. * International Cooperation o The Climate MATTERS Act also provides strong encouragement to other countries such as China and India to participate through a combination of carrots and sticks in a manner designed to be WTO compliant. o The bill provides incentives to encourage early implementation of cap and trade agreements by allowing flexibility in setting emissions levels in a limited number of initial agreements. o Carbon-intensive goods from countries lacking such emissions caps cannot enter the U.S. market without allowances purchased to cover their carbon footprint. o In addition, the Climate MATTERS Act acknowledges the substantial benefits of tropical deforestation reductions by providing negotiators the ability to reward countries that significantly reduce deforestation, even if they are unable to implement a comprehensive emissions cap. Fiscally Responsible: The Climate MATTERS Act devotes a portion of the auction proceeds to ensure the bill does not add to our national debt.
05.23.2008	Washington, DC – Late last night the House passed an amendment introduced by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) that would help with the cleanup of unexploded bombs and shells leftover from military training exercises. The amendment, which was offered to the 2009 Defense Authorization Bill, H.R.5658, would require the Secretary of Defense to prioritize the research and development of technology used to detect unexploded ordinances (UXOs). It would also require the Department of Defense (DOD) to support the training and use of this new technology in the field. H.R.5658 passed by a vote of 384-23. “We all take great pride in our nation’s military, but their training exercises result in unexploded bombs and shells being left behind on millions of acres of land,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “This puts both citizens and the environment at risk. With today’s technology, it will take us more than $20 billion and between 200-300 years to clean up our 3,500 munitions sites. My amendment will help generate new technologies that will reduce both cleanup cost and time and may have broader application in IED and mine detection around the world.” The Department of Defense estimates that over 39 million acres of formerly used defense sites are still contaminated with UXOs. Blumenauer voted in favor of the “FY09 Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act, H.R. 5658, which: Authorizes funding for National Guard equipment: $9.7 billion for National Guard and reserve equipment, 9% more than requested Raises pay for military personnel by3.9%, half a percentage point higher than requested Replaces equipment depleted by the Iraq and Afghanistan wars Cuts funding for the Missile Defense Program by $719 million (7%) less than the administration's request. Cuts Future Combat Systems -- the Army's next generation of combat vehicles and weapons systems -- by $3.4 billion. The total is $200 million (6%) less than requested. Requires Energy and Sustainability Reports on energy efficiency, fuel logistics, and use of solar power. Promotes use of sustainable design concepts. Prohibits the use of funds to establish permanent military bases in Iraq.
05.21.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today at a press conference, Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Jim McDermott (D-WA), and Richard Neal (D-MA) discussed the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act, H.R. 6049, which will create jobs, help working families, and move America towards energy independence. The bill passed by a vote of 263-160. Reps. Blumenauer, McDermott and Neal, all members of the Committee on Ways and Means, have been leaders on this legislation, which is a top priority for the New Direction Congress. The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act extends and expands tax incentives for renewable energy; retains and creates hundreds of thousands of green jobs; spurs American innovation and business investment; cuts taxes for millions of Americans; closes loopholes that allow hedge fund managers to hide billions in compensation in offshore accounts; and does so in a fiscally responsible way. “Our nation needs to begin transitioning to a clean energy economy starting now,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “We all know what the high cost of gas is doing to American families and businesses, and today Congress is doing something to alleviate this pressure. Not only are we extending investment tax credits, but we are spurring innovation, creating jobs and reducing our reliance on foreign oil. This bill also includes new energy initiatives and incentives that I’ve pursued for years, including a tax credit for people to install wind turbines, an extension of the transportation fringe benefit to include bike commuters, and a carbon audit of the tax code. I truly hope that the president will not put our nation at risk or compromise American families by vetoing this important bill.” The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act makes key investments in the energy sources of the future and includes important tax credits to promote renewable energy production from wind, solar, geothermal, and other sources, many of which are set to expire at the end of the year. For example, the bill extends the wind energy production tax credit. H.R. 6049 includes the following provisions introduced by Congressman Blumenauer: An Investment Tax Credit for Small Wind Turbines offers an incentive for homeowners, farmers, and businesses to install wind turbines. This not only provides clean energy, but it generates added income. It is pro environment, pro business, and a smart way to diversify income. Specifically, the bill provides a tax credit of 30% of the cost of purchasing a small wind turbine. A single turbine can provide up to an additional $2,000-$4,000/year in farm income. This provision is based on H.R. 1772, which was introduced by Rep. Blumenauer in 2007. The Commuter Benefit for bikers amends section 132(f) of the IRS code to include "bicycles" in the definition of transportation covered by fringe benefits. Included in the Ways and Means energy bill is a benefit of $20/month for those employees who bike to work, which is a clean, healthy and efficient mode of transportation. The provision is based on H.R. 1498, legislation introduced by Blumenauer earlier this year. The Carbon Audit of the United States Tax Code by the National Academy of Sciences would involve a review of the tax code to identify those tax provisions and policies that have the greatest influence on the generation of carbon emissions and other greenhouse gases and to estimate the magnitude of those effects. The study would evaluate the potential for changes in the tax code to reduce carbon emissions. The study will examine areas where the connection between the tax code and carbon emissions are obvious (e.g., energy taxation) and will consider areas where the connection between the tax code and carbon emissions may be less obvious (e.g., tax policies affecting urban development, which affect climate through travel demand and land-use change).
05.15.2008	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) voted on a series of amendments to the “Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2008.” He voted against the $162.6 billion war funding amendment, which did not pass the House. He voted in favor of two other amendments that would mandate the beginning of U.S. troop withdrawal in 30 days and expand funding for veterans’ education benefits, both of which passed the House. “I have opposed this war from the beginning and have held firm to my pledge not to fund the war, unless for withdrawal,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Today’s vote set hard deadlines for starting the withdrawal. It also provides veterans with education benefits that they’ve more than earned for their sacrifices to our nation. Oregon’s 41st Combat Brigade Team has served two tours in Iraq and Afghanistan since September 11, and is scheduled to deploy again next year. The least the federal government can do is provide them with access to a good education. Though this bill faces a veto from the president, it sends a clear message that this new Congress will not write blank checks to fund the president’s mismanaged war.” Congressman Blumenauer has opposed the Iraq war from the start. In January, 2007 he introduced his own legislation, “The New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” which would require the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, initiate a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq and increase aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability. In September of 2007, he pledged to vote “No” on any more requests for funding for Iraq, except that which is necessary to withdraw U.S. troops. Congressman Blumenauer has also signed the Oregon Declaration of Peace, affirming his long-standing commitment to ending the war.
05.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Four leading farm bill reform advocates in the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), Ron Kind (D-WI), Paul Ryan (R-WI), and Jeff Flake (R-AZ), today criticized the farm bill conference report as a missed opportunity for the serious reform that would make our farm programs more equitable and fiscally responsible. Despite being touted as significant reform, the bill fails to address the most unjustifiable, market and trade distorting aspects of U.S. farm policies. “At a time when Americans are struggling to pay their mortgage, food and energy bills, we should help people who need it and not lavish resources on people who don’t,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore). “With record high farm prices, we should not give money to couples earning up to $1.5 million in farm income and $1 million in non-farm income when most farmers still get little or no help. We should keep some of the farm bill’s modest reforms and reject the wasteful investments from the past. The Agriculture Committee has taken this bill as far as it can. Now it is time for the full House to take control. If the president vetoes the bill, we must finish the job by getting more to farmers who need help, meeting our environmental obligations and doing more for the hungry.” “This bill was well designed to avoid every opportunity for serious reform of wasteful, outdated subsidy programs while actually piling on additional layers of unnecessary spending,” Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) said. “Commodity prices are through the roof and yet we are still funneling billions of dollars to farm households making up to $2.5 million a year in profit. I challenge any Member of Congress to justify these outrageous payments to their constituents who are right now struggling with the highest food and fuel costs ever. My colleagues and the President should reject these sham reforms, and demand a farm bill that helps only the family farmers who need it, and is worth the confidence of the American taxpayer.” Farm Bill Conference Report: Where’s the Reform? The conference report continues to subsidize millionaires. Much has been made of the means test being placed on subsidies. The reality is that by combining on- and off-farm income, households making up to $2.5 million are still eligible for all subsidies. Furthermore, even the very high limit for on-farm income applies only to Direct Payments. According to USDA, these limits could only affect 0.2 percent of producers (4,600 out of two million). Cuts to Direct Payments represent a drop in the bucket. At a time when farmers are receiving record prices for their commodity crops, the agreement cuts $300 million from Direct Payments, out of $50 billion, a cut of only 0.6 percent. Increases in target prices and loan rates will cost billions in the future. Defenders of the farm safety net like to point out that prices always fall from historic highs, and they will again. So while these increases may not mean much in the current market environment, they will be here to stay and will cost billions when prices do fall, money that is not being considered in current budget calculations. “This farm bill is bad policy on several fronts,” said Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ). “Not only is it market-distorting and fiscally irresponsible, but it complicates our current trade obligations and will continue sending taxpayer money to wealthy farmers and landowners. I know that many of my Republican colleagues experienced buyer’s remorse after supporting the last farm bill in 2002. Given that the current bill is no better, I hope that they won’t feel compelled to vote for it.” A permanent disaster program is a costly, unnecessary, and harmful additional layer of subsidies. The federal government already bankrolls crop insurance to help farmers when a crop fails, counter-cyclical payments when prices drop, marketing loans to allow farmers to finance a crop and guarantee a price, and Direct Payments for no reason at all. These existing programs are more than adequate for legitimate farming operations. Additional layers of subsidization foster inefficiency and incentivize production on marginal lands that should not support large-scale agriculture. Finally, $2-3 billion is not nearly as much as historical ad hoc payments, so Congress will inevitably be called on to provide billions more in future years. "The conferees have squandered yet another opportunity for meaningful reform,” said Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI). “The farm bill should be focused on providing a safety net for family farmers in times of need, yet Congress has instead opted to subsidize the wealthy at a time when food prices are surging. Our agricultural policies are in desperate need of commonsense reform and this bill fails to deliver.”
05.14.2008	Washington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Legal Timber Protection Act, legislation Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) introduced in March of 2007, as part of the farm bill. The Legal Timber Protection Act, H.R. 1497, passed unanimously out of the Natural Resources Committee in November of last year. The bill bans the trade in illegally harvested timber and wood products and provides the tools to keep illegally harvested timber out of the United States. “After more than a year of work with an unprecedented coalition of industry, environmental and union groups, today we passed legislation that will help bring an end to the egregious practice of illegal logging,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Not only does illegal logging threaten some of the world’s richest and most vulnerable forests, but it leads to serious human rights violations. It also costs the U.S. forest products industry over $1 billion every year, including $130 - $150 million to my home state of Oregon. This is a great achievement that will protect the environment, help honest businesses, and prevent rampant corruption both here and abroad.” The bill’s language was developed through extensive consultation with a broad spectrum of industry representatives, conservation organizations, and government agencies. It amends the 100-year old Lacey Act, which has successfully fought similar problems with fish and wildlife, to ban the importation of illegally-logged wood and wood products from abroad. It authorizes the Justice Department to prosecute timber smugglers. “EIA commends Congressman Blumenauer’s leadership on this landmark bill to protect the global environment,” said Alexander von Bismarck, Executive Director of the Environmental Investigation Agency—the leading environmental organization providing expertise to policy makers on illegal logging and associated international trade. “Governments, timber companies, and traders around the world are taking note as the largest consumer of wood products, the United States, becomes the first country to ban the import and sale of illegal wood.” In July, Senator Wyden introduced a complementary bill in the Senate.
05.08.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) voted in favor of a housing package that is the most significant response to the housing crisis to date. A member of the Ways and Means Committee, he worked to provide tax credits to first-time homebuyers, improve access to low-income housing and allow families to deduct property taxes. These provisions, which Ways and Means passed in early April, were included in today’s housing package, which will help families facing foreclosure keep their homes and help other families avoid foreclosures in the future (in H.R. 5830). The House passed the bill this evening. “Today the House of Representatives took an important step to help Oregon homeowners impacted by the subprime mortgage collapse,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “While Oregon has not been hit as hard as many parts of the country, one in 34 Oregon homeowners is projected to face foreclosure, resulting in $2.5 billion lost from the tax base. “It is shocking to me that President Bush is threatening to veto this housing package, with its various provisions that were negotiated – and in many cases endorsed – by members of his administration and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. “This matters to Oregon because subprime loans are performing much worse than regular loans. I am pleased that our Ways and Means Committee has crafted provisions to help our housing industry and first-time homebuyers get into the market, provided additional tax-exempt bond authority to help stabilize our local housing situation and helped lower income taxpayers who don't itemize their deductions.” According to the Center for Responsible Lending, in Oregon, subprime loans are performing much worse than prime loans. One in five subprime loans in the 3rd Congressional District will end in foreclosure, resulting in price declines for more than 199,000 surrounding homes and a loss of $644 million in equity. FHA Rescue and Neighborhood Stabilization (H.R. 5830 and 5818) Provides mortgage refinancing assistance to keep families from losing their homes, protects neighboring home values, and helps stabilize the housing market. Expands the FHA program so that borrowers in danger of losing their home can refinance into lower-cost government -insured mortgages they can afford to repay. This legislation will help troubled borrowers avoid foreclosure while minimizing taxpayer exposure. Protects taxpayers by requiring lenders and homeowners to take responsibility. This is not a bailout; in order to participate, lenders and mortgage investors must take significant losses by reducing the loan principal. In exchange for an FHA guarantee on the mortgage, borrowers must share any profit from the resale of a refinanced home with the government. Makes $15 billion in loans and grants to states to acquire foreclosed homes standing empty, to rehabilitate foreclosed property, and to restore home values in neighborhoods hit hard by the crisis. (H.R. 5818) Tax Provisions to Expand Refinancing Opportunities and Spur Home Buying (H.R. 5720) Gives first-time homebuyers a refundable tax credit that works like an interest-free loan of up to $7,500 (to be paid back over 15 years) to spur home buying and stabilize the market. Supplies states with $10 billion of additional tax-exempt bond authority in 2008 to refinance subprime loans, make loans to first-time homebuyers and to finance the building of affordable rental housing. Provides taxpayers that claim the standard deduction with up to an additional $700 standard deduction for property taxes. Makes necessary reforms to encourage the creation of low-income housing. Preserving the American Dream for Our Nation’s Veterans Increases VA Home Loan limit, as was done in the stimulus package, for high-cost housing areas so that veterans have more homeownership opportunities. Helps returning soldiers avoid foreclosure by lengthening the time a lender must wait before starting foreclosure, from three months to one year after a soldier returns from service. The bill passed today is supported by the National Governors’ Association, U.S. Conference of Mayors, National Association of Counties, National Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies, National Community Development Association, and the National Council of State Housing Agencies, as well as a wide range of civil rights, community development, labor, and low-income housing groups, including: AFL-CIO, AFSCME, Catholic Charities, Enterprise Community Partners, Local Initiatives Support Corporation, National Low Income Housing Coalition, National Housing Conference, and the National Urban League.
05.08.2008	Washington, DC— Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) introduced H.R. 5976, the “U.S. Commission on Rebuilding America for the 21st Century Act.” America is facing an infrastructure crisis that cannot be ignored. The levee breaches in New Orleans, bridge collapse in Minneapolis and burst pipes in New York City are only the most visible signs of the nation’s infrastructure failings. The actual dangers, and threats posed by global warming, are much greater. Congressman Blumenauer’s legislation would provide a mechanism for Congress to reach out to the American people and develop a national vision to guide infrastructure investment for the 21st century. “America faces some of the greatest challenges in history, including a flagging economy and global warming,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “By making the right investments now in our nation’s infrastructure, we can create jobs to stimulate the economy, prepare the nation for global warming -- the greatest challenge of our generation -- and keep America competitive with other nations that are outpacing our investments. "My commission would help the federal government work with local communities to develop a renewed national focus on infrastructure investment that is essential to our cities, rural communities, economy, and health of our planet. For too long we’ve neglected these needs, and New Orleans and Minneapolis are grave reminders of the high cost of neglect. ”We have met similar challenges in the past, and it is no coincidence that I introduce this bill on the bicentennial and centennial of two great plans that laid the foundation for our country. Today, with new leadership, I am confident we can create a new national vision that will meet the unique challenges of the 21st century.” H.R.5976 will establish a 17-member commission, appointed by Congress, the Administration, and state and local governments, to guide investment in the nation’s infrastructure. What the commission would be tasked to do: Synthesize existing reports to identify challenges and needs Commence a thorough set of public hearings on infrastructure conducted in not fewer than 50 Congressional districts across the United States to ensure geographic and demographic representation Articulate a national vision for infrastructure investments. Those challenges are both myriad and significant. Consider: To avoid the worst effects of climate change, we must greatly reduce our carbon emissions. Transportation is the second largest—and fastest growing—source of U.S. CO2 emissions. Personal vehicle use accounts for nearly 60 percent of these emissions. The National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission recently calculated that maintaining our existing transportation system over the next 50 years will require $225 billion annually. The American Society of Civil Engineers has given our nation’s public infrastructure – water, transportation, and other systems – a grade of D-minus, estimating that it will cost $1.6 trillion over the next five years merely to repair our existing infrastructure. More than 72,000 miles of municipal water and sewer pipe are more than 80 years old, threatening the health, environment, and economy of communities large and small. From 1999 to 2009, the Nation’s electricity demand rose nearly 20 percent while our transmission capacity grew only 3.5 percent. By 2050, we will build 89 million new or replaced homes as well as 190 billion square feet of new offices and other non-residential buildings. Strategic development choices could reduce total transportation-related C02 emissions by 7 to 10 percent. This year marks the bicentennial of the Gallatin Plan, crafted by President Jefferson’s Secretary of the Treasury, Albert Gallatin, to develop the infrastructure needed by our new nation. One hundred years later, President Theodore Roosevelt invited every state and territorial governor to join members of his Cabinet and Congress, professional organizations, and government bureaus in a National Conference at the White House to plan for the infrastructure and conservation needs for the 20th century. Congressman Blumenauer is a recognized leader in Congress and Oregon for his innovative accomplishments in transportation, planning, and the environment. A former member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Blumenauer is a strong advocate for federal policies that address transportation alternatives, provide housing choices, support sustainable economy, and improve the environment. Appointed this Congress to the powerful Committee on Ways and Means, the Budget Committee and the Select Committee on Global Warming and Energy Independence, Blumenauer has continued his work on global warming and infrastructure investment. He has authored and co-sponsored legislation to preserve and protect public lands, reinstate the Superfund tax, shift the nation’s energy policy towards renewable energy and energy efficiency, curb global warming, and clean our nation’s water bodies.
05.01.2008	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) testified on the Iraqi refugee crisis before a joint hearing of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittees on the Middle East and South Asia, and International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight. In May of 2007, Congressman Blumenauer authored the first comprehensive legislation to assist Iraqi refugees, the “Responsibility to Iraqi Refugees Act,” H.R. 2265. His bill was included in the FY08 Department of Defense Authorization Act, which the President signed into law in January. “Five years after President Bush declared ‘Mission Accomplished,’ 4 million Iraqis are testament to the grave crisis that persists and the reality that our mission is far from accomplished. Last year I introduced the first comprehensive legislation to deal with the Iraqi refugee crisis. While a pared down version was signed into law, the administration continues to drag its feet on an issue that should be a moral imperative. “It is our responsibility to help those Iraqis who have helped us, and if we don’t step up to the plate, other countries won’t either. Millions of Iraqis have been displaced, yet the U.S. has admitted only 3,435 refugees. The situation is getting worse, with Jordan and Syria having closed their borders. In the War on Terror, pretending that things are going well when they aren’t has real consequences. “Years from now, I can imagine people pointing to the lack of a U.S. response to the refugee crisis as a turning point for a new generation of radicals in the Middle East. Going forward, just as we plan for military contingencies, we need to plan for humanitarian ones. The administration and Congress must work to address this crisis.” The United Nations High Commission for Refugees estimates that there are 2 million refugees outside of Iraq and 2 million Internally Displaced Persons in Iraq. The provisions included in the FY08 DoD Authorization provide 5,000 special immigrant visas for the next five years, require the Secretary of State to establish a refugee processing program in Iraq and other countries in the region, and direct the Secretary of State to designate a special coordinator at the Embassy in Baghdad.
04.23.2008	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Committee on Ways and Means, questioned Social Security Administration (SSA) Commissioner Michael Astrue at a hearing on the SSA’s disability backlog. The Committee also examined other declines in service to the public resulting from years of underfunding the SSA’s administrative expenses. “Our nation is facing a serious problem with Social Security,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “In Oregon, where the Portland field office ranks among the worst in the nation, people are waiting an average of 705 days for their claims to be processed. This is also a national problem, with Americans waiting an average of 500 days for their disability claims to be processed. Responding to these claims is often a matter of life or death, and it is mind boggling that the Bush administration has hindered the ability of SSA to do its job and protect our citizens. As baby boomers come of age, we need to properly fund the Social Security Administration to fix these backlogs and prevent future breakdowns.” In recent years, SSA’s workload has grown significantly due to the aging of the population and new responsibilities stemming from Medicare and homeland security legislation. Despite a productivity increase of more than 15 percent since 2001, the administrative funding received for SSA has been well below the level needed to keep up with this growing workload. From Fiscal Year (FY) 1998 through FY 2007, SSA received a cumulative total of $1.3 billion less than was requested by President Bush, and $4.6 billion less than the Commissioner’s own budget for the agency. As a result, by the end of calendar year 2007, SSA staffing had dropped to almost the level in 1972 – before the start of the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program – even though SSA’s beneficiary population has nearly doubled since that time. Due to the combination of rising claims as the baby boom generation ages and prolonged underfunding, Social Security and SSI disability claims backlogs have reached unprecedented levels. The Portland field office ranks 131 out of 145 field offices, and the wait time is 705 days for a claim to be processed. Across the nation, more than 1.3 million applicants for disability benefits are currently awaiting a decision on their claim, and total waiting times often extend into years. In addition, as SSA tries to address the backlog crisis, the agency is forced to divert its limited resources away from its day-to-day operations in field offices and payment processing centers in order to try to manage the disability backlog. The result is an increase in long lines, delays, busy signals, and unanswered telephones, and growing concern about closures and consolidations of local field offices. Resource shortages have also forced the agency to cut back on program integrity activities, even though such activities have been demonstrated to generate considerable savings to the Trust Fund.
04.07.2008	Washington, DC— Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, issued the following statement in response to President Bush sending the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement to Congress. “Since before my time on the Ways and Means Committee, I have been trying to facilitate an honest conversation about trade that takes into account both the upsides and downsides of global markets and trade agreements. This is the reason that I voted against the divisive Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) and, working with my colleagues to include strong labor and environmental protections, in favor of the Peru Free Trade Agreement. An honest trade policy can no more ignore the very real concerns people have about job security and environmental protection, than it can disregard the potential gains from an open and dynamic economy. “As I announced in February, the prism through which I view the pending agreement with Colombia is whether it will advance our moral responsibility to help put Colombian society back together again after years of civil war and human rights abuses. I said then, and I still believe, that more must be done to end the violence and impunity for attacks on labor leaders. I offered to work with interested parties on all sides of the issues to develop mechanisms that ensure the benefits of the trade agreement are contingent on sustained and deepened progress on the freedom of workers to organize. Since then, news reports of the demonization of human rights defenders as supporters of the FARC and allegations of cover-ups of extrajudicial killings by the Colombian government have only reinforced my belief that this trade agreement is not ready for consideration. “However, the President’s decision to send the Colombia Free Trade Agreement up for a vote without the agreement of Congressional leadership goes beyond the specifics of this trade deal and places at risk future cooperation on much more important trade policy initiatives, such as the Doha Round of WTO negotiations or the inevitable trade impacts of a binding international climate change agreement. “It is completely irresponsible for this lame duck president to jeopardize the entire Congressional-Executive trade policy structure and the system of informal consultations which underlie it. Such a decision would seriously imperil the authorization of a new ‘fast-track’ system under President Bush’s successor and would be a stumbling block in the efforts led by Chairman Rangel and Speaker Pelosi to establish a new, bipartisan consensus on trade policy. The President’s move serves no one’s long term-interests, except those who want to see a return to the divisive and partisan atmosphere that marked the 2002 Fast Track and 2005 CAFTA votes. “If the President goes forward with forcing a vote, he can expect a strong and unambiguous response from Congressional Democrats. If, instead, he shows a willingness to work with Congress and the Colombian Government to strengthen and improve the agreement, I expect that he would find willing and interested partners on Capitol Hill. I strongly urge the President to make the right choice.”
04.02.2008	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) issued the following statement in response to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Chertoff’s issuance of waivers to bypass more than 30 federal and state laws to build 670 miles of fence along the southwest U.S. border: “In step with the abuses of this administration, Secretary Chertoff has shown a disregard for more than 30 laws which protect public health and the environment. It is unprecedented that a single person can be above the law without any judicial appeal or remedy, and it is an absurd claim that he must waive the Safe Drinking Water Act and Clean Air Act, to name a few, in order to build this border fence. “Repealing these laws will not make us safer or reduce illegal immigration, as Secretary Chertoff suggests, but it will jeopardize our health and the environment. We cannot allow the Bush administration to institute its policies without oversight, which is why I am supporting the Borderlands Conservation and Security Act of 2007, which would repeal the ability of DHS to waive important health and environmental protections while also instilling responsible border protections.”
03.19.2008	Portland, Ore. – Today Congressman Blumenauer (D-Ore.) issued the following statement on the fifth anniversary of the Iraq war: “Today is another sad day for our country as we mark the fifth year of bloodshed and violence in Iraq. Sixty-seven Oregonians, along with another 4,231 brave men and women from around the nation and hundreds of thousands of Iraqis, have died in President Bush’s mismanaged and ill-conceived war. I continue to believe that the best way to honor those whose lives have been lost in this tragic war is to end it as quickly as possible. “Frustrations with Congress are understandable, as I feel them myself. I authored legislation which would have begun withdrawing our troops within 30 days of passage and introduced a bill to help the millions of Iraqi refugees displaced by the war. Yet tragically we remain in Iraq – spending almost $2.5 billion each week – because of this administration’s stubborn refusal to face reality and begin a new direction in the Middle East. “In 307 days, we will have a new President, and I am doing all I can to make sure a change in the White House means a change in the course of the Iraq war. In the meantime, I remain committed to getting our troops out of Iraq now and providing our veterans with the best care available.” Congressman Blumenauer has opposed the Iraq war from the start. In January of 2007 he introduced H.R.663, the “New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” which would require the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, initiate a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq and increase aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability. Congressman Blumenauer has also been a leader on the issue of Iraqi refugees. In May of 2007 he introduced the “Responsibility to Iraqi Refugees Act,” H.R.2265, the first comprehensive bill to address the crisis in which 4 million Iraqis have been displaced from their homes. Much of this bill was included in the National Defense Authorization Act for 2008 and signed into law earlier this year. He recently joined with leaders of the Progressive Caucus and Out of Iraq Caucuses in sponsoring H.R.5507, the “Fully-Funded United States Military Redeployment and Sovereignty of Iraq Restoration Act of 2008.” This legislation would end the Iraq War within a year, allow US support for an international force if requested by the Iraqi government, close the detention centers, and support reconciliation efforts in Iraq. In September, he pledged to vote “no” on any more requests for funding for Iraq, except those which is necessary to withdraw U.S. troops. Congressman Blumenauer has also signed the Oregon Declaration of Peace, affirming his commitment to ending the war.
03.12.2008	Washington, DC— Today the House passed H.Res.936, a resolution introduced by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) that honors the bicentennial of a plan that guided America’s infrastructure investments in the 19th century. Crafted by Thomas Jefferson’s Secretary of the Treasury, Albert Gallatin, the plan implemented George Washington’s vision of connecting the interior settlements with the markets and ports of the East Coast through a network of roads and canals. “Gallatin understood that for our new nation to prosper, we had to invest in our infrastructure. 200 years later, it is no different,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “If we want to boost our sagging economy and make America less dependent on foreign oil, then we must invest and plan for the greatest challenge of this century: global warming. The images of Katrina and the Minneapolis bridge collapse are strong reminders of America’s urgent need to develop a national plan that guides our investments, creates jobs, addresses global warming and boosts our economy. My resolution is not about looking behind us, but looking ahead and establishing a new national vision.” Congressman Blumenauer’s resolution honors the Gallatin Plan, celebrates the national unity the Gallatin Plan engendered, and recognizes the vast contributions that national planning efforts have provided to the United States. It is also a call to arms to craft a new national. "In 2008, 200 years after Thomas Jefferson and Secretary Gallatin, 100 years after Theodore Roosevelt, in keeping with the traditions of visionary leaders like them, we are prepared to invest in America's strength,” said Speaker Pelosi. “We again must invest in our infrastructure to do so. Today, that means green solutions, such as mass transit, and modern solutions, such as expanding broadband across America. Whether we're talking about roads or bridges or mass transit, whether we're talking about canals and waterways, sewage and water facilities, whether we're talking about broadband, or we're talking about the grid to transmit electricity, whether we're talking about schools, an investment in infrastructure that serves the needs of our children and their education, all of this infrastructure needs a major infusion of capital and we would want to do that in a fiscally sound way.” Congressman Blumenauer is a recognized leader in Congress and Oregon for his innovative accomplishments in transportation, planning, and the environment. A former member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Blumenauer is a strong advocate for federal policies that address transportation alternatives, provide housing choices, support sustainable economy, and improve the environment. Appointed this year to the powerful Committee on Ways and Means, the Budget Committee and the Select Committee on Global Warming and Energy Independence, Congressman Blumenauer has continued his work to address global warming and invest in America’s infrastructure. He has authored and co-sponsored legislation to preserve and protect public lands, shift the nation’s energy policy towards renewable energy and energy efficiency, curb global warming and clean our nation’s water bodies.
02.27.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) joined a majority of the House to pass the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008, H.R.5351. The bill contains four provisions introduced by Rep. Blumenauer: closing the Hummer tax loophole, providing an investment tax credit for small wind turbines, offering a benefit to bike commuters, and conducting a carbon audit of the U.S. Tax Code. “There is no reason Congress should subsidize the five biggest oil companies, which reaped record profits this year, while Americans pay top dollar at the pump,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “What we need is to invest in the energy technologies of tomorrow, and this bill does just that by shifting subsidies to gas and oil companies over to renewable energy initiatives and incentives. No longer are we providing tax breaks to those who buy the least efficient vehicles, like Hummers, or subsidizing the energy technologies of yesterday. Instead we are investing in clean energy solutions that will create jobs, decrease our reliance on foreign oil, and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.” The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act makes key investments in the energy sources of the future and includes important tax credits to promote renewable energy production from wind, solar, geothermal, and other sources, many of which are set to expire at the end of the year. For example, the bill extends the wind energy production tax credit for three years. The legislation repeals $18 billion in unnecessary tax subsidies for big, multinational oil and gas companies. The vote comes shortly after the big five oil companies recently reported record profits for 2007, with ExxonMobil earning $40.6 billion - the largest corporate profit in American history. H.R. 5351 includes the following provisions introduced by Congressman Blumenauer: Closing the Hummer Tax Loophole would fix a serious mistake in the tax code that provides an additional tax incentive for business purchases of luxury SUVs weighing over 6,000 lbs. Originally intended to help businesses buy necessary heavy-duty work vehicles, the “Hummer Tax Loophole” has for years allowed write-offs of anywhere from $100,000 to the current figure of $25,000 for the purchase of the largest, most gas-guzzling luxury SUVs, even as concerns over gas prices and dependence on oil have grown. The change offered in the Ways and Means energy bill would not affect legitimate business investments in trucks or vans, such as plumber and contractor trucks, farm vehicles, construction vehicles, flatbed trucks, cement mixers, and a variety of other vehicles as designated by the IRS. The provision is based on H.R. 2715, legislation introduced by Blumenauer earlier this year. An Investment Tax Credit for Small Wind Turbines offers an incentive for homeowners, farmers, and businesses to install wind turbines. This not only provides clean energy, but it generates added income. It is pro environment, pro business, and a smart way to diversify income. Specifically, the bill provides a tax credit of 30% of the cost of purchasing a small wind turbine. A single turbine can provide up to an additional $2,000-$4,000/year in farm income. The Carbon Audit of the United States Tax Code by the National Academy of Sciences would involve a review of the tax code to identify those tax provisions and policies that have the greatest influence on the generation of carbon emissions and other greenhouse gases and to estimate the magnitude of those effects. The study would evaluate the potential for changes in the tax code to reduce carbon emissions. The study will examine areas where the connection between the tax code and carbon emissions are obvious (e.g., energy taxation) and will consider areas where the connection between the tax code and carbon emissions may be less obvious (e.g., tax policies affecting urban development, which affect climate through travel demand and land-use change). The Commuter Benefit for bikers amends section 132(f) of the IRS code to include "bicycles" in the definition of transportation covered by fringe benefits. Included in the Ways and Means energy bill is a benefit of $20/month for those employees who bike to work, which is a clean, healthy and efficient mode of transportation. The provision is based on H.R. 1498, legislation introduced by Blumenauer earlier this year.
02.13.2008	Washington, DC— Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, issued the following statement on the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement: “Colombia’s recent history and the story of the U.S.-Colombian relationship are both tragic and complex. The many challenges facing Colombia and American interests in the region will not be solved either by the passage or rejection of this trade agreement. However, I believe that we have a special obligation to the people of Colombia because of the harm we’ve caused Colombians through our inability to manage our own drug problem in the United States. Together with the misguided and misdirected sums we’ve spent on a militarized war on drugs, it almost destroyed their society. This particular responsibility is at the root of my thoughts on the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement. “As Democrats have made clear, the effective exercise of core labor rights is key to ensuring that the benefits of trade help lift workers up. I find the current trends in Colombia to be heartening, as there has clearly been a shift away from the days when the combined impact of government, paramilitaries, rebels, and narco-traffickers made union organizing near impossible. I applaud the Colombian government for their substantial efforts and achievements. “However, I cannot support the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement at this time or in this form. While the trends are good, there is still much to be done to ensure that workers are free to organize and to end the effective impunity for human rights abuses. There continues to be shocking and unacceptably high levels of violence, particularly against union members and labor organizers, and much more must be done to bring the perpetrators to justice. We cannot discount the progress that has been made, but neither should we stop insisting that much more must be done. “One of the keys to attracting my support will be the development of mechanisms to ensure that the benefits of the trade agreement are contingent on sustained and deepened progress on the freedom of workers to organize. The legacy of attacks targeting those working for economic justice makes it necessary that there be real follow-through on efforts to prosecute those responsible for the violence, reform the judicial system, eliminate the influence of the paramilitaries in government, and ensure workers’ safety and their rights. I trust that with goodwill on all sides we can come to an agreement on the mechanisms that will allow me to eventually support this agreement. “This debate is not just about a trade agreement, but about how to put a damaged society back together again. We have both a moral responsibility and an abiding interest in making sure we get this right.
02.06.2008	“This budget also fails to include long term provisions that would keep millions of Americans—and over 246,000 Oregon households—from becoming ensnared by the AMT.” “The administration continues its dismal environmental record by gouging the State Clean Water Revolving Loan Fund, a program that is vital to local communities’ ability to repair their aging water and sewer systems. The budget also cuts funding to clean up Hanford—the most toxic site in the Western Hemisphere and greatest environmental threat to Northwest citizens.” “I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Budget Committee and in the House to craft a budget that restores America’s fiscal stability by making the right investments in our economy and infrastructure, creating jobs, and helping families who are struggling with the high costs of health care.”
01.28.2008	Washington, DC— This evening, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) attended President Bush’s final State of the Union address. He issued the following statement: “After seven long years of a president whom history will judge harshly, I had low expectations for tonight’s final State of the Union. Though I am pleased that President Bush finally was willing to come to the negotiating table and work with Democrats on a much needed economic stimulus package, it took far too long to do so. “Despite our desperate need for policies that will help us address a brutal war in Iraq, a broken health care system and a warming planet, this president has ignored our nation’s most pressing issues and refused to cooperate. Under his leadership, earmarks exploded and the globe warmed, yet suddenly he wants to be named the earmark and energy reformer. This country doesn’t have time, money or patience for more empty, partisan promises. I look forward to having a more willing partner in the White House in less than a year’s time.” The State of the Union addressed Americans’ economic anxiety, and Democrats worked in a bipartisan way in the House to fashion an economic stimulus package that will be voted on in the House of Representatives tomorrow. Unfortunately the President called for more of the same in Iraq and offered no hope for a change of direction. 2007 was the deadliest year for U.S. troops in Iraq and the President’s refusal to change direction comes even though the troop surge has failed to meet its stated objective: political reconciliation in Iraq. The President’s speech included a belated call for reform of the earmark process, which has ballooned under the Republican-controlled Congress. When Democrats gained control on Congress early last year, they instituted a one year moratorium on earmarks for 2007 until a reformed process could be put in place and rules adopted that provided for unprecedented transparency in earmarks, making significant reductions in their amounts and costs. The Democratic Congress is willing to continue to work with the White House on earmark reforms that provide better transparency and accountability for American taxpayers.
01.24.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), in delivering the Democratic view of the State of our Union, announced her support for a national plan that charts a New Direction to renew and rebuild America’s infrastructure. Earlier this week, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) called for a new plan to rebuild America after introducing two resolutions commemorating the 1808 Gallatin Plan and President Roosevelt’s 1908 Conference of Governors. “Our predecessors recognized the need to invest in our nation’s infrastructure, and today Speaker Pelosi joins the ranks of those leaders by offering her support for a new vision for America,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “With our bridges crumbling and levees toppling, now is the time for a new, innovative National Plan that will direct the next century of investment and rebuild our country. Global warming, the greatest challenge of this generation, means that we need to prepare for a new century and new obstacles. I am pleased to see the Speaker taking on these challenges, just as Gallatin and President Roosevelt did centuries before her.” “Congressman Blumenauer has been a leader in forging a new vision for rebuilding America,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi. “When it comes to creating jobs, revitalizing our economy and addressing global warming, we must have the right resources and infrastructure to address these needs. In keeping with the tradition of great American leaders such as Albert Gallatin and Teddy Roosevelt, who laid out clear visions for America, I am proud to join with Congressman Blumenauer and all those working to implement a new vision that will help us meet the challenges of the 21st century.” 2008 marks the bicentennial of the Gallatin Plan. This plan implemented George Washington’s vision of connecting the interior settlements with the markets and ports of the East Coast through a network of roads and canals. One hundred years later, President Theodore Roosevelt launched a similar effort when he invited every state Governor to join members of his Cabinet and Congress, professional organizations, and government bureaus in a National Conference at the White House to discuss infrastructure needs for the 20th century. The resulting report incorporated the growing interest in conservation and articulated the need for future investments in the nation’s infrastructure. Speaker Pelosi made the following statement in her prebuttal to the State of the Union: “For our nation, we will chart a New Direction where we renew America’s infrastructure and rebuild it in a way that is greener and helps confront the climate crisis. “Two hundred years ago, in 1808, Thomas Jefferson charged his Treasury Secretary, Albert Gallatin, with drafting a plan to develop America’s infrastructure, works like the Erie Canal and the Cumberland Road, to take advantage of a nation that was growing thanks to the Louisiana Purchase and the Lewis and Clark expedition. “A century later, in 1908, Theodore Roosevelt launched a similar commitment when he convened a White House Conference on Conservation to stress the importance of preserving America’s natural beauty. That led to the creation of the National Park Service and helped a growing America remain a green America. “In 2008, in keeping with the traditions of these great American leaders, we must keep America growing while making America greener. “That means reinvesting in our crumbling highways and bridges and renewing our commitment to mass transit, solutions which will create jobs for the middle class. It also means expanding broadband access across America, and particularly to rural communities. “Again, in our infrastructure challenge there is job-creating opportunity – to reinvigorate the American economy."
01.23.2008	Washington, DC— Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a member of the Ways and Means and Budget Committees, issued the following statement after the announcement of an economic stimulus package: “A critical priority of mine has been addressing our nation’s economic problems. As unemployment rises and families struggle to pay for their healthcare and heating bills, we must get cash into the hands of those who need it most and will spend it back into the economy. I appreciate the Speaker’s work on the package, which provides broad-based relief for lower and middle-income families. “I am, however, disappointed that the package does not contain food stamps or unemployment benefits, two provisions that would have quickly and effectively spurred the economy. Removing these provisions underlines the misplaced priorities of President Bush and his allies in Congress. By allowing the process to work and encouraging the public to weigh in, I would hope that we could make this package better.”
01.21.2008	** IMPORTANT UPDATE **DTV TRANSITION DATE CHANGED TO JUNE 12, 2009 The transition to digital television (DTV) has been delayed until June 12, 2009. In addition, the recently passed Stimulus Package included more money to fund the converter box coupon program. This means that you have more time to make the transition to DTV and another opportunity to apply for coupons for converter boxes. This includes people who allowed their coupons to expire. (Please check for updates at www.dtv.gov on the timeline and new rules for the coupon program.) Additionally:All full power stations in the Portland metropolitan area have agreed to postpone their final transition until the June 12 date. Residents of licensed nursing homes, intermediate care facilities and assisted living facilities now have a means to get coupons for converter boxes for their individual sets. Go here for more information Information on the Digital TV TransitionOn June 12, 2009, all television stations will terminate broadcasting analog signals. Thereafter, only digital signals will be transmitted. The DTV Transition will provide television viewers with clearer pictures and more program choices, and will free up major portions of the airwaves for public safety communications such as police, fire and rescue, and for new broadband wireless services. If you have an analog television set which is connected to cable or satellite, those service providers will make sure that your television set receives a viewable image after the transition. You are ready for the DTV Transition. If you have a digital television set, your television is also ready for the DTV Transition. If you have an analog television set which receives signals by means of rabbit ears or an over-the-air antenna and you desire to keep this set in service, you will need to attach a small digital-to-analog converter box to your television set in order to continue receiving over-the-air television broadcasts. For additional information about the DTV Transition and what you may need to do to prepare for it, visit the Federal Communications Commission’s website or call 1-888-225-5322. Information on the Coupon Program You may request up to two $40 coupons to go toward the purchase of up to two digital-to-analog converter boxes, which cost from $40 and $60 each. Upon request, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) will mail up to two coupons and a list of local retailers in the area that sell converter boxes. For more information about the Coupon Program and how to apply for coupons, go to the NTIA website at or call 1-888-DTV-2009.NOTE: Some stations in the area (Low Power/Class A/Translator) will continue to broadcast in analog after February 2009. If you need a converter box and would like to continue to watch these channels, be sure to purchase a convertor box with “analog pass-through capability.” To see if there are Low Power/Class A/Translator stations in your area, visit the FCC’s website .
12.17.2007	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) joined Reps. Earl Pomeroy (D-ND), Gerry Weller (R-IL) and Dave Camp (R-MI) in introducing the Tribal Foster Care and Adoption Act of 2007, a bill that would provide Indian Tribes with the same direct access to federal funding for foster care and adoption services that states currently receive. "We should be doing everything we can to provide access to foster care services for every child that needs it, and extending federal funding to tribal adoption is absolutely vital to helping the 10,000 American Indian and Alaska Native children who are in our nation’s system," said Congressman Blumenauer. "This bill will allow tribes to provide their children with the care they, like all other American children, deserve." Currently 10,000 American Indian and Alaska Native children are in the nation’s foster care system, at a rate that is disproportionately higher than non-Indian children. Despite these numbers, the federal government’s largest source of support for children in the foster care system is not available to Indian children and the tribal governments that care for them. The “Tribal Foster Care and Adoption Access Act of 2007” would correct the inequity in the Foster Care and Adoption Assistance Act by allowing tribes and tribal organizations to apply directly to the federal government to receive foster care and adoption assistance funding. Currently state governments can apply on an entitlement basis for reimbursements for services provided to income-eligible children who are placed in foster care or adoptive homes through state agencies. Services provided by tribes, however, are not eligible for reimbursement unless there is a tribal-state agreement. This legislation has the strong support of the National Indian Child Welfare Association, the National Congress of American Indians, Association on American Indian Affairs, American Public Human Services Association, Child Welfare League of America, Children’s Defense Fund, and many others.
12.17.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) voted in favor of a motion to concur with the Senate amendments to H.R. 6, the Energy Independence and Security Act. The Senate passed the bill on December 13 by a vote of 86 to 8. Today’s House passage sends the bill to the President, who is expected to sign it into law. Congressman Blumenauer issued the following statement: “This bill is an historic achievement for Congress – a departure from the energy policy of the past, in which we tried to dig and drill our way to energy independence. For the first time, the primary focus of our energy policy is conservation, and the conservation measures in this bill will reduce U.S. oil consumption by more than 4 billion dollars a day – more than twice our daily imports from the Persian Gulf. In addition to increasing the efficiency of our cars, which we haven’t done for 32 years, this bill will increase the energy efficiency of light bulbs, appliances, buildings, and government agencies. “That said, I am very disappointed that this is not the comprehensive energy bill that I had hoped we would send to the President. It does not include a renewable electricity standard to require utilities to generate some of their electricity from wind, solar, and other renewable resources. This means that the federal government will continue to fall behind and watch states take the lead on energy issues. “Also, it does not contain tax provisions that would shift government support from the traditional oil and gas industry – which do not need government assistance to turn a profit – to the budding renewable industry, which still needs tax credits. I’m nervous about the signals we are sending to investors, who need a long term extension of the production and investment tax credits to create market certainty. I hope that the House will revisit these credits immediately in the New Year.” The Energy Independence and Security Act will do the following: Strengthen national security, by lessening our dependence on foreign oil Reduce global warming Lower energy costs for consumers Create hundreds of thousands of new jobs and strengthens our economy Strengthens National Security Ø Increases vehicle fuel efficiency standard to 35 miles per gallon in 2020—the first congressional increase in 32 years. Ø Slashes U.S. oil consumption by more than 4 million barrels per day by 2030—more than twice our daily imports from the Persian Gulf. Reduces Global Warming Ø Cuts greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 by up to 24 percent of what the U.S. needs to help save the planet. Ø Increased vehicle fuel efficiency has the equivalent effect of taking 28 million vehicles off the road in 2020. Ø Increases the efficiency of buildings, homes, appliances, and lighting, reducing emissions 75 percent as much as increasing vehicle efficiency. Ø Makes an historic commitment to American homegrown renewable energy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions. Lowers Energy Costs for American families Ø Increased vehicle fuel efficiency will save American families $700 to $1,000 a year at the pump. Ø New fuel efficiency standards will produce $22 billion in net annual savings for consumers in 2020. Ø Building, appliance, and lighting efficiency will save consumers $400 billion through 2030. Creates Jobs Ø Job training will prepare workers for 3 million new ‘green’ jobs over 10 years Ø Small businesses will be renewable energy leaders. The Energy Independence and Security Act has won extensive bipartisan support from a broad coalition of state and local elected officials, environmental, labor, faith and business communities.
12.17.2007	Washington, DC – Today the House passed the Heroes Earning Assistance and Relief Tax (HEART) Act of 2007. The bill, which initially passed the House in early November, was restored to its original form today after the Senate cut vital programs from the bill, including the Oregon Veterans Home Loan Program (OVHLP), which helps Oregon veterans become homeowners with a reduced interest rate on their loans. Under Congressman Blumenauer’s leadership, funding for this Oregon program will be increased by 400% over current levels—an amount allowing the Oregon Department of Veterans Affairs to continue making these loans. “One of the most important things the United States did in the aftermath of World War II was to help returning veterans with housing,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “In 1945, in my home state of Oregon, we established the Veterans Home Loan Program, which for over 60 years has provided more than 300,000 loans. This has changed the lives of Oregon veterans and revitalized communities. The HEART Act of 2007 restores our capacity to assist the new flood of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, who are every bit as worthy of our help and support as veterans from Korea, Vietnam or World War II. I am proud of the legislation we passed today, which makes clear our commitment to do right by our veterans.” The OVHLP was set up in 1945 and provides a home loan benefit that offers veterans a lower interest rate on their loans. It is funded with proceeds from long term, tax-exempt bonds. Currently, it is under-funded due to the high volume of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. The imbalance between loan demand and bond capacity will, unless remedied, cause the program to run out of money. The HEART Act of 2007 protects this vital program for Oregon and four other states (Texas, California, Alaska and Wisconsin).
12.12.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer voted with a majority of his colleagues to pass landmark energy legislation that makes America more energy independent, strengthens national security, lowers energy costs, bolsters America’s economy, creates new jobs and reduces global warming. Last night Congressman Blumenauer, an outspoken leader on the environment in Congress, presented the Energy Tax Package before the House Rules Committee. It contained the following provisions which he worked to include: a carbon audit of the tax code; a transportation fringe benefit for bike commuters; county payments; and a tax credit for individuals who install wind turbines, which creates clean, renewable energy. “Throughout history, America has demonstrated itself a leader, and my hope is that with this legislation we can once again step up to the plate and take on this generation’s greatest challenge,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The legislation we passed today is an historic, comprehensive energy policy that will bring America into the 21st century. We have established a renewable electricity standard and increased tax incentives to jumpstart renewable energy production, and for the first time since 1975 we are increasing fuel efficiency standards. As a result of this legislation, America will be more competitive, less dependent on foreign oil, and better prepared to combat global warming.” The Energy Independence and Security Act: Increases the fuel efficiency of vehicles to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. This is the first increase in a generation and is supported by environmentalists and the automobile industry (CAFE). Requires for the first time that 15 percent of our electricity come from renewable sources (Renewable Electricity Standard) Saves consumers hundreds of billion of dollars through landmark new energy efficiency standards for a wide range of products, appliances, lighting and buildings Includes $21 billion tax incentive package – which repeals $13 billion in tax breaks that were needlessly given t o oil companies, which don't need our help to turn a profit and includes other tax provisions from the President’s budget and invests those savings in clean renewable energy and new American technologies Promotes renewable energy through tax incentives for solar, wind, biomass, and geothermal technologies and supports cutting-edge energy research Trains workers for the millions of new “green” jobs created by this investment over the next 10 years Five initiatives promoted by Rep. Blumenauer are included in the House-passed energy tax bill: Investment Tax Credit for Small Wind Turbines The legislation incorporates Congressman Blumenauer’s “Rural Wind Energy Development Act,” H.R. 1772. This provision helps individuals – homeowners, farmers, and small businesses – offset the upfront costs of owning a small wind turbine. It provides, for the first time, an investment tax credit for the installation of small wind systems. This credit is currently available to taxpayers who install solar panels, and this legislation will extend the benefit to those who install small wind turbines. Carbon Audit of the Tax Code The legislation calls for a National Academy of Sciences review of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) to identify those tax provisions and policies that have the greatest influence on the generation of carbon emissions and other greenhouse gases and to estimate the magnitude of those effects. The study would evaluate the potential for changes in the tax code to reduce carbon emissions. The study will discuss and provide examples of both direct and indirect tax code influences. Bike Commuter Benefit The bill amends section 132(f) of the IRS code to include "bicycles" in the definition of transportation covered by fringe benefits. This would provide a benefit of $20/month for those employees who bike to work, which is a clean, healthy and efficient mode of transportation. Transportation fringe benefits are currently provided to employees who commute by car and transit; this would provide parity to those who commute by bike. The provision is based on H.R. 1498, legislation introduced by Blumenauer earlier this year. Auxiliary power units: Blumenauer advocated for the inclusion of tax incentives for idling reduction units such as auxiliary power units for trucks, which are designed to eliminate the need for truck engine idling at rest stops. APUs are designed to provide the vehicle with services such as heat, air conditioning, or electricity that would otherwise require the operation of the main drive engine while the vehicle is stationary. Specifically, the bill provides an exemption from the highway vehicle excise tax for the cost of idling reduction devices. Secure Rural Schools Reauthorization: Working with members of the Oregon delegation, Blumenauer advocated for the inclusion of language in the energy tax package reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, which provides support to rural counties impacted by a reduction in revenues associated with a smaller timber harvest. This was a priority of Members of Congress from Western states, which stand to lose important funding for schools and other services if the legislation expires .
12.12.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) announced that the FY08 Department of Defense Authorization Act includes provisions from the “Responsibility to Iraqi Refugees Act,” a bill he introduced in May. It was the first comprehensive bill to address the refugee crisis in Iraq. In early November thirty-four House Democrats and Republicans joined Congressman Blumenauer in sending a letter to Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Ranking Member Duncan Hunter (R-CA) supporting efforts to address the Iraqi refugees in the National Defense Authorization Act. The provisions included in the FY08 DoD Authorization provide 5,000 special immigrant visas for the next five years, require the Secretary of State to establish a refugee processing program in Iraq and other countries in the region, and direct the Secretary of State to designate a special coordinator at the Embassy in Baghdad. “On behalf of the millions of Iraqis who have been displaced from their homes, I am truly happy that these provisions have been included in this bill,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “When I introduced the Responsibility to Iraqi Refugees Act back in May, these provisions were fundamental to addressing one of the worst humanitarian crises on the planet. More than four million Iraqis have fled their homes, and up until now the United States has failed to step up to do its part and help those Iraqis who have worked with our troops, government and aid organizations in Iraq. We must help those who have helped us, and by admitting more refugees into the country and designating a Special Coordinator, we are finally taking some of the first steps necessary to address this crisis.” The following provisions were adopted from the Blumenauer refugee bill and included in the FY08 DoD Authorization Act: In Country Refugee Processing for Iraqis Associated with the U.S. Government The provision requires the Secretary of State to establish a refugee processing program in Iraq and in countries in the region for Iraqis threatened because of their association with the United States Government. All applicants must demonstrate they have a well founded fear of persecution. Iraqis who can apply directly to the United States in Iraq – rather than going through the United Nations referral system outside Iraq – include: Iraqis who were or are employed by or worked for the United States Government in Iraq. Iraqis who were or are employed in Iraq by a media or nongovernmental organization headquartered in the United States or an organization closely associated with the United States mission in Iraq that has received United States Government funding through an official and documented contract, award, grant, or cooperative agreement. Iraqis who are members of a religious or minority community with close family members in the United States. The provision allows the Secretary to suspend in-country processing for periods of 90 days and requires reporting to the Congress outlining reasons for any suspension. Special Immigrant Status For Iraqis Who Work For U. S. Government The provision provides 5,000 special immigrant visas yearly for five years for Iraqis who have worked for the U.S. Government in Iraq and are threatened as a result. Applicants must have a positive recommendation or evaluation from a senior supervisor and be approved by the U.S. Ambassador in Iraq or his designee. The provision sunsets after five years. Allows Iraqis in the United States who have been denied asylum, in part, because conditions in Iraq changed after Saddam Hussein’s government fell to reapply. Special Coordinators for Iraqi Refugees The amendment directs the Secretary of State to designate a high-level special coordinator in the Embassy in Baghdad to handle Iraqi refugee and internally displaced person issues. He or she would be responsible for overseeing the in country processing of refugees and special immigrant visa applicants and would have authority to refer people directly to the U.S. refugee resettlement program. Host Nation Support The amendment requires the Secretary of State to consult with other countries about resettlement of refugee populations and to develop mechanisms in and provide assistance to countries with a significant population of displaced Iraqis to ensure the refugees’ well-being and safety.
11.14.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Last night Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) voted with a majority of the House for passage of H.R.4156, the “Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act,” which requires the President to redeploy US forces within 30 days of enactment, requires a transition in the mission of US forces in Iraq from primarily combat to force and diplomatic protection, and prohibits deployment of any troops not fully equipped and trained. “Over and over again, in votes, pledges and public statements, I have opposed all war funding bills that do not require withdrawal of our troops from Iraq,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The bill I voted for does just that by requiring the President to begin redeploying U.S. troops within 30 days. It also contains important provisions to prevent torture and ensure that our troops are fully equipped and trained. Despite the President’s veto threat, I am pleased that Congress is saying we will only fund an end to this war, not its continuation. Bringing this nightmare to a quick and responsible close remains my highest priority.” Congressman Blumenauer has opposed the Iraq war from the start. In January he introduced his own legislation, “The New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” which would require the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq and aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability.
11.12.2007	Washington, DC – Today the House passed the Heroes Earning Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2007 (HEART). The bill, which Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) and the Committee on Ways and Means passed unanimously last week, will increase funding for the Oregon Veterans Home Loan Program (OVHLP), which helps Oregon veterans become homeowners with a reduced interest rate on their loans. Under Congressman Blumenauer’s leadership, funding for this Oregon program will be increased by 400% over current levels, allowing returning Oregon service men and women to apply for low-interest housing loans. “Since World War II, the Oregon Veterans Home Loan Program has provided our state’s veterans with access to low-interest loans to purchase homes,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “With so many veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan and the housing market in turmoil, offering Oregon’s veterans an opportunity to purchase a house is the least we can do. Funding this unique program is a priority of mine and I am pleased that I could help advance it.” The OVHLP was set up in 1945 to offer veterans a lower interest rate on their loans. It is funded with proceeds from long term, tax-exempt bonds. Due to the increase of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, along with the recent inclusion of veterans who served after 1977, the OVHLP was due to run out of money in the next year. The HEART Act of 2007 closes the gap between the anticipated increase in loan demand and the program’s capacity to issue bonds, protecting this vital program for Oregon and four other states (Texas, California, Alaska and Wisconsin).
11.09.2007	Washington, DC – Today the House passed the Temporary Tax Act of 2007, H.R. 3996, legislation that would prevent the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) from hitting 23 million additional families this tax year. The legislation, offered by the Committee on Ways and Means on which Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) serves, is completely paid for by closing corporate tax loopholes. “Families earning $50,000 were never meant to pay the Alternative Minimum Tax,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “From its inception, it was intended only for the very wealthiest in our country. Simply by closing corporate loopholes, this Congress can protect 23 million Americans from a burdensome tax hike. In Oregon’s third district alone, if left untouched the number of people paying the AMT would jump from 7,000 to almost 45,000. “This week the nation’s deficit hit a record $9 trillion as a result of the Bush administration’s budget mismanagement and misspending on the war in Iraq. By paying for the AMT, not only are we protecting tens of millions of Americans from a tax hike, but we’re protecting future generations from further deficit spending. “Solving the AMT has never been a priority for the Republicans who squandered hard-earned Democratic surpluses in their relentless pursuit to give tax benefits to those who need them least. I am proud to serve on the Ways and Means Committee which, time and again this Congress, has demonstrated its firm commitment to achieving tax equity and protecting Americans. Today we did it again by passing this important bill.” Without the AMT, the following is a breakdown of how many more in Oregon would be impacted by the tax: STATE/Member District Number of Households Paying AMT -- 2005 Estimated Number of Households Paying AMT in 2007 if Congress Fails to Take Action % Increase Households Saved from the AMT by Democratic Bill OREGON OR 36,336 246,544 579% 210,208 Wu OR-01 13,625 71,756 427% 58,131 Walden OR-02 565 35,728 6224% 35,163 Blumenauer OR-03 6,792 44,285 552% 37,493 DeFazio OR-04 5,243 38,666 637% 33,423 Hooley OR-05 10,111 56,109 455% 45,998 The Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007 protects 23 million middle-class families from being hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax and includes a series of other provisions that provide tax relief to working families. The bill: Provides 30 million homeowners with property tax relief Helps 12 million children by expanding the child tax credit Benefits 11 million families through the State and local sales tax deduction Helps 4.5 million families better afford college with the tuition deduction Saves 3.4 million teachers money with a deduction for classroom expenses Provides thousands of American troops in combat with tax relief under the Earned Income Tax Credit. Extends the R&D tax credit to promote innovation and high-paying jobs The Temporary Tax Relief is fully paid for, will not add to the deficit and will grow our economy with tax relief to promote innovation and high-paying jobs.
11.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the House of Representatives passed the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement, the first U.S. trade agreement to contain fully enforceable labor and environmental standards that Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) and other Ways and Means Committee members worked to include. After the 2006 elections, Congressional Democrats said no more trade deals that neglect long-standing demands on workers’ rights and the environment. After months of negotiations on the U.S.-Peru FTA, the Bush Administration gave in to these Democratic demands. Congressman Blumenauer, who for years has been fighting irresponsible trade policy and for trade that meets the needs of working families, the environment and poor people at home and abroad, issued the following statement: “For the first time, Congress has passed a trade agreement with real, enforceable labor and environmental standards that protect workers and the planet,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “In my new position on the Ways and Means Committee, I worked to include these landmark provisions because I am committed to advancing a new type of trade that addresses Oregon’s concerns about workers and the environment. The U.S.-Peru FTA is a groundbreaking agreement that sets a new standard for how this Congress will craft future trade deals.” The U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement: Requires that both the United States and Peru enforce the core International Labor Organization standards. Requires that both the United States and Peru enforce key multilateral environmental agreements. Prohibits the United States and Peru from weakening their labor or environmental laws to attract trade or investment in a race to the bottom. Prohibits trade in illegally-logged wood and wood products. Protects the United States’ and Peru’s rights to pass laws and regulations for the public welfare, in areas such as public health, food safety, and the environment. Levels the playing field for U.S. firms that create jobs through exports. The Peru Trade Agreement is a Win for Labor and the Environment: “The Peru Free Trade Agreement marks an important step toward a trade model that will benefit working people in both countries.” – AFL-CIO “No union “has identified members’ jobs that would be threatened by this trade deal… The UAW strongly supports the provisions on worker rights and the environment that have been included.” – United Auto Workers “The environmental provisions included in the final text of the Peru Free Trade Agreement mark a significant step forward, and we commend the Democratic leadership for this achievement.” - Center for International Environmental Law, Defenders of Wildlife, Earthjustice, Environmental Investigation Agency, Friends of the Earth, Natural Resources Defense Council, and Sierra Club
11.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) voted against the Conference Report on H.R. 3222, the Fiscal Year 2008 Department of Defense Appropriations bill, honoring a pledge he made in August not to support more war funding unless it is for withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq. “Today I had no choice but to vote against the Defense Appropriations bill. 2007 has become the deadliest year yet for American soldiers in Iraq,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Instead of winding down, this nightmare continues to escalate. I will do everything I can to bring the war to an end, and that means honoring my pledge to vote against any further funding for the Iraq war unless it is used for immediate troop redeployment.” Congressman Blumenauer has opposed the Iraq war from the start. In January he introduced his own legislation, “The New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” which would require the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq and aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability.
11.07.2007	“Illegal logging threatens some of the world’s richest and most vulnerable forests and costs the U.S. forest products industry over $1 billion every year in lost opportunities and lower prices,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I have worked with an unprecedented coalition of industry, environmental and union groups to come to an agreement on the language in this bill, and I am pleased the Natural Resources Committee passed this important legislation. The Legal Timber Protection Act steps up the fight against illegal logging. It is good for the environment, good for people and good for timber communities at home and abroad.” Illegal logging contributes to huge financial losses to the United States and producing nations. U.S. companies lose an estimated $460 million in export opportunities every year because of displacement caused by illegally harvested timber. The annual value of U.S. exports is between $500 - $700 million lower due to pressure from illegally harvested timber. Oregon produces approximately 13% of U.S. lumber, and losses to the state are estimated at $130 - $150 million every year. The bill’s language was developed through extensive consultation with a broad spectrum of industry representatives, conservation organizations, and government agencies. In July, Senator Wyden introduced a complementary bill in the Senate.
10.17.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) issued the following statement in response to the failed override of the President’s veto of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which would provide 10 million low-income children with health insurance: “I was angered and dismayed when the President vetoed the popular, bipartisan health insurance program, and today I am simply baffled that so many Republicans would follow their leader down his path of lies and deceit,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Vetoing a popular children’s health insurance program on the merits of fiscal conservatism is a new low even for our misguided President and his Republican followers. For the cost of 41 days in Iraq, we could have helped millions of working families insure their kids – including 90,000 in Oregon alone! “The facts should have been enough to override the President’s veto, but a majority of Republicans stonewalled our bipartisan efforts and instead chose to play politics with our children’s lives. It is truly a sad day for the state of our country when providing health care to kids falls by the wayside in favor of overspending on a misguided war.” This bipartisan SCHIP bill preserves coverage for the 6.6 million kids currently covered by SCHIP and provides funding for an additional 3.8 million kids who are currently uninsured but eligible. In Oregon, this would mean health coverage for almost 90,000 children – 52,000 who are currently covered under SCHIP and an additional 37,000 who would benefit from the program. Since it was created in 1997, SCHIP has always received strong bipartisan support. It was created to provide health care coverage for children in families who earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance. Over the last ten years, SCHIP has proven to be a popular, successful program – with 6.6 million children now enrolled in the program. It costs less than $3.50 a day to cover a child through SCHIP. Insuring kids is also cost-effective for taxpayers who pick up the tab for indigent care in emergency rooms – the most expensive way to care for a child’s health. The bipartisan SCHIP reauthorization bill also has broad bipartisan support from: o 68 Senators, including 18 Republicans o 43 Governors, including 16 Republicans o More than 270 organizations o 81% of the American public, according to a recent CBS poll
10.16.2007	"I am honored that Chairman Oberstar and Congressman Duncan are cosponsors of this legislation. And I was privileged to work on the Water Resources Subcommittee for those 6 years that Congressman Duncan chaired it, and it was a valuable and productive time. It was an opportunity for me to learn about this critical area. "And the reason we are introducing this resolution today is because of the history that was recounted by my good friend from Minnesota. There is nothing more critical to our survival than water. It is essential to our survival; it sustains human life. Its patterns have dictated the development of species and ecosystems, and more recently, of the bilky environment. I am pleased that we are celebrating this landmark legislation, and not just a celebration, but an opportunity to reflect upon what has worked and why, as my friend from Tennessee indicated, where we might go. We have an opportunity to understand where there are continuing challenges and what else needs to be done. "We must move beyond commemoration. We must make a commitment not to celebrate another milestone with the Clean Water Act without more demonstrable progress here at home and abroad. And I hope this resolution inspires further action that is both quick and ambitious. "Issues confronting us today and over the next 35 years are even more complex than when the Clean Water Act was enacted. There are still problems with pollution, water supply, infrastructure integrity, and the technical jurisdictional issues. The growth and development we've seen across the country compounds that. And global warming gives these issues a new sense of urgency. We just finished a meeting, and I know the Transportation and Infrastructure team met with officials from the Netherlands, who are dealing with immediate challenges with their water resources as a result of climate change, rising water levels and extreme water events.Changing climate will have an influence on many aspects of our lives, and it will take many of them in the form of water; floods, sea levels, drought. This will make water supply and quality issues much harder to deal with. In the Pacific Northwest, for instance, where we rely heavily on hydroelectric power, where the snowpack in the mountains every year determines the amount of our drinking water, we have a sense of urgency as we watch that snowpack diminish. "Just this last month, there have been two additional reports highlighting the work in front of us. A report by the U.S. PIRG found that thousands of facilities across the United States continue to exceed the limits under their Clean Water Act permits; 57 percent violated those permit limits at least once during the year 2005, many for more than once, and many for more than one pollutant. "A report by Food and Water Watch found that the majority of States are facing current and projected wastewater infrastructure needs that are far out of line with their available funding. At the same time, Federal support for State and community wastewater projects has declined. "When my good friend first came to Congress in the early days of this program, 78 percent of the funding was supplied by the Federal Government in 1978. Now, maybe we don't want to return to those glorious days of yesteryear, but last year it was 3 percent of the funding. It undercuts the potential partnership that we have. And all of this at a time when our decaying water infrastructure was recently given a grade of D minus by the American Society of Civil Engineers. "For these reasons, I believe we need a sustainable, reliable, dedicated revenue source that will help communities address these important needs. "Clean water is critical to environmental and public health. But I think it also, as demonstrated by the action here on this floor, has the potential of bringing people together. Mr. Oberstar mentioned the history back in contentious times when there was an overwhelming vote to sustain a veto, not the easiest thing to do. As was shown by this bipartisan resolution, I found working with the Water Resources Subcommittee that this brings people together and there is common ground. "This bipartisan resolution is evident of recent polling that shows that more than eight in 10 Americans are very concerned about America's water, that it will not be clean or safe enough for their children or grandchildren. Eighty-nine percent of Americans say that ``Federal investment to guaranteed clean and safe water is a critical component of our Nation's environmental well-being.'' "I hope that, even as we move beyond commemoration and towards addressing some of these critical unresolved issues, that we can keep the same spirit of bipartisanship. "I hope our colleagues will do more than just vote for this resolution. I hope we educate ourselves and our constituents about what it represents, what it represents in terms of the status of water quality and infrastructure in our own State and community, offer our own contributions to practical solutions, and, as I said, a dedicated trust fund and financial resources to do the job right. "Mr. Oberstar gave us 50 years of history in a very short period of time. I hope this commemoration is a point of departure for the next 50 months under the leadership of the chairman, with the work of Mr. Duncan, with a new administration that's coming to town, that we will have, over these next 50 months, a landmark in water quality, and I look forward to working with you all in achieving it."
10.04.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) managed floor debate on the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act of 2007 (HR 3648), which would eliminate the tax that families must pay when their houses are foreclosed on or the terms of their loans are renegotiated. Earlier this week, Congressman Blumenauer represented the Committee on Ways and Means in testifying before the Rules Committee on H.R.3648, a bill he strongly supports. The bill passed the full House today 386-27. “The subprime lending crisis is hitting families hard in Oregon and across the country,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “There is no reason why a family, having had their house foreclosed or their loan renegotiated, should have to pay the additional penalty of income tax on income they never earned. It’s an outrageous double-whammy when families not only lose their home but also face a steep tax bill. The Ways and Means Committee has acted quickly to help bring some relief to families caught in this mess, and we will continue working to help resolve the mortgage meltdown.” Many observers believe that the subprime problem will only worsen in the coming months, estimating that nearly 2 million American families will lose their homes to foreclosure before the housing slump is over. Given the seriousness of the problem, failing to adopt a sufficiently aggressive response poses great risks not only to the housing market, but to the economy. H.R.3648, the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act of 2007, amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude discharges of indebtedness on principal residences from gross income, and for other purposes. The Committee on Ways and Means passed the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act unanimously. It would: End Taxes on Mortgage Debt Forgiveness: The bill will end the tax on phantom income when a lender forgives some part of a families’ mortgage in foreclosure. Under current law, the debt forgiven following mortgage foreclosure or renegotiation is considered income for tax purposes, resulting in tax liability for individuals and families. The bill provides tax relief by permanently excluding this mortgage debt forgiven under these circumstances from taxes. To prevent abuse, there is a $2 million cap on the maximum amount of forgiven debt that would be eligible for tax relief.
09.26.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) voted in favor of a plan that would reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and give 10 million low-income children health care coverage. This bipartisan bill renews and improves CHIP – preserving coverage for the 6.6 million currently covered by CHIP and extending coverage to 3.8 million children who are currently uninsured. “What good is the best health care system in the world when it is inaccessible to 10 million of our most vulnerable children?” asked Congressman Blumenauer. “I am pleased the House and Senate have come to an agreement that not only renews CHIP but insures an additional 3.8 million kids. CHIP was created in 1997 to provide health care coverage for children in families who earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance. Over the last ten years, CHIP has provided 6.6 million children with healthcare and has been a popular, successful program that has strong bipartisan support. It costs less than $3.50 a day to cover a child through CHIP. In return for this modest investment, children receive critical health care that helps them avoid more expensive care in hospital emergency rooms and ensures a healthier start for success in education and life. The bipartisan CHIP reauthorization bill being considered today also has the broad bipartisan support of: o 68 Senators, including 18 Republicans o 43 Governors, including 16 Republicans o More than 270 organizations Responding to President Bush’s intention to veto the bill, Congressman Blumenauer stated, “Providing access to doctors and basic immunizations should be above politics. Sadly, however, the President wants to place politics above our children’s lives, demonstrating his misplaced priorities and denying a basic human right to our nation’s children.”
09.26.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) issued the following statement in response to his vote against continuing to fund the war and against condemning MoveOn.org: “As a result of Republican obstructionism and the President’s threats to veto our Democratic Congress’ new investments in health, the environment and infrastructure, Congress has been forced to pass a resolution to keep the government operating beyond next week’s end of the fiscal year,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Unfortunately, this bill included money to continue funding the war in Iraq. I have pledged: ‘not another dime for the war,’ and voted no. I will continue to vote against any appropriations bill that continues military operations in Iraq. “The motion to condemn Moveon.org was both irrelevant and hypocritical. It was irrelevant in that it had nothing to do with the underlying bill and hypocritical because the Republicans have tolerated, and in some cases encouraged, some of the most savage Swift-boating of candidates and individuals without ever raising a voice in protest. “People have deep concerns about this administration and they have the right to question the testimony General Petraeus gave before Congress. The twisted factual basis for some of his statements, which charitably can only be deemed convoluted, has been made clear in numerous independent press accounts. I voted no, choosing not to be a part of the irrelevance and hypocrisy.” ##
09.13.2007	Washington, DC – Tonight Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) released the following statement in response to President Bush’s proposal: "The President proposes to reduce troop levels to the same levels as 2006, when Americans voted overwhelmingly for a new direction,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “This drawdown says nothing to the success of the surge or Bush's policies, but rather reflects that our military is at a breaking point. It is clear that we must begin withdrawing now. Iraqis don't want us there, Americans don't want us there, and I will do everything in my power to stand up to the President and end this nightmare." Congressman Blumenauer has opposed the Iraq war from the start. In January he introduced his own legislation, “The New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” which would require the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq and aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability.
09.10.2007	Portland, OR – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) released the following statement in response to the testimony General David Petraeus delivered on the Iraq War: “Before General Petraeus ever started his briefing, the facts were clear and the sides were drawn. Petraeus, who has a record of being a good soldier, but a poor predictor and even worse political prop, today made an entirely predictable assessment that the surge has made some progress. He does not recommend scaling down US involvement in Iraq beyond pre-surge levels for the foreseeable future, citing all sorts of evidence that is contradicted by every independent analysis of the situation. “There is no meaningful political progress; levels of violence in Iraq remain unacceptably high; and Iraqis feel no safer or optimistic about the future. In fact, polls show that 70% of Iraqis believe security has deteriorated in the area experiencing the US military "surge." Almost 60% say it is acceptable to attack American soldiers. “Petraeus and the Bush administration continue to stretch the truth. Any reasonable assessment of the totality of the situation is that it is bad, it may be getting worse, and there's no evidence that the current level of US soldiers - or even more - will make any appreciable difference over the long term. Of course the thousands of extra troops in particular areas have had some limited impact, yet there has been no progress in the underlying political situation, and no reason to believe than even limited security improvements can continue once the unsustainable surge comes to an end. “There are some who suggest that there are glimmers of hope and we ought to continue enhanced levels of American involvement because the alternative is going to lead to bloodshed. What the evidence suggests, and every independent expert reinforces, is that whether we began a withdrawal in five days, five weeks, five months, or five years, there will be far more bloodshed,. Indeed, this Administration has led us into a war with no good end in sight. “Almost two years ago I offered a comprehensive approach to securing the peace in Iraq. It was to begin with the withdrawal of troops. It was to engage in diplomatic action. It was to put pressure on the Iraqis themselves to start engaging. It was to rely less on the military and more on multinational organizations, diplomacy, and job creation. “Since then, I have introduced legislation to deal meaningfully with tens of thousands of Iraqi refugees whose lives and families are at risk because they trusted us. This is not just a moral obligation we have – to help those who have helped us – but it is part of a solution to stabilize a potentially dangerous situation in a region that is absorbing a surge of Iraqi refugees. “This is a very grave and sad state of affairs. Hearing the same talk and seeing the same approach year after year from this misguided administration is unacceptable. Today General Petraeus continued the pattern and offered the same old thing. I, like most Americans and Iraqis, recognize that is past the hour to start being honest and realistic. It is time for us to begin withdrawing our brave troops.”
08.28.2007	“Two years ago one of our country’s greatest fears became a grave reality when Hurricane Katrina ravaged the Gulf Coast. The devastation was beyond belief, in part because of the inexcusable response of the Bush administration and FEMA. The levee failure in New Orleans is a prime example of what happens when we neglect our nation’s infrastructure. That leadership void is still apparent today as thousands remain in need of housing, jobs and education. “Now the new Congress is working to address some of the greatest needs. Since January we have approved $6.4 billion in recovery aid and passed the Water Resources Development Act, which includes my amendment to update the Army Corps of Engineers’ Principles and Guidelines for the first time since 1983. “New Orleans has a long road to recovery and the federal government cannot shirk its responsibility to protect its citizens and make sure they are safe, healthy and economically secure. Protecting the wetlands that are so critical to the Gulf Coast’s vulnerable environment and making sure our nation’s infrastructure is up-to-date must be our top priorities. The restoration process must include citizens in the planning and rebuilding of their communities, make the recovery process accountable and transparent, and focus on long-term prevention and mitigation.” Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Since coming to Congress in 1996, Blumenauer has become a leader in disaster preparedness, mitigation, and recovery. He founded the Army Corps Reform Caucus to promote better approaches to managing the nation’s water resources. His flood insurance reform legislation, the “Bunning-Bereuter-Blumenauer Flood Insurance Reform Act,” was signed into law in June, 2004.
08.10.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) continues to work to bring an end to the war in Iraq. He recently supported efforts to ensure that Congress not provide any more war funding, except for withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. He also voted in favor of legislation that would increase the time troops are at home between deployments and ban permanent U.S. bases in Iraq. “I have been against the Iraq war from the beginning, and I am doing everything I can do bring this nightmare to an end,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Despite the President vetoing the deadline Congress set for withdrawing American troops from Iraq, I continue to support efforts that would end this war. I have joined an effort to no longer provide any more war funding except for a withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. I also supported legislation that increases the time troops are at home between deployments and bans permanent U.S. bases in Iraq. My focus remains on ending the war immediately and forcing the President to face the reality of this grave situation.” Congressman Blumenauer has opposed the Iraq war from the start. In January he introduced his own legislation, “The New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” which would require the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq and aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability.
08.04.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) joined a majority in the House of Representatives to pass landmark energy independence legislation that will help make our nation more secure, create new American jobs, reduce energy costs to consumers, and fight global warming. The Democratic Energy Independence legislation includes three of Congressman Blumenauer’s initiatives: closing the hummer tax loophole; extending fringe benefits to bike commuters; and conducting a carbon audit of the tax code. “It is rewarding to be part of a Congress that is finally passing legislation that protects our environment and combats global warming, which is our generation’s greatest challenge” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Closing the hummer tax loophole fixes a perverse incentive to buy the biggest and dirtiest cars on the market. Conducting a Carbon Audit of the tax code will help us identify ways to reduce emissions and promote innovative reform. Offering cyclists a transportation fringe benefit – like those already offered to employees for parking and transit – will level the playing field for people who burn calories instead of gasoline.” The Energy Independence Initiative approved today by the House strengthens national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil, making the largest investment in homegrown renewable energy in history and repealing giveaways to big oil companies. The legislation also supports cutting edge-research and the development of new technologies that will bring down energy costs and help create new jobs. The legislation also works to make America a world leader in the fight to end global warming and protect our planet. The efficiency provisions in this bill alone will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 10.4 billion tons of through 2030 -- more than the annual emissions of all of the cars on the road in America today. It also calls on the U.S. to re-engage and lead the global effort on a binding global warming agreement. In addition, the legislation repeals $23 billion in tax subsidies and royalty relief provisions for big oil companies. Closing the Hummer Tax Loophole would fix a serious mistake in the tax code that provides an additional tax incentive for business purchases of luxury SUVs weighing over 6,000 lbs. Originally intended to help businesses buy necessary heavy-duty work vehicles, the “Hummer Tax Loophole” has for years allowed write-offs of anywhere from $100,000 to the current figure of $25,000 for the purchase of the largest, most gas-guzzling luxury SUVs, even as concerns over gas prices and dependence on oil have grown. This would not affect legitimate business investments in trucks or vans, such as plumber and contractor trucks, farm vehicles, construction vehicles, flatbed trucks, cement mixers, and a variety of other vehicles as designated by the IRS. The provision is based on H.R. 2715, legislation introduced by Blumenauer earlier this year. The Carbon Audit of the United States Tax Code by the National Academy of Sciences would involve a review the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) to identify those tax provisions and policies that have the greatest influence on the generation of carbon emissions and other greenhouse gases and to estimate the magnitude of those effects. The study will evaluate the potential for changes in the tax code to reduce carbon emissions. The study will examine areas where the connection between the tax code and carbon emissions are obvious (e.g., energy taxation) and will consider areas where the connection between the tax code and carbon emissions may be less obvious (e.g., tax policies affecting urban development, which affect climate through travel demand and land-use change). The study will discuss and provide examples of both direct and indirect tax code influences. The Commuter Benefit for bikers amends section 132(f) of the IRS code to include "bicycles" in the definition of transportation covered by fringe benefits. Included in the Ways and Means energy bill is a benefit of $20/month for those employees who bike to work, which is a clean, healthy and efficient mode of transportation. The provision is based on H.R. 1498, legislation introduced by Blumenauer earlier this year.
08.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), who serves on the Ways and Means Committee, stood in support of the CHAMP Act, a House bill that would insure the nation’s 11 million eligible children and improve and protect Medicare for more than 44 million seniors. The bill passed this evening by a vote of 225-204. “This Congress has a historic opportunity to finally insure EVERY eligible child – more than 11 million in all – by fully funding the SCHIP program,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “In Oregon alone, this bill would cover an additional 71,000 children! That anyone could oppose offering health care to our nation’s low-income children and seniors is unconscionable, and yet the President has threatened a veto. No parent in this great country, which purportedly provides the best care on the planet, should ever have to have their children go without critical immunizations because they don’t have any insurance. Today we can stop forcing parents to choose between taking their kids to the doctor or putting food on the table by passing this responsible and necessary bill.” The CHAMP Act is a fiscally responsible way to invest in our children’s future. It is paid for and does not add to the national deficit. The CHAMP Act provides critical support for vulnerable citizens: Health care for 213,300 Oregon children Health care for Oregon’s 50,000 low-income seniors and people with disabilities The CHAMP Act includes important Medicare reforms that move us in the right direction by: Investing in preventative care, which provides better healthcare at lower cost. Adding 3 years of solvency to the Medicare Trust Fund Protecting seniors’ access to healthcare by eliminating the scheduled 10% cut in payments to physicians for Medicare patients Expanding programs that assist all low-income seniors – both those in traditional Medicare and in private plans Rewarding efficient Medicare programs – like Oregon’s – with incentives
07.30.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D–Ore) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-Ore) announced that they would support a resolution by Congressman Jay Inslee (D-WA) to investigate whether U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales should be impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors. “After careful thought and consideration, I am announcing today that I will cosponsor the resolution to begin an impeachment investigation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I have been carefully monitoring the investigations and reports that have been coming out about this administration, and there are serious allegations of perjury, possible obstruction of justice, and an unwillingness to come clean with the American people and Congress. After reviewing the testimony, I’m convinced that the House should begin to investigate impeachment. I hope that this will serve as a wake-up call to the entire Bush Administration. Its refusal to be completely forthright and open with Congress and the American people has consequences and we will do whatever is necessary to protect and defend our Constitution.” "It's time for Attorney General Gonzales to go," said DeFazio. "He has politicized the Department of Justice, possibly beyond repair. He's turned the department into a political arm of the Republican National Committee, rather than a department focused on enforcing the laws of the land and ensuring equal protection under the law. The Attorney General has lost the trust of both parties in Congress and the American people, the only person that still has confidence in him is President Bush. We need closure at the Department of Justice and someone in charge who can return it to an institution loyal to the U.S. Constitution, rather than a particular President."
07.27.2007	“Today the U.S. House of Representatives missed an important opportunity to seriously reform the Farm Bill. Had we adopted the “Fairness in Farm and Food Policy Amendment,” which would have limited subsidies, supported smaller farmers and ranchers, and helped hungry people and the environment, my vote would have been different. It also would have provided Oregon with more than $133 million more than we would otherwise receive. “This legislative process was not, however, a total loss. By having a healthy debate on the Farm Bill we made some real accomplishments. Our bipartisan reform coalition – which included Reps. Kind, Flake, Ryan and others – was able to push the Agriculture Committee to invest more in conservation and nutrition and cut back, even if modestly, on subsidies to the wealthiest farmers. “I also achieved some important gains for Oregon through initiatives I introduced earlier this year in my ‘Local Food and Farm Support Act.’ The Farm Bill will now fund programs that connect local farmers to the schools, consumers, and underserved communities that can benefit from their products. “I am proud not only of these changes but of the work I did with my colleagues to shape the debate and, ultimately, the final bill. Though the reforms were not enough to merit my vote, there will be an opportunity as it moves to the Senate to include stronger reforms. I will continue to work with the Senate and the administration to find opportunities to enact stronger reforms and promote effective farm and food policies.” The 2007 Farm Bill includes a number of provisions championed by Congressman Blumenauer in H.R.2265, the “Local Food and Farm Support Act,” including: Funding the Value-Added Agricultural Product Market Development Grant program at $30 million a year in mandatory funding with 10% set-asides for and socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers and for mid-tier value chains, which are strategic alliances between small to mid-sized farms and ranches and other supply chain partners that distribute the benefits of these partnerships across the supply chain. Establishing the Healthy Food Enterprise Development Program to provide grants, loans and loan guarantees for infrastructure to connect local agricultural producers to processors and underserved communities. Funding the Farmers’ Marketing Promotion Program at up to $10 million a year in mandatory funding, including for the use of Food Stamp EBT systems. Funding the Senior Farmers’ Market Nutrition program at up to $75 million a year in mandatory funding. Strengthening and expanding the Community Food Project competitive grants, which provides grants to community-based organizations to design and implement innovative, sustainable approaches to fighting hunger. Allowing a preference for locally produced foods for schools and other government-supported institutions. In addition, the Farm Bill provides $1.6 billion in funding for specialty crops called for in H.R.1600, the “EAT Healthy America Act,” of which Congressman Blumenauer was an original cosponsor, including priorities for Oregon’s nursery industry such as funding to address plant pest and disease issues, establishment of a National Clean Plant Network, and reforms to the Tree Assistance Program. On the floor, Congressman Blumenauer successfully fought for an amendment that incorporates a key provision from H.R.2913, the “Pollinator Habitat Protection Act,” which places a greater emphasis in conservation programs on habitat and other pollinator-beneficial best management practices to protect and enhance native and managed pollinators. He was also able to include a prohibition on funds to promote the sale of tobacco abroad in the Manager’s Amendment. While his amendment on transferable development rights was withdrawn, the Chairman of the Committee pledged to work with him as the bill moves through the process to ensure that conservation easements pursuant to transferable development rights programs are eligible for funding under the Farm and Ranchland Protection Program Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
07.27.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), who has led the fight to reform the 2007 Farm Bill, announced today that EVERY district in Oregon would benefit from a Farm Bill that protects the environment, does more for farmers, and costs less. The ‘Fairness in Farm and Food Policy’ amendment, introduced Tuesday by Reps. Blumenauer, Ron Kind (D-WI), Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ), means that the state would have a net gain of more than $133 million over the current Farm Bill, according to numbers provided by Environmental Defense. “This is great news for Oregon, great news for farmers, and great news for those of us who have worked so hard for reform,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The Farm Bill proposed by the Agriculture Committee, which contains reforms more in name than in substance, is a direct threat to the majority of America’s farmers and ranchers. These numbers show that if Congress does what is best for farmers and the land, we will see true benefits across the state of Oregon and across the country.” According to Environmental Defense, every district in Oregon would gain from the ‘Fairness in Farm and Food Policy’ amendment, with net gains as follows: - David Wu ($26 million) - Earl Blumenauer ($23 million) - Peter A. DeFazio ($43 million) - Darlene Hooley ($39 million) - Greg Walden ($2 million) To learn more about other individual congressional districts you can go to: https://www.environmentaldefense.org/documents/6656_Fairness%20Amendment%20District%20by%20District%20Analysis.xls Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
07.24.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), Ron Kind (D-WI), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Paul Ryan (R-WI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Rush Holt (D-NJ), and others today unveiled the Fairness in Farm and Food Policy Amendment, which they intend to bring to the floor when the 2007 Farm Bill reauthorization is considered on the House floor later this week. “Because the Farm Bill directly affects the economy, the environment, farmers across the country and everyone who eats every day, it is past time for serious reform,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “I have been working to change the Farm Bill since the last reauthorization in 2002 because every American community, whether urban or rural, has a stake in it. The Farm Bill proposed by the Agriculture Committee sadly contains reforms more in name than in substance. The amendment we’re proposing today would not only implement reforms to commodity programs but provide resources for local producers and nutrition programs. Make no mistake: the status quo bill proposed by the Agriculture Committee is not only a lost opportunity for reform, but it is a direct threat to the majority of America’s farmers and ranchers.” “This coalition succeeded in elevating the debate about the future of farm policy in America and pushed the Agriculture Committee to make some changes to our commodity programs,” Rep. Kind said. “Unfortunately, the changes they made include loopholes large enough to drive a combine through. They failed to address the real problems with our current farm programs: they direct billions in taxpayer dollars to a few but very wealthy producers in a handful of congressional districts at the expense of programs that truly help family farms; they distort the market; and they make us susceptible to WTO challenges. The Fairness Amendment would change that – making farm spending more equitable and fiscally responsible, and reinvesting the savings in rural America through conservation, nutrition, and rural development.” Last week, the House Agriculture Committee passed a Farm Bill that makes very minimal changes to commodity programs, making the U.S. even more susceptible to WTO challenges. The bill included an income “limit” of $1 million, which preserves loopholes that will still allow the wealthiest farmers to collect subsidies, and expanded direct payment entitlements at a time when commodity prices are at near-record highs. “Market conditions and the current political environment have created a unique opportunity for Congress to make serious, meaningful reforms to our farm policy,” Rep. Flake said. “If we squander this opportunity now, we may be stuck with this antiquated policy for many more years.” A unique coalition in the House converged in favor of reform including members of Congress from both sides of the aisle. Earlier this year, the bipartisan group of lawmakers brought the reform debate to the forefront with a legislative package that made significant changes to agriculture policy, FARM 21. In response to feedback on FARM 21 from members, constituents, and others, Reps. Kind and Flake developed the Fairness Amendment, which retains important aspects of the farm safety net that producers have come to know, but will reform them to work better and more equitably. Many of the proposals mirror the ideas advocated by the United States Department of Agriculture and others. The Fairness Amendment will save nearly $12 billion over five years by making commonsense reforms to commodity programs that will make them more equitable and geared toward family farms instead of a few very large and wealthy entities producing five crops. “The government’s farm assistance program should be a safety net for family farmers in times of need – not corporate welfare with million-dollar payoffs,” Rep. Paul Ryan said. “With this amendment, we address the abuses and distortions of the current system and set up a better alternative to help struggling family farms during tough times.” Key Reforms: A Fair and Modern Safety Net for Production Agriculture – Replaces depression-era price guarantees with a modern revenue-based safety net developed by USDA experts that better protects family farmers from declines in crop prices and crop yields. Savings: $1 billion over five years. Support Working Family Farmers – Denies subsidies to large commercial farmers with average annual adjusted gross income greater than $250,000 and limits annual subsidies to $250,000 per person. Reform Crop Insurance – Reforms our government-subsidized crop insurance program to fairly share the costs and risks with crop insurance agents and companies. Savings: $2 billion over five years. Gradually Reduces Automatic Direct Payments – Gradually reduces direct payments, created to wean farmers off subsidies, which has become an entitlement program that will cost more than $26 billion over five years. Limited resource farmers would be exempted from cuts, and modest incentives would encourage farmers to invest payments in rainy day accounts. Savings: At least $7 billion over five years. New Investments (mandatory spending over five years, above the Committee’s proposal): Domestic Hunger Assistance – Increases hunger assistance by at least $5.6 billion for domestic programs to feed more deserving people, especially hungry children and seniors. Stewardship – Increases voluntary conservation programs by $3 billion. Fruit and Vegetable Producers and Healthy Food Choices – More equitably supports fruit and vegetable producers and promotes healthy food choices with an increase of $1.2 billion. Minority Farmers – Provides an additional $500 million to support minority farmers and makes overdue changes to make USDA programs more accessible. Rural Prosperity – Increases by $200 million the grants and loans available for the development of new rural enterprises. Deficit Reduction – Reduces the deficit by $2 billion over five years and by roughly $10 billion over 10 years. School Lunches Overseas – Increases by $1.1 billion the McGovern-Dole program to provide school lunches to hungry children in developing countries. What the Fairness in Farm and Food Policy Amendment means for Oregon:
07.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) supported legislation that would make the single largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill, helping millions of middle income families and students pay for college without ANY new costs to U.S. taxpayers. The legislation, the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 (H.R. 2669), boosts college financial aid by about $18 billion over the next five years and pays for itself by reducing federal subsidies for the college loan industry by $19 billion. Over the course of five years, almost 70,000 Oregon students would benefit from an additional $194 million in available loan and Pell grants. "A college education has always been a ticket to success, both for individuals and for this country," said Congressman Blumenauer. "Sadly, the increased cost of college degrees has kept bright students out of school, limiting America’s future as well as their own. In Oregon, where the average college student’s debt is more than $14,000, this legislation would cut the interest rate on their loans by almost $5,000. I am proud to be part of this new Congress that is once again investing in education, making it feasible for low and middle income families to send their kids to college, and keeping America competitive." H.R. 2669 would cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, reducing the cost of those loans for millions of student borrowers. Like legislation passed by the House earlier this year, the College Cost Reduction Act would cut interest rates from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent in equal steps over the next five years. Once fully phased-in, this would save the typical student borrower with $13,800 in need-based student loan debt $4,400 over the life of the loan. About 6.8 million students – almost 41,000 in Oregon alone – take out need-based loans each year. Under this legislation, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship would increase by $500 over the next five years. When combined with other Pell scholarship increases passed or proposed by Congress this year, the maximum Pell Grant would reach $4,900 in 2008 and $5,200 in 2011, up from $4,050 in 2006, thus restoring the Pell’s purchasing power. About 6 million low- and moderate-income students would benefit from this increase. The legislation would also reduce onerous debt repayment schedules by guaranteeing that borrowers will never have to spend more than 15 percent of their yearly discretionary income on loan repayments. In addition, it allows borrowers suffering from long term economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 20 years. The College Cost Reduction Act includes a number of other provisions that would ease the financial burdens of higher education, including: Tuition assistance for qualified undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schools; Loan forgiveness for college graduates who go into public service professions; Increased federal loan limits so that students won’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans; New tuition cost containment strategies; and Landmark investments in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions and minority serving institutions. The College Cost Reduction Act follows in the proud tradition of the GI Bill that provided higher education and job training for 7.8 million veterans of World War II in 1944. This legislation is supported by a broad coalition of student advocacy groups and labor organizations.
07.02.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) issued the following statement on the commutation of Scooter Libby by President Bush: “To say I’m disappointed with the President’s decision to commute Scooter Libby’s felony prison sentence is an understatement. “If Paris Hilton served time for her reckless personal behavior, Scooter Libby should serve his time for lying to investigators and engaging in one of the worst cover ups since Watergate. President Bush’s action today tells America that it’s ok to lie, mislead, and obstruct justice, as long as you are loyal to his Administration. “Instead of commuting and by default sanctioning this obstruction, he should come clean with the American people about his Administration’s role in outing a covert operative for political reasons. After all, the courts, with Libby’s conviction, determined there was a role, and this shameful decision by the President does not change that fact. “It is time for the President and his Administration to stop covering up and stop misleading the American people and representatives in Congress. Instead, it is time to restore some openness and accountability in government, which belongs to all Americans, not just his selected few appointees.”
06.27.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Ways and Means Committee and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, secured funding to protect land in the Columbia River Gorge in this year’s Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill, H.R. 2643. The bill that passed earlier today provides funding for environmental and conservation programs, safe drinking water, climate change research, and funding for the National Endowment for the Arts. It includes $1 million specifically for the U.S. Forest Service to purchase lands from willing sellers in the Columbia Gorge. “I am pleased to see this year’s Interior and Environment bill reversing a decade of neglect and broken promises for important environmental and conservation programs,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Protecting the Columbia Gorge and other pristine lands across the country is vital to preserving habitat, open space and recreational areas. As the world warms and our global population increases, we must continue to set aside land so that future generations can enjoy our remaining open spaces.” The Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area is one of the nation’s most spectacular landscapes, stretching 85 miles east from the Portland/Vancouver metropolitan areas to the Deschutes River. More than 70,000 people live in the Gorge and more than 2 million people visit the Scenic Area each year. The National Scenic Area Act (PL 99-663) gave the Forest Service authority to acquire lands in order to preserve properties with important resources. This funding will be used to purchase some of the most ecologically sensitive lands being offered by willing sellers. "This funding for land acquisition will not only preserve Gorge landscapes for generations to come, but it will also help open new hiking trails on spectacular properties," said Kevin Gorman, executive director of Friends of the Columbia Gorge. Since 2001, funding for the EPA has fallen by 29 percent in real terms and funding for the Interior Department has fallen by 16 percent. H.R.2643 reverses the decline, providing a 4.3 percent increase over FY 2007. It also makes climate change research a key priority by boosting federal investment in research at the EPA and Interior Department by 53 percent and, in response to the Supreme Court’s landmark decision in April, compels the EPA to begin developing a process for regulating greenhouse gases.
06.20.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, announced the inclusion of three of his environmental initiatives in the Committee’s energy bill. The Ways and Means energy bill includes the closure of the Hummer Tax Loophole, a Carbon Audit of the tax code and a Bike Commuter Benefit. The bill will be considered tomorrow and is expected on the House floor in July. “I am thrilled the Chairman has included these important environmental provisions in our energy bill,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “We are setting a high mark not only for our committee, but for the larger energy bill that will be on the House Floor in July. The provisions I worked hard to include in this bill – closing the Hummer Tax Loophole, doing a Carbon Audit of the tax code, and providing bikers with commuter benefits – are all important steps that move our country in a greener direction. “The Committee’s decision to close the Hummer Tax Loophole demonstrates this Congress’s forward-looking approach to the threat of climate change. With sky-high gas prices and a rapidly warming planet, closing the Hummer Tax Loophole eliminates the perverse incentive for businesses to buy the biggest vehicles on the market, which is neither good for the earth nor smart for our pocketbooks. “Doing a Carbon Audit of the tax code will help us identify ways to reduce emissions and give us great opportunity for reform. It’s a leg up for decision makers who will have the information they need to be able to formulate tax policies that make sense fiscally and environmentally. “Providing cyclists with a fringe benefit – like those that employers can give employees for parking and transit – will level the playing field for people who burn calories instead of gasoline. Not only does the benefit encourage people to save energy and stay fit, but it minimizes congestion on the roads.” The Carbon Audit of the United States Tax Code by the National Academy of Sciences would involve a review the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) to identify those tax provisions and policies that have the greatest influence on the generation of carbon emissions and other greenhouse gases and to estimate the magnitude of those effects. The study would evaluate the potential for changes in the tax code to reduce carbon emissions. The study will examine areas where the connection between the tax code and carbon emissions are obvious (e.g., energy taxation) and will consider areas where the connection between the tax code and carbon emissions may be less obvious (e.g., tax policies affecting urban development, which affect climate through travel demand and land-use change). The study will discuss and provide examples of both direct and indirect tax code influences. Closing the Hummer Tax Loophole would fix a serious mistake in the tax code that provides an additional tax incentive for business purchases of luxury SUVs weighing over 6,000 lbs. Originally intended to help businesses buy necessary heavy-duty work vehicles, the “Hummer Tax Loophole” has for years allowed write-offs of anywhere from $100,000 to the current figure of $25,000 for the purchase of the largest, most gas-guzzling luxury SUVs, even as concerns over gas prices and dependence on oil have grown. The change offered in the Ways and Means energy bill would not affect legitimate business investments in trucks or vans, such as plumber and contractor trucks, farm vehicles, construction vehicles, flatbed trucks, cement mixers, and a variety of other vehicles as designated by the IRS. The provision is based on H.R. 2715, legislation introduced by Blumenauer earlier this year. The Commuter Benefit for bikers amends section 132(f) of the IRS code to include "bicycles" in the definition of transportation covered by fringe benefits. Included in the Ways and Means energy bill is a benefit of $20/month for those employees who bike to work, which is a clean, healthy and efficient mode of transportation. The provision is based on H.R. 1498, legislation introduced by Blumenauer earlier this year.
06.05.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) delivered a speech at the National Geographic Society Headquarters to commemorate World Environment Day and call on the Bush administration to demonstrate global leadership at this year’s G8 meeting in Germany. Congressman Blumenauer, a member of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, returned last week from a trip to Greenland, Germany and Great Britain where he and other Representatives, including Speaker Pelosi, met with leading scientists and political leaders who are working to combat global warming. “Large corporations, colleges and universities, and state and local governments in the U.S. are leading the way in the fight against global warming; it is time for Congress and the Bush administration to step up to the table,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Glaciers are disappearing, global temperatures are rising, and extreme weather events are intensifying. Yet the Bush administration and Congressional skeptics are still clinging to the remote possibility that scientists are wrong, a position that is increasingly out of step with ordinary US citizens for whom global warming is a real and increasing worry. The U.S. has been the largest polluter for the past 100 years, and since carbon dioxide remains in the atmosphere for decades, our legacy will linger. On a per capita level, Americans emit more than six times more carbon dioxide than the Chinese. It only makes sense for us to take the lead in reducing our footprint. “Today, on World Environment Day, and as we approach this year’s G8 summit, the United States must demonstrate true leadership and cooperation on the world stage, which means accepting a real target. Chancellor Merkel of Germany and others are urging President Bush to accept a proposal that limits global warming to two degrees Celsius. Last week the President, however, announced his own plan that fails to respond to the severity of the crisis. The President should abandon his non-productive and potentially disastrous game of chicken by providing real leadership and cooperation on the world stage and by working within the UN process.”
05.27.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) resigned from his position as Chair of the U.S.-Vietnam Caucus in response to Vietnam’s escalating human rights violations. He also introduced a resolution (H.Res.447) today that condemns the recent convictions of pro-democracy activists. Congressman Blumenauer issued the following statement: “I have been a consistent friend to Vietnam, but I cannot compromise my support for human rights. Since January, Vietnam has engaged in the largest crackdown on nonviolent pro-democracy activists in years. While I have always argued that we need to judge Vietnam on the progress it makes, it is clear to me that the Vietnamese government is headed in the wrong direction on democracy and human rights. “Therefore, I am resigning as Chair of the U.S.-Vietnam Caucus. I am also introducing a resolution that condemns the recent convictions of pro-democracy activists and expresses Congress' concern over the future of the United States-Vietnam bilateral relationship. “I hope that this will serve as a wake-up call to the Vietnamese government that a long-term relationship with the United States is dependent on their progress on human rights.” Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. A former member of the House International Relations Committee, Congressman Blumenauer has actively worked to promote human rights
05.24.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) issued the following statement in responde to today’s vote on the war funding measure: “I am frustrated that President Bush continues to thwart our efforts to do what Americans and Iraqis want – an end to the crisis in Iraq. As was recently demonstrated on the House floor, an overwhelming majority of Democrats want a timeline for withdrawing our troops. Unfortunately today’s legislation is not the vehicle for ending the Iraq war, but the number of Members calling for withdrawal is increasing and I will continue working to move forward legislation that holds the administration accountable and ends this nightmare.” Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. He has actively opposed the war in Iraq from the beginning. In January he introduced the “New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” a comprehensive piece of legislation calling for the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq, aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability, and a new approach towards reconstructing Iraq.
05.24.2007	Washington, DC – The House today approved a one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (county payments). Congressman Earl Blumenauer, Congressman Peter DeFazio, Congressman Greg Walden and Congresswoman Darlene Hooley, who all voted in favor of the amendment, praised the extension of funding for county payments and pledged to continue working with the Senate to ensure Oregon’s needs are met and a long-term solution is reached. “We in the House have long recognized the vital importance of the Secure Rural Schools program to Oregon’s counties,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Our commitment to reauthorizing this program has never wavered. Whether Republicans or Democrats control the House, we will continue to work as a bipartisan team to get this done. It appears that we will be successful in obtaining a one-year extension and we will continue to work with our friends in the Senate and people back home on a longer-term solution.” "Given the defeat of local tax measures around the state last week, it's clear that rural counties need this assistance more than ever," DeFazio said. "I'm pleased the House leadership has, once again, included emergency funding for the Secure Rural Schools Act in the emergency supplemental. This funding will help stave-off some of the layoffs and cuts in critical services like law-enforcement and health care, and prevent the state from having to take over those essential services, while we continue to work together on a longer-term solution." “Two months ago a one-year extension for county payments seemed completely out of the question,” Congressman Walden said. “Would I have rather had a multi-year extension? Of course. But now the bipartisan work to secure a long-term extension and reauthorization of these funds must continue. We will not relent. The Congress will be forced to address this issue over and over and over again until we reach agreement on a long-term solution.” “This is an immediate win for our counties,” said Congresswoman Hooley. “This emergency funding bill will address the current crisis and give immediate relief of hundreds of millions of dollars to our rural counties. Oregon counties need to have some certainty and be able to plan for the future. I’m urging my colleagues and the president to approve this one-year extension in the Emergency Supplemental Budget, and then immediately begin working through the difficult issues in mapping out a long-term solution.”
05.22.2007	Congressman Earl Blumenauer is calling on Bonneville Power Administrator Steve Wright to take action and explore every available option to resolve the termination of residential exchange benefits of residential and small farm customers of investor owned utilities. In response to a recent decision by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, BPA has notified Portland General Electric, Pacific Power, and other utilities that it can no longer use a previously existing agreement to distribute the public benefits of BPA's low-cost hydropower to their customers. As a result, residential and small farm customers of these utilities are expected to see their bills increase between 13 and 14 percent. Blumenauer said, “It is extremely important the benefits of BPA's power are equitably distributed throughout the Northwest, and I am deeply concerned about the impacts this decision will have on Oregon's residential and small farm customers. I am asking BPA Administrator Steve Wright to act immediately by bringing the parties back to the table and exploring every available option to resolve this issue.”
05.18.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) introduced the “Local Food and Farm Act.” Cosponsored by Rep. Nancy Boyda (D-KS), Rep. Steve Kagen (D-WI) Rep. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL) and Rep. Donald Payne (D-NJ), the “Local Food and Farm Act” promotes the health and well being of all Americans -- particularly school-age children and residents of underserved communities – while also protecting the environment and creating opportunities for local farmers and ranchers. “We have an opportunity to reform the Farm Bill, and a fundamental element of my vision is the Local Food and Farm Act, which I introduced today,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “By increasing the availability of fresh foods in cities, schools, and underserved communities, my bill not only strengthens market opportunities for local farmers and ranchers, but it also protects the environment and gets healthy food into our communities. It is a win for everyone, and I am eager to work with the Committee to share my framework for a better, forward-looking Farm Bill.” “Good health begins by eating healthy foods,” said Congressman Kagen. “The Local Food and Farm Act will improve our local economy as well as our health by allowing Wisconsin family farms to serve fresh, nutritious meals to our school children and families in our communities. People all across the nation want to know their fruits, vegetables and meats are fresh and safe, and this legislation will help to make this possible." “I am thrilled to help introduce a bill that will improve the health of all Kansans,” said Congresswoman Boyda. “Not only will the Local Food and Farm Act increase the availability of fruits and vegetables in public schools, but it will strengthen our rural economy by linking independent farms with local markets. The bill’s strong focus on nutrition encourages healthy food choices for children, adults, and the elderly, and it lays a strong foundation for encouraging good nutrition in the upcoming Farm Bill.” The Local Food and Farm Act is supported by the American Public Health Association, the Community Food Security Coalition, Trust for America’s Health, and the Sustainable Agriculture Coalition. “The Farm Bill is important not just for agriculture but also for the health of Americans,” said Jeff Levi, Executive Director of Trust for America’s Health. “The proposed bill could help the country make tremendous strides in combating the obesity epidemic, from improving school lunches, to enhancing the food stamp program, to providing greater access to affordable fruits and vegetables.” ‘The Local Food and Farm Act outlines a broad strategy to expand economic opportunities for farmers and ranchers through the reinvigoration of local and regional agricultural markets,” said Tauzer Smith with the Sustainable Agriculture Coalition. “Focusing on the entire food supply chain – from agricultural producers to local processors and distributors to retail purchasers – it supports investments that would enable farmers to sell more locally grown and raised products to schools, hospitals, and retail food outlets. This bill is important because local and regional agriculture can provide opportunities for a new generation of entrepreneurial farmers and increase access to healthier food in underserved communities.” "APHA strongly supports efforts to create and broaden programs that help communities develop farmers' markets, roadside stands and other activities to make fresh fruits and vegetables more available to residents,” said Georges Benjamin, MD, FACP, executive director of the American Public Health Association. “All people deserve access to healthy foods - especially individuals in lower-income neighborhoods who often lack transportation to supermarkets that sell fresh fruits and vegetables, which contributes to higher levels of obesity, diseases and other health ailments."
05.03.2007	Washington, DC – Today President Bush signed into law the Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act, legislation introduced by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) and Elton Gallegly (R-CA). The bill will help law enforcement crack down on animal fighting across the U.S. “This is a great victory,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “After being held up for more than five years, today’s approval by the President marks a significant milestone for all of us who worked so hard to stop this barbaric crime and hold accountable those who perpetrate it.” The law, which takes effect immediately, passed the House in late March by 368-39 and the Senate by unanimous consent in April. The bill amends Title 18 of the U.S. Code to establish felony-level jail time (up to three years) for violators of the Federal Animal Fighting Law.
05.02.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) announced his co-sponsorship of the Healthy Americans Act. A member of the Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over the bill, Congressman Blumenauer joins Congressman Brian Baird (D-WA) and Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO) in leading the House version of the Healthy Americans Act, S.334, introduced in late 2006 by Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore). “The time has come to fix the health care system, and the Healthy Americans Act guarantees affordable insurance for every American,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I am committed to working with my colleagues on Ways and Means to ensure our tax code reflects our health care priorities. The legislation not only has bipartisan support but bicameral support, and I am proud to cosponsor a bill that takes our country’s health care policy in a new direction by ensuring that everyone gets the coverage they deserve.” Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and new Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Blumenauer has been committed to incorporating prevention and wellness programs into the health care system to provide more comprehensive care for all Americans.
05.02.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) issued the following statement in response to the President’s veto of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health and Iraq Accountability Act: “When the House and Senate voted last week to set a withdrawal date, we were reflecting the desire of Americans who want us to wind down the presence of U.S. troops who are stuck in the midst of a religious civil war. Last night the President vetoed this responsible bill – ignoring the desire of both Americans and Iraqis. He vetoed the funding he requested, a responsible timetable for withdrawal, and increased accountability of the Iraqi government. “As the mismanagement of the war continues, and the devastation it is wreaking on Iraqis and Americans becomes clearer every day, I remain firmly committed to bringing this tragedy to an end. “Today I voted to override the President’s veto. More importantly, I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress to fulfill our constitutional responsibilities of providing checks and balances so that the President can no longer unilaterally follow this reckless path against the wishes of the American public.” Congressman Blumenauer, a member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, has been a vocal opponent of the Iraq war from the start. In January he introduced H.R.663, the “New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” a comprehensive piece of legislation requiring the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq, aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability, and a new approach towards reconstruction.
04.25.2007	Washington, DC – Today at a Ways and Means Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee hearing, Congressman Blumenauer (D-Ore.) spoke about two of his proposals that offer tax incentives for renewable energy and energy conservation. Congressman Blumenauer, a Member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, testified on his Bike Commuter Act, H.R. 1498, and the Rural Wind Energy Development Act, H.R. 1772, both introduced earlier this year. An abbreviated version of Congressman Blumenauer’s testimony follows: I appreciate the opportunity to discuss the ways that we can reform the tax system to spur innovation, save energy, and make our communities more livable. Unfortunately, current tax policy takes us in the wrong direction, valuing wasteful and dirty energy generation by 5 to 1 – if not more – over clean, renewable technology. I’d like to lay out a series of principles that I hope can guide our action on the issue and serve as a screen to make sure all of our work takes us in the right direction on carbon. We need to make the tax code carbon neutral at least, level the playing field for energy sources, give adequate time and certainty for tax credits, and look for opportunities to promote carbon reduction and energy efficiency through our trade policies. We can start by commissioning a carbon audit of the tax code, and I am drafting legislation to have the National Academy of Sciences convene a panel of experts to look at the tax code and identify activities that impact our carbon emissions. Last month, I introduced H.R. 1772, the Rural Wind Energy Development Act. This legislation would provide an investment tax credit that would help individuals offset the high upfront cost of installing a wind turbine, which creates clean, renewable energy. The tax credit would be available to homeowners, farmers, and small businesses. It would allow these individuals to generate their own power, independent from the electric grid. They would be able to cut their energy bills and, at times, put power back into the grid. There is an existing investment tax credit available to homeowners who install small solar systems, which has been very successful in increasing the number of solar panels installed. This bill would simply expand that to include wind. I am pleased that H.R. 1772 currently has 23 bi-partisan co-sponsors, including the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Charlie Rangel. Another piece of legislation I would like to highlight is H.R. 1498, which would address not the production of energy but the use of oil. The “Bike Commuter Act” would extend the transportation fringe benefit to bike commuters, rewarding commuters who burn calories instead of gas. Currently, employers may offer a transportation fringe benefit to their employees for certain costs incurred while commuting to work. Employees who take advantage of this benefit may receive a tax-exempt benefit of up to $215/month for drivers participating in qualified parking plans or $110/month for those who use transit or vanpooling. Current law also allows the option of taking cash compensation. My legislation aims to balance the incentive structure by extending the transportation fringe benefit to include bicycling. With over 50 percent of the population commuting 5 miles or less to work, incentives for bicycle commuting have great potential to reduce single occupancy vehicle trips. I believe this is the type of message that Congress should be sending to our communities through the tax code: that we support efforts to reduce energy consumption, ease traffic congestion, and encourage healthy activities as part of our daily routines. According to calculations from the group Bikes Belong, there were more bikes than cars sold in 2005. Every year the average bike commuter saves more than 7 barrels of crude oil. I look forward to working with this Committee to craft legislation that will take us a big step in the right direction in addressing climate change and energy independence.
04.25.2007	Washington, DC – In recognition of Earth Day, Congressman Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and new Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, released the following statement: “We can no longer wait for the consequences of global warming to become worse and, at some point, irreversible. As a member of the new Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, I am optimistic to be part of a new Congress which is proactively and constructively working to reverse global warming and contend with the global changes that we already know will occur. “Using tremendous amounts of energy is not a sign of progress, but rather a sign of inefficiency and wastefulness. If we pay now for the extra costs associated with extreme energy savings, in just a few years, businesses and individuals will reap the environmental and economic benefits. Indeed, there is a reason that smart developers and businesses are building and buying highly energy-efficient products: it saves money. “Whether it is plug-in hybrid technology, renewable energy development or energy-efficient appliances, the global warming challenge and our response to it represent an unparalleled opportunity to usher in a new world economy. Our success in this venture will profoundly affect both our nation’s competitiveness and the survival of the planet as we know it."
04.19.2007	This evening the Water Resources Development Act, H.R. 1495, passed with a bipartisan amendment offered by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, Budget Committee and new Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Congressman Blumenauer’s Corps Modernization Amendment is cosponsored by Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT) and Congressman Tom Petri (R-WI). The Water Resources Development Act contains funding for vital Oregon programs. “It is past time that we reauthorize the Water Resources Development Act and bring the standards under which the Army Corps of Engineers operates into the 21st Century,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Today we funded vital Oregon programs, including improvements to Gresham’s Johnson Creek and state-wide ecosystem restoration and salmon recovery. We also modernized the Principles and Guidelines that the Corps uses to tackle water projects, and which have not been changed since 1983. With these updates, I am confident the Corps will be able to move towards developing more environmentally, fiscally and structurally sound projects.” The Army Corps of Engineers is responsible for 1,500 federal water resources projects in the United States. Recent studies by the National Academy of Sciences, the Government Accountability Office, the Pentagon, and others have found that many of these projects have been economically and environmentally questionable. The Water Resources Development Act authorizes nearly $14 billion in the construction or studies of water projects by the Army Corps of Engineers. It also authorizes hurricane recovery activities along the Gulf Coast, estimated to cost $3 billion. Congressman Blumenauer’s Corps Modernization Amendment updates the Principles and Guidelines under which the Army Corps of Engineers operates, which has not been done since 1983. These Principles and Guidelines are critical in developing and implementing sound projects to save taxpayer dollars and address environmental and other national concerns.
03.30.2007	Washington, D.C. – Late yesterday Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Budget Committee, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Climate Change, introduced the Rural Wind Energy Development Act, H.R. 1772. Co-sponsored by Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK), Congressman Rick Renzi (R-AZ), Congressman John Hall (D-NY), and seven additional House members, the bill would help individuals by providing an investment tax credit for installing a wind turbine, which creates clean, renewable energy. “The Rural Wind Energy Development Act offers an incentive for homeowners, farmers and small businesses to install turbines that provide clean energy and generate added income,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “It’s pro environment, pro business, and a smart way to diversify income.” Specifically, the bill provides a tax credit of $1500 per ½ kilowatt of capacity for small wind turbines, which are defined as 100kw or less of capacity. A single turbine can provide up to an additional $2,000-$4,000/year in farm income. "This credit would give a tremendous spark to our corner of the green energy industry and to all the individuals out there hoping to buy a small wind turbine for their homes or farms,” said Robert Preus, of Abundant Renewable Energy, a wind turbine manufacturer in Newburg, Ore. “This would also be very big news for U.S. manufacturing jobs." The Rural Wind Development Act has also been introduced in the Senate by Senator Ken Salazar (D-CO), Senator Larry Craig (R-ID), Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), and Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND). The legislation is strongly supported by the American Wind Energy Association.
03.29.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Budget Committee, helped pass the FY 2008 Federal Budget Resolution. The Democratic budget proposal, which passed by a vote of 216-210, is not only fiscally responsible but sets the right priorities for America. “After the complete breakdown of the budget process in the last Congress, the budget we passed today signals a new direction,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Last year, the Republicans couldn’t even pass a budget, and failed to approve 9 of 11 appropriations bills. Today, we are moving in a new direction – away from the borrow and spend habits of the previous Congress and towards fiscal responsibility and fairness. The Democratic budget prioritizes the right things; it provides services and tax relief for those who need it most by reforming the AMT and provides tax relief for working families. Our proposal improves access to health care for Oregon’s 100,000 children who lack coverage and restores funding, cut by the President’s budget, for Oregon’s environmental programs.” The Democratic budget not only enforces fiscal discipline and transparency in federal spending by adhering to Congress’s pay-as-you-go spending rules, but it generates a budget surplus by 2012. The budget includes funding for critical national programs like children’s health care and education, and prioritizes Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) reform and protecting middle-income tax relief. The Democratic budget invests in renewable energy and energy efficiency to decrease America’s dependence on foreign oil, reduce global warming, and promote new technologies. In addition to serving on the Budget Committee, Congressman Blumenauer also serves on the Committee on Ways and Means and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
03.26.2007	Washington, DC – Today the House passed the Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act, legislation introduced by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.). The legislation, H.R. 137, which is co-sponsored by Congressman Elton Gallegly (R-CA) and Congressman Roscoe Bartlett (R-MD), would establish felony-level jail time (up to three years) for violators of the Federal Animal Fighting Law. The vote passed by a vote of 368-39. “Illegal animal fighting is not just unspeakably cruel to the animals involved, but inevitably involves illegal gambling, drugs and human violence,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “For the last five years we’ve been working to secure the penalties to shut down this barbaric crime. Current federal law is not strong enough, and now that every state but one, Louisiana, has made animal fighting illegal, it is appropriate that the federal government step up to its responsibilities. The passage of our legislation today in the House is an important step forward and we will continue our hard work to pass companion legislation in the Senate.” The Animal Fighting Prohibition Enforcement Act amends Title 18 of the U.S. Code to strengthen the maximum jail time from the one-year misdemeanor level in current law, and prohibits interstate and foreign commerce in cockfighting weapons. H.R. 137 has 303 co-sponsors in the House and has also been introduced in the Senate, S. 261, by Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Senator John Ensign (R-NV), Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA). Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Budget Committee, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming
03.23.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Budget Committee, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Climate Change, voted in favor of H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007, which sets a deadline for the war in Iraq and provides needed funding for domestic needs neglected by the last congress, including Oregon’s Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, or county payments. The vote passed 218-212 today in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Today I voted to set an enforceable deadline to end the occupation of Iraq,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Though I wish the timeline were shorter, and that we could bring the troops home sooner, today Congress made a historic decision – one that Americans overwhelmingly support – to use its constitutional power to reign in President Bush and stop him from waging an open-ended war. Today’s vote marks the next step, and I am optimistic that we will continue moving forward to end this nightmare.”
03.22.2007	Early this morning, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Budget Committee, helped protect a number of programs benefiting Oregonians and Americans in the FY 2008 Federal Budget Resolution that was marked up in Committee and passed by a vote of 22-17. The budget is expected to be voted on by the full House of Representatives next week. “This is the most fiscally responsible budget the Congress has put forth in many years,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “It commits to tax reform and equity, and moves us away from the borrow and spend habits of previous Congresses. Most importantly, the 2008 budget prioritizes the right things: it provides services and tax relief for those who need it most by reforming the AMT, and it proves tax relief for working families. For Oregonians, we now have an opportunity to extend funding for the county payments program. And after so many years of undercutting the environment, I am proud to announce a new start to funding our nation’s vital environmental resources.” Overall, the Committee-passed budget enforces fiscal discipline and transparency in Congressional spending by requiring pay-as-you-go spending to balance the budget by 2012. It includes funding for critical national programs like children’s health care and education, and it also takes steps towards Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) reform to promote middle-income tax relief. Finally, the budget invests in renewable energy and energy efficiency to decrease our dependence on foreign oil, reduce global warming, and promote new technologies. In addition to serving on the Budget Committee, Congressman Blumenauer also serves on the Committee on Ways and Means and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
03.21.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Budget Committee, announced a new opportunity to extend funding for county payments in the House Budget. Released this morning, the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget includes a reserve fund to reauthorize county payments, so long as there is an offset in the legislation. A reserve fund by definition is a provision in a budget resolution that authorizes the chairman of the House or Senate Budget Committee to adjust the aggregate levels of revenue and spending in the budget resolution, and the spending allocations made to committees if a specified legislative action occurs. “This is a fast-moving legislative train,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I was pleased to see tentative legislation in the Senate that would build on what the House has done to provide longer term protection for county payments. We have worked to make sure the House Budget Resolution provides the capacity to accommodate what the Senate might do. By leaving room to reauthorize the county payments program, we are taking a first step in finding a solution to a long-term problem.” Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Budget Committee, as well as the Committee on Ways and Means and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming.
03.21.2007	Washington, DC – With the release early this morning of the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Budget Committee and the Committee on Ways and Means, applauded the steps taken towards Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) reform to promote middle-income tax relief. Other steps taken to provide middle-income tax relief include a deficit-neutral extension of the following tax cuts: Child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, the ten percent individual income tax bracket, estate tax reform, and the research and development tax credit. “The President has proposed a $330 billion tax hike on families with health insurance, in addition to $1 trillion more if we don’t find a real solution to the AMT,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “It is time to make sure America’s families are safe, healthy, and economically secure, and we can start to do this by putting money in the pockets of the working families who most need relief. The budget we’ve put forth today is, for the first time in years, a fiscally responsible piece of legislation that helps working families without adding to the inexcusable deficit racked up by the previous Congress and this administration.”
03.12.2007	Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) joined Congressman Robert Wexler (D-FL), Congressman Jerry Weller (R-IL) and a broad coalition of supporters from environmental, industry, and labor groups to announce the introduction of the Legal Timber Protection Act, which bans the use of illegally-harvested timber and wood products. The bipartisan legislation will amend the long-standing U.S. Lacey Act, extending its protections to plants to catch trafficking in timber and wood products. “Illegal logging is a problem that crosses national boundaries to affect communities, companies, and ecosystems alike,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “This legislation would level the playing field for U.S. industry, not create new obstacles. We see an extraordinary opportunity for common ground here, and we believe this legislation is a solution that benefits everyone. In Oregon, which produces 13% of the nation’s lumber, responsible businesses will now be protected from the costs of the illegal timber trade.” “Not only will this bill protect the world’s most vulnerable forests, it will also help those nations that are aggressively working to curb illegal logging within their own borders,” said Rep. Wexler. “By reducing the demand for illegally logged timber we will provide a great boost in the fight against corruption, help stem human rights abuses, and limit the environmental degradation that accompanies illegal logging. The bill will also provide a significant boost to U.S. industry that is forced to compete with these illegal imports.” “Illegal logging not only destroys rainforests and wildlife habitat but it destroys communities,” said Rep. Weller. “Criminal elements lay waste to rural areas of many undeveloped countries, destroying the economic future of these areas as well as changing the area’s climate. We must work together in a global effort to close the door to the marketplace for products made from illegal logging.” Illegal logging threatens some of the world’s most valuable and vulnerable forests. It also contributes to huge financial losses to the United States and other producing nations. U.S. companies lose an estimated $460 million in export opportunities every year because of displacement caused by illegally harvested timber. Additionally, the annual value of U.S. exports is between $500 - $700 million lower due to market pressures created by illegally harvested timber. The bill’s language was developed through extensive consultation with a broad spectrum of industry representatives, conservation organizations, and government agencies. At the moment of introduction, the following groups had pledged their support for the bill: Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA), Sierra Club, World Wildlife Fund, Defenders of Wildlife, Friends of the Earth, Natural Resources Defense Council, Rainforest Alliance, United Steelworkers, and Wood Flooring International. "Currently, international timber smuggling syndicates are making the U.S. consumer an unwitting accomplice to brazen corruption, violence, and natural resource theft," said Alexander von Bismarck, Campaigns Director of EIA, a non-profit organization investigating and exposing crimes against wildlife and the environment. "The Legal Timber Protection Act will be a critical tool to allow developing countries to take control of their natural resources and manage them more effectively." The Hardwood Federation, which represents approximately 14,000 businesses in all 50 states, expressed support for the legislation's intent and said they will study the specifics further: "We have been encouraged by the open dialogue among environmental groups, industry, and government on options to combat illegal logging and look forward to working with all interested stakeholders on this important legislative effort."
03.09.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) was named by Speaker Nancy Pelosi to the newly created Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. The Committee, created with strong bipartisan support by a vote of 269 to 150, will examine a wide range of issues linked to climate change and energy. “Global warming is the single greatest threat to this generation,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “We must begin to take advantage of the solid scientific evidence of real scientists NOW. The new Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming is a key step in the Federal Government assuming its responsibility to implement simple commonsense steps in this process. The good news is that much of what needs to be done we already know how to do. Better yet, much of it is cost effective and will save us money. I am honored that the Speaker has asked me to join and am privileged to serve with my esteemed colleagues.” Congressman Blumenauer is a member of the Budget Committee and the Committee on Ways and Means. His work in Congress has focused on making the federal government a better partner to communities in addressing transportation alternatives, providing housing choices, supporting sustainable economies and improving the environment. He was selected to the Committee for his experience and leadership on energy and global warming issues.
03.07.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Blumenauer issued the following statement in response to reports of poor conditions and treatment at Walter Reed and other Veterans medical facilities: "I am appalled at the mistreatment of our active duty military and veterans, who have put their lives on the line for our country," said Congressman Blumenauer. "What's happened at Walter Reed is symptomatic of the mismanagement that has plagued the administration's handling of the Iraq war from the start. Their failure to support our troops and deal with the basics - equipment, training, adequate medical facilities, and treatment of the wounded - is yet another example of misplaced priorities and incompetent leadership. It also shows what happens when the Legislative Branch shirks its responsibility of providing necessary oversight. The new Democratic Congress is finally addressing not only the treatment of our military and veterans, but the underlying problem of a mishandled war."
02.21.2007	Portland, Ore – On Monday, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a member of the House Ways and Means and Budget Committees, hailed the Port of Portland’s new security measures. The Port of Portland partnered with GE Security to install new technology that integrates container security devices with a global information network to deter tampering, theft, and international terrorism. "West Coast maritime trade volume is on the rise, so I am proud that the Port of Portland is a part of a new comprehensive approach to cargo security,” said Congressman Earl Blumenauer. “With over ten million containers entering U.S. ports every year, this innovative approach is the kind of long term investment that will make businesses and Americans safer." Congressman Blumenauer has consistently voted to improve the nation’s container port security and has been a vocal advocate for addressing security gaps, particularly as West Coast marine trade volume continues to increase. The Port of Portland becomes the first West Coast port to comprehensively install the system, joining fifteen other ports worldwide that employ state-of-the-art technology to ensure cargo security.
02.10.2007	Portland, Ore. – Today Congressman Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a member of the Budget and Ways and Means Committees, led a forum to discuss the 2007 Farm Bill. Along with Congressman Sam Farr (D-CA), a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, and other key stakeholders, Congressman Blumenauer addressed the need for a farm bill that is more fiscally responsible and good for Oregon, good for farmers, and good for the environment. “I started preparing for today's event more than five years ago when I worked with my colleague Congressman Farr and others to change the last farm bill,” said Blumenauer. “Here in Oregon we produce more agricultural output in sales than North Dakota, yet that state receives nearly six times the amount of subsidies in the farm bill.” ”As I've been out on the ground in Oregon and the greater United States, I realize we are rediscovering American agriculture. The challenges are great – high energy costs, environmental safeguards, the pressures of urban growth, and market uncertainties – and they must be addressed. The need for healthy agriculture has never been greater, and I look forward to building on the collaboration we've started today with our partners.” Every five years, Congress reauthorizes the Farm Bill, setting policy for American agriculture and authorizing billions in spending. At today’s Farm Bill Forum, cosponsored by Oregon State University and Portland State University, Congressman Blumenauer led a group of panelists that included members of the Oregon House and Senate, experts from state agencies, farmers and other agricultural stakeholders, and business and environmental organizations.
02.09.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) praised the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) decision to reduce benzene emissions in its Mobile Source Air Toxics (MSAT) rule. Congressman Blumenauer has been a leader in the effort to change an EPA proposal that would have allowed benzene pollution in the Pacific Northwest to be the highest in the country. Benzene, a chemical found in gasoline, is known to cause cancer in people and is also linked with leukemia and blood disorders and reproductive complications. “The Pacific Northwest has the highest benzene fuel content in the country, and I was outraged that it might be allowed to persist,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I am pleased the EPA listened to the concerns expressed by members of the Northwest delegation and are taking positive steps to safeguard the health and air quality of our region.” The final MSAT rule establishes a “cap” for benzene content in gasoline, which will require refiners nationwide to take positive steps to reduce their overall benzene content, and limit Pacific Northwest citizens’ exposure to this known carcinogen. Starting in 2011, refiners must meet an annual average benzene content standard of 0.62 percent by volume in all gasoline nationwide, a reduction of today’s average of approximately 1.0 percent. The EPA estimates that areas where benzene levels are currently highest, such as the Northwest, will experience the most significant reductions. In December, 2006, Congressman Blumenauer urged the EPA to re-write their regulations to reduce benzene fuel content in gasoline in the Pacific Northwest. He sent the EPA a letter that was signed by five members of the Pacific Northwest delegation, including Reps. Brian Baird (D-WA), Darlene Hooley (D-OR), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Dave Reichert (R-WA), and Jim McDermott (D-WA).
02.08.2007	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Chair of the Public Broadcasting Caucus and a member of the Budget Committee, confronted OMB Director Rob Portman on the administration’s FY08 budget proposal to cut $114 million from the Corporation of Public Broadcasting. “The administration wants to cut 25% from public broadcasting,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Last Congress, we made clear when we restored funding with strong bipartisan support that this is an essential public service. I had hoped the administration would have gotten the message. These cuts remain unacceptable, and I am confident the 110th Congress, under new Democratic leadership, will prioritize funding for 2008.” Congressman Blumenauer, an original founder of the Public Broadcasting Caucus, is working with other Representatives on both sides of the aisle to secure funding for public broadcasting. In 2005 he was awarded for his leadership and dedication to public broadcasting with the Public Radio Leadership Award.
02.07.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) at a Ways & Means Committee Hearing, confronted OMB Director Rob Portman on the administration’s FY08 budget proposal. Congressman Blumenauer challenged him to find alternative funding sources for the Secure Rural Schools program (County Payments). Blumenauer questioned the administration’s commitment to reauthorizing the program, pointing out that their proposal to fund it by selling $800 million worth, or 274,000 acres, of National Forest System land, couldn’t even make it through a Republican Congress last year. “The Oregon delegation has shown a willingness to work with this administration on serious initiatives to protect our schools and counties,” said Blumenauer. “I hope they are serious about solving the county payments problem, as we are seeing very serious impacts in our communities.” During the hearing, Blumenauer asked Portman to work with Congress on finding alternative funding sources. Congressman Blumenauer, a member of the Budget and Ways and Means Committees, is a cosponsor of H.R. 17, the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. He also advocated for funding the program in the Emergency Supplemental in a letter to the House leadership last month. If the program is not reauthorized, Oregon’s counties will lose over $230 million in annual funding for schools, roads, and other local services.
02.05.2007	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore), a member of the Budget Committee, responded to the release of President Bush’s fiscal year 2008 budget proposal: “As a member of the Budget Committee, I intend to make sure that this year’s budget process is more than the meaningless ritual that it’s been for the past six years. Our job is to provide real budget guidance. “Unfortunately, the President has presented us with a budget that falls short of the mark. His projected surpluses are predicated on our extending his tax cuts, fixing the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), and making unrealistic budget cuts that not even his fellow Republicans would support. “The Budget Committee’s first order of business will be to make sure we give Congress and the public an accurate picture of the budget situation. We must be clear about priorities and honest about assumptions. History suggests that the administration has consistently under-estimated costs, overestimated savings, and miscalculated the effects of tax cuts. “We have to face head-on the question of whether we can afford more tax cuts and, if so, what our priorities should be. Then we must sort out and deal with the needs of the American public: health care, education, meaningful tax relief, and deficit reduction. Unfortunately, this budget falls short in funding some of our most important budget priorities, such as health programs for young children.
01.23.2007	Washington, DC – Tonight Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) responded to the President’s State of the Union address. He said: “Tonight the President gave the most disappointing State of the Union speech at a time when there is an opportunity to cooperate with Democrats and members of his own party on issues that Americans care about. For the seventh year in a row he mentioned our dependence on foreign oil, and for the seventh year in a row he offered no meaningful action to reduce it. He gave us an opportunity to work with him on the concept of capping the health care tax deduction, but we must be careful it truly benefits low-income families and won’t undermine employer-funded health care. Nowhere was the President more out of touch with reality than on Iraq, calling for more troops with no plan to make a difference. He is out of step with his generals, with Congress and increasingly with the American public.” Congressman Blumenauer is a seventh-term Congressman and a member of the Committee on Ways and Means. He formerly served on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee as well as the International Relations Committee. An outspoken critic of the war in Iraq, Congressman Blumenauer is also a national leader on issues of energy, transportation and climate change.
01.19.2007	Washington, DC– This week Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D–Ore) was assigned to the Committee on Budget as well as the following Ways and Means subcommittees: the Subcommittee on Trade and the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures. Congressman Blumenauer is a seventh-term Congressman and former member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the International Relations Committee. “I am excited by these new Committee assignments and look forward to working hard to balance fiscal discipline with some of the most important domestic issues facing families – from healthcare to Social Security to energy policy. With more than a decade of experience in the House, and with the new opportunity to serve on two key subcommittees, I will remain committed to ensuring Oregon’s families are safe, healthy and economically secure.” Also joining Congressman Blumenauer on the Budget Committee is Congresswoman Darlene Hooley (D-Ore) and Congressman Brian Baird (D-WA), signaling the growing influence of the Northwest Delegation in the 110th Congress.
01.18.2007	Washington, DC— Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) today voted to repeal almost $14 billion in unnecessary subsidies and tax breaks for Big Oil companies and redirect the funding to cover the costs of investing in clean, renewable and alternative fuels. The bill, H.R. 6, passed by a vote of 264-163. “After 12 years of Republicans failing to deal meaningfully with a comprehensive energy policy, today under Democratic leadership we are finally moving in the right direction. I am pleased that we have passed this bill at the conclusion of the first 100 hours, and I look forward to working on additional legislation in the coming months that will reduce greenhouse gases and move us away from oil dependence.” Over the last three years, oil and gas companies have received billions of dollars in subsidies and tax incentives despite record profits. H.R. 6 will eliminate some of the recent giveaways provided in the tax code and in the 2005 Energy bill. Congressman Blumenauer was an original co-sponsor of the legislation.
01.17.2007	Washington, DC— Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) today voted to cut in half interest rates on student loans. Oregon is one of the top beneficiaries of this legislation, with more than 40,000 students saving an average of $2,450 over the life of a loan. The bill, H.R. 5, passed overwhelmingly in the House of Representatives with a vote of 356-71. “Oregon students have the second highest amount of debt in the country, and they, along with more than five million students nationwide, will be substantially helped by this legislation. We owe it to our students, our communities and our hard pressed families to make college not just a dream but an affordable reality. I am proud that my colleagues and I have made this possible during the first 100 hours of the 110th Congress.”
01.10.2007	Washington, DC — Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) announced legislation on Iraq, calling for the withdrawal of US forces, accountability for how federal funds are being spent, and enhanced diplomatic efforts. The legislation, titled the “New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007,” requires the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq, a new diplomatic offensive to stabilize Iraq, aggressive efforts at oversight and accountability, and a new approach towards reconstructing Iraq. “For too long Congress has been a willing enabler of the President’s war,” said Blumenauer. “Now is not the time for the President to repeat his mistakes or those of Johnson and Nixon before him. This legislation demands accountability and sets a new direction for Iraq.” Congressman Blumenauer has actively opposed the war in Iraq from the beginning. He fought against the resolution authorizing the President to lead the country to war, and campaigned against the Bush policies in 20 states over the last two years. Congressman Blumenauer also advocated a plan for withdrawal over a year ago when he introduced legislation to begin bringing the National Guard home. The “New Direction for Iraq Act of 2007” offers a comprehensive approach to a new policy for Iraq and can be summarized as follows: - Sets out the goals of U.S. policy as supporting the Iraqi people, preventing greater violence, re-establishing U.S. international credibility and military readiness, and refocusing on real national security threats. - Prohibits permanent U.S. military bases in Iraq, as well as U.S. control over Iraq’s oil infrastructure and economic policies. - Prohibits the escalation of the Iraq War, without specific Congressional approval. - Requires the responsible redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq to be completed within approximately one year. - Redirects U.S. reconstruction funding from large contractors to Iraqi owned businesses to help create jobs in Iraq. - Instructs the President to nullify contracts with any company that has not fulfilled an Iraq reconstruction contract and to recover lost funds. - Encourages Congress to investigate and the Attorney General to aggressively prosecute war profiteering and fraud. - Directs the President to begin a regional diplomatic effort, including direct negotiations with Syria and Iran, to promote stability in Iraq and seek to solve other outstanding regional issues, such a nuclear proliferation and support for terrorism. - Supports a new effort at an Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement. - Directs the President to seek a new United Nations resolution to support international cooperation in stabilizing Iraq. - Requires the President and the Iraqi government to agree on performance benchmarks and conditions further support for the Iraqi government on the achievement of those benchmarks. - Requires the appointment of a Special Envoy for Iraq Reconciliation. - Authorizes additional funds for strengthening Iraqi civil society, including labor unions, environmental groups, and community organizations. - Authorizes assistance to support a neutral international effort to disarm, demobilize, and reintegrate members of sectarian militias. - Requires the development of country strategies to address the needs of Iraqi refugees.
01.09.2007	Washington, DC — Today Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) joined Congressman Marty Meehan (D-MA) in introducing a resolution opposing the escalation of the War in Iraq and calling on the President to first seek Congressional approval for plans to raise troop levels above the current level of 132,000. Speaking from the House Floor, Congressman Blumenauer delivered the following statement: “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. “No matter what you call it, another escalation in the war in Iraq is wrong. I will oppose in both word and deed any effort to send more troops. We have tried it before. It will not just mean more American casualties; it will bring more violence to the Iraqis while adding to the burden on our already strained armed forces. We should start instead by bringing our troops home, not sending more into harm's way in what the President's advisors have already admitted is a political decision and not a strategic one. “Let's take advantage of the new congressional leadership to change direction in what Americans know is our most important issue -- ending the war in Iraq. We should start with a resolution the Bush administration used to authorize this disaster. Knowing what we know now, the authorization before us bears little relation to reality. Instead, the committees of jurisdiction should use their upcoming hearings to craft new legislation that will mean a withdrawal of our troops as well as guide our continued involvement in Iraq until that withdrawal is complete. I will introduce legislation later this month that would provide exactly that sort of guide by refocusing or efforts on political, diplomatic, and economic strategies. “Most important and most immediately, Congress has clear authority through its power of the purse. We must demand accountability for how money is spent, who is getting how much, and for what purpose. We need to target war profiteering. There are too many accounts of contractors who have taken taxpayer dollars and abandoned our troops under fire and the Iraqi people in need. We need an entity like the Truman Commission during World War II to aggressively investigate contractors, punish war profiteers, and recover misspent funds by canceling any failed or fraudulent contracts. By redirecting as much of the money as possible to projects run for and by Iraqis, we can repair that damaged country as cost-effectively as possible. ”We must also reconsider the unprecedented privatization of our military effort. The outsourcing of these basic support functions in Iraq has left contractors unaccountable to the American people, immune from military law, and has cost the taxpayers much more than we have needed to spend. “While we are at it, congress should end the outsourcing of our work. It should be embarrassing to the Republican leadership that it took the Iraq Study Group to provide the oversight and accountability that Congress should have done these past four years. “We need to work to make sure the political discussions surrounding Iraq is not just more civil but more effective. We need to make it possible to debate this issue in terms of facts and the policy consequences and not hide behind the cloud of politics. In the 2002, 2004, and 2006 election cycles, there was lots of talk about Iraq, but people didn't tell the truth. Instead, the issue was manipulated for political purposes. We must resist the effort to reduce this discussion to how it will impact the next election rather than how we got into this mess and how we are going to get out of it. “In all of these conversations, we need to be dealing with the long-term security of the United States. We must look at the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq in the context of those violent fundamentalists around the world that would do us harm, threats of genocide in Darfur and chaos in Somalia, nuclear proliferation, global warming, and the loss of America's influence in the world. In none of those areas does escalating the war in Iraq make the world a safer place. The American people would welcome Congress doing our job right. Only then can we turn this disaster around and provide the security for families in America and around the world.”
01.03.2007	Congressman Blumenauer released the following statement on the occasion of the 3,000th American servicemember killed in Iraq: “As we pass the milestone of 3,000 brave American men and women who have given their lives in service to our country, I honor them and their families for their commitment, selflessness and sacrifice. As 2007 begins, to do justice to that ultimate sacrifice, we owe them and all Americans a new policy to extricate ourselves from Iraq and restore America’s influence in the world. “The idea of sending more troops to Iraq is simply wrong. We saw the ‘mini-surge’ of American troops this summer lead not just to more American casualties but to more violence, not less. The President’s stubborn adherence to a clearly failed strategy undermines our security and the wellbeing of the Iraqi people. The bipartisan recommendation of the Iraq Study Group reinforces the call that many of us made more than a year ago. It is time to start withdrawing our troops from Iraq in a responsible fashion and pursue a new diplomatic effort in order to avoid the worst possible outcome for our troops, our country and Iraq.”
12.06.2006	Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a senior member of the House International Relations Committee, issued the following statement on today’s release of the Iraq Study Group report. Congressman Blumenauer voted against the authorization of military force in Iraq and, in March 2006, introduced legislation to begin the withdrawal of U.S. troops. “I take no pleasure in having my predictions of the scope of the disaster proven correct by events or today’s report. The President has driven us into a cul-de-sac, and it is time to face reality: we are going to leave Iraq before the situation is fixed. “The Iraq Study Group’s report, by endorsing the logic of withdrawal and diplomacy, offers a window of opportunity to make the best of a bad situation in the immediate future. For a president who has put politics above the welfare of the American people since day one, the Iraq Study Group provides the cover to finally do the right thing in a politically expedient fashion. “The war in Iraq has cost Oregon taxpayers nearly $3 billion, which otherwise could have provided health care for 655,850 people or upwards of 18,000 affordable housing units. With so much at stake, action on Iraq needs to be measured in hours and days, not weeks and months. It is time to face reality in Iraq, and the President and Congress must rise to the occasion.”
12.05.2006	Washington, DC – In the wake of Ambassador John Bolton’s resignation as United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) reaffirmed his support for the appointment of outgoing Congressman James A. Leach (R-Iowa) as Bolton’s successor. Congressman Blumenauer and Congressman Jim Walsh (R-NY) have been urging Members of Congress to sign a letter to President Bush, recommending Leach’s appointment. So far, 50 Members have signed the letter, which will be delivered to the White House on Friday. “Jim Leach is the most skilled, most qualified person for the job,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “I have worked closely with Jim and I know he’s the best person to help make the United Nations more effective at the things that matter.” Leach began his career as an aide to then-Rep. Donald Rumsfeld (R-Ill.) and is a former Foreign Service Officer who served at the United Nations under then-Ambassador George H.W. Bush. During his 30-year career in Congress, Leach served as Chairman of the Banking Committee and the International Relations Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. Representing Iowa’s 2nd district, Jim Leach lost his re-election bid last Tuesday and will not be returning to Congress in January. Currently, the following Members of Congress have co-signed the Blumenauer-Walsh letter (text below): Reps. Neil Abercrombie, Tom Allen, Tammy Baldwin, Earl Blumenauer, Sherwood Boehlert, Madeleine Bordallo, Leonard Boswell, Rick Boucher, Sherrod Brown, Lois Capps, Julia Carson, Mike Castle, Donna Christensen, Joe Crowley, Elijah Cummings, Peter DeFazio, John Dingell, Lloyd Doggett, John Duncan, Eni Faleomavaega, Sam Farr, Barney Frank, Wayne Gilchrest, Charles Gonzalez, Ruben Hinojosa, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Marcy Kaptur, Ron Kind, Jim Kolbe, Dennis Kucinich, Barbara Lee, Sandy Levin, Dave Loebsack (Member-elect), Carolyn Maloney, Jim Marshall, Betty McCollum, Jim McDermott, Jim McGovern, Jim Moran, Bill Pascrell, Donald Payne, Thomas Petri, Bobby Scott, Jose Serrano, Christopher Shays, Ike Skelton, Adam Smith, Ellen Tauscher, Mark Udall, and Jim Walsh.
11.09.2006	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) will speak on a panel moderated by Washington Post columnist E.J. Dionne on Tuesday, November 14 at the Falk Auditorium at the Brookings Institute in Washington DC. Other panelists include Jonathan Rauch, columnist with the National Journal, and Kevin O’Leary, a Senior Research Fellow with the Center for the Study of Democracy. The discussion will focus on ways that the Internet and technology can be used to bridge the gap between the political elite and the average voter, and how the 2006 election campaign dramatized citizen discontent across party lines. The program will take place from 2:00-4:00 pm. Congressman Blumenauer is committed to the importance of citizen engagement and an advocate for using new technology to deepen the connections between voters and elected officials. He has held several E-Town Hall meetings to interact with constituents and advocates, and used blogging to deliver real-time comments and reflections as Election Night results unfolded.
10.25.2006	Portland, Ore –Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a member of the House International Relations Subcommittee on Africa, Global Human Rights and International Operations, released the following statement on the human rights situation in Ethiopia: “I am particularly troubled by the release of the Commission of Inquiry’s report into the killing of nearly 200 protesters by Ethiopian security forces last year, the continued detention of political prisoners, and the silencing of voices from civil society. The United States should stand on the side of the Ethiopian people and ensure that those responsible for these killings are brought to justice and that political differences are worked out through democratic processes, not repressive actions. When Congress reconvenes, I urge the Speaker of the House to schedule a vote on H.R.5680, the bipartisan “Ethiopia Freedom, Democracy and Human Rights Advancement Act,” which passed the House International Relations Committee by voice vote.”
10.09.2006	Portland, Ore – Congressman Earl Blumenauer announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency is awarding a $2.7 million Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grant for the State of Oregon. The funding will be matched in part by the City of Portland and used to conduct its Portland East Lents Floodplain Restoration Project—an effort to create flood storage and improve Johnson Creek’s flow conditions in an area that has been subject to repetitive flood damage. FEMA and Oregon Office of Emergency Management officials will be in Portland in early November to formally award the grant to the Portland City Council. The Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grant will fund the restoration of over 20 acres of floodplain in the Johnson Creek watershed. This work is part of a comprehensive approach to allow areas to flood naturally - providing flood storage while improving water quality and creating habitat for fish and wildlife. The City of Portland purchases frequently flooded properties through a willing seller program and currently owns 160 acres in four target areas. Blumenauer said, “This is a great example of the federal government leading by example and being a good partner to local communities by helping them become safer and more disaster resistant. Johnson Creek residents and the City of Portland deserve high praise for their commitment to improving watershed health for generations to come.” In 2001, Portland demonstrated national leadership in addressing flooding by earning a Class 6 Rating in FEMA’s Community Rating System (CRS). The CRS provides discounts on floodplain insurance based on local community programs to reduce flood risk. Currently, Portlanders receive a 20% discount on their flood insurance and may qualify for a 25% discount when Portland revises their status in the program later this year. Blumenauer worked with FEMA in 1998 to secure a federal Project Impact designation, which leveraged federal seed money to create more disaster-resistant communities in the Portland area. The Project Impact designation was part of a sustained effort by Blumenauer to focus attention and resources on restoring Johnson Creek as well as his work to reform the National Flood Insurance Program. In 2004, the “Bunning-Bereuter-Blumenauer Flood Insurance Reform Act," which provides a disincentive to property owners to live in repeatedly flooded areas, was signed into law.
10.05.2006	Portland, Ore –Congressman Earl Blumenauer is hosting a forum, “The High Costs of Being Poor,” a conversation on the changes needed to help Oregon’s poor. The forum will highlight how the poor pay more for housing, healthcare, and financial services, and focus on ideas to reduce the higher costs that low-income Oregonians are paying for basic services. Panelists will discuss ways to develop consumer protection, level the playing field through state and federal policy, and address failures of the private market. Blumenauer said, “Not only do the poor have less money, they often have to pay more and are prey to unscrupulous business practices and a system of taxation that benefit those who need it the least. I hope that this forum will be the first in an ongoing discussion about the changes needed to help Oregon’s poor.” WHO: Congressmen Earl Blumenauer, invited panelists. WHAT: “The High Costs of Being Poor”—a community forum addressing how low-income Oregonians pay more for housing, healthcare, and financial services. WHERE: Concordia University, Hagen Center Student Commons 2811 NE Holman Street, Portland OR WHEN: Saturday, October 7th, 2006 8:30am-11:00am
09.27.2006	Washington, DC - The House of Representatives approved legislation late last night that includes more than $11 million for several Oregon-based organizations, including HemCon, Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute (ONAMI), Northwest Marine, and the Manufacturing 21 Coalition. The funding was requested by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), along with several other members of the Oregon Congressional delegation, and included in H.R. 5631, the Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2007 Appropriations bill. “This bill contains funding for some very inventive programs and industries that are vital to strengthening our national security and military preparedness,” Blumenauer said. “From this we can ensure that the inventive and cost-effective solutions generated in Oregon contribute to our national defense strategy.” The measure was approved by a vote of 394-22, and now awaits final action by the Senate expected later this week. Following the Senate vote, it will be sent to the President for his signature. Projects requested by Blumenauer included in H.R. 5631: Northwest Manufacturing Initiative (Oregon Economic and Community Development) - $2.5 million This state-wide effort, promoted by industry and the Governor, is designed to strengthen Oregon's defense manufacturing sector through R&D, worker training, new manufacturing techniques, and building the capacity of small businesses to participate in the defense marketplace. This was a particular priority for Congressman Blumenauer because it invests in building an economy that works for all Oregonians while, at the same time, improving the environmental performance of defense products. Nanoelectronics and Nanometrology Initiative (Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute) - $2.5 millionNanometrology is the science of imaging and measuring the properties of nanoscale materials and devices. This partnership between industry, federal research institutions, and Oregon universities, including Portland State University, invests in economic development in Oregon’s Silicon Forest cluster and across the state by supporting research in nanometrology, nanodevices, and circuits that enable the application of nanoscale materials into useful electronic defense and commercial applications. Chitosan Hemmorrhage Control Dressing (HemCon Inc.) - $1.4 millionThe HemCon Bandage is known for its ability to stop bleeding and prevent infection. It was developed for the Army to treat severe bleeding resulting from combat injuries. The Army Surgeon General has requested that every soldier deployed to a combat zone carry a HemCon Bandage in his or her first-aid kit. Barrier Boat Craft (Northwest Marine) - $2.2 million As demonstrated by the attack on the USS Cole, United States warships are vulnerable to attack from small, fast moving boats while in port. These barrier boats will provide protection to U.S. naval ships in port. Future Medical Shelter System (Silver Eagle Manufacturing) - $195,000The Future Medical Shelter System is a next-generation mobile field hospital. Its platform is a trailer built by Silver Eagle Manufacturing of Portland. Brain, Biology, and Machine Initiative (University of Oregon) - $2.5 million The Brain, Biology and Machine Initiative (BBMI) supports research related to cognition, neuroscience, genetics research, and informatics. This research has already led to
09.06.2006	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) and Congressman Greg Walden (R-Hood River) issued the following statement in reaction to today’s introduction of S. 3854, the Lewis and Clark Mount Hood Wilderness Act of 2006, by Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore) and Senator Gordon Smith (R-Ore). “We’re pleased that the Senate has taken action and used our bill, the Mt. Hood Stewardship Legacy Act, HR 5025, as the basis for their measure. Obviously, with the additions and changes, the public will need time to evaluate their 77-page bill. Our staffs are in discussion with the Senate staffs and will continue to be available to the senators, the stakeholders and the thousand-plus people who worked with us over the last three years in crafting the measure that the House unanimously approved in July. However, we realize that time is quickly running out for the Senate to hold a hearing, mark up the bill in committee and get floor time in the Senate, and for the House to consider whatever the Senate approves. We’ll keep doing our part to move the process along.” On July 24, 2006, Congressmen Blumenauer and Walden passed HR 5025, the Mount Hood Stewardship Legacy Act, through the House of Representatives. Congressman Blumenauer represents the 3rd District of Oregon and Congressman Walden represents the 2nd District of Oregon; the two districts split Mt. Hood at its crest.
07.28.2006	Washington, D.C. -De La Salle North Catholic High School Student Nakera Johnson finishes out her month-long duties as a congressional page in Washington D.C. this week and will return to Portland with a unique perspective on how the nation's laws are made. Johnson was nominated by Congressman Blumenauer and served in the U.S. Capitol for one month this summer. "I was very pleased to have Nakera representing my office and the Third Congressional District of Oregon this summer," said Blumenauer. "I am confident she served the Congress well and hope she enjoyed this unique opportunity." Johnson, the daughter of Kalavina and Nyla Johnson of Northeast Portland, recently completed her sophomore year at De La Salle North Catholic High School where she has a 3.8 grade point average. She is a member of St. Jude Church and Brother and Sister's Keepers' Focus Group and volunteers with Loaves & Fishes, the Salvation Army and Me'Rae's Hair Salon. She also worked as an office assistant at Schwabe, Williamson & Wyatt. As a congressional page, Johnson lived in the official Page Residence Hall near the Capitol in Washington, D.C. She worked on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives during the time when Congress is in session, where she had a front row seat for the political debates that shape the country's policies, including the reauthorization of the landmark Voting Rights Act. Her internship came at a very busy time on Capitol Hill, with Congress in session nearly every weekday of the month. The Congressional Page Program is a demanding one that requires highly motivated and committed students, but it is also tremendously rewarding and exciting. Although pages have helped out lawmakers since the first days of the Republic, Congress instituted the tradition of nominating pages for appointment in 1855. Members of Congress may nominate pages only upon invitation of their party's Leadership. Blumenauer has been invited to nominate pages three times during his tenure in Congress.
07.26.2006	Washington DC – The U.S.House of Representatives this week approved legislation authored by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) recognizing May as “National Bike Month.” The League of American Bicyclists has celebrated May as National Bike Month since 1956. Blumenauer hopes that recognizing May as “National Bike Month,” will highlight bicycling as a one of the most efficient modes of transportation. “Bicycling is one of the cleanest, healthiest, most efficient, and environmentally friendly modes of transportation that exists,” Blumenauer said. “Cycling helps ease congestion on our roads and reduce environmental pollution while allowing Americans of all ages to incorporate exercise into their everyday lives. In an age of high energy prices, overcrowded roads, and a growing obesity epidemic, biking is more important to the well being of our communities than ever before.” With this resolution, Congress honors the enormous role bicycling has had in the United States, and joins with the bicycling activists in officially recognizing Bike Month. This recognition will provide an opportunity to promote the benefits of cycling, appreciate those in the cycling community, and to encourage bicycle safety, supporters say. According to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, bicycles are second only to cars as a preferred mode of transportation. There are over 57 million adult cyclists in the United States, 5 million of whom choose to commute to work by bike. "Congressional recognition of bicycling as a popular recreational and everyday activity sends an important signal to the American people,” said Andy Clarke, Executive Director of the League of American Bicyclists. “Bicycling enjoys broad support and is a benefit to individuals, the community and the nation as a whole." Blumenauer’s resolution, H.Con.Res.145, was approved unanimously by the House of Representatives on Tuesday, July 25. Blumenauer is the co-founder of the Congressional Bike Caucus. His “Conserve by Bicycle” Amendment was incorporated into the Energy Policy Act signed into law last year. He also introduced the Bike Commuter Act to change the Transportation Fringe Benefit of the tax code to include bicycle commuters.
07.24.2006	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously approved the Mount Hood Stewardship Legacy Act (H.R. 5025), introduced by Congressmen Greg Walden (R-Hood River) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland). The comprehensive legislation provides a long-term stewardship plan for one of Oregon’s most diverse and treasured icons and comes after several years of cooperative work between the pair including public summits, round table forums with stakeholders, in-depth meetings with scientists and a four-day, 41-mile backpack trek around Mt. Hood on the Timberline Trail. “This is landmark legislation for the thousands of citizens who love, live, visit, and work on Mt. Hood,” said Blumenauer. “It protects remarkable places that Oregonians agree should be preserved as wilderness, and it provides a blueprint for managing future demands of recreation, transportation, land use, forest health, and Native American treaty rights. I want to thank my colleague, Congressman Walden, for joining me on what has been a remarkable odyssey over the last three years to reach this day. House passage today represents a significant milestone and I urge the Senate to take action quickly so this important legislation can become law before Labor Day. “This is a significant development for Oregonians everywhere,” Walden said. “It’s remarkable to think that less than a year after Congressman Blumenauer and I hiked for four days and 41 miles around the base of Mt. Hood that this bill would resoundingly pass through committee and the House. This wasn’t an easy task. With 435 Representatives from all corners of our nation, many diverse opinions and backgrounds come into play. The fact that we achieved the unanimous support of our colleagues shows that the fruit of our labor is a perfect compromise. It’s a bill that has won wide support from stakeholders, local governments and the media. It’s time for Oregon’s senators, Senator Wyden and Senator Smith, to now step forward and shepherd this bill through the Senate and on to the President’s desk.” The bill is the result of several years of public forums, negotiations and compromises between the congressmen and Mt. Hood stakeholders. It would add 77,216 acres of new wilderness and 25 miles of Wild and Scenic Rivers in the Mt. Hood National Forest, along with promoting long-term planning to meet future demands for recreational use, transportation and clean and abundant drinking water. It also encourages forest health and recognizes and respects the cultural traditions and historical rights of Native Americans. The bill features Oregon House members Congressman Peter DeFazio and Congresswoman Darlene Hooley as co-sponsors, and has earned the support of scores of local governments, state and federal officials, stakeholders on the mountain and media. The legislation now moves to the United States Senate for consideration. Congressman Walden represents the 2nd District of Oregon and Congressman Blumenauer represents the 3rd District of Oregon; the two districts split Mt. Hood at its crest.
06.30.2006	Washington, DC - The U.S. House of Representatives late yesterday approved legislation giving priority designation to Multnomah County's "Stomp Out Meth Project," a methamphetamine addiction prevention program. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) requested congressional support for the project earlier this year. "The Stomp Out Meth Project is an ideal Oregon solution, bringing together a unique combination of tools including prevention and prosecution to tackle the methamphetamine problems in Multnomah County," said Blumenauer. Priority designation was given to the Stomp Out Meth Program as part of a larger bill funding U.S. Department of Justice Programs. A specific funding level will be included for the program later in the legislative process. Multnomah County created STOMP as a comprehensive response to the local meth problem. This project provides resources for four components essential in the fight against meth; law enforcement response; treatment programs; prevention media campaigns; and support for prosecution. Specifically, STOMP funding will be used for the following: Increased law enforcement capacity by purchasing a hazmat command and response vehicle and two additional vehicles capable of navigating remote areas of the county and towing large equipment trailers when called upon to investigate, seize and remediate meth labs. The hazmat response vehicle will be outfitted with equipment for response, assessment, mitigation and processing of drug labs. Development and production of two media campaigns to prevent meth use. Media campaigns will be targeted at two high-risk groups- young women and Hispanic youth. Creation of a meth treatment program focused on adolescents. Establishment of an elite "Meth Strike Team." This team will be composed of four Deputy District Attorneys (DDAs) and a clerical staff person who will be dedicated entirely to the prosecution of meth-related crimes. These DDAs will focus on property crime, identity theft, drug prosecution and juvenile dependency/custody. Priority designation for the program was included in H.R.5672, the Fiscal Year 2007 Science, State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations bill, which passed the House yesterday. The legislation must now be approved by the U.S. Senate.
06.21.2006	Washington, DC - The House of Representatives late yesterday approved legislation including over $13 million for several Oregon-based organizations, including HemCon, Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute (ONAMI) and the Northwest Manufacturing Initiative. The funding was requested by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), along with several other members of the Oregon Congressional delegation, and included in the Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2007 Appropriations bill. “This funding for Oregon research and products highlights the creative and skilled workforce we have in the region,” said Blumenauer. “While this funding is specifically for Defense related items, the research helps develop a base of industry expertise that will help Oregon’s economy with a skilled workforce and cutting edge technologies.” Included in the legislation is: · $2.5 million for the Northwest Manufacturing Initiative, a state-wide effort by industry leaders including the Manufacturing 21 Coalition, the Pacific Northwest Defense Coalition, the Semiconductor Workforce Coalition, and the Northwest High Performance Enterprise Coalition, designed to strengthen Oregon’s defense manufacturing sector through research and development, worker training, new manufacturing techniques and building the capacity of small businesses to participate in the defense marketplace. A focus of this project is to assist small to medium sized manufacturers to become providers of products to defense customers. The state, local government and industry are committed to this imitative and have contributed significant resources to its implementation. · $3 million for the U.S. Army to purchase chitosan hemorrhage control dressing for U.S. troops from HemCon, a company located in Tigard, Oregon. According to military physicians, 90% of soldiers killed in war die before they reach a medical facility, most often of blood loss. Wounds to the extremities are considered the main preventable cause of death in military action. Chitosan hemorrhage control dressing, manufactured by HemCon Inc., has already saved the lives of dozens of U.S. soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Army Surgeon General has requested that every soldier deployed to a combat zone carry a HemCon Bandage in their first-aid kit. · $2 million for ONAMI's Safer Nanoelectronics and Nonometrology initiative which will develop nanomaterials and nanomanufacturing methods to meet the military's need for high performance materials, protect human health, and minimize harm to the environment. Examples of the importance of nanomaterials and manufacturing for military technology include nanoelectronics and nanophotonics, thermoelectric coolers, medical diagnostics and therapeutics, and environmental monitoring and remediation systems. ONAMI is a joint research institute operated by Oregon State University, the University of Oregon and Portland State University. · $1 million for ONAMI to develop Miniature Tactical Energy Systems for a wide range of military applications. Examples include: 1) battlefield energy systems such as personal power systems for the dismounted war fighter, 2) light weight transportable battlefield support energy systems, and 3) energy systems that minimize the logistics requirements of forces in the field. · $2.5 million for ONAMI’s Nanoelectronics and Nanometrology Initiative that will address future needs in information processing and biosensing while at the same time laying a foundation for future economic development in Oregon. This project will initiate additional research in nanometrology and testing of nanodevices and circuits that will lead to new applications in computing, information processing, and biosensing. · $300,000 for Silver Eagle Manufacturing as part of a $10 million Future Medical Shelter System project to produce a mobile field hospital developed by the Army’s Medical Research and Material Command. The mobile hospital can be deployed by four soldiers in a half an hour. · $2 million for Lektro, a company in Warrenton, Oregon, for an assessment of alternatives to diesel and gasoline powered Aircraft Ground Equipment (AGE) for the Air Force. The current fleet of AGE is powered predominantly by diesel and gasoline fuel. The Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2007 Appropriations bill passed the yesterday evening and must now be approved by the United States Senate.
05.24.2006	Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore) issued the following statement today hours after learning that an agent in the FBI field office in Portland, Oregon attempted to recruit a potential informant in City Hall. “The report that the FBI would consider trolling for information in Portland City Hall is stunning. At a time when there is evidence that the FBI has been overwhelmed with information and facing serious problems internally, it's disconcerting that the agency maybe casting about for informants in this manner. “While we need the FBI to fight terrorism and protect the rights of American citizens, we now learn that the FBI is maybe looking over shoulders of innocent people, when there is no accusation of wrongdoing. We need our authorities, starting with the FBI, to concentrate on the basics when it comes to the necessary functions of protecting Americans, from terrorism to crime to border security. “One can only hope these reports are wrong. I am hopeful that we will be able to get some straight answers from the FBI as soon as possible.”
05.19.2006	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today approved $1 million for land acquisition in the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area late last night. The funding, proposed by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.), will be used to purchase additional land in the Gorge from willing sellers in order to preserve the integrity of this national treasure. “The Columbia River Gorge is one of the nation’s most spectacular landscapes,” Blumenauer said. “This money will have a tremendous impact on our ability to preserve the Gorge for generations to come.” The Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area stretches east from the Portland/Vancouver metropolitan areas for 85 miles in both Washington and Oregon to the Deschutes River. More than 70,000 people live in the Gorge and more than 2 million people visit the National Scenic Area each year. Over the past seventeen years, public land acquisition has been a success story in the Gorge, as over 35,000 acres have been purchased from willing sellers. “The Columbia River Gorge ranks as the most recognizable site along the Lewis and Clark trail,” Blumenauer continued, “and protecting the lands explored by Meriwether Lewis and William Clark is an appropriate way to commemorate the bicentennial of the Corps of Discovery’s journey as well as the 20th anniversary of the National Scenic Area Act.” "We’re thrilled that Congress recognizes the Columbia Gorge is a national treasure worthy of federal funding in tight times,” said Kevin Gorman, executive director of Friends of the Columbia Gorge. “The appropriation of $1 million for land acquisition in the Gorge means more parks, trails and open spaces for our children and future generations to enjoy." The funding was approved as part of the fiscal year 2007 Interior and the Environment Appropriations bill, legislation funding Department of Interior and Department of Agriculture programs. The Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area was one of only four U.S. Forest Service land acquisition projects funded in the legislation. The U.S. Forest Service manages public land in the National Scenic Area. The legislation must now be voted on by the United States Senate.
05.17.2006	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D - Ore) issued the following statement today hours before the Majority leadership was set to bring their budget proposal to a vote in the United States House of Representatives. The budget proposal would drastically add to the national debt, cut billions of dollars in domestic spending, and authorizes an additional $228 billion in tax cuts. "I cannot support a budget plan that makes the overall budget deficit worse while pushing further tax cuts. The Republicans are not only borrowing the cost of their war, but they are trying to hide these costs in 'emergency' spending bills, instead of the normal budget process. This budget short-changes our future while piling up an unsustainable debt load on our children. And, by only providing one-year "fixes" to the Alternative Minimum Tax, we are putting at risk the futures of middle-class families. "The budget plan calls for an additional $228 billion in tax cuts, simply adding to our borrowed debt and increasing interest payments for taxpayers. Republican leadership continues to punt the hard questions and wait for a dire situation or the next administration to make the tough decisions on issues such as the Alternative Minimum Tax and skyrocketing deficit. Hundreds of thousands of Oregonians are penalized by the AMT, a tax that middle-income families were never intended to pay. "It is time for Congress to face up to our fiscal problems and deal honestly with American taxpayers about the budget accounting and deficits. This budget doesn't begin to do this."
05.09.2006	Washington DC - Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) called on Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld today to immediately investigate the recruitment practices of the Portland Armed Services Center. This action comes on the heals of an Oregonian story, published on Sunday May 7th, that detailed the inappropriate recruitment of Jared Guinther, an 18 year old autistic high school student from Portland, Oregon. Although Blumenauer’s office has coordinated with the Guinther family, and has been in frequent contact with the Army recruiting battalion in Portland regarding this issue, he believes this may not be an isolated case of inappropriate recruiting practices and therefore needs a thorough review. “Though I am relieved that the Army decided today to discharge Jared, I am deeply concerned about a wider trend of abuses in the recruiting process,” Blumenauer said. “I have written to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld demanding an Army Inspector General investigation into this specific situation, as well as the breadth of recruitment practices.” In his letter to Sec. Rumsfeld demanding an investigation by the Army Inspector General, Blumenauer writes: “Military recruiters face extreme pressure to meeting enlistment targets and quotas. As such, I am concerned that the military has created a situation where recruiters are pressured to act unethically in order to successfully fulfill their orders. Blumenauer hopes that a complete, external investigation will determine what actually happened in this particular recruitment case, which specific individuals should be held responsible for the actions taken, and what failures in the recruitment process allowed it to occur.
05.04.2006	Washington DC - Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) issued the following statement today, opposing H.R. 4975, the so-called “Lobbying Accountability Act,” backed by Republican leaders in the House of Representatives. Although its sponsors have labeled the bill a major reform effort, most organizations concerned with ethics and lobbying reform oppose H.R. 4975, calling it far too weak to be effective. “The legislation before us today is a missed opportunity to fix an area in great need of reform,” stated Blumenauer. “This bill does little to rein in the activities of lobbyists and members. The restrictive rule for its consideration expressly prohibited many viable alternatives from being considered. “The Ethics Committee and the Rules Committee can take a number of actions to improve our broken ethics system. But what we should and must do is have an independent process. My colleague from Oregon, Greg Walden, and I crafted an amendment to establish an independent commission, composed of former Members of Congress, who would be able to govern Congress in a fair and transparent manner. The amendment also provided meaningful reporting and review requirements for both Members and lobbyists, creating a far greater system of accountability and oversight than our current system. Unfortunately, the Rules Committee did not make this amendment in order. “Our constituents will no longer stand for secretive legislative activity that hides bill sponsorship and tolerates missing fingerprints. We must be given enough time to understand and digest proposals. The only reason why we shouldn’t have a minimum of three days to examine legislative proposals is if there is a real emergency, as determined by a vote of the House. “If we are to restore voters’ faith in both their representatives and our representative system, we must do more. It is not enough to simply catch and punish those who broke the law; we must do more if we are to rekindle the public’s trust in our work and our integrity.”
03.30.2006	The House of Representatives today approved an amendment to the Higher Education Act authored by Oregon Congressmen Earl Blumenauer and David Wu along with their colleague Vern Ehlers (R-Mich.), directing the U.S. Secretary of Education to convene a summit of higher education experts on sustainability. The amendment was inspired by Portland State University’s leadership in the area of sustainability. “If America is to be competitive in the 21st century economy, it must become a leader in sustainable practices, processes, and products,” said Blumenauer. “This amendment creates a National Summit on Sustainability to highlight the growing body of academic research and development in sustainability and to strengthen our universities’ contributions to our economic growth.” “The American people want the federal government to take a leadership role in reducing the use of environmentally harmful fossil fuels and our dependence on foreign oil," stated Congressman David Wu, a member, along with Congressman Ehlers, of the House Education and the Workforce Committee. "Today Congressman Blumenauer, Ehlers and I have done just that. Our amendment will encourage colleges and universities, like Portland State University in my district, to educate the next generation of scientists, engineers, planners, and business professionals to help in the development of new tools and strategies for environmental and resource conservation, energy efficiency and more sustainable development.” “Whether it is operating green buildings or incorporating environmental, economic, and social sustainability into our curriculum, I am pleased that Portland State University faculty, staff, and students are leading the way on this crucial world issue,” said Daniel O. Bernstine, president of Portland State University. “The amendment advanced today by Congressmen Blumenauer, Ehlers, and Wu brings national attention to the role that higher education institutions must play in developing sustainability operations and programs. Portland State University stands ready to work with the Secretary of Education, business leaders, and federal agency leaders on the summit on sustainability. This is an official invitation for the Secretary to hold the summit in Portland, Oregon, the nation’s most advanced sustainability laboratory.” Sustainable development practices are being advanced by hundreds of U.S. companies, cities and government agencies through a variety of international agencies. Educating and training the next generation of scientists, engineers, environmental managers, planners and business professionals can help in the development of new tools and strategies for environmental enhancement and resource conservation, energy efficiency and more sustainable development. Portland State University has a unique professional certificate program for those in the field of sustainability and a graduate certificate program in sustainability has been added to PSU's curriculum to make students competitive in the current job market. Collaborative research initiatives with business and government that address pressing development issues are also underway. The University is currently working across the campus to conserve energy, replacing light fixtures, installing low-flow water systems and harvesting rainwater to be used in the restrooms. PSU's efforts to construct "green" buildings and to use smart technology for energy and water use are expected to save $275,000 annually- the equivalent of tuition costs for 80 students. PSU was awarded two Portland ‘Best’ awards for its innovative alternative transportation program and stormwater management in green buildings. The lawmakers’ amendment was approved as part of the Higher Education Act, legislation the House of Representatives is expected to approve tomorrow, March 30th. The legislation must then be approved by the United States Senate.
03.23.2006	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Earl Blumenauer will join Congressman Peter DeFazio and Congresswoman Darlene Hooley in hosting a forum to hear about people’s experience with the new Medicare Part D prescription drug program, and discuss resources to help seniors and the disabled learn about and enroll in the program. The event will be held at 5:00 p.m. on Monday, March 27 at the Hollywood Senior Center at 1820 NE 40th Ave. in Portland.. Since enrollment in the new Medicare Part D program began on November 23, 2005 there have been endless reports about seniors, the disabled and their families having difficulty using the program’s website, gathering information about the drug plans and deciding which plan works best for them. While all three Members of Congress voted against the complicated and expensive Medicare Modernization Act, and share seniors’ frustrations that the program is confusing and for many doesn’t provide adequate relief from the high cost of prescription drugs, they have worked with Oregon groups to develop resources to help seniors find their way through the new Medicare Part D prescription drug program. Blumenauer, DeFazio and Hooley will listen to the experiences people have had with the program to date, and encourage people to submit letters sharing their personal experiences with the Medicare Part D program which they will make part of the congressional record on the program. The three members will be holding similar forums earlier in the day in Salem and Eugene. WHO: Congressman Earl Blumenauer Congressman Peter DeFazio Congresswoman Darlene Hooley WHAT: Listen to experiences of people with the new Medicare Part D prescription drug program WHEN: 5:00 – 6:00 p.m. Monday, March 27 WHERE: Hollywood Senior Center 1820 NE 40th Ave. Portland
03.15.2006	Congressman Earl Blumenauer will announce legislation on Friday that will direct the President to redeploy United States Armed Forces from Iraq, beginning with National Guard soldiers currently in the country. "Our security depends on the President changing the course in Iraq," said Blumenauer. "This legislation will begin the redeployment of our troops with the National Guard because they also have an important role here at home, fighting forest fires, providing hurricane relief, and keeping our country safe." Although other resolutions have been introduced in Congress directing the President to withdrawal troops from Iraq, Blumenauer’s legislation would be the first to direct a troop withdrawal starting with National Guard soldiers. March 20th 2006 marks the third anniversary of United States military involvement in Iraq. Blumenauer opposed the original authorization for war, and has regularly opposed all "emergency" funding for the war. In November 2005, he laid out an 11 point plan for the sensible withdrawal of troops from Iraq.
02.27.2006	Washington DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) announced today that he is accepting entries for the Annual Congressional Art Competition for high school students. This competition provides students a unique opportunity to showcase their artistic talent at the United States Capitol in Washington, DC. The winning student’s art will be displayed in the Capitol, and the student will be invited to attend the ribbon-cutting ceremony. The Congressional Art Competition was first launched in 1982. Since then, thousands of contests have been conducted throughout the country, involving more than 650,000 high school students. Each Member of Congress sponsors a local art competition in their Congressional District and selects one winning entry. The winning piece of art from each District is displayed in the Capitol for one year. The competition begins immediately, and all entries must be submitted no later than Friday, April 7, 2006. Entrants must be high school students from the Third Congressional District of Oregon. Letters asking for artwork were sent to all high schools in the District earlier this month. To participate, each student must fill out an application and follow guidelines set by the U.S. House of Representatives. The winning student will receive an invitation to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the new display in the U.S. Capitol Building, on June 28, 2006 and three round-trip airline tickets to Washington, DC courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Eligible entries should be delivered to 729 NE Oregon St., Suite #115, Portland, OR 97232. For more information or to receive competition guidelines and an application visit Blumenauer’s website at www.house.gov/blumenauer or contact Kathie Eastman in Congressman Blumenauer’s office at 503-231-2300.
02.17.2006	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) was appointed yesterday to serve on the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Human Rights, and International Operations (AGHRIO) of the House of Representatives Committee on International Relations. Blumenauer has been a member of the Committee on International Relations since 2001, and will continue to serve as a member of the Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific. Blumenauer has been a leader in the fight to end the genocide in Darfur and promote sustainable development in Africa. Blumenauer authored the “Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act” which recently became law. The new law strengthens United States’ efforts to improve access to safe drinking water and sanitation in Africa. He is also a member of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus. In addition to its regional jurisdiction, the AGHRIO Subcommittee has jurisdiction over all human rights issues, the State Department’s operations, the diplomatic service, foreign buildings, the Red Cross, international family planning and child survival activities, the UN, international broadcasting, and public diplomacy.
02.15.2006	Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) responded to President Bush’s budget request to Congress today, with the following statement: “The president continues to play fast and loose with our fiscal future. At a time when the administration has ackowledged this year’s budget deficit will be the largest in our history, at $423 billion, the Republicans are preparing, at the President’s urging, another $70 billion in tax cuts, to add to our debt. Meanwhile, the budget proposes shortsighted cuts in important priorities for Oregonians, including education, which will see the largest reduction in at least a decade. “The severity of our fiscal situation is actually understated since the President is withholding from the budget, the cost of the war in Iraq and the need to fix the stealth alternative minimum tax, a tax that will devastate middle income Oregonians over the next ten years. The AMT patch alone would reduce revenues by over $800 billion over the next ten years. “This is just the beginning of a critical budget debate and I remain committed to working through the budget and appropriations process to ensure our nation’s budget reflects the reality and priorities of Oregonians.”
02.15.2006	Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) and Tri-Met have learned today that the US Department of Transportation has proposed $80 million for the I-205/Downtown Mall MAX line and another $27.6 million for the Washington County Commuter Rail as part of their proposed Federal Transit Administration (FTA) FY2007 budget. “I could not be prouder of our regional community,” Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) said. “Every year, we face increased competition for federal transportation dollars and our success as a region is due to the hard work of transportation officials and citizens alike. I’m delighted that the U.S. Department of Transportation has recognized and rewarded the good work done here. “This funding also ensures that we’ll have a full range of public transit options to serve our region: bus, streetcar, an expanded light rail system, and now, commuter rail,” Blumenauer added. “We’ll need all of these to continue to meet the travel demands of a growing region.” The proposed budget announces FTA’s intention to enter into a Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA), or a long-term funding commitment, for both projects. These FFGAs guarantee FTA’s funding commitment for the life of the project. Only five projects nationwide were listed for this distinction. Overall, the Bush administration’s 2007 budget, presented to Congress yesterday, proposes $1.5 billion for transit programs nationwide. In addition to the New Starts program, the proposed budget includes funding for 23 existing transit projects nationwide, including the completion of Portland’s Interstate MAX transit line. A complete list of projects recommended under FTA’s Annual Report on New Starts is available online at www.fta.dot.gov.
02.01.2006	Washington, D.C.–Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D–Ore) issued the following statement late yesterday following the passing of civil rights leader Coretta Scott King. Blumenauer issued the statement as the House of Representatives was considering House Resolution 655, a resolution honoring her life and accomplishments. “It is symbolic that Coretta Scott King died on the 141st Anniversary of the13th amendment to the Constitution, which abolished slavery. The passage of this amendment by two votes during the Civil War reminds us that the fight against racial discrimination and for human dignity has been a pitched battle throughout our history.” “Coretta Scott King was in the forefront of the revolution of progress and heartbreak. She will be remembered, not just as the widow of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., but as a woman of great courage and dignity in her own right, whose role in the civil rights movement is only now being fully appreciated. I join with the nation in extending condolences to the King family and in honoring the life of Coretta Scott King.”
02.01.2006	Washington, D.C.–Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D–Ore) issued the following statement today in response to President Bush’s call for alternative energy sources and less oil dependence, in last evening’s Annual State of the Union Address: “The President gave us no hint that he understands Americans’ problems – or knows how to solve them. Instead of proposing common sense solutions, he continued to advocate and defend the misguided policies of his administration. One of the most glaring examples was his call to end our “addiction to oil.” He never once mentioned conservation, which is the cheapest, quickest and most effective way to reduce this costly and dangerous addiction. “I’m disappointed that the President still wants to drill, dig, and subsidize our way our of his energy crisis. His proposal to rely on nuclear plants that require federal financing, his pursuit of futuristic hydrogen cell technology while ignoring cars that are already fuel efficient, and his continued advocacy for coal reflect his commitment to failed energy policies of the past. “President Bush’s rhetoric on reducing dependence on oil by promoting new technology does not match reality. Bush’s policies for the past five years have been feeding our addiction to oil. Last year, when the President and the Republican-led Congress had an opportunity to address energy issues, they crafted a 1950s-era Energy Plan based on increased fossil fuel production and imported oil. In that legislation, less than one-quarter of the tax incentives went to alternative fuels and energy efficiency. In addition, Republicans defeated efforts to increase funding for research, development, and deployment of new energy generation and new energy efficiency technologies. “I am proud to say that many Americans understand what we need to do. The public understands that conservation is the best way to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Just closing the loopholes in our current fuel efficiency standards could cut U.S. oil dependence by 1.5 million barrels per day in 2025. “If President Bush is serious about conserving energy and saving American jobs, he should figure out how to help American automakers regain a competitive edge on fuel efficient and hybrid cars. Instead, last night we heard more of the same empty promises and a lack of vision.”
02.01.2006	Washington, D.C.–Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D–Ore) issued the following statement today regarding H. Res. 648, a bill introduced by members of the Republican leadership to eliminate former members’ access to the floor of the House of Representatives and to the members’ gym. The legislation was approved today by a vote of 379 – 50. Blumenauer voted for the legislation. “Allowing former Members of Congress in lobbying positions to visit the House floor and members’ gym not only looks bad, but distorts the legislative process.” “However, this effort is only a small step toward the comprehensive ethics reform that’s needed. This Congress must work together to address recent abuses and ensure Members of Congress and the administration receive independent oversight. I regret that the legislation considered today is so far from what we really need and that it has taken a scandal to enact needed reform.” Blumenauer also joined more than 150 House Democratic colleagues to introduce the “Honest Leadership and Open Government Act.” This bill represents an aggressive reform package to reverse Congressional Republican excesses and restore the public’s trust. Included in this proposal: a ban on travel and gifts from lobbyists; reducing the unprecedented political access given to corporations and lobbying firms; ending the "dead of night" special interest provisions; requiring disclosure of earmarks; and extending the lobbying ban on former members of Congress from one year to two years. Blumenauer is also a sponsor of another reform effort, H.R. 1642, the Obligation of Funds Transparency Act, introduced by Congressman Jeff Flake (R – Ariz.). This bill would mandate that agencies not fund “earmarks” unless they are contained in the actual language of a bill, rather than a bill report.
01.31.2006	Washington, D.C.–Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D–Ore) issued the following statement tonight in response to President Bush’s Annual State of the Union Address: “The President gave us no hint that he understands Americans’ problems – or knows how to solve them. Instead of proposing common sense solutions, he continued to advocate and defend the misguided policies of his administration – from the quagmire in Iraq, to the failed response to hurricane Katrina, to spying on the American public, to his refusal to help those who lack adequate health insurance.” “One of the most glaring examples was his call to end our addiction to oil. He never once mentioned “conservation” which is the cheapest, quickest and most effective way to reduce this costly and dangerous addiction.” “The area that could most have used Presidential leadership was fighting the cloud of corruption that hangs over Washington, DC, tainting everything that Congress does. It is unfortunate that there were no strong words from the President of his disgust with these abuses or a commitment to clean them up.”
01.24.2006	Portland, Ore.— Oregon’s five House Members, led by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) last week called on House leaders to reject efforts by the Department of Defense to cut back on the number of National Guard personnel. The Pentagon has proposed cutting about 24,500 Army and National Guard members over the next five years, according to recent news reports. “We believe any proposal to reduce the National Guard’s end strength will only further damage our military preparedness, our total force readiness, and harm our nation’s security,” said the five lawmakers in a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Since the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001, the demands on the National Guard have grown to include the homeland defense mission in addition to its traditional missions stateside and abroad. Unfortunately, neither the Guard’s funding nor its size have grown to adequately meet its entire Constitutional role.” “We fully support the actions of the delegation and appreciate their support during these difficult times we are living in,” said Colonel Mike Caldwell, Deputy Director of the Oregon Military Department. “The view of the Pentagon budgeters is not the reality of what we experience at the local level. We are delighted that the delegation is bringing our concerns to Congress’ attention.” The Army’s budget proposal is now being reviewed at the Department of Defense and final funding levels must be approved by Congress. A copy of the letter was sent to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. The full text of the letter signed by Blumenauer as well as Congressmen Greg Walden, Peter DeFazio and David Wu and Congresswoman Darlene Hooley, follows: January 13, 2006 Dear Chairman Hunter and Ranking Member Skelton, We are writing to express our concern over media reports of a planned force reduction in the Army and Air National Guard. We are additionally concerned that these reductions might include units from the Oregon National Guard. Cutting the National Guard makes no sense in the current security environment. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001, the demands on the National Guard have grown to include the homeland defense mission in addition to its traditional missions stateside and abroad. Unfortunately, neither the Guard’s funding nor its size have grown to adequately meet its entire Constitutional role. National Guard forces have played critical roles in both Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. There is no reason to believe that they wouldn’t need to play a similarly large role in any future missions in the Global War on Terror. In light of this, we believe any proposal to reduce the National Guard’s end strength will only further damage our military preparedness, our total force readiness, and harm our nation’s security. Finally, as you know, the outstanding men and women of the National Guard play a crucial role in our communities, providing vital services that range from public safety to disaster recovery. Reductions to these key service providers at home will have grave consequences. Just recently the Oregon National Guard responded with over 2000 citizen-soldiers to the areas devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Without this irreplaceable National Guard presence, our home-front recovery efforts will be irrevocably hindered. The citizens of Oregon take great pride in the achievements of our state National Guard as they do their duty to keep the state and nation secure, from hurricane recovery efforts to the deployment of Oregon Guard units to Iraq, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, and elsewhere. We hope that you will join with us in recognizing the critical role the National Guard plays in keeping Americans safe and reject any proposals to cut the strength of the National Guard. While we support efforts to eliminate unnecessary spending in the Department of Defense’s budget, a force reduction in the Army and Air National Guard would put the safety and security of Americans at risk. Instead, we stand ready to work with you to ensure that the Guard receives the funding and troop levels it needs to meet its multiple critical missions. Sincerely, Earl Blumenauer, Greg Walden, Peter DeFazio, Darlene Hooley and David Wu
12.13.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) issued the following statement in opposition to extension of the US PATRIOT Act. The U.S House of Representatives approved extension of the legislation earlier today. The Senate must still vote on the measure. "With the PATRIOT Act set to expire at the end of the year, Congress has once again missed an opportunity to narrow and tighten the legislation. "I opposed the original PATRIOT Act, as it was rushed into law in the wake of 9/11, and I strongly oppose its extension. The new law tries to appease both sides of the debate by extending sunsets on the two most controversial provisions, library records and "roving" wiretaps, while making 14 of the existing 16 provisions permanent thus limiting Congress' ability to exercise checks and balances. This is a step backwards. "It puts the administration on too long of a leash and does not force Congress to review and modify the act as needed. We can keep America safe without compromising our civil liberties."
11.09.2005	Washington, D.C. -- The House of Representatives today gave final approval for legislation providing funding for several water infrastructure and environmental projects in the Portland Metropolitan area. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) requested congressional support for the projects earlier this year. "I'm pleased that Congress approved these funds which will protect and restore water quality and fish habitat as well as contribute to the environmental leadership of the Portland Metropolitan area," said Blumenauer. Projects funded in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Conference Report include the following: · $220,000 for the restoration of Johnson Creek. This project will implement a series of restoration projects designed to address impaired water quality and natural resource functions of Johnson Creek within the Springwater Industrial Area. The project is within an area slated for industrial development in the near term and will help leverage private development by addressing important stream corridor needs. It is supported by the City of Gresham, the Johnson Creek Watershed Council and the Department of Environmental Quality. · $500,000 for energy conservation improvements to the Armory Theater in downtown Portland. The theater is designed as a green building with the goal of being the first historic landmark building and the first performing arts facility in the world to achieve LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Platinum status. Funding will be used to install solar panels to provide 20 percent of electric needs and use of micro turbines, high efficiency generators powered by bio-diesel or natural gas that provide low cost, low-emission electricity. · $2 million for Lower Columbia River ecosystem restoration. The Lower Columbia River Estuary is one of 28 estuaries designated an “Estuary of National Significance,” with significant environmental, cultural, and historic significance. However, as the estuary also suffers from degraded water quality and habitat loss, habitat restoration is critically important to restore salmon and has been called for in the Biological Opinion for the Federal Columbia River Power System. · $400,000 for floodplain restoration on the Willamette River. This funding will be used to undertake a feasibility study on the Willamette River, which has been designated as an American Heritage River, to identify opportunities to restore natural floodplain function in the combined interests of ecosystem restoration, natural flood storage and other benefits. The project will contribute to the long-term restoration of habitat in the Willamette basin, an important step toward the recovery of federally-listed threatened fish species under the Endangered Species Act. · $51,000 to stabilize a dike at St. Johns Landfill, located in a sensitive wetland in North Portland. Surface water is eating away at the perimeter dike around St. Johns landfill, which contains hazardous wastes that could contaminate the Columbia Slough. Funding will be used to complete planning and design, and for construction to carry out repairs to stabilize the dike. · $15 million for Columbia River channel improvements. This project, to deepen the Columbia River by three feet, will help accommodate the deeper-draft cargo ships that comprise a growing share of worldwide shipping fleets. · $150,000 for a Solar Photovoltaic Test Facility System at Portland State University. This funding will help PSU create the first large-scale solar test facility installation on a university campus to be used primarily as an educational and research tool. The funding for these projects was included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Conference Report, legislation funding the Army Corps of Engineers and certain Department of Energy and Department of Interior programs for the coming year. The legislation originally passed the House on May 24th and was approved by the United States Senate on July 1st.
11.09.2005	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer issued the following statement today following the decision by Amtrak’s Board of Directors to fire David Gunn as their CEO and President. Mr. Gunn, who had served in this position for the last three years, has been widely credited by Republicans and Democrats alike for his leadership at the passenger rail line and for making strides in turning around the corporation’s financial woes. “It is stunning that the Amtrak Board decided to relieve David Gunn of his duties as Amtrak President. Mr. Gunn has brought a degree of professionalism, candor, and confidence to the management of Amtrak that is unprecedented in the agency's history. “Amtrak has continually been hampered by Congress and administrations that have provided conflicting goals, mixed messages, and inadequate funding along with restrictions on operations. David Gunn came at a perilous time for Amtrak and turned it around, gaining the confidence of everybody he worked with and helping set the stage for Amtrak finally being able to the reach the goals and expectations of the most important group - our constituents. “The firing of Mr. Gunn is particularly surprising as it comes soon after a bipartisan group in Congress succeeded in standing up to Amtrak opponents and providing funding for the agency in next year’s transportation appropriations bill. This is a blow that will have detrimental effects for years to come; it is unprecedented, unnecessary, and will have serious negative consequences. We can only hope that the administration and Board of Directors come to their senses and retain the services of this outstanding public service with proven competence.”
11.07.2005	Washington, DC – The “Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act of 2005,” was passed by a margin of 319 to 34 late last evening. H.R. 1973, authored by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) and cosponsored by over 100 bipartisan members of the House, expands access to clean water for millions of people in the developing world. The bill honors the late Senator Paul Simon (D-Ill.), an early leader on issues of safe drinking water and sanitation. “Not only is this bill the right thing to do, it recognizes that what we do abroad affects our security, our jobs, our health, and our way of life,” Blumenauer said shortly after the bill’s passage. Blumenauer’s legislation highlights a pressing issue: because of lack of access to safe water and sanitation, one child dies unnecessarily every 15 seconds. Safe water and sanitation access are critical to achieving United States development objectives, such as fighting poverty and promoting girls’ education. For example, studies show that millions of hours of economic productivity are lost because, at any given time, half of the people in the developing world are sick from a water-related disease and that access to water empowers women and girls who, in many places, are unable to get an education or hold a job because they have to spend hours walking to fetch water for their families. The “Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act,” which has been called “landmark legislation,” establishes providing affordable and equitable access to water and sanitation as a major objective of United States foreign policy and directs the Secretary of State to develop a strategy with specific timetables, benchmarks, and goals to bring together water programs across the federal government, to integrate water and sanitation into other development programs, and to meet the commitment made by the United States and 185 other countries to halve the percentage of people without access to safe water or sanitation by 2015. It ensures that water and sanitation assistance is focused on the places with the greatest need, includes efforts to build developing world capacity so recipients do not remain dependant on U.S. assistance, and sets policy to ensure that water and sanitation assistance is cost-effective. Blumenauer’s bill, H.R. 1973, complements legislation introduced by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, S.492, the “Safe Water: Currency for Peace Act.” The bill now awaits action by the Senate, where Senator First has pledged to work to merge the two bills for enactment this Congress.
11.03.2005	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) will testify today in support of his bill, H.R. 3524, “The Safe Communities Act,” at a hearing of the House Economic Development, Public Building and Emergency Management Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “The Safe Communities Act,” which Blumenauer introduced earlier this year with Rep. Curt Weldon (R-Penn.), would provide grants to states and local communities to help prepare for disasters like Hurricane Katrina. “The devastation of Hurricane Katrina has presented us with an unprecedented opportunity to focus the spotlight of public attention and political concern on not just doing the best job possible helping the victims of this tragic storm, but making it less likely that others suffer needlessly in the future,” Blumenauer said. “While we continue to focus on relief efforts, it is clear that preventing future devastation is the best way to honor the memory of those who have died and respect the losses of the hundreds of thousands of survivors.” Specifically, “The Safe Communities Act” would create a new grant program to support state, local and regional planning activities aimed at reducing threats posed by natural and human-caused disasters. Grant-eligible projects include: comprehensive risk assessment and inventory of critical infrastructure, land-use planning for natural hazards and terrorism security, updating building codes and urban design techniques for risk-reduction. Blumenauer continued, “The grants authorized by the Safe Communities Act will provide communities the federal tools to plan in a safe and sustainable manner.” Blumenauer gained recent attention as the member of Congress who had repeatedly warned about the disaster waiting to happen in New Orleans. Since coming to Congress in 1996, Blumenauer has become a leader in disaster preparedness, mitigation, and recovery. He also worked for years with former FEMA Director James Lee Witt and former Representative Doug Bereuter (R-Neb.) to craft flood insurance reform that would help make people safer. President Bush signed the “Bunning-Bereuter-Blumenauer Flood Insurance Reform Act” in June, 2004 (P. L. 108-264).
10.27.2005	Washington, DC – On Monday, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) will discuss a Republican proposal to cut nearly $9 billion from student financial aid programs. This action, included in H.R. 609, would be the largest cut ever to the nation’s federal student aid programs. If these cuts are enacted, the typical student borrower - already $17,500 in debt - will have to pay up to $5,800 more for his or her college loans. “One of my biggest frustrations is Congress’ inability to provide more financial support for students,” Blumenauer said. “Scholarships and Pell Grants are critical to help young people establish their careers without being crushed by debt. The last thing we should be doing is cutting these necessary programs, but instead, some in Congress are trying to destroy them. We have our priorities wrong when we shortchange the future to continue misguided tax cuts.”
10.26.2005	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) issued the following statement in response to the House of Representatives vote to approve the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round and keep the Air National Guard 142nd Fighter Wing at the Portland Air Base: “I am elated that our 142nd Fighter Wing is finally off the chopping block and that the Oregon Air Guard will continue protecting our region’s skies. Today’s vote finalizes the BRAC Commission’s decision to save the 142nd. I was proud to be part of a united effort from our entire congressional delegation and our governor to keep this vital regional and national asset on the job. “The men and women of the Oregon National Guard know that I will continue to fight for them as they do their duty to keep the state and nation secure. From the pilots to the maintenance crews to the Guard’s top cadre, the 142nd Fighter Wing is truly a national treasure that will continue to stand guard for us. Today, all of Oregon breathes a sigh of relief.” On May 13, 2005 Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld forwarded his recommendations of base closures and realignments to the BRAC Commission. This list included realigning the Air National Guard 142nd Fighter Wing and the Air Force Reserve 939th Air Refueling Wing out of the Portland Air Base. After a series of field hearings and careful deliberations, the BRAC commission on Friday, August 26th, 2005, voted to keep the Air National Guard 142nd Fighter Wing in Portland, contrary to Rumsfeld’s recommendation. The BRAC commission sent their final recommendations to the President on September 8th. The President approved the recommendations and sent them in their entirety to Congress on September 15. By law, Congress had 45 legislative days to reject the recommendations in their entirety or else they are ultimately approved. Today’s vote in the US House of Representatives finalizes the BRAC recommendations and paves the way for their implementation. For more information about BRAC process, please visit the BRAC Commission’s website at https://www.defenselink.mil/brac/
10.07.2005	Portland, OR – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) issued the following statement today, regarding the Republican’s newest energy bill that is to be debated and voted on by the House of Representatives this afternoon: “I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 3893, the “Second Energy Special Interest Act of 2005.” The Bush administration’s energy policy and the machinations of the Republican leadership on this subject have an “Alice in Wonderland” quality. “It was the Vice President, after all, who said that energy conservation may have been a virtue but it was no basis for a national energy policy. Yet just last week the President was compelled by circumstances to urge the only things that are really going to work to get us out of this energy crisis: conservation, the use of mass transit, and changing American driving habits. Unfortunately, the administration has not put forward any concrete proposals or recommendations for conservation initiatives. Instead, he has cut funding for the conservation and efficiency programs we already have in place. “It is unconscionable that this most recent energy bill completely misses the point. We're not going to drill, dig, and subsidize our way out of this energy crisis. Burning money is not an efficient way to produce energy. We must have an energy program for this century, not the 1950s. This new energy policy should consist of more efficiency, new technology, and less petroleum. “If we’re going to spend more money, it should be invested in programs that actually help people. Higher fuel efficiency standards, public transit, and even bicycles, will do much more to reduce our dependence on foreign oil than what’s in this bill. If just two percent of trips taken nationwide were taken by bikes, we would save more than two thirds of a billion gallons of gasoline a year and up to $5 billion in total consumer driving costs. “Increasing fuel economy standards by a mere 1.5 miles per gallon - less than 10% - over the next ten years would save more oil than we currently import from the Persian Gulf and more than we could ever recover from the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, combined. “Last but not least, this bill’s focus on making it easier to build more refineries by limiting our environmental standards completely misses the point. The fact is, the energy industry makes more money by restricting refinery capacity; the refiners’ profits have jumped eighty percent over the past five years. As long as the oil companies stand to make more money with limited supply, this approach is doomed to fail. “This energy bill is not only a missed opportunity, but it is a cynical effort by Washington Republicans to exploit the tragedy of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita to give more subsidies to oil companies and to roll back environmental laws.”
10.05.2005	WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) issued the following statement today regarding Gonzales v. Oregon, which is scheduled to be heard today by the United States Supreme Court. If the Court rules that 1971 Controlled Substances Act gives the Justice Department authority to pre-empt Oregon’s Death with Dignity law, the Oregon law could be overturned. “Oregon voters have overwhelmingly approved our Death with Dignity law -- not once but twice: first in 1994 and again in 1997,” Blumenauer stated. “It has also been upheld by the Oregon Supreme Court. “I have been watching the Bush administration’s numerous attempts to undermine or repeal Oregon’s Death with Dignity Act for more than four years. When the 9th US Circuit Court rebuffed former Attorney General Ashcroft’s effort to overturn the law in 2001, he filed an appeal the day before he resigned, ensuring that incoming Attorney General Alberto Gonzales would take on the issue. “These unfortunate tactics leave families and voters vulnerable to their fervor to tell others how to lead their lives and in this case; end their lives. “The decision to end one’s life in the face of pain or a terminal illness has to be the most difficult decision a person can make. Oregon voters have twice decided that government should support, rather than interfere with, this most personal of decisions. Yet while this administration maintains that it respects states’ rights, it hypocritically seeks to negate the will of voters by imposing its own moral judgment and ideological agenda on how people should lead their lives and even end their lives. “Oregon’s Death with Dignity Act gives people the right and ability to make their own end-of-life decision. Voters in other states should be allowed the same rights without interference from the federal government.”
09.28.2005	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) announced today that he has introduced a resolution of inquiry directing the Transportation Security Agency to turn over to Congress the information and model used to make recent airport screener reallocations. On July 26th, 2005, TSA announced a major reallocation of airport screeners across the country, notifying airports of the changes, but did not provide documentation for any of the changes or for a period of public comment or debate prior to enacting them. “Yesterday, I introduced a resolution of inquiry regarding the recent reallocation of TSA airport screeners that are leading to massive cuts in screener workforce levels at Portland International Airport, and at many other airports across the country,” Blumenauer said. “Only with all of the information TSA used during its decision making process can our airport authorities ensure that they were treated fairly by this process. But unfortunately, TSA has refused to be forthcoming with this information, making it impossible to know if we were treated fairly or not.” The TSA, created after the Sept. 11 attacks to oversee airport security, is limited by law to have at most 45,000 screeners stationed among all of our nation’s airports. Last year, TSA made its first reallocation of screeners based on “numerous operational parameters at airports that impact the screening function, including arrival distributions, passenger and baggage throughput, airlines flight schedules, and passenger volume.” In response to TSA’s most recent reallocation, Reps. Blumenauer, Peter DeFazio (D – Ore.), Darlene Hooley (D – Ore.), Greg Walden (R – Ore.), David Wu (D – Ore.), Brian Baird (D – Wash.) and Senators Ron Wyden (D – Ore.) and Gordon Smith (R – Ore.) requested detailed information on the screener allocation model used and the information that went in to making these cuts at our nation’s airports. Months later however, TSA has still not provided any of the requested information, thereby prompting this legislative inquiry. H. Res. 463 was introduced Tuesday, September 27, 2005 with 13 bipartisan cosponsors and was referred to the House Committee on Homeland Security. Because of the nature of the inquiry, the Committee on Homeland Security has 14 legislative days to act on the resolution.
09.28.2005	Portland, OR – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) issued the following statement today, after the indictment of Republican majority leader in the US House of Representatives, Tom DeLay. DeLay was charged earlier today by a Texas grand jury for a single count of criminal conspiracy stemming from allegations that he helped funnel over $190,000 in illegal corporate contributions to election campaigns in his home state of Texas. “We shouldn’t pass judgment until Congressman DeLay gets his day in court, but the charges that have been levied against him are extremely significant given a pattern of questionable practices by DeLay and his associates for years. It is part of a disturbing trend of ethical lapses by those in power in Washington, D. C. Hopefully, one positive development is that this change of leadership may finally give us the opportunity to deal with critical policy issues, and not politics on the floor of the House.”
08.26.2005	Portland, Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) issued the following statement in response to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission’s vote to keep the Air National Guard 142nd Fighter Wing at the Portland Air Base: “I am elated that our Oregon Air National Guard will continue ensuring the safety of our region’s skies. I was proud to be part of a united effort from our entire congressional delegation and our governor, making a vigorous case to keep this vital regional and national asset on the job. “However, the real credit for the Commission’s decision goes to the outstanding men and women in Oregon’s Air National Guard. Their superior performance made the case to keep the Fighter Wing more eloquently than words or charts and graphs ever could. From the pilots to the maintenance crews to the Guard’s top cadre, the 142nd Fighter Wing is truly a national treasure which will continue to stand guard for us. This is a proud day for Oregon and the country.” The BRAC Commission makes its formal recommendations to the President by September 8th. The President and then Congress will take final action on the recommendations later this year.
08.19.2005	Portland, Ore. - Congressmen Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) emerged from the Mt. Hood National Forest late Thursday afternoon, having successfully completed their 41-mile hike around Mt. Hood. They began their hike early Monday morning. “Spending four days on the Timberline Trail has helped us better understand the challenges Mt. Hood faces,” Blumenauer stated. “Besides getting a firsthand look at our mountain, we spent more than 30 hours in meetings on the move with a variety of knowledgeable people along the way, who were willing to share information and perspectives on the mountain’s forests, geology, hydrology, history, spiritual significance, and users.” "Mt. Hood is one of Oregon's most diverse treasures and the issues we face in managing its long-term heath and vitality are as equally varied,” Walden said. “This hike was immensely valuable, affording us the opportunity to learn and understand even more as we move forward with legislation. I appreciate all of the experts who volunteered their time to join Congressman Blumenauer and me this week." Blumenauer said, “For all the work we have done over the last two-and-a-half years, this was the single most important effort to bring the pieces together and understand the context, making the issues surrounding Mt. Hood real.” In addition to their focus on the mountain, there were many opportunities to compare political war stories and exchange reminiscences on the trail. Walden and Blumenauer have a long personal history: Walden’s father, the late Paul Walden, was a distinguished member of the Oregon House of Representatives in the 1970’s. Blumenauer was first elected to the Oregon Legislature in 1972, where he served with Paul Walden on the House Revenue Committee. Congressman Walden also served in the Oregon House and Senate, as well being on the staff of Congressman Denny Smith before being elected to Congress himself in 1998. When Congress reconvenes after Labor Day, Blumenauer and Walden will resume their weekly meetings on Mt. Hood and start drafting specific proposals and legislation that they will present to Oregonians this fall.
07.29.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – A new pilot program designed by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore) has been included into the final version of H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The initiative, called “Conserve By Bike,” establishes within the Department of Transportation a program to oversee up to 10 pilot projects across the country designed to conserve energy resources by providing education and marketing tools to convert car trips to bike trips. “Bicycling is one of the cleanest, healthiest, most efficient and environmentally friendly modes of transportation that exist today,” Blumenauer said in support of his amendment. “Bicycling, as an alternative to automobile travel, can be an important element of a comprehensive energy conservation strategy.” Included in the bill was a $6.2 million authorization for the program. The initiative would also encourage partnerships between stakeholders from transportation, law enforcement, education, public health, environment, and energy fields. Project results and energy savings must be documented, and the Secretary of Transportation is instructed to report to Congress on the results of the pilot program within two years of implementation. Yesterday, the House of Representatives approved the legislation, and the Senate followed suit this afternoon. It is widely expected that the President will sign the legislation in the coming days. Already, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, bicycles are second only to cars as a preferred mode of transportation, demonstrating their significant potential for commuter use. This increase in bike use has been caused in recent years by significant upgrades to the bicycling infrastructure in communities across the country. At a time when these communities are seeking to reduce traffic congestion, improve air quality, increase the safety of their neighborhoods, and decrease petroleum dependence, bicycles offer a relatively simple, energy-saving alternative to driving. “It is time we talk seriously about transportation alternatives as an important component to a comprehensive energy conservation strategy,” Blumenauer said. “The Conserve by Bike Program is a critical step in that direction.”
07.27.2005	Washington, DC –Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.), Don Manzullo (R – Ill.), Sam Farr (D – Calif.), and Gary Miller (R – Calif.), announced today the formation of a bipartisan Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Caucus. As part of their ongoing efforts to increase congressional awareness of the UXO issue, the Congressmen started this caucus to raise awareness about the health, safety, and environmental risks of UXO and to highlight the challenges faced by communities and the federal government in the clean up of UXO and redevelopment of former military properties. "I am excited that the UXO Caucus will bring a new level of attention to our bipartisan efforts to deal with the problem of unexploded ordnance,” Congressman Earl Blumenauer said. “This is one of those common sense issues where the federal government can make a big difference for our communities with only a small investment. The federal government is the largest land-owner in the country and should take this opportunity to lead by example. Cleaning up UXO is important not only for public safety and environmental reasons, but can provide a real economic boost at home." UXO is the unexploded bombs and military munitions that failed to explode during military training or testing. These munitions may be found on or buried under the surface of more than 39 million acres of former military properties. "Several years ago, the Army wanted to fence off thousands of acres of land in the district I represent because it was loaded with Unexploded Ordnance (UXO). The former Savanna Army Depot -- a munitions testing site -- is now a national wildlife refuge open to the public because of teamwork between my office, the Army, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Environmental Protection Agency to seek alternative ways to clean up the site and provide public access," House Small Business Committee Chairman Don Manzullo said. "It is this type of teamwork and information sharing we hope to provide through the Unexploded Ordnance Caucus to speed up UXO clean-up sites so the land can again be productive." Congressman Sam Farr added, "Having dealt with the conundrum of UXO clean up at Fort Ord, I know as well as anybody about the challenges of removing this contamination from our neighborhoods and communities. I am proud to be a co-chair of the new UXO Caucus and hope to really energize Congress to concentrate appropriate resources to resolving this environmental threat. I especially thank Congressman Blumenauer for being the impetus behind this effort and look forward to working with him and the other members of the caucus." “The Army Corps of Engineers have worked hard to remove unexploded ordnance in our communities. For example, in Orange County, California, they have helped ensure the public can fully access O’Neil Park, a 1,700-acre, heavily wooded sanctuary with unprecedented views of the Pacific Ocean and towering Santa Ana Mountains,” said Congressman Gary Miller. “However, there are still millions of acres across the country that need the Army Corps’ attention. I hope the new caucus will highlight the Army Corps’ efforts to open up these lands, while helping us learn about innovative strategies to make sure all of our communities are free from the dangers of UXOs.” Over the next year, the caucus plans to host briefings on the many issues associated with UXO – from unexploded ordnance being turned into the improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that threaten American troops in Iraq to the way that new clean-up technologies can free up millions of acres of land at home for economic development, housing, recreation, or open space. The caucus will also work to facilitate Congressional funding and legislative action on UXO cleanup to increase investment in technology, create business opportunities at home, and reduce the health and safety risk for local communities.
07.26.2005	WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), founder and co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Bike Caucus, introduced a resolution last night congratulating Lance Armstrong and the entire Discovery Channel Pro Cycling Team on their historic victory in the 2005 Tour de France. The resolution also recognizes the outstanding career of Lance Armstrong who has announced his intentions to retire following the completion of tour. “This resolution officially honors and congratulates Lance Armstrong upon his retirement from professional cycling following his 7th successive victory of the Tour de France,” Blumenauer said. “Aside from his many victories as a racer, Lance has become a household name, vital to the promotion of cycling as a sport. These athletic accomplishments are even more dramatic considering his successful battle against widespread cancer. Lance has become a role model to cancer patients and his efforts through the Lance Armstrong Foundation have helped to advance cancer research, diagnosis, treatment, and after-treatment services.” The resolution, H. Res. 381, was introduced with 27 bipartisan co-sponsors including the top ranking member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, James Oberstar (D – Minn.). "Congratulations to Lance Armstrong on his record-shattering seventh Tour de France victory,” said Judith McHale, President and Chief Executive Officer of Discovery Communications, Inc. “Today’s win is the crowning achievement in an illustrious career that has exemplified strength, courage and excellence. It is an honor for the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize Lance's incredible history with this resolution. We also want to congratulate the other members of the Discovery Channel Pro Cycling Team, whose perseverance and commitment to teamwork made this Tour especially memorable. We are proud to sponsor this team of high-quality athletes and look forward to their many successes in the years to come." Blumenauer added, “This resolution is a deserving tribute to Lance Armstrong and his Tour de France victory, commitment to cancer awareness and survivorship, and promotion of bicycling.” The Congressional Bike Caucus, which Blumenauer co founded, now has over 100 members representing both political parties. His “Conserve by Bicycle” amendment was incorporated into the Energy Policy Act (H.R. 6) passed by the House of Representatives earlier this year. He also introduced the Bike Commuter Act (H.R. 807) in February to change the Transportation Fringe Benefit of the tax code to include bicycle commuters.
07.20.2005	WASHINGTON, DC-- Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), issued the following statement today regarding the amicus brief he and other members of the Oregon Congressional delegation filed with the United States Supreme Court regarding Gonzales v. Oregon, which is scheduled to be heard by the court in October. A decision by the Supreme Court in Gonzales v. Oregon could affect Oregon’s Death with Dignity law if the court finds that the 1971 Controlled Substances Act provides the Justice Department authority to preempt Oregon’s law. “As a member of the Oregon delegation, I am proud to support the decision of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals on Gonzales v. Oregon. The amicus brief I have filed with other members of the delegation supports the Court’s decision to uphold Oregon’s Death with Dignity law. “In 1994, Oregon overwhelmingly approved physician-assisted suicide in a statewide vote. Despite a 1997 Supreme Court ruling that the decision to allow physician assisted suicide should be controlled at the state level, the Bush administration has been in a four year battle to overturn our program which ensures that terminally ill patients remain in control of their dying process. Former US Attorney General Ashcroft repeatedly attempted to undermine the Oregon law using various methods. Each time the judge ruled in favor of the Oregon law. “I am pleased that Attorney General Gonzalez’ attempt to overturn the will of the people has been no more successful than his predecessor’s. While physician assisted suicide is a contentious issue, it is an issue handled at the state level and the Attorney General should not be permitted to deprive the citizens of Oregon and the nation the opportunity to make end of life decisions. Oregon has made its decision. Other states should be allowed to make their choice without federal government interference. “For the few who opt to use Oregon’s Death with Dignity law, it is undoubtedly the most difficult and personal healthcare decision one can make. I am hopeful that the administration will end its fruitless efforts to overturn the law, which only make the decision making process more difficult for terminally ill patients.”
07.13.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) and Congressman Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), held a press conference today to discuss an amendment the two will be offering to H.R. 2864, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2005, when it comes before the House of Representatives for a vote this week. The Flake-Blumenauer amendment will ensure that the most expensive project in the bill, the Upper Mississippi River Lock and Dam expansion, is economically justified. H.R. 2864 would authorize a $1.8 billion project to extend the length of seven locks on the Upper Mississippi and Illinois Waterway. This project would be the nation’s most expensive navigation project and would siphon off 10% to 15% of all Corps construction funding for decades. “With the Corps of Engineers facing a $58 billion backlog and a construction budget of less than $2 billion annually, we need to make sure that scarce water resources dollars are spent on economically justified projects,” Blumenauer said. “Funding this controversial project could delay or eliminate funding for hundreds of needed projects across the country.” The economic justification for the project would be a significant increase in barge traffic on the Upper Mississippi and Illinois Waterway. Recently however, studies by the National Academy of Sciences and the Congressional Research Service as well as recent history show that this increase is unlikely to occur. Mississippi River barge traffic was flat from 1980 to 1992 and has declined by more than a third since then. As barge traffic has declined and existing locks have been rehabilitated, wait times to go through the locks also declined. “The Upper Mississippi project has a particularly troubled past. As co-chair and founder of the Army Corps Reform Caucus, I believe this project epitomizes the need for reform and modernization of the Corps,” said Blumenauer. Controversy of the Upper Mississippi River project launched the Corps Reform movement five years ago. In 2000, Corps leaders fired economist Donald Sweeney, who filed for whistle-blower protection when he claimed that Corps officials had ordered him to underestimate how much grain would be shipped to alternative non-barge destinations, such as inland rail and other processing facilities, as barge and grain prices change. The Army’s Inspector General confirmed that the Corps had manipulated data in attempt to justify the project. Flaws in the Corps’ economic models are still outstanding. In a 2004 study, the National Academy of Sciences concluded: “The Corps has …made substantial progress on the study during the past three years. Despite these efforts, the study contains flaws serious enough to limit its credibility and value within the policymaking process.” Blumenauer also pointed out that most of the locks that would be replaced and expanded in the WRDA project have been rehabilitated over the past 15 years. The Corps is currently spending $88 million to rehabilitate Lock and Dam 24 – one of the locks included in the project. “Our amendment protects the integrity of the Corps by allowing this project to go forward only if it is found to be economically justified. It also helps family farmers in the region by requiring congestion management measures that will ensure that the river system functions efficiently.” said Blumenauer.
06.24.2005	Washington, DC - The House of Representatives earlier this week approved legislation including $13 million for several Oregon-based organizations, including Oregon Ironworks, HemCon, Oregon Nanoscience and Microtechnologies Institute (ONAMI), and Providence St. Vincent Medical Center’s Oregon Medical Laser Center. The funding was requested by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), along with several other members of the Oregon Congressional delegation, and included in the Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2006 Appropriations bill. Included in the legislation was: $5 million for the purchase of chitosan hemorrhage control dressing for U.S. troops from HemCon, a company located in Tigard, Oregon. According to military physicians, 90% of soldiers killed in war die before they reach a medical facility, most often of blood loss. Wounds to the extremities are considered the main preventable cause of death in military action. Three years ago, the FDA approved a chitosan hemorrhage control dressing, manufactured by HemCon Inc., and the dressing has already saved the lives of dozens of U.S. soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. $2 million for the Oregon Medical Laser Center for research and testing to develop an internal chitosan based hemorrhage control dressing that can treat severe, life-threatening hemorrhage injuries in Afghanistan and Iraq. Battlefield trauma often leads to serious damage of internal organs and support structures because they cannot be repaired using today's technology. Even if repair is feasible, combat injuries treated with sutures, staples and synthetic materials often result in life threatening complications from rejection, bleeding, infection and organ failure. $1 million for ONAMI's Safer Nanoelectronics and Nonometrology initiative which will develop nanomaterials and nanomanufacturing methods to meet the military's need for high performance materials, protect human health, and minimize harm to the environment. Examples of the importance of nanomaterials and manufacturing for military technology include nanoelectronics and nanophotonics, thermoelectric coolers, medical diagnostics and therapeutics, and environmental monitoring and remediation systems. ONAMI is a joint research institute operated by Oregon State University, the University of Oregon and Portland State University. $2 million for ONAMI to develop Miniature Tactical Energy Systems for a wide range of military applications. Examples include: 1) battlefield energy systems such as personal power systems for the dismounted war fighter, 2) light weight transportable battlefield support energy systems, and 3) energy systems that minimize the logistics requirements of forces in the field. $3 million for a joint project between Oregon Iron Works in Clackamas, OR and Geneva Aerospace in Carrollton, TX to research, test and develop an advanced unmanned ariel vehicle (UAV). Oregon Ironworks employs over 300 people in its Clackamas, Oregon and Vancouver, Washington facilities. The Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2006 Appropriations bill passed the House on Monday, June 20th and must now be approved by the United States Senate.
06.23.2005	WASHINGTON, DC— Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) today introduced a resolution honoring the Native American tribes of the Pacific Northwest and the Treaties of 1855 between these tribes and the United States of America. The resolution, introduced on the eve of the 150th Anniversary of the signing of the treaties, recognizes the contributions made by the Tribes of the Pacific Northwest to the region’s diversity and cultural landscape and reaffirms the promises made in the treaty. “These treaties helped guide and shape the management of land, water, wildlife, and fisheries of the Pacific Northwest,” Blumenauer said. “They represent solemn pledges of peace between the sovereign peoples of the Pacific Northwest and the United States. In honor of the anniversary of these treaties, I would like to reaffirm and support the promises made 150 years ago by the United States to the tribes of the Pacific Northwest.” On June 25th, 1855, Joel L. Palmer, Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Oregon Territory, met with representatives from Cayuse, Umatilla, and Walla Walla tribes to negotiate what became the “Treaty with the Tribes of Middle Oregon.” The treaty was created to resolve tensions between settlers and the local tribes. It ceded 6.4 million acres of Indian land to the U.S. In return, the federal government allotted the three tribes a 250,000 acre reservation. Legislation in the late 19th century reduced the reservation to its current 172,000 acres. Today, the Treaty of 1855 remains the bedrock upon which the Confederated Tribes’ government was established by Constitution and By-Laws in 1949. "Our gratitude is extended to Congressman Blumenauer, and all the co-sponsors of this resolution, for bringing the good faith and good will of the Treaties of 1855 back to the halls of Congress,” said Ron Suppah, Chairman of the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Tribe of Oregon. “These treaties are not relics. Their intent, purpose and principles permeate the lives of all people in the Pacific Northwest. Our nations are at their best when we honor our promises to each other.” Blumenauer’s resolution is co-sponsored by the entire Oregon and Washington state Congressional delegations. The resolution also has the support of the Yakama Tribe, Nez Perce Tribe, Confederated Tribes of Umatilla, and the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs.
06.06.2005	Washington, D.C. -- The House of Representatives late last month approved legislation providing $220,000 for the Corps of Engineers to begin environmental restoration along Johnson Creek in the Springwater Industrial Area. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) requested congressional support for the project earlier this year. "I'm pleased that Congress approved these funds which will restore water quality and fish habitat in Johnson Creek," said Blumenauer. "Despite decades of urban development, Johnson Creek is one of the last known streams in the Portland Metropolitan area to support endangered fish." The Johnson Creek project will implement a series of restoration projects designed to address impaired water quality and natural resource functions of Johnson Creek within the Springwater Industrial Area. The project is within an area slated for industrial development in the near term and will help leverage private development by addressing important stream corridor needs. The project will restore wetlands for water storage, enhance water quality, restore riparian areas, and improve off-channel habitat for salmon. The project is supported by the City of Gresham, the Johnson Creek Watershed Council and the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. "Restoring the health of Johnson Creek is of primary importance to the citizens of Gresham and the Springwater Community will help us do just that," said Gresham Mayor Chuck Becker. "We are very grateful to the Congress for this support and look forward to working with the Corps and other citizen groups to develop and implement a plan that will bring back the abundance of salmon population to our region." The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, legislation funding the Army Corps of Engineers for the coming year. The legislation, passed by the House on May 24th, must now be approved by the United States Senate.
06.06.2005	Washington, D.C. -- The House of Representatives late last month approved legislation providing funding for several environmental projects in the Portland Metropolitan area, including restoration of Johnson Creek and stabilization of the St. John's landfill. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) requested congressional support for the projects earlier this year. "I'm pleased that Congress approved these funds which will protect and restore water quality and fish habitat in the Portland Metropolitan area," said Blumenauer. The Johnson Creek project, funded at $220,000, will implement a series of restoration projects designed to address impaired water quality and natural resource functions of Johnson Creek within the Springwater Industrial Area. The project is within an area slated for industrial development in the near term and will help leverage private development by addressing important stream corridor needs. The project will restore wetlands and riparian areas, enhance water quality, and improve off-channel habitat for salmon. It is supported by the City of Gresham, the Johnson Creek Watershed Council and the Department of Environmental Quality. “Restoring the health of Johnson Creek is of primary importance to the citizens of Gresham and the Springwater Community will help us do just that," said Gresham Mayor Chuck Becker. “We are very grateful to the Congress for this support and look forward to working with the Corps and other citizen groups to develop and implement a plan that will bring back the abundance of salmon population to our region.” The legislation also includes $500,000 to stabilize a dike at St. Johns Landfill, located in a sensitive wetland in North Portland. The landfill accepted municipal and industrial waste for over half a century until 1991. The waste included substances now regulated as hazardous waste, and sound management of this landfill is a regional priority. Surface water is eating away at the perimeter dike around St. Johns landfill, which is the only barrier between the waste and the Columbia Sough. A future landslide could cause buried waste and contaminated liquid to fall into the Slough. Funding will be used for completion of planning and design, and for construction to carry out repairs to stabilize the dike. “We want to thank Congressman Blumenauer for his advocacy for this region,” said Metro Councilor Rex Burkholder, who represents the district in which the St. John's landfill is located. “It takes continual vigilance and maintenance to make sure we keep waste in the St Johns Landfill and out of our rivers and streams. These funds are critical for protecting our health and habitat and for keeping nature in neighborhoods.” Also included in the legislation was $436,000 for a floodplain restoration feasibility study for the Willamette River, funding for habitat restoration on the Lower Columbia Estuary, $15 million for the Columbia River Channel Deepening Project and $10.186 million for repairs to jetties located at the mouth of the Columbia River. The funding for these projects was included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, legislation funding the Army Corps of Engineers for the coming year. The legislation, passed by the House on May 24th, must now be approved by the United States Senate.
05.19.2005	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) will join with thousands of bicycling commuters and activists in celebrating National Bike to Work Day on Friday, May 20, 2005. He will lead a bike ride by the Congressional Bike Caucus from Garfield Circle at 7:40 am before making remarks at the Annual Bike to Work Day Celebration at 8:00 am at Freedom Plaza. The Washington Area Bicyclist Association (WABA), which is organizing National Bike to Work Day activities in Washington, DC, expects over 5,000 bike commuters to participate in Friday’s activities, including the opening celebration. Blumenauer, a long-time bicycling activist and founder of the Congressional Bike Caucus, recently introduced H.Con.Res.145, a resolution to honor May as National Bike Month. This bill was unanimously passed by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on Wednesday, May 18th and awaits floor approval by the U.S. House. Recently, Blumenauer’s “Conserve by Bicycle” amendment was included into the Energy Policy Act (H.R. 6) passed by the House of Representatives last month. This amendment establishes within the Department of Transportation a Conserve by Bike pilot program, which will oversee up to 10 pilot projects across the country designed to conserve energy resources by providing education and marketing tools to convert car trips to bike trips. In February, Blumenauer also introduced the Bike Commuter Act, H.R. 807, which would allow employees who bike to work the same financial incentives that are available for parking and mass transit. The bill would change the Transportation Fringe Benefit of the tax code to include bike commuters. WHAT: Blumenauer on National Bike To Work Day WHEN: Friday, May 20th, 2005 Congressional Bike Caucus Ride: 7:40-7:55 a.m. Remarks to other bike commuters: 8:00 a.m. WHERE: Garfield Circle West Front of U.S. Capitol Freedom Plaza Pennsylvania Avenue NW, between 13th and 14th Street Washington, DC
05.19.2005	Washington DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer’s (D-Ore.) bill to recognize May as “National Bike Month,” cleared a major legislative hurdle yesterday, as the full Transportation and Infrastructure Committee unanimously adopted the measure. H. Con. Res. 145 can now be considered by the full House of Representatives as early as next week. The League of American Bicyclists has celebrated May as National Bike Month since 1956. Sponsors of the bill hope that by recognizing May as “National Bike Month,” they will be able to highlight bicycling as a one of the most efficient modes of transportation. “Bicycling is one of the cleanest, healthiest, most efficient, and environmentally friendly modes of transportation that exists,” Blumenauer said when he introduced the bill earlier this month. “Cycling helps ease congestion on our roads and reduce environmental pollution while allowing Americans of all ages to incorporate exercise into their everyday lives. In an age of high energy prices, overcrowded roads, and a growing obesity epidemic, biking is more important to the well being of our communities than ever before.” Blumenauer’s bill was introduced on May 5th with bi partisan support and is now co-sponsored by 32 other members including Transportation and Infrastructure ranking member Rep. James Oberstar (D – Minn.). Blumenauer is the co-founder of the Congressional Bike Caucus. His “Conserve by Bicycle” amendment was incorporated into the Energy Policy Act (H.R. 6) passed by the House of Representatives last month. He also introduced the Bike Commuter Act (H.R. 807) in February to change the Transportation Fringe Benefit of the tax code to include bicycle commuters.
05.09.2005	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) announced today that he will oppose the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) when it comes up for a vote in Congress. This trade agreement, if approved by Congress, would create a “free trade” zone between the United States and other Central American countries similar to that of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The agreement could be considered and voted on by Congress as early as the coming weeks. Blumenauer issued the following statement to describe his opposition to the proposal: “Oregon is a key part of the global economy. I, along with most Oregonians, support trade. Done right, trade has the potential to create jobs, lower consumer prices, and help developing countries. We all want stronger economies and better consumer choices. “I have supported all four bilateral trade agreements that have come before Congress since TPA, since they dealt with developed economies such as Australia and Singapore or countries that have made great strides and are leaders in their regions – Morocco and Chile. “CAFTA , however, is the failed product of the partisan and poorly constructed trade negotiating framework of Fast Track. It is not Honest Trade. “Last week, I held a trade forum that considered our general trade policies and CAFTA in particular. I heard a number of points of view, and it's very clear that CAFTA will be good for some Oregon businesses but for me, the negatives outweigh the positives. “For me, it is clear that CAFTA: Does not include meaningful environmental and labor standards. Would seriously underfund promises to help those negatively affected by trade. Seriously harms countries that rely heavily on an agricultural economy. This is unfathomable. “Our egregious Farm Bill has locked us into subsidies that do not promote free trade and have already caused much harm to other countries’ farmers .We need to pay attention to the hard lessons NAFTA imposed on struggling Mexican farmers. “We can negotiate better and fairer trade agreements by focusing on Honest Trade. Honest trade includes regulations and enforcement mechanisms that can improve labor conditions and environmental quality. It can improve the financial markets by making processes more transparent and accountable. Honest trade can foster democratic processes. “Done right, honest trade will open up markets for companies in my hometown such as Nike, Intel and Freightliner that export around the world and create jobs for my constituents. Agricultural specialty crops in Oregon can thrive when U.S. policy finally helps family farmers protect the land and water rather than putting our money into outrageous subsidies for agricultural commodities. “CAFTA is not honest trade, since it protects certain industries, such as sugar and rice, and minimizes the regulations that can improve standards for the countries involved. Indeed, there is ambivalence in Central America. Most recently, Costa Rica is possibly postponing deliberations until after the presidential election in February 2006. “It is clear that the United States trade policy needs to be more sensitive to the needs of the most vulnerable. Our trade policies should support our own labor and environmental laws. The U.S. is too timid in using the WTO to protect American business and workers from unfair practices. Continued Republican partisanship and lack of communication means that we are not forging bipartisan trade policies. CAFTA’s approval at this point will not be a step forward and I fear would be a step back. I won’t vote for it in its current form.”
05.06.2005	Washington DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) yesterday introduced a resolution to recognize May as “National Bike Month.” The League of American Bicyclists has celebrated May as National Bike Month since 1956. Sponsors of the bill hope that by recognizing May as “National Bike Month,” they will be able to highlight bicycling as a one of the most efficient modes of transportation. “Bicycling is one of the cleanest, healthiest, most efficient, and environmentally friendly modes of transportation that exists,” Blumenauer said. “Cycling helps ease congestion on our roads and reduce environmental pollution while allowing Americans of all ages to incorporate exercise into their everyday lives. In an age of high energy prices, overcrowded roads, and a growing obesity epidemic, biking is more important to the well being of our communities than ever before.” With this resolution, Congress would honor the enormous role bicycling has had in the United States, and join with the bicycling activists in officially recognizing Bike Month. This recognition would provide an opportunity to promote the benefits of cycling, appreciate those in the cycling community, and to encourage bicycle safety, supporters say. According to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, bicycles are second only to cars as a preferred mode of transportation. There are over 57 million adult cyclists in the United States, 5 million of whom choose to commute to work by bike. National Bike Month would provide the opportunity to recognize the significant impact of this noble invention and publicize to inform others of the healthy, environmental, efficient, and neighborhood-friendly form of transportation. "Congressional recognition of bicycling as a popular recreational and everyday activity sends an important signal to the American people,” said Andy Clarke, Executive Director of the League of American Bicyclists. “Bicycling enjoys broad support and is a benefit to individuals, the community and the nation as a whole." Blumenauer’s bill, H Con Res 145, was introduced with bi partisan support and is co-sponsored by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member, Congressman James Oberstar (D – Minn). Blumenauer is the co-founder of the Congressional Bike Caucus. His “Conserve by Bicycle” Amendment was incorporated into the Energy Policy Act (H.R. 6) passed by the House of Representatives last month. He also introduced the Bike Commuter Act (H.R. 1052) in the 108th Congress to change the Transportation Fringe Benefit of the tax code to include bicycle commuters.
04.29.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore) issued the following statement today regarding the hastily put together Budget Resolution, H Con Res 95. This conference report will create $2 trillion in deficits over the next 5 years when omitted costs are included, and will cut funding for such programs as Medicaid and food stamps. The conference report also spends every penny of the Social Security surplus over the next five years. “The fiscal 2006 budget resolution is based on false economies and false promises. This budget provides tax cuts for the rich while adding to our national deficit, cutting billions from critical programs such as Medicare and shortchanging national priorities such as community development and housing, education, and environmental protection. “Cutting vital programs does nothing to solve our problems. Congressional leadership and the administration are simply not owning up to their responsibilities to the American public. I will not support any budget framework that pretends that we have more funding than we do while at the same time cutting programs that help our families and communities. “The administration’s tax cuts give over $70 million in benefits to those who need them the least. Yet nothing is being done to address the long-term costs of fixing the Alternative Minimum Tax - a tax that continues to force middle-income families to pay higher taxes. This budget will put our country deeper into debt, mortgaging the future for our children and grandchildren. This is wrong. “This budget resolution also sets the stage for drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which would be a travesty. Not only is this policy incredibly shortsighted in terms of the real energy needs of this country, it is unconscionable that Congress is making a decision of this magnitude in a budget resolution.”
04.26.2005	Portland, Ore. –Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) and Senator Gordon Smith (R-Ore.) will host a trade forum on Monday, May 2 from 9:00 a.m. to noon in the Buckley Center at the University of Portland. Trade is an integral part of Oregon’s economy with exports from the state totaling over $11 billion in 2004. At the same time, there are deep concerns about the nation’s growing trade deficit which hit a record monthly total of $61 billion in February 2005 as well as concerns about ensuring adequate environmental and labor protections in developing countries. This year Congress will debate a range of trade issues, including an extension of the administration’s trade promotion authority, U.S. participation in the World Trade Organization, and a regional trade agreement with Central American (CAFTA). The lawmakers hope to use the forum as an opportunity to hear various perspectives and discuss how trade and globalization are affecting Oregon and the world. The forum will feature an economic overview by Joe Cortright, an economist and Vice President of Impresa, Inc. and two additional panels of speakers. The first panel will include Tim Nesbitt, President of the Oregon AFL-CIO, Bill Wyatt, General Manager of the Port of Portland, Dusty Kidd, Vice President of Compliance for Nike, Melika Carroll, Trade Policy Advisor for Intel and Mr. Gawain Kripke, Senior Policy Advisor for Oxfam America. The second panel includes Thea Lee, Assistant Director of Public Policy for the AFL-CIO, Camille Hukau, representing the Hood River Growers Association, Tom McCoy of the Oregon Wheat Growers League, Ronald Ragen, Chairman of Oregon’s International Trade Commission and Neal Keny-Guyer, CEO of Mercy Corps. WHO: Congressman Earl Blumenauer Senator Gordon Smith Invited Speakers WHAT: Trade Forum WHEN: Monday, May 2 9:00 a.m. to Noon WHERE: Buckley Center University of Portland
04.25.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – Legislation passed the US House of Representatives today commending the outstanding efforts of State Department, United States Agency for International Development, and U.S. armed forces personnel for their timely and compassionate response to the earthquake and tsunami of December 26, 2004. House Resolution 120, sponsored by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore), recognizes the hard work of these individuals whose selfless acts were instrumental in the response and recovery process. “The civilian employees of the State Department and USAID and our men and women in uniform went beyond the call of duty in responding to the tsunami,” Blumenauer said. “Their professionalism, skill, creativity, and commitment saved lives and was an important step for peace and security in this world.” Blumenauer said he was inspired to introduce this legislation after he witnessed firsthand the quality of the relief effort being conducted in that region. In early January, Blumenauer went on a week-long fact finding mission with other members of the House International Relations Subcommittee on Asia to survey damage from December’s devastating tsunami. During this trip, Blumenauer visited with survivors, international aid workers, and government officials in India, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Indonesia so that he could better understand the relief efforts that were underway. Upon returning from his trip, Blumenauer testified along with Congressman Jim Leach (R – Iowa) to the full House International Relations Committee, reporting that his observations confirmed his belief in the value of these important relief efforts. “Having seen the difference that officials for the State Department and USAID, working together with our military, are making to the survivors of the tsunami,” Blumenauer said, “highlights for me the need to continue to enhance our diplomatic, development and humanitarian capabilities. In order to do that, we must make sure that Congress provides the resources they need.”
04.21.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – An amendment introduced by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore) to add “Conserve By Bike” provisions into H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act of 2005, was adopted today by the House of Representatives. This amendment establishes within the Department of Transportation a Conserve by Bike pilot program, which will oversee up to 10 pilot projects across the country designed to conserve energy resources by providing education and marketing tools to convert car trips to bike trips. “Bicycling is one of the cleanest, healthiest, most efficient and environmentally friendly modes of transportation that exist today,” Blumenauer said in support of his amendment. “Bicycling, as an alternative to automobile travel, can be an important element of a comprehensive energy conservation strategy. However, this relationship has not been adequately studied.” The Conserve by Bike pilot program would also encourage partnerships between stakeholders from transportation, law enforcement, education, public health, environment, and energy fields. Project results and energy savings must be documented, and the Secretary of Transportation is instructed to report to Congress on the results of the pilot program within two years of implementation. Already, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, bicycles are second only to cars as a preferred mode of transportation, demonstrating their significant potential for commuter use. This up tick in bike use has been caused in recent years by significant upgrades to the bicycling environment in communities across the country. At a time when these communities are seeking to reduce traffic congestion, improve air quality, increase the safety of their neighborhoods, and decrease petroleum dependence, bicycles offer a relatively simple, energy-saving alternative to driving. “It is time we talk seriously about transportation alternatives as an important component to a comprehensive energy conservation strategy,” Blumenauer said. “The Conserve by Bike Program is a critical step in that direction.” It is expected that the House of Representatives will pass H.R. 6 later today. The Senate must still consider the bill before it could become law.
04.21.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore) issued the following statement today on H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The bill, passed along party lines, must still be passed by the Senate before it could become law. “It is commonly heard that the world changed after September 1 1, 2001; yet the energy bill did not. “What Congress is considering this week is virtually identical to that which came forth from Dick Cheney's energy task force and the Congressional process four years ago. The ever growing concerns about energy reliability, the Enron scandal, skyrocketing gas prices, increasing demands on ever scarce supplies in unstable areas of the world all have not produced a change in the mindset of Congress. At a time when we should call forth our best, the energy bill is both a mediocre effort and more appropriate for the 1950s than this new century. “With the American energy experience over the last third of a century, public opinion has grown clearer while Congress’ vision has not. “With 10 percent of our energy use tied directly to our vehicular traffic, it is self-evident to the majority of Americans that our fuel efficiency standards should be significantly increased. The Japanese and Europeans are already far ahead of us. Even the Chinese have now adopted more stringent fuel efficiency standards. Congress cannot keep up with the American public or the policymakers in China, Japan or Europe. “The public knows that the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is the last place that America should look for oil, not the next place. “The public supports investing in renewable energy sources, but this bill is heavily skewed towards more public subsidy of oil and gas interests, already awash in cash. Wind and solar energy are abundant, and non-polluting; with a fraction of the resources lavished on traditional energy sources, alternative energy could increase the production and reduce cost. “The public is not interested in cutting deals with special-interests at the expense of the environment and public health. This bill poses significant risk to air pollution and makes an unnecessary and unwise compromise with MTBE manufacturers at the expense of state and local authorities and the quality of local drinking water. “In short, this bill looks at our energy problem through a rearview mirror; it gives too much to the wrong people to do the wrong thing and is dramatically out of step with what the American public needs and wants. “There will come a time in the foreseeable future when the needs of our country and the wishes of the public are heard and that will be reflected in an energy policy for this century that is cost effective and rational.”
04.21.2005	Portland Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) will hold two events this week about the future of Social Security and the impacts of President Bush’s Social Security privatization, one co-hosted by County Commissioner Maria Rojo de Steffey on Friday, April 22 at 3:15 p.m. at Buckman School and a second with State Representative Carolyn Tomei at 10 a.m. on Saturday, April 23 at the SMILE Center (Sellwood Moreland Improvement League). Congress and the President are currently involved in a vigorous public debate about the future of Social Security. The President has made privatization of the Social Security system one of his top priorities. Blumenauer is reaching out to Oregonians to get their opinion on the President’s plan and what should be done, if anything, to ensure the future solvency of Social Security. His office has received over 7,000 responses to a questionnaire sent out early this year, the vast majority expressing strong opposition to the President’s plan. Blumenauer has hosted a series of meetings on Social Security throughout the spring and participated in a number of forums, including several on college campuses. To follow is the town hall meeting schedule for Friday and Saturday, April 22 and 23, 2005: Friday, April 22: Town Hall Meeting on Social Security with Commissioner Maria Rojo de Steffey 3:15 – 5:00 p.m. Buckman School, SE 16th and Stark, Cafeteria Saturday, April 23: Town Hall Meeting on Social Security with State Representative Carolyn Tomei 10:00 - 11:30 a.m. SMILE Center (Sellwood Moreland Improvement League) 8210 SE 13th Ave.
04.15.2005	Washington, DC –Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) announced today his nomination of labor advocate Verna Porter, a resident of Northeast Portland, to the Advisory Committee of the White House Conference on Aging. “Verna has spent a lifetime serving the best interests of seniors and labor,” Blumenauer said. “I am confident she will provide valuable insight to this conference.” The once-a-decade conference is intended to make policy recommendations to the president on issues such as health, independence and economic security for seniors. With the baby boom generation preparing for retirement and the growing debate about Social Security reform, the 2005 conference has taken on extra significance. Over the past 40 years, these conferences have been catalysts in changing retirement, health care, transportation and housing policy, and Blumenauer believes Porter will help contribute ideas for the next 40 years. Porter, a North Dakota native, was a teacher before completing two years towards a degree in sociology and going to nursing school. She specialized in geriatrics during her 20 year career as a Registered Nurse. Upon retirement in 1995, she became an advocate for the working poor, people with disabilities and the elderly. Porter is currently the president of the Oregon Alliance for Retired Americans. “Representing these groups in our state legislature has been a very rewarding experience,” Porter said. Previous White House Conferences on Aging were held in 1961, 1971, 1981, and 1995. This year’s conference will be held October 23-26, 2005 in Washington, D.C.
04.14.2005	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore) issued the following statement today regarding the Bankruptcy Reform Bill, S. 256. The bill was passed by the Senate on March 10, 2005, and was considered by the House of Representatives today. “For as long as I've been in Congress I have supported bankruptcy reform on two simple principles; I believe people should pay their debts when they are able, and that we should end abuses in the system, whether by people who deliberately run up their bills or by businesses who exploit the gullible and the unfortunate. “Eight years ago, I voted in favor of bankruptcy reform, though with reservations because some of the provisions of the bill seemed unduly harsh. Since then, I had hoped that the legislative process would ultimately improve this legislation. Unfortunately, for eight years we have been unable to see the bill move through the legislative process and improve; it appears as though the bill, if anything, is actually less adequate due to increasing predatory lending by credit card companies and skyrocketing medical costs. “One of my deep concerns has been credit card mills, which send out millions of credit cards to people who are not credit worthy. In 2001 there were 5 billion solicitations by credit card companies. Meanwhile, skyrocketing fees have been coupled with reduced minimum payments. Bait-and-switch techniques have been employed that change the terms and raise the interest rates of cardholders who have never missed a payment. “While S. 256 contains punishments for middle class Americans that have been preyed upon by the credit card industry, it preserves loopholes for the very rich. S. 256 maintains a homestead exemption that allows people with lots of money to shield their assets by purchasing multimillion dollar homes in certain states. O.J. Simpson was able to shield many of his assets by doing this in Florida. There are even sophisticated trust arrangements that enable people with substantial sums of money to be protected from the provisions of this bankruptcy bill. “The sad fact is that most bankruptcies are due to large medical bills, family breakup, and job loss. This legislation is going to put an unnecessary burden on the vast majority of unfortunate people and still allow too many of the unscrupulous to avoid their responsibilities. It does not have to be this way. I continue to hope that the political process will respond to these problems with sympathy and concern for the unfortunate. Until that point, I cannot support S. 256 in good conscience.”
04.06.2005	Portland, Ore. -- Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) will present a Purple Heart to Harold J. Arendt, Jr. of East Portland’s Hazelwood neighborhood on Friday, April 8, 2005 at 3 p.m. in his Portland Congressional office. Mr. Arendt, age 81, earned the Purple Heart for severe hearing injuries he sustained while serving in Korea in August 1951, but was not given his award until 54 years later when Blumenauer’s office intervened. “I’m pleased and proud to help recognize the sacrifices that Mr. Arendt made for our nation,” Blumenauer said. “He will finally have the medals he earned many years ago.” While in Korea, an explosion of an enemy artillery shell physically damaged Arendt’s left ear. The explosion also gave him Tinnitus in both ears. Following his honorable discharge in December 1953, Arendt earned his undergraduate and graduate degrees from the University of Oregon, studying History, English and Library Science. Arendt worked at Pleasant Hill High School for two years before serving as head of the History/English Department for 28 years at Benson High. After three decades of teaching, Arendt retired in 1986. In addition to Blumenauer, General Douglas Pritt of the Oregon Army National Guard, whose brigade of about 1,000 will leave for Afghanistan next March, will attend the ceremony honoring the Korean War veteran. WHAT: Medal Presentation to Portland, Ore. Resident Harold J. Arendt, Jr. WHERE: Congressman Earl Blumenauer’s Congressional Office 729 NE Oregon Street (Oregon Square Building—Lloyd District) Suite 115 WHEN: Friday, April 8th at 3 p.m.
03.17.2005	In the midst of the fiscal year 2006 budget proceedings on the House floor, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) made a procedural motion for the committee to rise, thus interrupting the flow of debate and summoning members back to the floor. By bringing forth the motion, Blumenauer provided an opportunity to raise the profile of HR 1332, "The Protection of Incapacitated Persons Act," a bill the Republican majority passed late last night. “As a member of this House and an Oregonian,” Blumenauer said, “I am deeply troubled by this late night maneuvering to adopt a bill that could fundamentally undermine Advanced Directives and end-of-life decisions that all Americans are entitled to.” The bill, written in response to the debate surrounding Terri Schiavo of Florida, could have far reaching, unintended, consequences. If enacted, this legislation could undermine Oregon’s Death with Dignity law, approved by Oregon voters twice, in 1994 and 1997. While most people were unaware of the bill itself, the Republican leadership changed the consideration procedure when it became clear a vote on the measure would have to happen today. As a result, a voice vote, with only a handful of members present, was all that it took to pass the measure. HR 1332 faces an uncertain fate in the Senate. The bill is so poorly written that it is unlikely, but not impossible, that the Senate would rush it through. The Republican leadership in the House reserved a procedural rule that would permit a Senate passed bill to be rushed through the House at the end of the day. With the procedural vote, Blumenauer was able to send a signal that it would not be something that would happen quietly and quickly. Additionally, it brought an opportunity to inform the House about the stakes broadly and, indeed, the procedural motion received much more attention in the House today than did the actual bill passage the night before; both inside and outside the chamber. Blumenauer indicated that he seldom uses procedural devices of this nature but felt that the principles involved were so important, for not just the integrity of the Florida courts, but because of the direct implications it has on Oregon’s Death with Dignity law. "The assault by ideologues and intolerant people who would impose government on these most personal decisions continues,” Blumenauer said. “We have seen it in Florida where politicians have repeatedly intervened in the decision of Terry Schiavo's husband. The courts in Florida have seen fit to render judgment, but that is not good enough for folks. They want to supersede the objection of the parties involved, and move this case to the Federal courts.” Blumenauer added, "You may not be from Oregon or Florida, but make no mistake, the action being considered is a drumbeat to take away the authority of citizens to deal with these most personal of matters. These underhanded tactics leave families, local courts, and voters vulnerable to legislators in their zeal to tell others how to lead their lives." Blumenauer noted the hypocrisy of the Republican majority which in the closing days of the last session decided that the federal courts were not competent enough to deal with issues relating to marriage or the pledge of allegiance, but should somehow be entrusted with the most sensitive and personal end-of-life decisions that Oregonians think ought to be dealt with by families, their physicians and their clergy.
03.17.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer, (D – Ore) issued the following statement today in response to the budget passed by the United States House of Representatives. The budget, passed by party lines, would drastically add to the national debt, while also cutting billions of dollars in domestic spending. “The Republican budget resolution is a body blow to Oregon and the country. I have heard from constituents, school teachers, local government officials, medical professionals, housing advocates and many others throughout communities in my district, all with detailed stories about how this budget will have devastating impacts. “The budget cuts both ways. First, by exploding the federal deficit, adding $376 billion to the national debt and spending every penny of the $185 billion Social Security trust fund surplus coming in during the year. Then, by eliminating and reducing key domestic priorities, such as cutting $4.3 billion of education programs, slashing $1.5 billion for affordable housing and development programs, and underfunding veterans’ programs by nearly $800 million. “How do we face both increased deficits and program cuts? By continuing to focus on tax cuts for those who need them the least. This is unnecessary and, frankly, dangerous as we continue to create an abyss between the haves and have-nots in society, and are putting our financial markets on edge by borrowing trillions from foreign investors. This is not a budget representative of the priorities and values of Oregonians.”
03.16.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives approved legislation today that included an amendment authored by Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore) and Edward Markey (D – Mass.) prohibiting the use of funds for the torture of detainees in American custody and for sending detainees to countries that practice torture. The amendment was included in the final version of the Iraq emergency supplemental appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives today. “I am appalled by continued revelations in the media regarding the torture of detainees in American custody, over a year after reports from Abu Ghraib prison first broke,” Blumenauer said. “We must make sure that torturing of detainees never happens again. We can do that if we commit to not spending any more money on this incomprehensible practice.” The amendment offered by Blumenauer and Markey was included in the final conference report of the $82 billion emergency supplemental appropriations request made by President Bush earlier this year. Over 93% of the supplemental money approved would fund continued military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Blumenauer and Markey offered their amendment in the wake of recent press accounts detailing how the United States government has deliberately sent detainees to foreign countries for the purpose of torture. Blumenauer continued, “The use of torture and rendition is morally reprehensible and puts American troops at risk by degrading the moral and legal leverage we need to prevent its use against our men and women in uniform. Furthermore, it’s an ineffective way of obtaining reliable intelligence information in our fight against terrorism. Put simply, we set back the cause of democracy through these actions.” According to reputable media reports, the CIA and other participating agencies use a multimillion-dollar Gulfstream V jet to transfer detainees to foreign countries, a process known as rendition. This jet is registered to a shadowy – and possible illegal – dummy front company, Bayard Foreign Marketing, LLC, based in Blumenauer’s hometown of Portland, Oregon. Dummy front companies such as Bayard Foreign Marketing are used to hide the true scope and breadth of the rendition program. As a member of the House International Relations Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, Blumenauer has called for a Committee investigation into the torture of detainees as part of the United States’ foreign policy. H.R. 1268, “The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, of 2005,” is expected to be considered by the United States Senate as early as next week. If it is passed, as expected, the bill will be sent to the President for his signature.
03.16.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives today overwhelmingly approved, by a vote of 420-2, an amendment authored by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore) and Congressman Edward Markey (D – Mass.) prohibiting the use of federal funds for the torture of detainees in American custody and for sending detainees to countries that practice torture. Blumenauer and Markey offered their amendment in the wake of recent press accounts detailing how the United States government has deliberately sent detainees to foreign countries for the purpose of torturing them for information. “I am appalled by continued revelations in the media regarding the torture of detainees in American custody,” Blumenauer said. “The use of torture and rendition is morally reprehensible and puts American troops at risk by degrading the moral and legal leverage we need to prevent its use against our men and women in uniform. Furthermore, it’s an ineffective way of obtaining reliable intelligence information in our fight against terrorism. Put simply, we set back the cause of democracy through these actions.” To transfer detainees to foreign countries, in a process known as rendition, the CIA and other participating agencies use a single multimillion-dollar Gulfstream V jet. This jet is registered to a shadowy – and possible illegal – dummy front company, Bayard Foreign Marketing, LLC, based in Blumenauer’s hometown of Portland, Oregon. Fake front companies such as Bayard Foreign Marketing are used to hide the true scope and breadth of the extraordinary rendition program. As a member of the House International Relations Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, Blumenauer has called for a Committee investigation into the torture of detainees as part of the United States’ foreign policy. The amendment offered by Blumenauer and Markey and agreed to by the House of Representatives was part of the $82 billion Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Iraq and Afghanistan and other foreign assistance, including tsunami area reconstruction. Nearly all of the supplemental money approved would fund continued military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Although the supplemental appropriation bill included Blumenauer’s amendment, he opposed the final version of the bill, because of his concerns about the misuse of funds in Iraq. In voting no on the supplemental, Blumenauer said, “at its core, this bill gives too much money to the wrong people to do the wrong thing. The unfortunate fact is, as I feared from the beginning, that the administration continues to have no plan for success in Iraq, no blueprint for winning the peace, and no plan to keep the troops adequately protected while they are there.”
03.14.2005	Washington DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) announced today that he is accepting entries for the Silver Anniversary of the Annual Congressional Art Competition for high school students. This competition provides students a unique opportunity to showcase their artistic talent at the United States Capitol in Washington, DC. The winning student’s art will be displayed in the Capitol, and the student will be invited to attend the ribbon-cutting ceremony. The Congressional Art Competition was first launched in 1982. Since then, thousands of contests have been conducted throughout the country, involving more than 650,000 high school students. Each Member of Congress sponsors a local art competition in their Congressional District and selects one winning entry. The winning piece of art from each District is displayed in the Capitol for one year. The competition begins immediately, and all entries must be submitted no later than Friday, April 22, 2005. Entrants must be high school students from the Third Congressional District of Oregon. Letters asking for artwork were sent to all high schools in the District last week. To participate, each student must fill out an application and follow guidelines set by the U.S. House of Representatives. The winning student will receive an invitation to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the new display in the U.S. Capitol Building, on June 14, 2005 and three round-trip airline tickets to Washington, DC courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Eligible entries should be delivered to 729 NE Oregon St., Suite #115, Portland, OR 97232. For more information or to receive competition guidelines and an application visit Blumenauer’s website at www.house.gov/blumenauer or contact Kathie Eastman in Congressman Blumenauer’s office at 503-231-2300.
03.10.2005	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives today approved legislation including $57.5 million for transportation projects in the Portland area, an increase of $12.5 million over the amount approved last week by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a senior member of the Committee, secured the funding as part of a six year $284 billion package funding the nation’s highway and transit projects. “I’m pleased the House agreed to fund these important Oregon projects that will create jobs, ease congestion and improve the livability of our communities,” Blumenauer said. “Many of our region’s top transportation priorities will receive funding under this important legislation.” The projects in the transportation funding package for the Portland area include: $11 million for preliminary engineering for a new Columbia River Crossing for transit, freight and vehicles to ease congestion on Interstate-5. $3 million towards replacement of the Sellwood Bridge. $4.7 million for street improvements in the Gateway area, as part of the Gateway Urban Renewal District Development Plan to stimulate economic investment in the area. $12 million for the Port of Portland to add rail capacity in the Rivergate Industrial District and provide congestion relief in North Portland. $4.7 million for improvements to East Burnside, including a new streetcar line. $6 million for the first of three phases to Metro’s Regional Trails Program for acquisition, preliminary engineering and construction of bike and pedestrian trails. $4 million for an environmental impact statement for the Sunrise Corridor project to serve the Damascus/Boring area. This area will be a new center for regional employment and housing. $5 million for safety improvements to Lake Road, a major school route for local school children, between Clackamas Town Center and Milwaukie Regional Center. $3 million for Stark Street improvements in Rockwood Town Center. This area is dangerous for pedestrians and auto traffic. Gresham officials believe this transportation solution will result in attracting private investment to this economically depressed commercial area. $1.4 million for construction of a light rail station, bus, bicycle and parking facilities and in support of transit oriented development for Gresham’s Civic Neighborhood. $700,000 for a new bus facility in Sandy. The House bill also includes several provisions championed by Blumenauer, including: a new Safe Routes to School program to encourage communities to adopt strategies and fund projects designed to allow children to walk and bike to school safely; and, a new “Small Starts” transit program that would create a $935 million discretionary fund for streetcar, commuter rail and bus rapid transit projects to receive federal capital funding. The bill also includes needed authorization to expand the Portland streetcar system and for continued work on Portland’s light rail system, to complete financing for the IMAX line and for a new line along I-205. The “Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users” (TEA LU) is the much-awaited legislation to reauthorize federal funding for bikes, transit, pedestrian, bridge and highway projects across the country. The bill must now be considered by the United States Senate.
03.02.2005	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) introduced today the “Post Office Community Partnership Act.” This bill, if passed, would ensure that the US Postal Service consults with residents and obeys local zoning ordinances and regulations before siting new Post Offices, which they are currently not required to do. “The Postal Service is one of the few areas of government that touches every American every day,” Blumenauer said. “The Postal Service must partner with local communities by following the laws that apply to everybody else and allowing for community input.” Communities and neighborhoods across the country have been subjected to Postal Service decisions that have negatively impacted service and livability. This bill provides communities an opportunity to be notified of Postal Service plans in advance, which will allow for interaction in the decision-making process between local government officials, the public, and the Postal Service. The Act also addresses the need for the Postal Service to abide by a community’s plans for growth management, land use, traffic management, and environmental protection. In past years, there have been several instances in which the Postal Service has been unwilling or unable to build new facilities or make changes to existing facilities in a way consistent with local community plans. Blumenauer introduced the bill Tuesday evening with 35 bipartisan cosponsors. “Last year, Congress failed on acting expediently to pass comprehensive postal legislation that included provisions from the Post Office Community Partnership Act,” Blumenauer said. “I am hopeful that this hesitation will not be repeated in the 109th Congress. Congress has the opportunity to set the tone for the Postal Service and federal government to become a full partner in the livability of our communities, leading by example so our families are safer, healthier, and more economically secure.”
03.02.2005	Washington, D.C. – The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today approved legislation including $45 million for transportation projects in the Portland area. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a senior member of the Committee, secured the funding as part of a six year $284 billion package funding the nation’s highway and transit projects. “I’m pleased the House agreed to fund these important Oregon projects that will create jobs, ease congestion and improve the livability of our communities,” Blumenauer said. “Many of our region’s top transportation priorities will receive funding under this important legislation.” The projects in the transportation funding package for the Portland area include: $10.45 million for preliminary engineering for a new Columbia River Crossing for transit, freight and vehicles to ease congestion on Interstate-5. $2 million towards replacement of the Sellwood Bridge. $3.7 million for street improvements in the Gateway area, as part of the Gateway Urban Renewal District Development Plan to stimulate economic investment in the area. $11.15 million for the Port of Portland to add rail capacity in the Rivergate Industrial District and provide congestion relief in North Portland. $3.7 million for improvements to East Burnside, including a new streetcar line. $4.8 million for the first of three phases to Metro’s Regional Trails Program for acquisition, preliminary engineering and construction of bike and pedestrian trails. $2.85 million for an environmental impact statement for the Sunrise Corridor project to serve the Damascus/Boring area. This area will be a new center for regional employment and housing. $2.85 million for safety improvements to Lake Road, a major school route for local school children, between Clackamas Town Center and Milwaukie Regional Center. $1.75 million for Stark Street improvements in Rockwood Town Center. This area is dangerous for pedestrians and auto traffic. Gresham officials believe this transportation solution will result in attracting private investment to this economically depressed commercial area. $1.4 million for construction of a light rail station, bus, bicycle and parking facilities and in support of transit oriented development for Gresham’s Civic Neighborhood. $350,000 for a new bus facility in Sandy. The Committee’s reauthorization bill also includes several provisions championed by Blumenauer, including: a new Safe Routes to School program to encourage communities to adopt strategies and fund projects designed to allow children to walk and bike to school safely; and, a new “Small Starts” transit program that would create a $1 billion discretionary fund for streetcar, commuter rail and bus rapid transit projects to receive federal capital funding. The bill also includes needed authorization to expand the Portland streetcar system and for continued work on Portland’s light rail system, to complete financing for the IMAX line and for a new line along I-205. The “Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users” (TEA LU) is the much-awaited legislation to reauthorize federal funding for bikes, transit, pedestrian, bridge and highway projects across the country. The bill must now be considered by the full House of Representatives.
02.24.2005	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.), a member of the House International Relations Committee, today called for a committee investigation into the torture of detainees as part of the United States’ foreign policy. In a letter sent today to the House of Representatives International Relations Committee Chair Henry Hyde and Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Chairman Dana Rohrabacher, Blumenauer asked that the subcommittee begin investigating this issue immediately. “I am simply appalled by continued revelations in the media regarding the torture of detainees in American custody,” Blumenauer wrote in his letter requesting the investigation. “The extensive reports of physical and mental abuse at American detention facilities around the world, the evidence of detainees being turned over to other countries to be interrogated and tortured, and continued efforts by the Bush administration to restrict legal and constitutional protections from detainees form a compelling case that these are not isolated incidents but administration policy.” To date, despite media reports of the use of torture by the United States, no Congressional Committee has looked into the breadth of these allegations. “The extent of this scandal is far-reaching and broad,” Blumenauer noted in his letter. “Torture of detainees in American custody, beyond the infamous case of Abu Ghraib, has been reported at military prisons in both Iraq and Afghanistan. FBI agents have confirmed the use of physical and psychological abuse at our detention facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.” Blumenauer has served on the House International Relations Committee since 1998. In January of this year, Blumenauer selected to serve on the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. A copy of Blumenauer’s letter follows. ### February 24, 2005 Dear Chairman Hyde and Chairman Rohrabacher, I am simply appalled by continued revelations in the media regarding the torture of detainees in American custody, whether by CIA officials, military personnel, or after being transferred to foreign governments. The extensive reports of physical and mental abuse at American detention facilities around the world, the evidence of detainees being turned over to other countries to be interrogated and tortured, and continued efforts by the Bush administration to restrict legal and constitutional protections from detainees form a compelling case that these are not isolated incidents but administration policy. The House International Relations Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, having jurisdiction over the conduct of foreign policy, has a responsibility to investigate the legal, ethical, and practical issues involved in the use of torture. I ask that our subcommittee open an investigation into the torture and rendition of detainees as elements of our foreign policy and their impact on our efforts to win hearts and minds in the war on terror. The extent of this scandal is far-reaching and broad. Torture of detainees in American custody, beyond the infamous case of Abu Ghraib, has been reported at military prisons in both Iraq and Afghanistan. FBI agents have confirmed the use of physical and psychological abuse at our detention facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. And recently, in an extensive article entitled “Outsourcing Torture,” The New Yorker reported on the practice of extraordinary rendition where detainees are transferred to the custody of governments which are not subject to American restrictions on abuse and are known for torture of prisoners, such as Syria, Egypt, Morocco and Jordan. The well-known case of Maher Arar, a Canadian citizen who was arrested and shipped to Syria where he was tortured, is only one example of what appears to be an oft-used technique. I am additionally troubled by the use of a Gulfstream V jet registered to a shadowy -- and possibly illegal -- dummy front company, Bayard Foreign Marketing LLC, in my home town of Portland, Oregon. Press reports have found no public record of the company’s alleged owner, nor have calls to their office been successful at locating him. The evidence certainly points to a violation of Oregon law in order to hide the true nature and breadth of this extraordinary rendition program. The use of torture and extraordinary rendition by the United States is not only morally reprehensible, it is useless and counterproductive. Experts know that victims of torture will likely say whatever they believe their torturers want to hear. While torture may extract information, it is hardly reliable information. In fact, a policy of torture likely hinders our intelligence gathering efforts as potential sources of reliable information are turned into sources of bad and misleading information. In addition, the use of torture by Americans degrades the moral and legal leverage we need to prevent its use against Americans. The use of torture by this administration puts captured American military personnel at greater risk. The United States believes in freedom, in human rights, and in due process. For many, freedom is the entire premise for our military actions in the Middle East. The unfortunate fact is that, through our actions, we open ourselves to charges of hypocrisy from the very people we need to convince of our good intentions; the United States may pretend to be different, but it too engages in inhumane practices. By making an association between our rhetoric of democracy and such profoundly horrid practices, we set back the cause of democracy through our actions. Thank you for your consideration of this request. I stand ready to work with you on this crucial issue for our subcommittee. Sincerely, Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress
02.24.2005	Portland, Ore - Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D - Ore) will discuss his thoughts and observations from his fact finding trip to Southeast Asia following the deadly tsunamis that struck there in late December. His speech to the City Club of Portland's monthly meeting is scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, February 25th at 12:15pm at the Governor Hotel. Blumenauer, a member of the House International Relations Committee's Asia Subcommittee, returned in mid January from his trip to Southeast Asia with a congressional delegation to survey damage. Upon return from his trip, he testified before the full committee, reporting on the findings of his trip. During the week he was in Asia, Blumenauer visited with survivors, international aid workers, including Mercy Corps staff, and government officials in India, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Indonesia. As part of his speech, he will share photos and observations from his trip and recommendations for future US foreign policy. WHO: Congressman Earl Blumenauer WHAT: City Club Speech on Tsunami Relief Efforts WHERE: City Club of Portland Third Floor Ballroom, Governor Hotel 614 SW 11th Avenue WHEN: Program begins at 12:15pm (concludes by 1:15pm) Friday, February 25, 2005
02.22.2005	Portland, Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) will host a series of meetings on the future of Social Security and the impact of President Bush’s privatization proposal throughout the next several weeks. He will also participate in several forums and events sponsored by other organizations, including some college campuses, on the topic of Social Security. Congress and the President are currently involved in a vigorous public debate about the future of Social Security. The President has made privatization of the Social Security system one of his top priorities. Blumenauer is reaching out to Oregonians to get their opinion on the President’s plan and what should be done, if anything, to ensure the future solvency of Social Security. His office has received 7000 responses to a questionnaire sent out early this year, the vast majority expressing strong opposition to the President’s plan. Below is a partial list of upcoming Social Security events. For a complete list of Blumenauer’s appearances on Social Security, visit his website at https://blumenauer.house.gov. February 19 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 noon YWCA Senior Center 600 NE 8th Gresham February 23 10:00 – 11:30 a.m. Hollywood Senior Center 1820 NW 40th Ave. Portland February 23 6:00 – 7:30 p.m. PSU Smith Memorial Union Room 238 1825 SW Broadway Portland
02.16.2005	Portland Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Portland) and Congresswoman Darlene Hooley (D-West Linn) will host a public forum on election integrity, featuring Oregon Secretary of State Bill Bradbury, on Friday, February 18 at 2:00 p.m. at the Metro Council Chambers in Portland Following allegations of voting irregularities and voter fraud in some states during the November 2004 Presidential election, both Blumenauer and Hooley heard from hundreds of Oregonians with concerns about the integrity of the electoral process. Friday’s forum will provide an opportunity to address these concerns and hear from Bradbury about the merits of Oregon's vote-by-mail system in preventing fraud. Blumenauer and Hooley are strong supporters of Oregon's system as a model for the rest of the country. The forum will feature three panels and include testimony from Secretary of State Bill Bradbury, Union County Clerk Nellie Bogue-Hibbert, Andi Miller, Executive Director of Common Cause, Margaret Noel, President of the League of Women Voters of Oregon, Nancy Matela of the Allliance for Democracy, and Jerry Adams of the Clean Vote Coalition, among others WHO: Congressman Earl Blumenauer Congresswoman Darlene Hooley Secretary of State Bill Bradbury WHAT: Public Forum on Election Integrity WHERE: Metro Council Chambers 600 NE Grand Avenue Portland WHEN: 2:00 p.m. Friday, February 18
02.16.2005	Portland Ore. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer, State Senator Laurie Monnes Anderson, and Multnomah County Commissioner Lonnie Roberts will host a joint forum on the future of Social Security and the impacts of President Bush’s privatization plan, on Saturday, February 19 at the YWCA Senior Center in Gresham. At the forum, Monnes Anderson, Chair of the Senate Health Policy Committee, will also discuss her legislative package to lower health care costs for Oregonians. Congress and the President are currently involved in a vigorous public debate about the future of Social Security. The President has made privatization of the Social Security system one of his top priorities. Blumenauer is reaching out to Oregonians to get their opinion on the President’s plan and what should be done, if anything, to ensure the future solvency of Social Security. His office has received 7000 responses to a questionnaire sent out early this year, the vast majority expressing strong opposition to the President’s plan. Blumenauer is hosting a series of meetings on Social Security and participating in a number of forums, including several on college campuses. For a complete list of Blumenauer’s appearances visit his website at https://blumenauer.house.gov. WHO: Congressman Earl Blumenauer State Senator Laurie Monnes Anderson Multnomah County Commissioner Lonnie Roberts WHAT: Public Forum on Social Security WHERE: Sharon Kelly Room YWCA Senior Center 600 NE 8th Gresham WHEN: 10:00 AM – 12:00 Noon Saturday, February 19
02.15.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) and Congressman Mark Foley (R-Fla.) today introduced the Bike Commuter Act, legislation to allow employees who bike to work the same financial incentives that are available for parking and mass transit. The bill would change the Transportation Fringe Benefit of the tax code to include bike commuters. “It's time to level the playing field for bicycle commuters,” said Blumenauer. “Bicycling is one of the cleanest, healthiest, most energy-efficient and environmentally friendly modes of transportation that exists today. People who bike to work should have the same financial incentives as those who use transit or participate in a qualified parking plan.” Currently, employers may offer a Transportation Fringe Benefit to their employees for commuting to work. Employees who take advantage of this program may receive a tax exemption benefit totaling $200 for participating in qualified parking plans or $105 for transit and van-pool expenses. The Bike Commuter Act would extend these same Transportation Fringe Benefits to employees who choose to commute by bicycle. According to the League of American Bicyclists nearly 500,000 cyclists regularly commute to work. According to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, bicycles are second only to cars as a preferred mode of transportation, further demonstrating their potential for commuter use. Many Americans own one or more bicycles, but limit their use to recreational purposes. In addition, since the adoption of ISTEA in 1991, federal spending on bicycle facilities and infrastructure has increased dramatically, improving the bicycling environment in a variety of communities. “Across the country people are working to create more livable communities that include reduced traffic congestion, improved air quality, increase neighborhood safety and decreased petroleum dependence” said Blumenauer. “The federal government should do its part to support these goals by providing transportation benefits to people who choose to commute in a healthy, environmental, and neighborhood-friendly fashion.” Blumenauer, founder of the Congressional Bike Caucus, introduced his bill in anticipation of the upcoming “Bike Week on Capitol Hill.” Bicycling advocates from across the country are holding a Bike Summit in Washington, DC from March 16-18, focusing on federal policy and advocacy. Blumenauer also invited Members of Congress to re-join the Bike Caucus, which had 164 members from both parties last Congress, to show their support for bicycling.
02.07.2005	PORTLAND, ORE—Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) responded to President Bush’s budget request to Congress today, with the following statement: “It’s time to put President Bush’s priorities and budget to the reality test. This budget projects a deficit in 2006 of $560 billion, after setting aside the Social Security surplus, and outlines spending of $2.5 trillion. Defense and security budgets are proposed to rise, while many other domestic priorities, such as education, healthcare and the environment would be cut. “Our annual deficits of hundreds of billions of dollars will not be made better by borrowing trillions more to extend tax cuts to those least in need and to privatize Social Security. We must begin to address the deficit and long-term financial shortfalls in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without simply passing the bill on to future generations. We must also come to terms with the $5 billion per month we are spending in Iraq and determining how we can bring our troops home without Iraq falling into chaos. “I am encouraged by steps the President is taking to reduce agriculture subsidies, even though he signed the 2002 Farm Bill into law which provided them. These subsidies hurt more than they help states like Oregon, and they continue to hamper the economic development of some of the world’s poorest countries. “Further reductions have been proposed, as the President promised in his State of the Union speech, by drastically cutting or eliminating 150 programs. The budget proposes increases in Pell Grants, which I support, but at the expense of other education programs. I look forward this Congress to working through the budget and appropriations process to ensure our nation’s budget reflects the reality and priorities of Oregonians.”
02.03.2005	Washington, D.C.-Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) issued the following statement tonight in response to President Bush's Annual State of the Union Address: "The State of the Union should mark the transition from the vague rhetoric of the campaign and the inaugural speech to how to address real problems and make America stronger. Tonight, President Bush failed to make this transition, and it remains unclear how he plans to address our country's most pressing issues. "The President's budget should tell us what we are for and how we are going to invest in America's future while still controlling overall spending. However, Bush's presentation of his budget priorities was still too vague and it answered neither of these essential questions. "A good place to start reigning in our runaway spending should be Iraq. To spend $300 billion and counting, without a plan to win the peace is unacceptable. The administration needs to start with a timetable to scale down American involvement and use Iraqis to defend and rebuild their country. Why pay $100,000 to foreigners to drive a truck when 40 percent of Iraqi workers are unemployed and would do it for $200 a month? "The Social Security debate appeared to me to be the President's missed opportunity. He is proposing to borrow trillions of dollars to start private accounts while using the Social Security surplus to hide the true cost of the deficit. As a result, the President's proposal would give young people far less for their retirement (54 percent of current benefits), than doing nothing at all (when the system would still cover 78 percent of current benefits in 2052). This proposal is a non starter for Oregonians and I believe, for this Congress as well. It is still not too late to involve people in a bipartisan effort to strengthen and make this essential program more secure, but the President must provide that leadership if we are going to be successful."
01.27.2005	Washington, D.C. - Recently back from a week-long fact finding mission to survey damage from last month's devastating tsunami and earthquake in Southeast Asia, Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) testified before the House International Relations Committee on Capitol Hill today to report on the findings of his trip. "While the magnitude of the ruin is difficult to capture in words the images that will remain with me forever are those that speak of the deep personal loss experienced by children, families and villages," said Blumenauer in his opening remarks. Blumenauer's testimony began with a report on initial recovery efforts. He praised relief efforts by non-profit organizations and the contribution of the U.S. military, as well as the efforts of local citizens who are already rebuilding schools and key infrastructure just a few weeks after the disaster. Blumenauer also focused on the next steps the United States and the international community must take in response to this crisis. "Now, the immediate challenge is to make the transition from relief to recovery," said Blumenauer. "The United States must work alongside the affected communities and our global partners to use this moment to make the world a better and safer place. We all benefit by taking positive steps that provide badly needed relief, followed by long term measures that improve and sustain communities and economies, and policies that provide greater protection from future events and strengthen global cooperation." "First, the United States has an obligation to follow through on the promise of aid and make a long-term commitment to the recovery of the region. Sadly, the record in the aftermath of other disasters is not encouraging. The United States should take the lead in making sure that pledges materialize, and in exerting leadership in the world community, so that generosity is more than a media buzz word and actually helps the hundreds of thousands of people who so desperately need it now. "We also have a moral obligation to do better than just putting people back in harm's way. While we cannot prevent natural events such as floods, mudslides, volcanic eruptions, wildfires, earthquakes, or tsunamis, we can reduce or mitigate their devastating impacts by helping communities to rebuild in safer locations, construct sturdier dwellings, and enforce sound building practices. " Blumenauer also pointed to the opportunity to use the recovery efforts as a way to promote peace and stability in some of the traditionally high conflict areas such as Sri Lanka and Banda Aceh and to forge a closer relationship with countries like India. In closing, Blumenauer urged the committee to remember the United States' obligation to the rest of the world and not to let efforts in Southeast Asia negatively impact humanitarian efforts in other critical parts of the world including Darfur, Sudan.
01.21.2005	Portland, Ore. - Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D - Ore) issued the following statement today in response to the recently released General Accounting Office (GAO) report on the upcoming round of military base realignments and closures and clean up of unexploded ordnance (UXO). "I am pleased that this new report shows progress is being made in efforts to close and realign surplus military facilities. In addition to saving money for the Department of Defense, many communities around the country will benefit from the new jobs and valuable land that transferred bases provide. "This report also highlights significant challenges. It states that the transfer of 140,000 acres of former military sites has been delayed primarily because of the costs associated with cleanup of UXO and chemical contamination. The cleanup costs associated with this remaining property are estimated at $3.6 billion. This amount will likely increase as more research is done and more UXO is discovered. Just cleaning up the remaining bases closed in 1988 could cost more than $70 million. "Unfortunately, the BRAC (base realignment and closure) sites are only a small part of the UXO problem. In previous reports, the GAO has estimated that cleaning up formerly used defense sites will cost between $8 billion to $35 billion. At the current rate of spending, this could take up to 300 years." "The GAO estimates that the Department of Defense will likely save about $7 billion a year from its past BRAC rounds. If just a fraction of these savings were put towards cleanup, as well as toward research and development of more efficient technology, the DoD could make significant progress in transferring the remaining bases to public use. "I hope that Congress will consider at least addressing the problem of cleanup at sites closed in 1988 before advancing further base closures. The slow, ponderous, approach to UXO clean up is one of the greatest impediments for realigning our outmoded base inventory. It is unacceptable to saddle communities with closed bases that will present dangers from UXO and other environmental contaminants for decades. Our failure to deal meaningfully with UXO clean up erodes public support at a time when our military deserves strong public support."
01.19.2005	(Watch Video) Blumenauer visits Thailand to learn how the U.S. can help By KATU News PORTLAND, Ore. - Oregon Congressman Earl Blumenauer spent the last week in four countries hit by the tsunami, and is now writing a report to congress. Bumenauer says he was stunned by what he saw on his trip and says the one enduring image for him is of children helping rebuild their school. "It's hard to put into words. Knowing that some of them had been orphaned," said Blumenauer. "That they'd lost their classmates and their village was washed away." While overseas, Blumenauer checked on Oregon organizations like Mercy Corps, whose worldwide reach stems from its Portland headquarters. He says Mercy Corps relief efforts have gone well, but rebuilding infrastructure is what survivors need now. Blumenauer and 10 other congressmen are helping write the report on what they found, which will be used to help direct U.S. policy in the areas hit by the tsunami.
01.13.2005	Washington, DC - A bi-partisan group of 77 lawmakers organized by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) called last week for a series of congressional delegations to the Darfur region of Sudan in an effort to highlight the ongoing genocide that has killed an estimated 100,000 people and displaced close to two million others. "As the crisis in the Darfur region of Sudan continues to intensify, members of both parties have come together to declare the situation in Darfur to be genocide and to demand action to save lives and protect human rights," the lawmakers said in a letter to House Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.), Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Texas), and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), "One of the simplest steps for Congress to continue playing a positive role would be for Members to experience the tragedy of Darfur firsthand." Specifically, the letter asks that the leadership of the House of Representatives make it a priority to sponsor, over the next session of Congress, a series of congressional delegations over the next year to visit Sudan and the refugee camps in Chad. Blumenauer argued that providing the opportunity for every Member to visit would be an important step, not just in understanding the situation, but in ending the genocide. Blumenauer believes that this series of delegations throughout the next session of Congress would serve to educate and motivate Members to action, as well as attract news media and give a sign of hope to the hundreds of thousands of people whose families are at risk. These high profile visits will place pressure on the Government of Sudan and give notice to Khartoum that they cannot ignore the pressure of the international community nor evade responsibility for the crimes in Darfur. "Over the past few months, the fighting in Sudan has intensified and the need for food, shelter and improved sanitation became even more critical," the lawmakers continued in their letter. "As displaced people continue to flee for safety, their appeal for security should not go unanswered."
01.05.2005	Washington DC -- Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a member of the House International Relations Committee, is traveling to Southeast Asia with a congressional delegation to survey damage from last month's devastating tsunami and earthquake and explore how the United States can best help in the immediate relief efforts as well as long term reconstruction. He plans to visit with survivors, international aid workers and government officials in India, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Indonesia from January 6th through the 14th. Blumenauer hopes to bring back an understanding of the scope of the problems facing survivors and relief workers to share with his colleagues in Congress. The 109th Congress convened this week in Washington, DC and aid to Southeast Asian communities is sure to be one of the most pressing topics the new Congress will deal with in the coming months. Blumenauer plans to post his observations and views on the disaster on his website throughout his trip at https://blumenauer.house.gov. He invites Oregonians to follow his trip and learn more about the situation on the ground in Southeast Asia.
12.07.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D – Ore.) issued the following statement today about efforts to reform the nation’s intelligence agencies. The intelligence reform bill under consideration includes a number of provisions to make America safer and more secure, including the creation of a national intelligence director. The bill was created in response to the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. “It is a relief to finally pass this important legislation to make America safer. The bill moves our national security and intelligence coordination efforts forward and paves the way for future counterterrorism measures. “I am concerned by some of the limits placed on the powers of the National Intelligence Director and would liked to have seen stronger safeguards for individual civil liberties. I am pleased to see that the most egregious immigration provisions were removed by the Conference Committee. “While it is unfortunate that it took two months to pass this bill, the Senate overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan bill two months ago that had the support of the 9/11 Commission, families of the 9/11 victims, and President Bush. That legislation could have been passed immediately. Instead, we almost didn’t get a bill at all “The challenge now will be to focus our efforts on the greatest threat to America today: terrorism. My commitment is to work to make the new structure a success and to not allow the quagmire in Iraq to divert us from the essential task dealing with terrorism.” The Senate will consider the legislation tomorrow. It is widely expected that the bill will be passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President.
11.23.2004	Washington, DC - Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) will speak at a Department of Defense sponsored symposium on "Meeting the DoD's Environmental Challenges," the largest gathering of military experts and concerned citizens devoted to unexploded ordnance (UXO) and military base cleanup, on Tuesday, November 30 at 9:00 a.m. at the Marriott Wardman Woodley Park Hotel at 2660 Woodley Road. Blumenauer has been a champion of increased funding for cleaning up UXO, the explosive waste left behind on defense sites, arguing that the DoD has been slow to return formerly used defense sites to beneficial uses and Congress has not properly funded clean up efforts. "The millions of acres and thousands of facilities potentially contaminated by bombs and toxins present a unique challenge and unprecedented opportunity to strengthen America's military," said Blumenauer. "As the Department of Defense has become the world's largest manager of infrastructure, consumer of energy, and the owner of the most Superfund sites in America, the potential impacts are staggering." In his speech, titled "In Defense of Sustainability" Blumenauer will suggest an approach to accelerate clean up, enhance both safety and military readiness, save tens of billions of dollars, and fundamentally transform the relationship between the Armed Forces and its many neighbors and partners. In the past, the Department of Defense has been a powerful change agent in areas as diverse as race relations and technological innovation. Blumenauer will argue that by dealing aggressively and comprehensively with its cleanup obligations, a "greener military" will not only make the United States safer and stronger, but also restore the Pentagon to its role as a societal leader, this time in the vanguard of making American communities more sustainable.
11.23.2004	Washington, D.C. -This past weekend, the House of Representatives approved legislation providing $1 million for habitat restoration along the Sandy River. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) requested congressional support for the project earlier this year. "I'm pleased that Congress provided funding for this important habitat conservation opportunity," said Blumenauer. The funding will be used by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to purchase land from willing sellers in the Sandy River Watershed as part of an ongoing project to restore habitat and create public open space along the Sandy River. The BLM is working with the Western Rivers Conservancy to create an eleven-mile long preserve along a portion of the river currently blocked by a Portland General Electric (PGE) dam. PGE plans to remove the dam, which will create a free-flowing river from Mt. Hood to the Columbia River. The public-private Sandy River project will restore property along this section of the river for recreation and wildlife habitat. Since 1999, $7.75 million has been allocated to purchase land protecting almost seven miles of this river frontage. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill, legislation funding most federal government programs and agencies for the coming year. The President is expected to sign the bill in to law shortly.
11.23.2004	Washington, D.C. -This past weekend, the House of Representatives approved legislation providing $300,000 for a methamphetamine prevention program in Clackamas County. Blumenauer requested congressional support for the project earlier this year. "The Clackamas County Methamphetamine Initiative will help combat serious health and safety problems affecting Oregonians," said Blumenauer. "This program is an ideal Oregon solution, bringing together a unique combination of community leaders and law enforcement groups to tackle the methamphetamine problems in Clackamas County." The funding will be used to implement the Methamphetamine Action Plan developed by the Clackamas County Methamphetamine Enforcement Team (CC-MET). The CC-MET is made up of representatives from the Clackamas County District Attorney, Sheriff, Community Corrections, Juvenile Department, Code Enforcement, School District and Social Services offices. The goal of this broad coalition is to implement proactive community policing, create a community court, work with local schools to identify at-risk youth and promote public awareness and training to reduce the number of drug houses and combat methamphetamine abuse in Overland Park and Mt. Hood areas of north Clackamas County. Methamphetamine use is one of the most serious crime threats in the State of Oregon. In 2001 over half of all drug convictions involved Methamphetamine. Additionally, over a third of all males arrested in Portland last year had used the drug. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill, legislation funding most federal government programs and agencies for the coming year. The President is expected to sign the bill in to law shortly.
11.23.2004	Washington, D.C. -This past weekend, the House of Representatives approved legislation providing $200,000 for the Corps of Engineers to study options for restoring Kellogg Creek in Milwaukie. Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) requested congressional support for the project earlier this year. "I'm pleased that Congress approved these funds which will restore important fish habitat and contribute to Milwaukie's livability," said Blumenauer. The funding will be used to complete a feasibility study for removing or modifying Kellogg Dam on Kellogg Creek in Milwaukie. Kellogg Creek is located along the Willamette River, eighteen miles from its confluence with the Columbia River. The study will include options for modification of Kellogg Dam to allow fish passage in Kellogg Creek and restore habitat along the creek for salmon and other species of fish. The project would complement the City's effort to revitalize its downtown and develop its riverfront as a public open space. The City's Mayor, James Bernard was pleased to hear that Blumenauer's request had been approved by Congress. "We look forward to moving ahead with this study." he said. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill, legislation funding most federal government programs and agencies for the coming year. The President is expected to sign the bill in to law shortly.
11.22.2004	Washington, D.C. -This past weekend, the House of Representatives approved legislation funding over $65 million in Portland area projects. Funding was approved for many of Congressman Earl Blumenauer's (D-Ore) legislative priorities. "Oregonians will benefit from Congress' approval of funding for these important transportation, environmental restoration and economic development projects," said Blumenauer. Some of the highlights in the funding bill for the Portland region include: $23.47 million for completion of the new Interstate MAX line. $9 million to begin construction of the Columbia River Channel Deepening project. $2 million for the Lower Columbia River and Tillamook estuary restoration project. $572,750 for design work on the Eastside Portland Streetcar project. $300,000 to fight methamphetamine abuse in Clackamas County. $200,000 for restoration of Kellogg Creek in Milwaukie. The funds for these projects were included in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill, legislation funding most federal government programs and agencies for the coming year. The President is expected to sign the bill in to law shortly. Also included in the bill was funding for the following: $13 million for the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery program. $60,000 for a dike stabililization project at the St. Johns Landfill. $1 million for land acquisition in the Columbia River Gorge. $300,000 for the James Beard Public Market project. $1 million for land acquisition along the Sandy River. $30,000 for "Our House of Portland," to care for people with AIDS. $450,000 for the Portland Development Commission for construction of affordable housing as part of the South Waterfront project. $320,000 for Portland State University, for library collections in the area of Middle Eastern and Judaic studies. $400,000 for PSU's new Center for Transportation Studies, ITS Initiative. $9 million for Washington County's Commuter Rail project. $2.3 million for Tri-Met's Jobs Access Reverse Commute Program. $1 million for new buses for Tri-Met. $72,750 for OMSI for land acquisition. $250,000 for the City of Gresham's new Cultural Arts Center.
11.17.2004	Washington, DC – Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore) gave the following statement today in a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives opposing a measure to increase the Federal Government’s debt ceiling by $800 billion. Under the measure, the Federal Government’s debt could balloon to as much as $8.2 trillion within the next year. A vote on the measure is expected late tonight. “My Republican colleagues have spoken about a “mandate” for their fiscal policies coming out of the recent election. I didn’t hear a single Republican talk about increasing the debt during the campaign season. I didn’t hear them talk about reckless spending on programs for special interests, or divorcing the budget from reality. “The fact is, the United States is incurring unnecessary debt for weapons that don’t add to our security, for handouts to special interests that don’t need them, and tax cuts for people who need them least. The Republican’s agenda would almost double our deficit problem over the next ten years. I for one cannot go back home to college campuses and high schools and look young students in the eye and say that I was a part of a plan that mortgaged their future. “I long for the day when we have a bipartisan effort to reduce the deficit and to deal meaningfully with our spending priorities. But unless, and until, that happens, I will vote “no” to protest this bizarre divorce from fiscal reality that all of us are going to have to live with. These budgetary policies and practices are leading us down a path that we will regret for years to come.”
11.17.2004	Washington, DC – Dr. Nigel Nicholson of Reed College was honored in Washington, DC today as Oregon’s 2004 “Professor of the Year” Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) is scheduled to meet with Nicholson during ceremonies held to honor Nicholson and other professors from across the country. “Nicholson’s teaching and mentorship have had a tremendous impact on the lives of his students; and the entire Portland area is grateful for his service,” Blumenauer said of Nicholson. “Today’s award recognizing Dr. Nicholson is a testament to Oregon’s outstanding educators.” Dr. Nicholson has been a professor at Reed College since 1995, where he teaches Greek and Latin literature and language. Nicholson is also actively involved in a number of student outreach programs and has served on Reed’s faculty Senate. Prior to his service at Reed College, Dr. Nicholson taught at Wellesley College from 1994-1995. Since 1981, the U.S. Professors of the Year program has recognized outstanding professors for their dedication to teaching and commitment to students. Each year, the program recognizes one professor from each state for their outstanding academic service. The U.S. Professors of the Year awards program is sponsored by the Council for Advancement and Support of Education and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.
